****Dialogues from script :Miami_Vice.txt****

first draft		9/22/04 WGAw
nicholas		 Burnett, what's crackin'?
crockett		Nothing.
tubbs		Maxin' and relaxin'.
nicholas		 Sure.  Change your mind; get inclined?  Let me know...
crockett		What's our deal?
tubbs		Backup in case the Russians get physical.
crockett		How lucky's Miss Universe gotta be?
tubbs		Skin has to touch skin.  That's the requirement for the warrant.  Then he makes a credible excuse and he stops....  Her crew blackmailed and asset- stripped the last mark down to his social security...
gina		This I gotta see...  ...the "make up an excuse and stop" part.
crockett		Have faith.
gina		I have faith.  In horoscopes and fortune cookies...
tubbs		So?
gina		Switek pulling this off...?  That's not faith; that's delusional...
tubbs		Damn, girl...
tubbs		This is exciting...
rick		That's 'cause nothing is happening.
crockett		No shit...?
frank		 Yeah.  This is their surveillance...how they video their marks?  See, we jacked their fiber optics, like we piggybacked their signal.  Get it?
tubbs		Cooool...
ugo		Runnin' the Biscayne 200?
tubbs		If a coupla new exhaust manifolds show up...
crockett		Gin and Tonic.  Plymouth or Boodles.
bartender		 Lemon or lime?
crockett		Lemon doesn't go in Gin and Tonics, darlin'.  Where ya' from?
bartender		 Gottingen.  That's in Sweden.
crockett		You in Miami workin' on your complexion...?
bartender		 No.  I was in Namibia...
crockett		Doing...?
bartender		With the United Nations High Commission on Refugees.  Famine relief.
crockett		Really?  I did refugee relocation in Somalia.  But they transferred me out after I was wounded...
gina		Only African he ever "relocated" was a $2,000-an-hour Nigerian model for Gucci, and he got wounded when she took an NBA draft choice to the Super Bowl instead of him...
tubbs		He did volunteer one time...
trudy		 Why am I here...?
tubbs		 ...to backup Switek.  But only if it gets lethal.
trudy		That's impossible.
tubbs		Why?
trudy		Because you cannot kill him.
tubbs		And there's Dmitri...
crockett		The honey trap.  And there's the honey.
tubbs		Hello, Miss Ukraine...
trudy		 Eleven to seven he blows it.
crockett		 Twenty on my man...
trudy		You're giving away your money, fool...
tubbs		 You bet your partner?
zito		Sure.  Switek versus primal impulse from the amygdala.  Higher thinking versus the lizard brain.  Tectonic plates of libido confront the cognitive.
gina		Oh, bullshit.  She cops his joint. He pushes the button.
trudy		What's so fucking difficult?
crockett		Yeah...?
crockett		Yeah.
crockett		On the phone.
crockett		Who is this?
intercut		WITH:
stevens		 It's fucked up.  I'm sorry...
crockett		 What are you talking about?  Where are you...?
stevens		They had me from the gate.
crockett		I don't understand...
stevens		I gave up nothing on you guys. Don't worry.  I kept you and Rico out of it.  Only the Feds.  They're on their own...it's all their deal, anyway, so fuck 'em.
stevens		After I check on Francine and the boys, then I'm gone.  Sonny, tell Rico I'm so sorry.  I wanted you to know...
crockett		Where are you?
crockett		Alonzo...!
tubbs		What is it?
crockett		Alonzo...
tubbs		Stevens?
crockett		 Something's wrong.
tubbs		 I'll try Francine...
crockett		 This is Detective Crockett.  Miami- Dade P.D.  Patch me through to your Special Agent in Charge, James Fujima?  It's an emergency...
fbi agent		He'll be in on Monday...
crockett		I said, "emergency."  If he's not reachable, who's running the weekend?  The ASAC?
fbi agent		We don't give that out...
crockett		Listen carefully.
tubbs		 C'mon...
tubbs		 I don't know...we haven't worked with him for six months...
crockett		 Hello?
crockett		Detective Crockett.
crockett		A C.I. we cut loose to your Joint Interagency Task Force.  Name of Alonzo Stevens.  Now, he's YOUR informant.  Stevens, called us.  I haven't spoken to him for six months. I do not know what case you have him on.  I do not know what he is talking about.  But whatever he is doing for you, it sounds like it is going bad.  Right now...
fujima		How do I discuss operations over an open line?
crockett		How do I know?  But we know this guy.  I think you know this guy.  Normally, he is cool.  Tonight he is distraught. That is atypical.  That engenders foreboding.  Do you understand the meaning of the word "foreboding"? As in badness is happening to your deal right fucking now?
fujima		Guy's involved in a "meet"...
crockett		"Buy and walk"?  "Buy and bust"? "Reverse undercover"?  What?
fujima		Meet and greet.  "I flash you some of mine, you flash me some of yours?"
crockett		And the deal goes down at another place at another time.
fujima		That's right.
crockett		...so there's no industrial- strength HRT weapons team out there tonight?
fujima		Correct.  Flash samples.  Flash cash.
tubbs		 Haitian, Dominican, Russian, Israeli?
fujima		White supremacist types.
crockett		OMGs, Mongols, Nazi Low-Riders, prison gangs?
fujima		NLR, we think.  I wanna know...
tubbs		 Oh, good...
fujima		...what else, what else did he indicate to you?  I need to know everything he said.
crockett		He is saying they had him from the gate.  He is saying to my partner and I and to his family "goodbye." What does that tell you?
switek		 Sonny, we got him...
aryan brother		Sure, man.
russian		Never seen money before?  This is called "money."
aryan brother		Hey, Ivan!  I forgot to ask you something, my brother...
tubbs		 What the hell did you do?
stevens		The Feeb gig was I front a coupla undercover, Russian-speakers to them.  One's ATF.  And broker the deal.  Set up the meet with the NLR types...
crockett		How'd they get onto you?
stevens		How do I know?  But it was from the get-go.  Knew the FBI had run me into them.  Sonny, I gotta go...!
trudy		 Hello, Sonny...?
stevens		 I gotta, I gotta go...!
tubbs		Alonzo...
stevens		What...?
tubbs		 Alonzo, you don't need to go home.
stevens		They said they wouldn't hurt them, wouldn't hurt them if...
tubbs		They lied.
crockett		They been known to do that...
tubbs		Yeah.
tubbs		Quarter mile away.  We see the lights...
tubbs		 We know these people...!
castillo		Grieve elsewhere.
fujima		We're not certain...
castillo		You said Nazi Low-riders...?
fujima		We're not certain!
tubbs		C'mon, man!
fujima		We think NLR.  We don't know! Alonzo only fronted as a broker for our guys to make the meet.  He wasn't deep into the crew.
crockett		White gangs...?  It doesn't track.
tubbs		White gangs is tweakers and a crystal meth lab in a trailer park. Bounce around the old lady Saturday night and get your recidivist ass busted back...
fujima		Not anymore.  This is a distribution network out of South Florida, moving poly-drug loads, crystal meth through coke, to Nashville, Atlanta, Memphis, Cleveland.  And computer fraud, identity theft. It's like that.
castillo		 Tell them what you want.
fujima		They knew about Alonzo, before he made a move on them.  They had our operation.  They've cut into us.
crockett		How?
fujima		We don't know.
tubbs		Break your encryption?  Hack your e- mail?  Employee databases? Somebody on the inside?
fujima		We don't know.  And that's the point.  Maybe there's a mole. Whatever, it's a disaster.  And it's a Joint Interagency Task Force.  I have DEA, ATF, U.S. Customs components in on it.  So the penetration could be from any one agency.  What we do know is I have to suspend operations right now from undercover work through interdictions 'cause I have to assume our Operational Security is blown.
tubbs		As in, your ass is dead in the water.
fujima		But Miami PD wasn't part of the J.I.T.  And from what Alonzo said, he didn't give you up.
crockett		So what do you want?
fujima		To recruit you.
castillo		...I didn't want you around the crime scene because it's crawling with federal law enforcement.  We don't know who's straight up, who's not...
crockett		Recruit us to do what?
fujima		Get into business with this crew, identify them.  Illuminate their network.  If you're lucky, discover their source, how they penetrated us.  We'll indict and take it from there...
crockett		How do we do that?  Make a buy?  That went well...
tubbs		Reverse undercover?  WE supply to them?
fujima		They got a steady stream of supply. So, no...
crockett		From whom...?
fujima		A Colombian producer.  Named Archangel de Jesus Montoya-Londono.
crockett		Never heard of him.
fujima		From the North Valle area.  New. Low-level, we think.
tubbs		Aryan brothers are not going to change-up suppliers.  So...
crockett		Transpo?  How they bringing the loads in...?
fujima		They're not.  They collect in Miami.  Montoya, the producer, handles deliveries.  That's his end, and he varies the routes.  We got some FLIR off an AWAC of a coupla go-fast boats, on one run, that's all.
tubbs		Track with me, here...  What does that say to you?
crockett		 It says, "Fuck off and die."  It says, "We get down for recreation..."
tubbs		 So?
crockett		We could try to run loads into these guys.  Run a few loads for Montoya into South Florida.  Into this group.
fujima		You need to consider a few issues.
castillo		 And you will share with them all your intel on Montoya...
fujima		Sure.
castillo		I mean full disclosure.
fujima		Of course.  From my side, I don't WANT to know anything about what you're doing or how you do it...  So let me know if we're on...
castillo		 About the Stevens family, I'm sorry.  I know you were close to them.
tubbs		I was the kids' godfather.
castillo		 And...?
tubbs		"And" what?
castillo		I got to know.  There is never any room for "personal"...
crockett		 Everybody gets it.
castillo		Good.
tubbs		And the answer is "yes."  You bet it was personal.
castillo		Okay.  What'd you spot...?
crockett		Three wakes off the back of those boats.  Who runs three Sterling engines off a deep-V hull?
tubbs		Sal Maguda.
castillo		He any good?
tubbs		Oh, yeah...
castillo		So what's gonna persuade Montoya to change off Sal Maguda running his deliveries...?
bastide		Odile, she say they're pregnant...
tubbs		Yeah?  Okay.  Only Jean-Louis and I do the talking...
tubbs		Comme on dit... 
bad guy		You crazy?  Que fais-tu?
tubbs		Que faisons-nous?  De qu'a-t-il l'air, fou!  Nous voulons tous votre drugs. 
crockett		 Yeah, later.
tubbs		 Hey, Nicholas, my ace.  Wha's up?
tubbs		 We got idle all of an instant.  You got something from somewhere that's got to go someplace, somewhen, which is not too distantly in the future...?
nicholas		It is fortuitous that you called...
crockett		We're from Nicholas to meet Jos...
jos yero		 Jos...
crockett		Sonny Burnett...this is my partner, Rico.
jos yero		Sit.
crockett		 Dos caf.
tubbs		So lay it out, my brother...
jos yero		Nicholas said you okay.  That's nice.  But how I know if you any good?
crockett		What...?
jos yero		Who you run loads for?  Cause other than Nicholas, you knows you?
crockett		 My mommy and daddy know me.
tubbs		And we didn't come down here to audition.  Business auditions for us...  ...and know who we are and know they want their load run by us before Nicholas calls.
crockett		That way we do not waste AvGas or our motherfucking time.
tubbs		You wearing a wire?
crockett		Or DEA?  The Feeb?
tubbs		People gonna walk into this place and say, "Ola, hijo!  That some crazy wallpaper.  Whew...it wild! Is that a Jackson Pollack?"
crockett		"No, viejo.  That was Jos Yero, splattered all over his motherfucking wall."
tubbs		So we can close each other's eyes right now.  Real easy.  Real fast.  But, then, nobody makes any money...
jos yero		 Equipment?
tubbs		Slow and low, Adam A-500s...  ...carbon composite, stealthy, 1400 nautical-mile range, thousand ki payload...all the way to Caravels and 727's from a source country to a transshipment point.  Small freighters.  We've done containers...
crockett		And specialize in very fast go-fast boats for coastal runs.
tubbs		What kind of weight?
jos yero		We don't talk weight.  We talk logistics.
crockett		 The people on shore who handle a load we run are our people, not your people.  No tweakers, dopers, first- timers we don't know.  They didn't do time with us, they ain't doing crime with us.
jos yero		You afraid of violence?
jos yero		Nothing.  'Cause how you do delivery on the beach, I don't like.  Maybe this does not work.
crockett		Then it don't work.
tubbs		What happened to the last transporter you had?
jos yero		What do you care?
tubbs		 Do we need this...?
crockett		 Red light, green light, Jos?
jos yero		 Other people will negotiate the money and go or not go.  Not me...
tubbs		Then what were we talking to you for?
jos yero		I had to lay eyes on you.
crockett		And...?
jos yero		 But him?  I don't like... how he looks...
tubbs		What do I care what you think about how he looks?  You wanna fuck my partner or do business?
jos yero		Wait by the phone.  You get a call.  Or maybe you don't.  Until then, piss off back to where you come from...
tubbs		...Sonny can wait.
tubbs		Anything?
crockett		Nothing.
gina		 "Hi, Gina.  Hi, Sonny."
crockett		Hi, Gina.  This is from Frick and Frack. Trudy?
tubbs		 What do we got?
crockett		Satellite.  New encryption. Supposedly sharper than the G...  How good's our background?
gina		You're so not the PD, if you got busted on a DUI, you're in serious trouble...you're bad men back to grammar school.  Marine Corps.  Statesville. Pelican Bay, where you guys hooked up.  Now you're too smart and too fast to get jacked again...
crockett		How will it stand up?
gina		If they ran the rental car or lease on this place...even if it's EPIC database in El Paso...they'd have to work through the layers of bullshit three weeks deep.  Then they'd find your deeper, hidden criminal selves...
gina		 What am I supposed to do after I get my nails and hair done...?
tubbs		Reality TV and stay by the phone. That's what all wives-in-crime do...
gina		Be...careful...  You hear me?
tubbs		Where we meeting 'em...?
crockett		Port-Au-Prince.
crockett		What do we got?
tubbs		Five minutes...
dissolve		TO:
dissolve		TO:
tubbs		They watching us watching them watching us waiting for them?  Or what?
crockett		Who knows...
tubbs		That's it.
crockett		Really?  So, what is this, a party?
tubbs		We'll have room service wipe up the furniture...and bring drinks.
crockett		Glad we came.  This place is a lot of fun if you're Doctors Without Borders.  So...?
isabella		I run down the numbers.  Nothing is very negotiable.  Small loads?  We pay three thousand a ki. We pay your fuel costs up front plus ten percent.  The next ten percent on U.S. landfall.
tubbs		Define small.
isabella		Two, three thousand a ki. Two thousand ki's, your end is $6,000,000.  That's the deal.
crockett		I thought we had to meet the Man.
isabella		You do.
crockett		When?
isabella		Right now.
montoya		Please take that seat on the side...
tubbs		Thank you.
montoya		 If you are arrested, there will be lawyers made available to you in the United States.  You will use them.  Anything you need, you will be provided by me.  It cost you nothing.  You will contact and work through Jos Yero on logistics and communications.  To do with money, you will work through my wife, Isabella...
tubbs		 ...who did we just meet?
tubbs		You okay?
gina		Yeah.
tubbs		You sure?
gina		Yes.  What's up?
tubbs		Nothing.  Calling to say hi... What's up with you?
gina		Bored.
tubbs		Okay...see you soon.
gina		...and thanks for the flowers.
tubbs		What flowers?
gina		The bouquet, here.  Five-hundred dollars worth of roses...yellow.
tubbs		There a note?
gina		You mean with the flowers...?
tubbs		What's it say?
gina		"Salutations from the south..."
tubbs		We're on our way...
gina		 Okay.
tubbs		Good idea.  We'll grab a bite.
gina		...the lease, the phones, the cars...layers of false ident. Would take the FBI weeks.  How long did it take them?  Three hours? Four?  This means, "We can reach out and touch somebody."  Like Bad Teleflora.
tubbs		 ...even if they could run the identities you built to EPIC, all they'll find is more cover... Trust what you built.  It's quality, girl.  We're cool...
gina		 I am careful.  I am cool.  I got Trudy, backup, whatever.  You worry about you.  Because you are the ones who are in denied territory, not me.  If your focus is on me, you'll miss something coming at you.  That's how people slip up. Get hurt.  And I'd die if anything happened.  You worry about you. You and Sonny...are in the dangerous place.  I'm fine...
crockett		We set.
tubbs		To the limit.
crockett		You worried about the tree line, US Customs AWACS, or something else on your mind?
tubbs		Like...?
crockett		Gina in the Miami pad.  You gonna give me phony denials?
tubbs		No.  You gonna give me phony reassurances?
crockett		No.
tubbs		Good.  So let's go...
zito		Negative, Opa-Locka.
radar officer		Let me see...
crockett		Neptune gonna show?
crockett		 Usually his thing is street dealers.  Torture their families until they cough up the stash. This...?
tubbs		Heads up...
crockett		Here's another incognito genius...
trudy		April Fool, motherfucker.
tubbs		 Et vous, mo-fo!
crockett		"Extras" tried to relieve us of your weight...  And by the by, you know of a player in Overtown who goes by the name of "Things Aquatic"?
jos yero		I do.  We don't do business with him...
crockett		He tried to..."do business"...with you.  Around ten.  His place.  Be there.
jos yero		I'll be there.
crockett		Look familiar?
tubbs		This the load you lost a while back?
jos yero		It is.  He try to take tonight's load?
crockett		Yeah.
jos yero		And what do I do with him?
tubbs		 Whatever you want.  Like we said, we're not into violence.
jos yero		 I walk into Neptune's house...very nice.  But I also see you... and our drugs that got ripped from Maguda.
tubbs		You don't like us finding your load?  We can go and lose it all over again...
crockett		How 'bout this?  How'd Neptune know where to hit us?  Huh?  Whose Op sec's got a leak?  Yours?
jos yero		What'd Neptune tell you?
crockett		He didn't.  Interrogation's not in our skill set.  So c'mon, what suspicions have you master-minded off these associations?
jos yero		 Here's what this is...ask how much they want to turn back to us our load...
isabella		We want it back.
crockett		Okay.
isabella		What's the recovery?  How much are you looking for?
tubbs		 How much we looking for?
crockett		Nothing.
isabella		What's "nothing"?
crockett		Nothing.  As in "free, gratis."
tubbs		And as an investment in the future...
isabella		 "Future" of...?
crockett		A fine...business...relationship...
tubbs		It's yours cause what's yours, is yours.  And what's ours is ours...  ...like the second ten-percent, which is now due, Yero, my ace.
isabella		 Give them the shipment on the seventeenth...
tubbs		Conveyance?
isabella		Maritime.  Jose will fill you in.
tubbs		 Lay it out...
crockett		 There is one thing you can do for me in recognition of the death- defying risks we took to recover your product...
isabella		 And what is that?
crockett		Let me buy you a drink.
isabella		 What do you like to drink?
crockett		 I'm a fiend for mojitas.
isabella		 How fast does that go?
crockett		It goes very fast.
isabella		Show me...?
tubbs		Can I talk to you for a second, partner...?
crockett		 I know what I'm doing.
tubbs		...secure satellite comms. encrypted e-mail, the longs and lats for the transshipment point...all that?  It's all cool. But I need a vector, not a location.  'Cause ships move. That's why they call them ships. Ship stops?  It's trying to be an apartment building.  At sea that attracts attention.  That's bad...
crockett		 So where's the best place for mojitas?
isabella		Bodeguita del Medio.  It's the only place for mojitas...
crockett		Where's that?
isabella		Off a little alley with cobblestones.  Hemingway went there...
crockett		The Keys?
isabella		Havana.
crockett		Havana?  Cubans don't like us or my business...
isabella		Are you afraid?  Good.  And you don't need a visa. Cause you're with me.
crockett		Light touch.  Everything comes to you through the wheel.
isabella		My cousin is the harbor master. You must not bring in drugs.  You cannot be armed.  If you're carrying, it has to go.  Or stow it inside.  No one will go near your boat...
crockett		You do business in Cuba with your husband?
isabella		I never do business in Cuba.  And he is not my husband...
crockett		Were you born in Havana?
isabella		Angola.  My mother was being a surgeon there.  She volunteered. Mozambique and Mali, too...  ...those days, in those days...she was part of Cuba's gift to the third world.  She came from a bourgeois family with a house in Verdado...we still have the house. We will go there...
crockett		Where's she now?
isabella		She's dead...
crockett		Your father?
isabella		Angolan Military.  Went back to the fighting.  Disappeared.  Who knows...?
crockett		How's he not your husband?
isabella		I am no one's wife.  I live in my own house.  I do not live in a man's house.  He has a wife.  We are together.  I am free.  Because of banking and finance and travel...  And I can do anything I want...
crockett		 Mojitas...?
isabella		 Later!  Do you dance?
crockett		I dance...
isabella		My aunt.  She's ancient.  She looks after the place...  This was my mother's family's home...
isabella		Tell me everything.
crockett		No.
isabella		I insist.
crockett		 Macon, Georgia is where I was born. Wound up in a juvenile facility.  I was 14.  Then the military.  Then prison.  Because I was dumb and angry.  Then I read.  Then I got smart.  Then I discovered what I know, now...it's all business...
isabella		Blanca...a rubio like you.  Your mother?
crockett		Died in childbirth, having me...
isabella		To mothers.  And all that we owe them...
crockett		You know how improbable this is...?
isabella		"Probable"...applies to an event that may be real.  Doesn't apply here.
crockett		...'cause we have no future...are of today and not tomorrow.
isabella		 That's right.
crockett		...and therafore there is no consequence?
isabella		Exactly.
crockett		 Let's talk deliveries.
isabella		Like...?
crockett		Like "three thousand a ki?"  That's nice. And I can supply the transportation into South Florida and the Gulf, more reliable and on-time than FedEx.  But, three per ki was OK for openers.
isabella		And why should continuing excellence cost more?
crockett		Cost less.  That's the point.
isabella		Is it December?
crockett		What do you mean?
isabella		Did Christmas come early this year...?
crockett		Better than that.  We become partners.  Only in this territory and only on loads we run. And you don't pay us three thousand a ki.  You pay us zero.  Why we get is thirty percent of the load. Product or cash.  "And why," you're thinking, "would I be crazy enough to out in these gringos like that? Is he chipping?  Crazy for my love? Too many mojitas?"  And the answer is, "of course" but also "no.  It is because Sonny can deliver what no one else can."
isabella		Good samba dancing...?
crockett		Zero risk.
isabella		'Cause you don't lose loads?
crockett		'Cause we guarantee every load.  Anywhere, for any reason, it comes up short, we make good.  Your operations will, from now on, run risk-free.
isabella		And you're our thirty-percent partner?
crockett		Then I would say to you, this has been fun...
isabella		The range should be between fifteen and seventeen-point-five percent of the P.O.E....to even consider it.
crockett		I need thirty.  Calculate in, also, the cash you don't have to front...
isabella		Available cash is not an issue for us...
crockett		Twenty-eight-point-five.
isabella		What if I pushed to twenty-one...?
crockett		I would say you're...  ...four percentage points away from a deal...
isabella		Maybe I'm only one.
crockett		We'll do it at twenty-two...
isabella		And now I make you breakfast again...
crockett		 On my way back...
tubbs		 The meet with Castillo and the fed got set up.  It's in 45 minutes...
gina		What's up, Sonny...?
tubbs		Where'd you go?
crockett		Hit a couple of jazz clubs.  Fell back to her place.
tubbs		Where?
crockett		Verdado.
tubbs		Verdado where?
crockett		It's in the suburbs outside Havana.
tubbs		Havana, Cuba...?
crockett		No.  Havana, Louisiana.  Don't we have a meet?
tubbs		...where you're makin' a move on the wife of Archangel de Jesus Montoya?
crockett		No.
tubbs		You're not makin' a move on her...?
crockett		We're makin' moves on each other.
tubbs		Oh, that makes it okay, then.
fujima		Who said, "go exploring"?  We want this staying on track.
crockett		 Who's the "we"?  There's you and there's us.  And all we got from you was bad intel.  "Low-level producer."  Yeah, right...
fujima		What are you talking about?
crockett		Montoya.  We went to meet the village priest.  It turns into Alice in the fucking Vatican and here's the Pope...of the North Valle Colombia dope trade.
tubbs		His operations are kingpin size and first-class.  His security is ex- Eastern bloc, ex-SAS and Israelis. Their comms are satellite uplink with mainframe encryption, significant Sig Int and in their zones of activity, they have signal- jamming capability...
crockett		Yeah.  CIA-level stuff...
tubbs		And what does that level of spending on first-class, private- sector infrastructure signify to you?
crockett		Mega-tonnage and mega-cash flow...
fujima		Out of...?
crockett		Haiti and Puerto Rico.  Money through Dubai and Geneva maybe.
tubbs		Their loads are poly-drug.  "E" from Holland, methamphetamine precursors from Jordan, Afghan "H." Mid-ocean transshipments.  His real business is:  he's a network.
crockett		And we can illuminate part of it from the inside out.
tubbs		So we want to change-up the mission statement.
fujima		 Identify and indict the white supremacist group of importers. End of story.  Everything else I'm hearing is speculation masquerading as intel...
crockett		Keys to the boat.  Go do this motherfucker yourself.
fujima		Who are you talking to?
tubbs		He's talking to you, bro.  What he means to say is he is reluctant to abandon the penetration of a major narcotrafficking organization...
crockett		 Hey, fuck him.
tubbs		Chill out Sonny.
crockett		We're the ones doing the death- defying shit?  And he wants us to give that up?  For what? A chump-change bust so he can get his picture in The Miami Herald to impress the slug farm in DC...
fujima		 Control your men.
crockett		I'm my own man.  And anytime you want to see how much man I am?
castillo		 That's.  It.
tubbs		With Sonny.  110%.
castillo		Then that's it.  Change the mission statement. Crockett stays in.  He keeps working up the ladder.  The local importers get a pass for the time being.
fujima		I don't know.
castillo		Yes you do...
fujima		I got to talk to my ADO...
castillo		No, you don't, Jim.  'Cause if I close this down, you got nothing to make a phone call about.  And my guys don't have a week for a Feeb bureaucratic process.  Every hour longer they're in there, they risk exposure.  So, right here, right now, they're back in or I pull them out and close you down.  What's it going to be?
fujima		Okay.
castillo		 You fuckin' better be right...!
tubbs		 What is going on...?!
crockett		As in...?
tubbs		There is "undercover."  And there is "Which way is up?"
crockett		You think I am in so deep I forgot?
tubbs		I am asking.  You to me.
crockett		Do you believe...I have forgotten I am a cop?
tubbs		I would never doubt you.
crockett		No, I do not.
isabella		...and we're looking at Nigerian crude...
montoya		Precursor shipments from Ras Tanura and Ju'aymah?
isabella		Transshipped to a Malaysian container ship.
montoya		Not French registry?
isabella		They've been targeted.  And Pakistani registry is too vulnerable to search and seizure right now.
montoya		Jos doesn't like the deal in South Florida...
isabella		 They want 22% of the value on loads they run into South Florida.  It's the Juarez cartel model. They guarantee the loads.  The upside is our risk goes to zero. That frees-up capital.
montoya		But what does your intuition tell you...?
isabella		My "intuition"...?  My intuition made him breakfast the other morning in Havana.
montoya		And...?
isabella		They're serious.  They're cautious. They'll forgo a deal over a technicality of how a delivery's handled...they'd walk away, rather than compromise operational security...that's good.
montoya		Why?
isabella		A good deal, like this with us, for Burnett will be good only temporarily.  He'll get restless because he believes nothing is forever.  Life is dust, make it while you can.  He's ambitious.
montoya		That's my girl...
isabella		 I think Jos suspects anybody he doesn't intimidate.  And people, who are good at what they do?  They have egos, too...
montoya		 What would you do...?
isabella		 I like the diminished risk.  It frees up capital reserves.  I like working with self-interested businessmen who are competent.  You can predict their behavior....
montoya		Let's try a few runs with these partners, I think.  I will tell Jos...
crockett		Hola, chica.
isabella		Hola, viejo.
montoya		 Do you have him?
intercut		WITH:
jos yero		 They are "wrong."  I do not trust them.
jos yero		 Too good at what they do, I don't know.  Something I don't like. They are wrong...
jos yero		Transshipment point is here at 17:00 hours on the 23rd.
tubbs		Uh-uh.  No predetermined places and times to meet.  Give me their heading and radio codes and I will talk to them directly with the longs and lats and time which will be a last minute deal...
jos yero		You give yours to me.  We position all the assets hauling our loads...
crockett		Now how we do it, blood.  It risks signal interception and other bad things like people who don't need to know where we're at knowing.
tubbs		At ten to three on the 27th, I will satellite page him with a website and encryption code.  He will have ten minutes to log on and receive his new heading.  Ten minutes and thirty seconds, website disappears and he can drive his fucking boat up to Iceland...
jos yero		Malaysian registry.  Small containership.  Give them their codes and heading.
crockett		Packaging?
jos yero		Fifty-gallon drums.  Thirty-two.  A hundred kilos in each.  You transship that to the Malaysian boat.
tubbs		Importation value?  At twenty-two thousand a ki...
jos yero		You work that out with La Senora.  I'm sure you have friends with fast boats...
crockett		If you see a few new faces, don't get jumpy...
tubbs		And Jos, my ace, lots of transshipment.  Lots of action. Skies are crowded.  And the JIT has assets on land, air, and sea.  So any intel you got that can come our way and contribute to the good and welfare...?
jos yero		Sure.  Check your e-mail.
jos yero		 You know what Escobar used to do?
el tiburon		What?
jos yero		 And do you know why Pablo Escobar did that?
el tiburon		Why?
jos yero		He didn't like pilots.
isabella		I forgot the napkins.
crockett		And the chopsticks and fortune cookies?
isabella		What's the best fortune you ever got?
crockett		They're all the same.  "Financial security is around the corner." "Your friends love you."
isabella		In Kowloon, once, I got one that said, "Live now because life is dust."
crockett		Do you have assets somewhere else? Bank accounts?
isabella		Why?
crockett		...to fall back on.  You know, a fail-safe.  Insurance.
isabella		Do I need it?
crockett		 Everybody needs it.  Ask Prudential.  Or Allstate.
isabella		 'Cause whatever can go wrong, will...?
crockett		Something like that.  The odds catch up with you.  The odds are like gravity.  You can't negotiate with them.  So...at some point, you should cash out, take your money and run...
isabella		 Really?
crockett		Sure.  As far away and as fast as you can.
isabella		When?
crockett		Whenever.  Maybe later, maybe sooner.
isabella		Would you find me...?
crockett		Of course.
isabella		Where would I go?
crockett		Zanzibar.  The Comoros Islands. Somewhere in the Indian Ocean. There's twelve-hundred islands there...
isabella		 Is this the protective male talk?
crockett		 This is the talk of a man...if he were your husband...he would never put you at risk.  He would never put you within a thousand miles of anything that could hurt you.
isabella		And if I were in the Comoros, in the Indian Ocean, where would you be...?
crockett		A few more moments, still in this business.  Then I'd find you.
isabella		Would you?  Because if you couldn't, I would be very lonely... I would have left the only world I know and have known since I was seventeen.  But none of this will happen.  So it doesn't matter.  Because we are on the Guajira Peninsula.  And all you see around you...look around... is Archangel de Jesus Montoya- Londono.  He is my man.  And you are a smuggler moving a load...
crockett		...in the morning.
isabella		I'll be on board by noon.
crockett		Go ahead.
trudy		Too fast.  Too many moving parts.
crockett		Switek?
switek		Same.  But it's your call, boss.
crockett		What's your take?
tubbs		What's the point?  It's going down.
crockett		Call the US Coast Guard:  "Come and arrest our ass."  And Switek resumes romancing Miss Ukraine...
trudy		If we were for real, and knew our shit, we'd fade this one...
crockett		Then you should.
trudy		 If you're down, we're down for the play.
aryan brother		El Tiburon.
coleman		So...?
el tiburon		 Meth precursors and the Dutch party favors are en route.
coleman		 All I want to know is the where and the when.  Spare me mini moves, progress reports and bullshit.
el tiburon		 Okay.  You got the "item"?
coleman		I got the item.
el tiburon		 And our friend don't like the rest of the people bringin' the merch to you.
coleman		 How many?
el tiburon		 Two main players plus three.
coleman		 My end?
el tiburon		 25% discount on the load.
coleman		 Make it 40%.
coleman		Deal.
captain		 Me-a salama.  Ila l-liqa.
tubbs		Yeah.  Whatever... 
crockett		Yeah?
crockett		 You got something to say, Jos, let's hear it.
jos yero		I confess I have succumbed to my weaknesses.  An inability to see another's point of view.  I've discussed it with professionals.  Even with one of your friends.  She's here now...
crockett		What friend?
jos yero		Mrs. Rico.  But don't worry.  She is safe.  To insure that, I am keeping her close to me.  It's always good to keep people your friends care about close to you.
crockett		Proof of life.  How do I know Mrs. Rico's alive?
jos yero		'Cause she will tell you.
isabella		That sonofabitch!
tubbs		 You set this up!
isabella		 Of course!  That is why I placed myself here, with you, knowing Yero would pull this crap.
crockett		Yero doesn't know she's here!
switek		 What...?
trudy		They grabbed Gina...
isabella		It's all bullshit.  Jesus is out of communication in Fals de Iguazu. Jos knows that...  Whatever he's going to do, he has to do it fast because he's acting on his own. And he will need a story.
tubbs		Meaning...?
isabella		They will kill you.  And then they will kill your wife, too.
crockett		Yero, by himself?
isabella		Maybe.  Maybe with the crazy whites.
zito		We're half loaded...
trudy		Gina.  Like Alonzo's wife...  Cochi Loco's got her.
crockett		Dump the rest.  Let's get the boats up that river.
crockett		Jos Yero changed-up the drop plan on us.  He's grabbed Gina.
castillo		Where's the new drop point...?
crockett		They'll have surveillance on us. We'll know only at the last moment...
castillo		What do you think?
crockett		It's a rip and a hit.
castillo		 We'll be airborne and assault the ambush...
crockett		You can't.
tubbs		They'll kill Gina.
castillo		They may have already, so we protect the living.  Proof she's alive?
crockett		Supposedly it's coming.
tubbs		 Hello...?
tubbs		They're proving it's right now. And that she's alive right now...
tubbs		Smell.  Bad smell.  Trailer...  She's allergic to diethylene...she in a meth lab?
crockett		Just came in.  She's still alive.
castillo		Safe house is empty...  Air Support's set to jump when we know your drop point.  Gina?
tubbs		 She's sending a message.  Meth Lab. Trailer park.  Anything with interesting antenna arrays...?
castillo		There's three between Miami International and the glades.  I'm gonna try for her, but this is triage.  Protect the maximum number of lives.  You need to know that...
tubbs		Trudy and I are goin' for Gina...
isabella		If they attack you...
crockett		 ...it's gonna be an L-shaped ambush.  They're not gonna open up until they got the party favors, 'cause all they'd get is a lot of police scrambling to a gunfight. They will wait till they got the goods before they do the deed.
trudy		 Have eyes on her.  She's alive. Moving in...
aryan brother		You order Chinese?
aryan brother		Don't...
tubbs		HOLD IT!!
trudy		PUT DOWN THE DETONATOR!
aryan brother		Shoot me, she dies.  Hey, fuck it, man.  We can all go.
trudy		 ...what will happen is, I will put a round precisely through the medula at the base of your brain, at an entry-point mid-distance between your upper lip and the bottom of your nose, and you will be dead from the neck down.  Your finger won't be able to twitch.  Do you believe that?
aryan brother		Fuck...
gina		Motherfucker!
tubbs		He's dead!
trudy		 ...got Gina.  She's okay.
castillo		 Go!
yero		 Isabella.  The gringos are police. She's their informant...!
yero		Go!
pa		 Freeze!  You're under arrest.  Down on your knees.  Put your hands on your head...
crockett		Isabella!!
crockett		Touch the windshield with your hands.  Let 'em see your hands are empty.  Steady.
swat sergeant		 Don't move!  Don't move!  Keep your hands where I can see them...
crockett		Yeah.  Hey, Robert.
swat sergeant		Are you okay?!
crockett		Yeah.  Going to Miami General. Check out Gina.  Everybody's okay. Everybody's fine...
crockett		Isabella...?
isabella		What are you going to do with me? Are you taking me to jail?  You think I will turn into your informant, is that it?
crockett		No.
crockett		No part of it wasn't real.
isabella		I know.  And now?
crockett		It still is.  I'm so in this, I don't know which way is up... All I know is I won't let anything bad happen to you.  And I know we can't ever see each other again.  And we never will.
isabella		You said time is luck...
crockett		Luck ran out.  This was too good to last.
****Dialogues from script :Midnight_Cowboy.txt****

irate woman		They always put it that way, but well, all it means, you know, is every fourth American woman's never satisfied. That's it. I never am -- have been, you know...
cool woman		This, this image of the, the man eating woman. It isn't our increasing demands. I think it's the shrinking American male...
sad woman		No, I never had, well, whatever it is you call it. But the hours he works, I can't blame him...
lady commentator		Before World War One -- American men outnumbered women by over six percent. Today American women not only outnumber men, but live five years longer -- leaving them in control of vast corporate wealth and seventy-five percent of America's purchasing power...
joe		Y'all,line up and take your turn...
ralph		Where's that Joe Buck?
joe		Yeah, where's that Joe Buck?
sally buck		You look real nice, Joe baby...
joe		Yeah, where's that Joe Buck?
joe		Know what you can do with those dishes? And if you ain't man enough to do it yourself, I'd be happy to oblige...
joe		Say, look, uh, I gotta have a word with you, if you got a second.
manager		Later. Later maybe.
joe		Don't guess. Just come for my day's pay owing and to tell you I'm heading East.
ralph		Yeah?
ralph		Ain't gonna collect your pay?
announcer's voice		Benson and Hedges One Hundreds makes special awards from time to time for anything that's longer than anything...
joe		This is a powerful mothah, ain't it?
sally buck		No, a little lower, sugar, yeah, yeah, that's good. Grammaw's beat.
salesman		And that's my golden rule. Make 'em love you. Put yourself over and you can sell them anything. If they like you, they'll buy horsemeat for prime beef...
evangelist's voice		Oh, my friends, I say unto you, invest with Jesus, put your dollars to work where they'll pay off at compound interest. The Good Book says money answereth all things...
joe		You throw in Sister Rosella and you got a deal, right, old timer?
joe		I'm bound for New York City.
joe		Smoke?
woodsy		... git along little dogies!
joe		Nice talking to you, old timer.
woodsy's voice		She-dogs squat, boy. He-dogs stand up and lift their leg...
veteran		Ever stationed at Kennedy? Those Florida chicks...
marine		Did you make the Viet?
sally buck		Keep your meat hooks off my operators, sugar, hear?
ralph		Hell, he know I can't read...
joe's voice		Say it, lover boy!
joe's voice		Well, you better just shake your tail, lover boy, and root, hog or die.
joe		Goddam if I came to this town to write postcards.
joe		Beg pardon, ma'am, I'm new here in town, just in from Houston, Texas, and looking for the Statue of Liberty.
rich lady		Were you looking? About the Statue of Liberty?
rich lady		You're not looking for the Statue of Liberty at all.
rich lady		Why, that's perfectly dreadful. Aren't you ashamed of yourself?
cass's voice		Don't look, baby...
joe		That's good, it is, cause, well I guess I didn't tell you why I came to New York, did I?
cass		Zip this thing, will you, Tex?
ratso		 More goddam faggots in this town.
joe		Shee-it...  Kee-rist, you really know the ropes. Wish to hell I bumped into you before. I'm Joe Buck from Texas and I'm gonna buy you a drink, what do you say to that?
joe		 Same all around! For my friend, too!
jackie		May I ask one thing, cowboy? If you sit there and he sits way over there, how's he gonna get his hand into your pocket? But I'm sure he has that all figured out...  Good night, sweets.
tv host		May present your chosen mate!
joe		Hey, listen, how about you take me to mee this Mister O'Diddle bird right now?
ratso's voice		Name's Joe Buck. Cowboy. Just in from Texas, don't know the ropes, new to the city, but very promising material, sir, and ready, if you get what I mean. Fabulous. Right away. What's that room number there again?
ratso		Hold it a second...
joe		 Ten, ten -- I got a twenty -- take that...
ratso		Oh hell, forget it.
joe		Now take it. Go on.  Listen, where can I reach you? Cause I'm gonna make this right with you soon's I get me set up...
ratso		Forget it.
joe		I mean, dammit, where you live?
ratso		Sherry-Netherlands Hotel. Now get your ass in there. He's waiting!
joe		You bet I do, sir.
joe		Ready for anything.
joe		Get down -- where?
joe		Say, you know that runty little bastard I was with?
bartender		I don't know nothing.
joe		Uh, what about my things'n all?
desk clerk		We keep everything. House rules.
joe		Any objection, gentlemen?
job		Y'ain't gonna eat them?
joe		Shee-it.
joe		Shuttle. Follow the green light.
joe's voice		Twenty-three bucks, I got to have twenty-three bucks...
anastasia's voice		You're the best, the very best, yes, yes, kiss me, oh God please kiss me, Joe, now, now, now!
joe		I'm awful damn sorry you're sick, kid, but you gonna have to gimme that money like you said.
joe		Comfortable, kee-rist, I slept on subways softer than this.
anastasia		Love me, Joe?
joe		Smart thing for me to do is haul ass outta here.
ratso		Whatsa matter now?
ratso		For crissake!
joe		Where's my boots -- ?
job		How'd they get off me?
ratso		I took 'em off.
joe		What for?
ratso		So you could sleep! I mean Christ!
ratso		I been sick. Hold this, will ya?
joe's voice		Shee-it. I hate boneyards.
joe		Respect shee-it! You even steal flowers for his grave.
ratso		Can he smell the difference, eh?
ratso		He can't read. Even dumber than you. Couldn't write his own name. X -- that's what it ought to say there on that goddam headstone. One big lousy X like our flat. Condemned. By order of City Hall.
ratso		 Well, what the hell, I got nothing better to do.
ratso		Okay? I look okay?
ratso		If you want the word on that brother and sister act, I'll give you the word. That Hansel's a fag and Gretel's got the hots for herself. So who cares, right? Load up on the salami...
ratso's voice		She's hooked...
ratso		... I'd say she was good for ten bucks, but I'll ask for twenty...
shirley		Who's he? Oh God! Don't tell me you two are a couple -- ?
hansel's voice		Why are you laughing, Joe?
hansel		Are you for real, Joe?
shirley's voice		I can't wait to tell my man Monday. I should be taking notes. Look at my arm!
ratso's voice		I gotta sit down. I feel crummy.
shirley's voice		Eat it -- a man in your line of work has to keep his strength up...
hansel's voice		We want you, Joe. You've been chosen.
ratso		 Is he all right!
joe		Whoopee ti yi yo...!
shirley's voice		That happens. Don't worry about it...
joe		First goddam, time it ever quit on me. Fact.
shirley		 No. Of course not. Just something struck me funny...
joe		Y -- what in hell starts with Y?
shirley		It can end in Y day, pay, lay -- hey, pay lay!
joe's voice		Whoopee ti yi yo...
shirley		Well, I really can't talk now, if you know what I mean, but believe me when I say, Myra, it's an experience every emancipated woman owes herself. I'm not. I'm not exaggerating. Well, what's Phil's poker night?  Joe -- are you available next Thursday, eight-thirty?
ratso		But thanks.  Hey, Joe, don't get sore about this or anything. You promise?
ratso		I'm scared.
towny's voice		Bravo...
joe		Gin's okay.
joe		I'm going to Florida.
joe		 I gotta have more'n ten. I gotta have fifty-seven dollars.
towny		I simply don't have it, Joe.
joe		Get outta my way.
joe		Shee-it. You believe all you read?
joe		Hey -- whatsa matter?
ratso		 I'm wet.
joe		 You just -- just -- what happened, you just had a little rest stop wasn't on the schedule.
joe		Couple crullers'n coffee to go.
waitress		Where you from?
joe		New York.
driver		Yes, sir?
driver		Your friend's what in the back seat?
joe		Dead. Dead as a doornail.
driver		Is this some kind of...
joe		Close them?
driver		Just a little sickness, folks, nothing serious. We'll be in Miami...  ... in forty minutes.
****Dialogues from script :Midnight_Express.txt****

midnight express		 Screenplay by Oliver Stone  Based on The Autobiography by Billy Hayes with William Hoffer
revised draft		June, 1977
loudspeaker voice		Pan American Flight 1 to Frankfurt, London, and New York has arrived and will be ready for boarding at Gate 7 in 20 minutes.
billy		I think I've been poisoned.
susan		And you ate two baclavas, right? I not to touch them, mine was awful.
billy		 Look, I think I'm going to have to go to the john again.  You go on through, I'll catch up.
guard		Passport!
guard		Bag!
guard		Nebu?
billy		 It's a frisbee.
guard		Nebu?
billy		A Frisbee.  You throw, catch it.  Game!
guard		Ah! 
guard		Take off the glasses.
first guard		Aaaah!
susan		Are you all right?
billy		Yeah... Yeah.
susan		 D'you see this?  Janis Joplin died yesterday.
susan		 Never Was anybody like Janis.
billy		 Never was anybody like you...
susan		 You can't take anything seriously.
billy		 You're right.
officer		Attention please, Ladies and Gentlemen. For your own safety we're conducting a security check before you board your airplane, Kindly file out the back. Women and children in one line. Men in another.
various passengers		What's he saying?  I don't know... Marian.  Hey Marian, what the hell...
police officer		Idem.
susan		Jesus, they do everything ass backwards in Turkey.
passengers		They're checking for hijackers. Any Palestinians aboard? Hey Harry, get rid of your grenades...
billy		My passport!
susan		No!
billy		 Susan - forget it. Go get us a seat on the plane. Now.
susan		 What is it? . . . Billy?
billy		 For Christ's sake, just GET on the plane, okay!
second		Nebu? Did you search him?
first officer		 No!
second officer		 Bomb!  He's got a bomb!
american passenger		Bomb!  Bomb!
first officer		 It's hashish. just a smuggler.
susan		...Billy...?
first officer		Vi... Vilyum... Vilyum...
first officer		Hi-yes... 
first officer		'Merican?
billy		 New York.
billy		New York... New York...
first officer		Ahhhh...Nev Yok! 
second officer		Name?
billy		William Hayes.
second officer		Vil... Vilyum...?
billy		Hayes...
cameraman		No.. He's smiling. Make him look miserable.
first officer		 Gel?  Gel??
third officer		 You idiot, you fool. You told me the American was searched... and he's pulling hashish out of his boots!  You're all dogshit!
second officer		 You worthless piece of garbage, where did you learn to search a prisoner?  He's been in our custody for an hour, etc.
first officer		 Who searched him?  Who?
billy		 That's it! That's all I have!
tex		 I think these gentlemen have finished for the time being if you'd like to put your clothes on.
detective		 Are you afraid, Vilyum?
billy		No, I'm not afraid.
detective		Good. There's nothing to be afraid of. If you co-operate with us, you will be on the plane for New York tomorrow... yes?
billy		 Yes...?
detective		Good. Now, where did you get the hashish?
billy		A cabdriver. He picked me up in the Pudding Shoppe in the bazaar.
detective		Would you recognize him again?
billy		Yes.  I think so.
detective		Good.  Would you go back to the Pudding Shoppe now and point him out to my men if you see him?
tex		 You decided to fly at a bad time Billy Palestinian Guerrillas all over the place blowing up planes and all.
billy		 Stupid.
tex		Four planes in four days...but I guess you kids don't read the newspapers...and what with our people kicking up a shit storm 'bout the flow of heroin from Turkey you got...
billy		But didn't have heroin.
turk		 Well I'm not up on all that. A drug's a drug seems to me Billy and...
billy		 But it was my first time. I'm not really a smuggler, was just two kilos.
tex		Well, you see Billy, it don't really matter right now if it's 2 kilos or 200 kilos. The Turks love to catch any foreigner smuggling - it shows the world they're fighting the drug trade.
billy		But just...
tex		Just what?
billy		I just needed some extra money.  I was broke, the guy offered me the hash and...
billy		...are you with the Consulate?
tex		 Something like that. Cigarette?
tex		How much you pay this joker... this cab driver?
billy		Two hundred dollars. It was my last two hundred.
tex		How much did you figure to make?
billy		Three, four thousand...I don't know.  The guy offered me the hash--  ...it just seemed like easy money.
tex		Beats working.
billy		I was just going to sell it to friends.  I'm not a pusher, honest.
tex		Got a family back there?
billy		 Yeah. Parents, brother, sister. Babylon, Long Island.
tex		What's your father do?
billy		He sells insurance for Metropolitan Life.
tex		 Be tough on 'em.
tex		Girlfriend?
billy		...She was on the plane.
billy		She didn't know anything about...I wouldn't have wanted her to.
tex		Lucky girl.
billy		Jeez, she used to say I was the lucky one.
tex		Let's hope so, Billy.  Let's sure hope so.
tex		You seem like a nice enough kid to me Billy, but try it and I'll blow your fucking brains out.
billy voice		Dear Mom and Dad. This is the hardest letter I've ever had to write. know the confusion and the pain it will cause you.  And the disappointment...
billy voice		 I really thought knew what I was doing with my life. I'd hoped somehow to get out of this quickly so that you'd never know about it. But that just isn't possible now. I don't know what's going to happen. But what can I say to you?  Will 'I'm sorry' make a difference? Will it ease the pain, the shame you must be feeling?  Forgive me...Please...
billy		Cold. Very cold. Can I get blanket? Blanket? 
ziat		 Mo sell...Too late.  Tomorrow...
ziat		 Brack!...Brack!
ziat		You, goddamn you, give me sheet. Give me!
hamidou		 Name?
guard		 Vilyum Hi-yes
hamidou		 Vilyum Hi-yes...
hamidou		Vilyum Hi-yes
billy		It was cold. Cold! I get blanket. Blanket! Cold!
hamidou		 No do. No do.
voice		 Hey man, he's gotta walk, or his feet gonna swell up worse.
bell		Smoke this rocket, it'll cool the pain.
bell		You gotta walk around some man, or your feet gonna swell up something bad...
erich		Okay?
erich		How's it feel?
billy		 About as good as it looks.
bell		Getchmis olsun
billy		Getchmis...?
bell		Olsun - "May it pass quickly." I'm Bell, Jimmy Bell. This is Erich something Swedish.
erich		 Just Erich.
billy		I'm Billy Hayes... At least I used to be.
billy		Looks like a cheap hotel.
bell		Yeah... Only the room service is lousy.  Come on, let me show you the tennis courts.
erich		 Feeling all right?
billy		 I feel stoned.
bell		 'Figgers.
billy		 ...He had a bald skull and...
bell		Hamidou.  Chief of the Guards. Don't fuck with him. He almost killed an Italian dude couple months ago.  Bad news. He try anything with you?
billy		No... I don't remember.
bell		With these fucking Turks, soon as the light goes out... I keep one hand on their feet and their feet better not grow.  You'll meet Max. He got raped something bad down in
billy		The kids? Why are they...
bell		 Little fuckers are thieves, rapists, pickpockets, murderers, you name it - they do it. Don't trust any of 'em...
bell		 He was an informer on the outside but he tried to screw the cops out of 60 kilos of opium. Watch him, he's a fox.
billy		Yeah.
bell		 History, man, history. How much?
billy		Two kilos.
bell		Where?
billy		The airport. Trying to get on the plane for the States.
bell		 Could be ten or fifteen.  Maybe even twenty.
billy		 Twenty months?
bell		Twenty fucking YEARS, man - YEARS! I figger ten at the least.
billy		 Years?
bell		Yeah, what do you think this is, the good USA? This is Turkey, man...  It's a fucking accident here if you're innocent. And anyway... ...ain't nobody who's innocent.
erich		 Don't pay too much attention, anything is possible in Turkey. You might get bail.
erich		...If you make bail, you're free. You can get a fake passport or sneak across the border to Greece. The Greeks hate the Turks so much they never send you back. The Turks know it. They just keep the bail. money.
bell		Sure, keep dreaming and see where that gets you... like Max, up in the head, you know...  And that... is history.
erich		The law is sometimes wrong.
bell		 The Law is never wrong, asshole. The Law is!
erich		New people sometimes get on his nerves.
billy		 What did he do?
eric		He was caught steeling from a Mosque.  That's heavy here.  He got 30 years.
billy		Thirty years?
erich		Jimmy has more balls than brains. He didn't tell his parents he was in jail for a year and a half.  He says he got himself in and now he's going to get himself out.
billy		And you?
erich		Hashish.  Ninety percent of the foreigners are in for hashish.
billy		What they give you?
erich		 Twelve years.
billy		How much did you have?
erich		A hundred grams.
billy		 It's not fair!
erich		There is no fair in Turkey, Billy. It's all "sula-bula" like this, like that. An Italian hippie had a car accident and a Turk was killed. SO, they threw him in here for six months...
billy		That doesn't seem so bad.
erich		But he was eating lunch a mile away when the Turk smashed into killed himself.
billy		He wasn't even in the car?
erich		You just got to get yourself a good lawyer.  And some money... Talk to Max.  He's been in the longest.
billy		How long?
erich		Seven years...
max		 Gastro.  Stomach medicine. Has codeine in it... Best can do
erich		Lawyers?
max		Yeah... there's no straight lawyers in Turkey... They're all bent bent as hairpins...
erich		His name?
max		Who?
erich		The lawyer?
max		What lawyer?
erich		Who got the Frenchman out?
max		Oh Yesil...  Yesil's his name but I...don't know anything... 'bout...Yesil...
max		Best way is get your ass out... any... way... you can...
billy		What do you mean?
max		Get the... midnight... express.
billy		What's that?
father		Billy!
billy		Dad!
billy		Dad...I'm...
father		 I can punch you in the nose later. Right now we've got to get you out of here.  You all right?
billy		 Yeah. How's Mom?
father		Bad. She couldn't make the trip. You know Her boy...  Susan told us before we got your letter. She's fine; she's trying to get the money to come back and see you, but...
billy		No, don't let her!  I'll... How about Peg? Robbie?
father		Same. None of the neighbors know. We told them you were in a hospital in Europe.  Oh... this is Stanley Davis. He's the American Consul here... And Necdit Yesil, the lawyer you wanted...
davis		 Hello, Billy.
billy		Hello.
davis		I want you to know we're going to do everything, in our power to get you out as soon as possible. Believe me.
billy		Thank you.
yesil		Vilyum, I am Necdit Yesil.
billy		Mr. Yesil.
yesil		I know exactly what you feel but you must not worry, we are acting immediately, we get the right court, the right judge,  I arrange everything - just right.  And I think we get you bail. If very bad, maybe twenty month sentence... But I think we get you bail...
billy		 If I get bail, Mister Yesil, they say it's easy to cross the border into Greece?
father		 Right!  That's what we're shooting for.  Mister Davis and have been in contact with the State Department, but right now relations with the Turks aren't too good, Nixon's upset the hell out of them. Our best bet's... right here.
billy		Dad...  I'll pay you back for all this, I Promise.
father		Don't worry about it.  Right now money doesn't count. Okay?
father		Where'd you get that limp?
billy		 Nothing. Just twisted my ankle.
billy		Where you staying, Dad?
father		 The Hilton.
billy		How do you like it?  Istanbul?
father		Well, it's an interesting place...  Tell you the truth, I think the food is lousy. The crap they sell in these little restaurants. I went out to eat in one of them last night, and I had to run to the damn toilet... You shoulda' seen the toilet.
billy		You mean you got toilets?
father		Yeah, with real toilet paper - and you don't have to use both sides.
father		So now I'm eating at the Hilton every night.
father		Why'd you do it, Billy?
billy		For the money... 
father		 I know you kids smoke that stuff, and we drink booze, but taking it across a border - it was stupid, Billy. Stupid.
billy		I know.
billy		Dad get me out of here.
billy		Okay.
judge		Thank you, Prosecutor. The Court will now recess to consider its verdict.
billy		What'd the Prosecutor say?
yesil		 It's not important, just technical things. We make our case.  You were very good, you spoke well. The Judge like you. It look good. Don't worry.
billy		 Did you ask for bail?
judge		The Defendant has been found guilty by the Court of the illegal possession of Hashish...
judge		...Therefore. this court sentences you, Vilyum Hi-yes to be imprisoned at Sagamilcar Prison for a term of four years and two months. This Case is now closed.
yesilf		Four years, two months. It's good.
father		 Four years!
yesil		 We appeal it.
yesil		You will see, he will have maybe one year taken off this sentence for good behaviour. Remember, it is only for possession; the prosecutor wanted life sentence for smuggling...  To be honest Mr. Hayes, it is a great victory!
father		 ...With good time Billy it works out to about 3 years... then there's the appeal.  Yesil, Davis, they're all working for you We're going to try to make a deal to get you transferred to a Stateside prison. And Davis thinks there might be a political amnesty any month...
father		Look - I know it sounds tough, Billy, but we're gonna get you out...
father		...I promise you, but I don't want you to get stupid again. Pull anything.  They can play with your sentence.
fattier		 I'm putting $500 in the bank for you.  Anything you need you write...
father		There's food, candy, writing paper, soap, books...  And now I gotta see my own son...Jesus! Jesus!  If I could be where you are Billy, I'd be there... Goddamn Jesus!  These bastards.
billy		DAD!
father		Oh Jesus! 
father		You take good care of my boy, you hear, or I'll have your fucking head, you Turkish bastard!
billy's voice		Dear Susan.  1970 has now passed into 1971.  You can drift in here and never know you're gone. You can fade so far out and you don't know where you are anymore or where anything else is...
billy's voice		 I find loneliness is a physical pain which hurts all over; you can't isolate it in one part of your body. I so much need your softness, your strength. I have your letters. They charge me, give me courage.News about amnesty and getting out - tangled, complicated...
voice		...I feel myself drifting more heavily into smoking hashish. The haze helps the time pass. Also I do soap carvings.  Erich taught me. And I have been learning Turkish because it helps me to deal with the guards and the prisoners. I'm trying hard to maintain some sort of schedule to my life, but sometimes it seems like I'm just trying in order to try...
billy's voice		 ... In the daytimes we sometimes play volleyball against the big Turkish gangsters...
billy's voice		...To the Turks all foreigners are "ayip" - unclean, dirty. We don't shave our under-arms or around our crotch...
billy voice		 Even the yoga I sometimes do is "ayip" - too suggestive...
billy's voice		 And you're never supposed to eat with your left hand. You know why? Because that's what they use to wipe their asses with instead of toilet paper.  And yet they hate pigs. There are no pigs in Turkey. They're considered dirty...
billy voice		 So is homosexuality. That's a big crime here but most of them do it every chance they get.  There are about a thousand things that are "ayip".  But they're really so hypocritical, like children breaking the rules. For instance...
billy voice		 ...You can stab or shoot some body the but not above the waist because that's intent to kill. So everybody runs around stabbing everyone else in the ass.  That's what they call 'Turkish revenge'.  There's also a lot of "Baksheesh" that's a favorite Turkish word for bribery...
hamidou		Unfortunately my youngest son Arief is having problems with his teeth; he needs braces, but dentists are so expensive these days
aslan		 Poor kid... You know I have a friend, a very good friend; he's a dentist; maybe he could get you some braces at a... reasonable price.
hamidou		 Oh, no...it's out of the question...wouldn't want to ask your friend...
aslan		Yes. Please! As a favour... I insist
billy voice		 Hamidou hints that he needs new braces for one of his sons.  Aslan of course has a friend who's a dentist.  They bullshit for half an hour and Hamidou finally accepts the "Baksheesh" in return...
billy voice		 Dope and all kinds of shipments get delivered to Aslan, who re- sells it through his runners. People like Ziat.  But one night, it backfired...
billy voice		 There were thousands of yellow nembutols.  Aslan as usual had the privilege of going into the courtyard before anybody else to pick up his stuff but...
billy's voice		 ...it happened to be a new guard that day and he didn't understand the system.
guard		No. It's too early.
aslan		Open the fucking Gate, you asshole! Do you know who I am? You want to get in trouble!
guard		 Hey, I your mother! Get back to your bunk.
prison director		Aslan...be reasonable. Come down and talk.
prison director		 Aslan... if you give up the gun, you can keep the bullets
billy's voice		 A week later Aslan had a new gun...
billy's voice		...I know all this must sound crazy to you, but this place is crazy...
billy		 Everything is "sula-bula" which means "like this, like that" - you never know what will happen. One day one of the new kids was raped in the children's kogus, so they picked out six of the worst kids...
hamidou		PIS!  PIS" 
hamidou		You see Mamur, Mamet - what happens when you're not a good boy.
billy voice		 Then there's Ziat.  The more I know of him...
billy voice		...the more hate him.
max		Ten dollars for this shit?  You greedy one-eyed git.
ziat		NO!   Is good! 
max		No!  You big shit!
ziat		Yeah! Efe big shit.
ziat		JAAAASH!
max		You asshole!
max		Hikmet come here boy.  Hikmet
billy		 What is it with you man, what the hell is it?
ziat		Cat, ah!  Ayip!
billy		You're ayip!
ziat		 Look, you don't fuck with me, I don't fuck with you, right?
billy		But you fuck with me. You fuck with me all the time. You make crummy tea.  You rip us off on the hash.
ziat		 I make special tea for you, Hiyes, okay?  We've to live like brothers. We have to be in here together.
billy		 Oh shove it, Ziat for all the money you have, you have nothing!
ziat		You 'Merican.  You don't know.
billy		Know what?
ziat		Was..  ...seven years old. I was on street in Suk.  Buy.  Sell.  No family to take care. I learn.
billy		Learn what?
ziat		Dog eat dog, Hi-yes. You fuck other man before he fuck you.  And you must fuck last.
billy		That's a great philosophy.
ziat		 You 'Merican.  You don't know.
max		Here Hikmet!  Come down here boy! Hikmet...
max		Sodding cat!
yesil		 ...For the proper amount of money it is possible I can convince certain officials to lose track of your papers before the High Court in Ankara confirms the sentence of the Lower Court in Istanbul... You would not exist; and you could be in Greece by the time the Turkish courts discovered a stupid clerical mistake...But I have to act before the official sentence is handed down, and for that I must pay certain officials in advance...
susan's voice		...My dearest Billy. I know it is long and it is hard for you, but your family and I are thinking about you all the time. I am trying hard to make enough money nights to come and see you.  Your father says that lawyer Yesil wants another $2000.  I know you distrust him more and more, but your father wants to do everything he can, and he is borrowing all he can on the mortgage of the house.  Money seems to be the only way out of there. Except of course the other way...
susan's voice		 ...But I cannot say I am for it. Nor are your parents. They consulted the priest, and he said to send you money for that reason would be like sealing your death.
bell		 The blueprints!
max		To what?
bell		The prison, man. There was this German cat an architect in the hospital. He was helping the Turks build some shit round the place. I laid some bread on him and he let me copy them.
max		Too bad you didn't have a machine.
bell		 There's two ways out I figger - over the roof, but that's only one person, maybe two. The other way is Under.
billy		Tunnel?
bell		 It's already built!  There's a basement substructure where they used to keep weapons and stuff, but beneath that there's these old catacombs that the Christians built 'bout a thousand fucking years ago to bury their dead.  We're sitting right on top of it -- here.
max		Gotta be here someplace.  Thought I heard a couple of dead Christians singing down there.
bell		 Stop shitting me, man!
billy		 But how would you get into the shaft, Jimmy?
max		I suppose you knock three times and ask for St. Peter.
bell		 We go through the wall.
billy		 We go through the wall?
max		 We go through the wall.
bell		...The Kraut was right!  I checked it out - there's no reinforced steel in those bath walls. They're real soft from underground seepage--
bell		 --the water like "'weeps" through the cement, see. Twenty, thirty years, you can almost push it over. All we do is use Gastrohead's screwdriver here and scrape the mortar out. Pull out 2, 3 stones, squeeze through, put 'em back, and get our ass down the shaft, It's a two night operation, maybe three.
max		And what do you do when you in the catacombs?
bell		The catacoombs?  Whaddya want, a door?  There's miles of em like a sewer system but they got to come up someplace in Istanbul.
max		You gotta be fucking crazy!  You got stabbed in the ass once too much, sweetheart, cause you're gonna end up in Section 13, that's what - not the 'catacombs.
billy		Section 13?
max		 I was there once for two weeks and it ain't an illusion. It's awful. Namidou runs it like a death camp, that's where he spends most of his time...
billy		Where is it?
max		I don' t know. It's someplace down in there....  ..deep.. A big door...a wheel....
bell		 ...I gotta get laid man, I don't know 'bout you guys, but if I don't get it on soon, I'm... I'm not gonna make it.
max		 Shit.
bell		Billy?
billy		...The roof sounds better to me than digging through a wall.  Ziat's round there all the time. But the roof.... 
billy		The bullet percentage is awful high.
billy		If I get caught, Jimmy, I'm facing another months. I'd be back up to 3 years, maybe more...
bell		Well fuck it!  Choose your own death, babe, I'm taking the roof out of here!
billy's voice		Dear Susan. Poor Jimmy was caught and beaten so badly he got a severe hernia and lost a testicle. He's been in the hospital for months having operations..
billy voice		 ...In comparison my problems seem very small. But two and a half years have now gone by, and in their own fashion, the Turks are slowly draining my life away...
billy's voice		...I have problems with my stomach and my leg muscles feel very weak. My gums seem to be shrinking and they sometimes bleed when I massage them... They've pulled five of my teeth...
billy's voice		 ...sometimes they null the wrong one...
billy voice		 ...even my dreams don't seem to work any more. Because the outside doesn't seem real any more. It's not even a fantasy...because there is no fantasy.
billy's voice		 Even masturbation has become boring. It teaches you, like the rest of prison life, to seal up your emotions, and this is the greatest danger, this is what makes so many of the men change into something monstrous...
billy voice		 It is Erich who has taught me how it is to be conscious, to channel and direct my energy.  He has convinced me to stop smoking hashish, he is the calmest man I have ever known.  If you don't control your energy in here if can blow you apart like with Bell. And you can't waste it either.  You have to weigh up every one of your actions - for and against.  Too little sex, too much sex either will throw you off balance...
billy voice		 ...he has taught me about feelings, and the need to express them.  And he has taught me about love...
billy voice		 ...and what love really is, beyond its physical forms.. .I think up to now I have only considered my own self, never really another...
billy voice		...and now strange as it seems, Susan, without having seen you in so long I feel myself more inside of you than ever before. I feel your female mind.  I sense you, touch you; ...know you; and find myself falling more and more... in love with you.
billy		 A prison a monastery a cloister a cave, Prison monastery cloister cave, Prison monastery cloister cave, Prison monastery cloister cave, Prison monastery cloister...
billy		Prison.
billy's voice		Dear Susan. Erich has been transferred to a prison back in Sweden. He has profoundly affected my life and though I am lonely without him I am calmer than ever...
billy's voice		 Though I only have 53 days left, I feel I have never been so well adjusted to prison and to living as now....
bell		Asina Covaciml. 
billy's voice		 ...Poor Jimmy...
billy voice		 ...Though his health is bad he still won't give up...
billy's voice		 ...He still talks of escape.
billy		What's wrong?
davis		Sit down a moment, Billy.  I'm afraid I have some bad news for you.
billy		Something happen to Dad?... Mom?
davis		No... It looks like your going to have a new court.
billy		What do you mean?
davis		The Prosecutor objected to your sentence for possession; he wanted a smuggling conviction and the High Court in Ankara reviewed it.
billy		And?
davis		We've been notified that they rejected the sentence...
davis		 There were 35 judges on the High Court. Twenty eight of them voted for a life sentence.
billy		What do you mean LIFE FOR FOR WHAT! FOR WHAT!
davis		 Billy!  Please!
billy		FOR WHAT!  FOR WHAT!
billy		I HAVE FIFTY THREE DAYS LEFT!
billy		I HAVE FIFTY THREE DAYS LEFT!
billy		...What is the crime?  And what is the punishment?  The answer seems to vary from place to place, and from time to time. What's legal today is suddenly illegal tomorrow cause some society says it's so; and what's illegal yesterday all of a sudden gets legal today because everybody's doing it and you can't throw everybody in jail. Well I'm not saying this is right or wrong. It's just the way things are....
billy		 You know my lawyers told me 'be cool Billy don't get upset, don't get angry, if you're good I can maybe get a pardon, an amnesty, an appeal, this that and the other thing.' Well that's been going down now for 35 years...
billy		 And I've been playing it cool and I've been good and now I'm damn tired of being good cause you people gave me the belief that I had 53 days left.  You hung 53 days in front of my eyes and then you took those 53 days away, and Mister Prosecutor!  I just wish you could...
billy		 For a nation of pigs, it's funny you don't eat them.  Fuck it, give me the sentence. Jesus forgave the bastards, but I can't. I hate you. Nation. I hate your I hate your people. And I fuck your sons and daughters!
billy		...cause you're all pigs.
translator		Would Your honor like me to translate?
judge		That won't be necessary
judge		 My hands are tied by Ankara!
judge		... to be imprisoned at Sagamilcar for a term no less than thirty years...Getchmis olsun
turk		...We're playing the sas.
bell		...And besides that I fuck Allah and I fuck your Muslim mother too...
bell		You got that, shit face? Asina...
billy		 Cut it!  No more fights.
billy		We're getting out of here.
billy's voice		Dear Susan. It's taken me a long time to find out that it's got to stop somewhere. I've learned painfully not to trust the Turks, the courts, the lawyers, the Consul, the United States Government, and not even my loving parents. There is only one way out of here.. The Midnight Express.
max		 We're undermining the other stones!
bell		We gotta take a chance and do that one next -  Just jiggle it, scratch it out, loose nit up, it's soft real soft!
billy		It's there!
bell		What?
billy		Listen!
bell		I told you, I told you you cock- suckers!  You didn't believe me.
max		Fuck me! You beautiful mother, you!
billy		 Hey, Ziat, hurry up with the tea will ay!
ziat		 Work, work, work, that's all do
billy		I don't hear you bitch about the money.
bell		Want me to take over?
billy		You want to split your hernia again?
max		Get off our tits!
bell		 Let's go!
billy		No. No time. Put 'em back.
billy		We go early. Any fuck-ups we should be back here and have the stones in by dawn.
billy		You got your stuff?
max		Yeah.
bell		 Haps, railroad, bus timetables?
max		 Everything.
billy		Okay.  Let's do it.
billy		Okay?
max		Yeah!
billy		Jimmy?
bell		 What?
billy		How's your hernia?
bell		Don't make me laugh.
max		 Jesus!
billy		Anybody bitten?
bell		Nah, just covered with batshit!
billy		 They went out over there: must be some kind of exit.
billy		Let's go back the other way.
bell		 The fuck are we?
billy		What time is it?
max		Two thirty.
billy		Shit!  Shit!  Shit!
max		 It's a dead end. The Turks musta' sealed it up.
bell		What the fuck we gonna do?
billy		We go back.
max		What?  You gotta be joking.
billy		 Now let's go.  Doubletime!
max		You gotta have a lot of balls for this
bell		 Who ever heard of anybody sneaking back into a fucking jail?
max		Yeah, what if got caught?
max		 Who's laughing?  I mean I find this terribly depressing... Can you see old Hamidou's face when he tries to figure this one out?
billy		 We'll tell him we were checking out our escape route.  We wanted to be completely sure before we tried it.
bell		Billy, wake up!  They found it!
billy		Who?
bell		Ziat!
hamidou		Shut up!
hamidou		No do!  No do!  I tell you I see you again.. Finish!
hamidou		Take him!
max		You bastard! This time I'm gonna kick your fucking brains all over this kitchen!
ziat		 Fine.  Good.  Man to man.  We fight now.  And when finish I bring Hamidou and he kick you fuckinq ass.
billy		Max! Cool it!  Ziat's just doing his job.
max		Bell's gonna talk. They got to find out. Man, we gotta out.
max		Goddamn Gastro's killing me.  Making me blind. Hey Billy!
billy		 Yeah.
max		I got some acid man.  Maybe we can drop some on the guards huh? In their tea or something.
max		Yeah I got it all worked out. Billy, listen to me.  That old guard likes you, You drop some acid on him.  When he's Seeing rainbows yer know. walk out - tonight.
billy		Then we're outside the kogus. Then what?
max		What?
billy		After we're outside the kogus?
max		Oh we... we...
billy		Max... Your BILLY shirt's on fire...
max		Oh shit!  Oh Christ!
max		There just comes a time you know... you know you're never going to git it on.
max		That's what I'm gonna do. 
billy		What?
max		 Cut his fucking throat.
billy		Whose?
max		ZIAT... What do I got to lose huh! What do I got to lose. And I'd really enjoy it.
billy		Max, sit down. You're in no shape to kill anybody.
max		I want to cut his throat.
billy		It's already been cut.
max		Then I'll cut his balls off.
billy		If you really wanted to hurt Ziat 
billy		 Anyway, steal from him they'd pick up the whole prison and shake it sideways.  We couldn't hide it anywhere.
max		 You know where it is?
billy		What?
max		 I know where it is.
billy		His money?
max		'Dem dat hides can finds says I'... I seen him, the clever tit, sneaking looks at it late at night, talking to it.
billy		 Yeah? Where?
max		Hishradyo.
billy		Max - where?
max		 His radio Back of his open, radio...
max		That's why he never plays it...
guard		We found it!
negdir		 Heart!  Soul!
max		He never had one.
negdir		Soon he go back streets Istanbul. Thousand enemy.  No money. 
max		I'll drink to that. 
billy		Just got some news on Bell.
max		What?
billy		Bad. Sent to the City Hospital. They ruptured his hernia again.
max		 Oh shit.
billy		I Guess he didn't talk...Poor bastard.
billy		Why the suit?
max		Maybe he's changing jobs.
hamidou		 Nebu?
hamidou		Nebu?
max		 What's going on?  Maybe Ziat can't pay off; Hamidou's taking it out in trade.
hamidou		Where did you get this hash?
ziat		 From Max.
max		 You got to be kidding.
hamidou		What's happening with this hash?
max		I didn't sell it to him. I don't have anything to do with this, I...
hamidou		 I know your face. Where did you get the hash?
billy		 (He knows nothing about it.  Ziat's lying.
max		Get out of here! He's lying!  That cock-sucker!  Billy...?
billy		Asina covacim, ipnave pesankek...yosakt.
ziat		HELP ME!  GUARDS!  HELP ME!
max		Please, will you listen to me? Will someone please listen to me? JUST LISTEN To ME!
attendants		Hamidou! Get Hamidou! Get the Kiyisl!
attendant		 Hop! Hop!  Hop!  Full moon.  Hop! Hop!  Hop!  THE LUNATICS gobble them up as if they were candy. In some of the clustered areas, nine lunatics occupy as little as three beds.  MAX is tightly bound now by HAMIDOU, but his body arches against the bindings, his neck straining, his teeth snapping at the air.  HAMIDOU grabs him with one hand by the leather waist, hauls him high up in the air and
attendant		Hop!  Hop!  Full Moon - take your pills!
young man		Cigare?  Cigare? Cigare?
billy		Go away!
young man		S'il Vous plait, Monsieur? S'il vous plait?
max		Will you listen to me? PLEASE LISTEN TO ME!
old man		 Allah!  Allah!  Yok!  Yok!  Yok! Brack!
old man		Hey American.  Fik!  Fick!  Come. Fik!  Fik!
ahmet		You're an American?
ahmet		Ah yes, America!  My name is Ahmet. I studied philosophy at Harvard for many many years. But actually Oxford is my real Alma  Mata - I've also studied in Vienna. Now I study here.
ahmet		...They put me here. They say I raped a little boy. I have been here very long time. They will never let me go.
ahmet		They won't let YOU go either.
ahmet		No, they'll never let you go. They tell you they let you go but you stay. You never go from here.
ahmet		You see we all come from a factory. Sometimes the factory makes bad machines that don't work. They put them here. The bad machines don't know they're bad machines, but the people at the factory know. They know one of the machines that doesn't work...
ahmet		 I think we have spoken enough for today.  I say good night to you.
attendants		Head count!  Head count!
hamidou		Kabin on-yedi
susan		Billy, what have they done to you...my God!
susan		...Billy, your family is fine. Senator Buckley just made a special plea on your behalf in the Senate. Newsday has written several big articles about you.  They've called you a pawn in the poppy game between Nixon and the Turks. The letters are coming in, Billy. People care....
billy		 Take it off. Take it off!
susan		Billy - you'll just make yourself crazy.
billy		Take it off! Take it off!  ...S'il vous plait?...
susan		Oh Billy, Billy, I wish I could make it better for you. Please don't...  don't...
billy		S.... Susan?
susan		Yes, Billy?
billy		...I love you....
susan		Oh Billy... Billy!  Don't give up. Please don't give up. You'll get out. I know you will!
susan		Billy, your father gave me this for you.  There's pictures of your Mom and Dad...Rob...Peg...
susan		And there's pictures in the back of your old Mr. Franklin.  Remember him... From the bank?
susan		He's over in Greece now. He bought a ticket.
voice		Visiting is over.
susan		I'll give it to them for you.
susan		You were right Billy don't count on them, you hear, don't count on anybody but yourself!
attendant		Let's go!
susan		 If you stay you'll die Billy!  Get out of here. Get to Greece, you hear me?...Billy?
lunatic		 Gower!
ahmet		Good morning, my American friend! There will be trouble if you go this way. A good Turk always walks to the right. Left is communist. Right is good. You must go the other way... It's Good.
ahmet		Why you go?  Why don't you walk the wheel with us?  The bad machine doesn't know he's a bad machine. You still don't believe it? You still don't believe you're a bad machine?
ahmet		 To know oneself is to know God, my friend. The factory knows.  That's why they put you here. You'll see. You'll find out. Later on you'll know.
billy		I already know. I know that you're a bad machine.  That's why the factory keeps you here.  You know how I know?  I know because I'm from the factory. I make the machines.. I'm here to spy on you.
attendant		Hop!  Hop!  Take!
billy		Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!!!
hamidou		No do!  No do!
hamido		First you make mistake with Ziat, now you make mistake with money. You're not a new Prisoner, Vilyum Hi-yes.
hamidou		 You've been in prison too long, Vilyum Hi-yes.
hamidou		You go crazy here Vilyum Hi-yes. Many people go crazy here. Best thing for crazy people is this...
hamidou		Babba sikijam!  I fuck your mother, I fuck your sister...
hamidou		...I fuck your father, I fuck your brother...
hamidou		...And I fuck your grandmother and I fuck your pretty girlfriend... And I fuck you Hi-yes!)
billy		Babba sikijam, Hamidu!  I fuck your Mother, I fuck your daughter, I fuck your sons, I fuck your wife!
billy		No!
billy		What's the matter?
clerk		'What are you crazy? There's no train anymore to Uzun Kopru, it'd have to go through Greece. The border's closed.
billy		No train?
billy		Listen, I have Swedish friends camping south of the town. I was supposed to meet them here this morning but I was late. Can you take me there?
driver		You know where they are?
billy		 Sure.
driver		How far?
billy		 About ten kilometers.
driver		Sixty Lira?
billy		 Sixty?
billy		Those mountains? are they?
driver		 How'd you lose your friends?
billy		Oh, I drank a lot of raka last night in Istanbul. Got into a fight.
driver		How come you speak Turkish so good?
billy		Did twenty months in prison in Istanbul.  Hash
driver		You want to score some?  Cheap?
billy		 No!
billy		The Maritas River? Where is it?
driver		Two miles! Minefields over there. Do you know where this campground is or not?
billy		Not far. Just a little way.
driver		No!  I'm not going any further! It'll wreck my car.
billy		I'll pay extra
driver		How much?
billy		Where are the minefields?
driver		All over.  Turkish Army up there. It's against the law. They shoot us.  You sure you looking for your friends, man?
driver		 Ah, look!  they probably know where the campers are
driver		Hey officer, we're looking for the campground. Do you know where it is?
policeman		 You're not supposed to be here
driver		 He's a tourist, what do you want, he says he's looking for friends at the campground.
policeman		Campground?  Never heard of one.
driver		Seen any Swedish foreigners in a camper-bus?
beer face		Noldu?
driver		Seen any foreigners in a camper bus?
billy		Okay, they haven't seen him, let's go back to town, it's getting late.
driver		Foreigners!  KAMPER.  VOLKSWAGEN
billy		Okay, let's go.
driver		Is no Volkswagen, man! Something wrong with you?
driver		This guy's fishy...I think he might be trying to get to Greece.
beer face		Huh?
driver		I don't know, there's
billy		Get out -- right now, move!
driver		He's got a gun!
soldiers		Minefield!  Minefield! Come back! Stop! 
billy		Pigs...!  Pigs...!
billy		Pigs... You... Beautiful...
billy		Greek?...  Greek?...
soldier		Ti leei? 
farmer		Malisee...Ellada! 
****Dialogues from script :Midnight_in_Paris.txt****

helen		In this traffic nothing moves. GIL Well yes it was different then. JOHN Can we continue this talk of moveable feasts at Grand Vefour because I'm starved. GIL Americans eat dinner so early. JOHN And I'm proud of it. CUT TO:
helen		 7                                                                   7
inez		Oh - how terrific. Dad's here on business and we free-loaded along. PAUL It's great.   We can spend some time together. GIL Don't we have a lot of commitments? INEZ What? CAROL What are you doing tomorrow?    We're driving to Versailles. INEZ I'm dying to see Versailles. GIL Don't we have something tomorrow? We were going to have lunch at the Brasserie Lipp. My old professor once actually saw James Joyce there. He said Joyce was eating sauerkraut and frankfurters.  INEZ Is that the end of the story? GIL It is actually - INEZ We'd love to go with you guys. Versailles is beautiful - I have to see it Gil - it's perfect for you with your obsession with "les temps perdus" GIL Yes - but - PAUL It's such a lovely treat running into you here. A demain. CUT TO: 8
inez		 I hope you're not going to be as anti-social tomorrow when we go to Versailles. GIL How was I anti-social? INEZ It was so clear you didn't want to go. GIL Well they're your friends and I can't say I'm as taken with him as you are. INEZ He's brilliant. I used to have such a crush on him at college. And Carol's very bright. GIL I find him a pseudo-intellectual. INEZ I hardly think the Sorbo nne would have him lecturing if he's a pseudo- intellectual. You should give him your novel to read. I'm sure he'd be able to critique your writing and show you why you're having so much trouble.
gil		I'm having trouble because I'm a Hollywood hack who never gave actual literature a real shot. INEZ  The studios adore you - you're in demand - I don't think you want to trade everything just to struggle. CUT TO:
helen		It's definitely the nicest ring we've seen. INEZ I love a diamond wedding band. The way it sparkled they'll see it in the last row when he puts it on my finger. HELEN This is going to be such an event, Inez. I only wish - 12 CONTD: 11                                                              11
inez		 I don't want to keep going over it, Mom. HELEN Look, he's your choice.   What can I say? INEZ Gil's smart and successful. HELEN And yet he talks of g1.v1.ng it up and moving here. That frightens me. INEZ The world is full of people who dream of writing the great American novel. Let me handle him. HELEN You're father thinks you're comfortable with Gil because you can control him. INEZ He likes to please me - is that so terrible? Oh gosh - I have to go - Paul arranged a private tour of the Rodin Museum. CUT TO:
omitted		12                                                                12
paul		That would be in Meudon. He died of the flu if I'm not mistaken - 1917 I believe. GUIDE Exactly correct. You know your art history, monsieur. The design - PAUL  He's so knowledgeable, isn't he?
guide		Ah, non, non, je suis certaine.
gil		I'm afraid she's right. I just read the recent two volume biography of Rodin - Rose was definitely the wife, Camille the mistress. PAUL You read that? Where did you read that? GIL I did - no question.    Camille- Rose. INEZ Don't forget, Dad invited you to join us at a wine tasting tonight. CAROL It'll be so fun. Paul's an expert on French wines. INEZ  When did you read the biography of Rodin? GIL Me? Why would I read a biography of Rodin? CUT TO:
helen		You should talk, John - especially for someone who once advocated the boycott of french wines. JOHN I'll always take a California wine but the Napa Valley is six thousand miles away. They laugh and drink. INEZ  To the little green Heinz pickle pin. CUT TO:
inez		I'm not tired and I'm dying to dance. I'll just meet you back at the hotel. PAUL I'll take good care of her. GIL I - I - guess so CUT TO:
gil		Where are we going? PHIL 36 rue de  Prenez du champagne - detendez-vous un peu. GIL I do like champagne. DENISE The night is young - drink up, drink up, drink up. GIL I'm drinking up. He drinks, befuddled. CUT TO: 20
scott		As what? GIL Scott Fitzgerald and - SCOTT  21                                                                    21
gil		 Hey lady, are you kidding me? ZELDA I know what you're thinking - this is boring - I agree - I'm ready to move on - let's do Bricktop's, Scott, I'm bored, he's bored, we're all bored. SCOTT Whatever you say, sweetheart. See if Cole and Linda want to come with. Coming? Gil stares open mouthed. CUT TO:
scott		 24                                                       24
scott		 Where are you going? JUAN BELMONTE Para reunirse con amigos en el St. Germain ...
zelda		He's going to St. Germain.   I'm going with him. 25 CONTD:  24                                                      24
scott		Zelda - ZELDA If you're going to stay and drink with him I'm going with the toreador. SCOTT 
hemingway		She has him on yachts, at parties, jumping into swimming pools you're wasting your talent. SCOTT You don't understand her. HEMINGWAY  24                                                       24
gil		Where they sell old things - memorabilia. Does that sound terrible to you? HEMINGWAY No subject is terrible if the story is true. If the prose is clean and honest and if it affirms courage and grace under pressure. GIL Would you do me the biggest favor in the world - I can't even ask HEMINGWAY What? GIL Would you read it? HEMINGWAY Your novel? GIL It's only about four hundred pages - if you could just give me your opinion. HEMINGWAY My opinion is I hate it. GIL You do? HEMINGWAY If it's bad I'll hate it because I hate bad writing and if it's good I'll be envious and hate it all the more. You don't want the opinion of another writer. GIL But there's no one I really trust to evaluate it - HEMINGWAY Writers are competitive. GIL I could never compete with you - 28 CONTD:  24                                                      24
hemingway		You're too self-effacing - it's not manly. If you're a writer, declare yourself the best writer - but you're not the best as long as I'm around. Unless you want to put the gloves on and settle it. GIL No - no - that's okay - HEMINGWAY I won't read your novel but I'll tell you what I'll do. GIL Yes? HEMINGWAY I'll bring it over to Gertrude Stein. She's the only one I trust to read my work. No one discovers new talent like Gert - whether it's poetry, painting, music - She'll tell you if you have a book or not. GIL You could have Gertrude Stein read my novel? HEMINGWAY Give it to me. GIL I have to get it.   It's at the hotel. HEMINGWAY She gets back from Spain tomorrow. GIL  I'm so thrilled - my heart is beating. I'll go home and get it - I'll give it to you - I can't tell you what this means to me. To have Gertrude Stein read my novel - thank you, thank you - He exits the place. 29
gil		Calm yourself - get a grip, Gil - deep breaths - been quite a night - Fitzgerald - Hemingway - the Hemingway - Papa - where do I meet him - he never said. Gil goes to return to the cafe - he can't find the door, nor the club facade. It's gone. We are in the present and he searches the wall of a facade where he came out but he is in despair over the fact he can't find it. CUT TO:
gil		If I told you I spent time with Hemingway and Fitzgerald and Cole Porter - INEZ I'd be thinking brain tumor. GIL Can I tell you Zelda Fitzgerald is exactly as we've come to know her from articles and books - she's mercurial and moody and she does not get along with Hemingway - and Scott knows Hemingway's right about it but you can see how conflicted he is because he loves her - INEZ Right, right - er where's my cold cream - we should knock off the idle chatter because we're going to be late. GIL Actually I wanted to stay and work on my novel - it needs a little polishing. INEZ You can work on it later. And we can use Mom's decorator's discount. CUT TO:
gil		Eighteen thousand dollars? HELEN Oh wait, that's Euros so it's more - INEZ That's over twenty thousand dollars, Mom. HELEN Yes but it's very hard to find anything like this at home. INEZ She's right, Gil. GIL Yes but we haven't even found a house yet and I'm trying to keep expenses down so I can turn down jobs. HELEN You get what you pay for.     Cheap is cheap. GIL I know you love Malibu but - INEZ  27                                                                  27
inez		What?   I'm not big on surprises. GIL You will be. Believe me. HELEN Look at these marvelous Blackamoors. I see them in your living room. CUT TO:l
inez		Look - you want to walk the streets and "drink in Paris by night" - go ahead. I'm in the middle of a great book Carol lent me and if I'm asleep when you get in, don't wake me.  Get in. Gil gets in, car pulls off
hemingway		I believe that love that's true and real creates a respite from death. All cowardice comes from not loving or not loving well which is the same thing and when the man who is brave and true looks death squarely in the face like some rhino hunters I know or Belmonte who is truly brave, it is because they love with sufficient passion to push death out of their minds till it returns as it does to all men and then you must make really good love again. Think about it. CUT TO:
stein		I was just telling Pablo that this portrait doesn't capture Adriana. It has universality but no objectivity. PABLO Vous ne le comprenez pas correctment. Vous ne connaissez pas Adriana mais c'est tout ce qui la represente. STEIN No tu n'a pas raison. Look how he's done her - dripping with sexual innuendo. Carnal to the point of smoldering and yes she's beautiful but it's a subtle beauty - an implied sensuality.  "Out of the Past was the name of the store and its products consisted of memories. What was prosaic and even vulgar to one generation had been transmuted by the mere passing of years to a status at once magical and also camp. "
adriana		I love it.     I'm already - hooked? Hooked. STEIN I'll start it tonight. But first we have something to talk about. She collars Hemingway and they huddle to one side. Picasso has busied himself at a distant spot with a drink, sulking. This leaves Gil off with Adriana to chat. GIL Did my opening lines really get to you that strongly? ADRIANA The past has always had a great charisma for me. 38 CONTD:  31                                                       31
gil		Me too.     I was born too late. ADRIANA Oui, exactement. For me Belle Epoque Paris would have been perfect. The whole sensibility, the street lamps, the kiosks - the horse and carriages. And Maxims - then. GIL You speak very good English. ADRIANA No, not really. GIL Yes - and how long have you been dating Picasso? My god, did I say that? ADRIANA Pardon. GIL Oh - I - no, I didn't mean anything - you know - to pry  born in Paris? ADRIANA I was born in Bordeaux - I moved here to study fashion and - you don't want to hear this - GIL No, I do. ADRIANA I came here - to study with Coco Chanel - and I fell in love with Paris and also a very dark eyed, haunted, Jewish-Italian painter - and I knew Amedeo had another woman but still I couldn't resist moving into his apartment when he asked and it was a beautiful six months. GIL Not Modigliani? Was it Modigliani? You lived with Modigliani? 39 CONTD:  31                                                      31
adriana		You asked me so I'm telling you my sad story. With Braque also there was another woman - many - and now with Pablo - I mean Pablo is married but every day it's on again, off again - I don't know how any woman can stay with him - he's so difficult. GIL My god you are a whole different level of art groupie. ADRIANA Pardon. GIL Nothing - I'm - ADRIANA But tell me about yourself. Have you come to Paris to write because these days so many Americans feel the need to move here. Isn't Hemingway attractive? I love his writing. GIL Actually I'm visiting. ADRIANA Oh you must stay here. It's a wonderful city for artists and writers. GIL Believe me, I want to but it's not that simple. ADRIANA And I did fall madly in love with the start of your book so I want to hear the rest of it. Hemingway and Stein return. HEMINGWAY Come, let's all go for a drink up at Montmartre. 40 CONTD:  31                                                               31
stein		We'll discuss your book as soon as I finish it. Where can I reach you? GIL Oh that's okay - I'll drop by - it'll be easier for you - if that's okay. STEIN We run an open house. ADRIANA You sure you won't come? GIL  One of these days I plan to steal you away from this genius who's great but no Miro. CUT TO:
gil		 I'm Gil Pender - I was with Hemingway and Picasso - Pablo Picasso - Ernest Hemingway - I'm Gil Pender from Pasadena - the Cub Scouts - I failed freshman English - I'm Gil Pender and my novel is with Gertrude Stein - I once worked at The House of Pies. I'm little Gil Pender. And that girl was so lovely. CUT TO:
helen		It's a shame you two didn't come to the movies last night. We saw a wonderfully funny American film. I forget the name. GIL Wonderful but forgettable.     I've seen that picture. HELEN I know it was moronic and infantile and lacking any wit or believability but John and I laughed in spite of ourselves. INEZ What time did you get in?     I was dead asleep. GIL Not late. I find these midnight strolls are very good for me creatively - without the distractions of the day - I'll probably take another long walk tonight. INEZ We'll see.     Oh how about this? 42 CONTD: 34                                                            34
helen		Oh look at these wonderful glass figures. As they're preoccupied, Gil is caught up by a woman who plays some old 78 records on an old phonograph and she's playing the Cole Porter tune Cole was playing the other night. GABRIELLE C'est jolie, no. GIL Yes - very beautiful. GABRIELLE Cole Porter. Vous aimez - you like Cole Porter? GIL Love his music - we're very close - Cole, Linda and I. She gives him a look. GABRIELLE Very pretty and tres amusant. He listens. Inez comes over. INEZ Gil - Gil - Gil? GIL  We can see all those beautiful water lilies at his home. CUT TO:
paul		 Ah - now here's a superb Picasso. 44 CONTD:                                                A36 A36
helen		Where did Gil run off to? INEZ Work - he likes to walk around Paris - the way the city is all lit up at night allegedly inspires him - It's okay. Paul and I are going dancing. HELEN Where's Carol? INEZ In bed with a bad oyster.  See you later. Thanks for dinner Dad.
john		No? I'd like to know where he goes every night. HELEN Well we know one thing - he doesn't go dancing. CUT TO:
omitted		40                                                               40
gil		No you're wrong. I know. ZELDA How?   How? GIL Trust me.      I know. ZELDA But you just met us. How can you know anything. My skin hurts. I hate the way I look. GIL Take this.  42                                                                 42
gil		I'll try and score some more for you. And I have some Xanax at the hotel - it's another one you'll like. ADRIANA Come on, we'll find a taxi. We'll see you home - things will be better in the morning. CUT TO:
adriana		You never said you were getting married. GIL Yes - I - I mean it's in the future. ADRIANA Well good luck with your book and your wedding. GIL You'd like Inez - she has a sharp sense of humor - and she's sexy - not that we agree on everything. ADRIANA But the important things. GIL Actually the small things - the important things we don't - she'd like to live in Malibu and that I'd work in Hollywood - but I will say we both like - er - er Indian food - not all Indian food - pita bread - we both like pita bread - ADRIANA  I should go. Pablo will be missing me. GIL I'll walk you home - 53 CONTD: 43                                                           43
adriana		NO, no  Finish your drink.      I live just around the corner. GIL No, I wouldn't think - ADRIANA I'd prefer to be by myself for awhile. Thank you for this evening.
gil		In a dream - which is fine for you because you guys dabble in dreams. MAN RAY There is another woman? GIL Adriana is her name. And I felt drawn to her - but it wouldn't matter - men much greater than me, profound artists - she's drawn to geniuses - and they to her. DALI I see you with Christ - he is smiling while you are crucified on the heavy wooden cross of self- doubt. GIL Of course my biggest problem is reality. BuNuEL Reality is nothing more than a dream - we all exist in the dream of a dog. GIL I was born in the wrong time. DALI Time is all the mind. Time melts - the watches melt - the hands of the clock melt MAN RAY A man in love with a woman from a different era. I see a photograph. BuNuEL I see a movie. GIL I see an insurmountable problem. DALI I see - a rhinoceros. 56
inez		Paul says we have to see the countryside. He's taking us for lunch at this beautiful little inn. I know you like making love in the morning but I find it much sexier late afternoon - just before we go out to dinner. Except I always have to explain to my parents why your cheeks look radiant. Hey- I'm not going to force you. I know you're hot on your writing. I'll be happy when you finish this book and move on. CUT TO:
gil		Hello - Bonjour - I'd like to ask you a question about Rodin. GUIDE Yes? GIL He loved his wife, he also loved his mistress - is it really possible to be in love with two women? GUIDE He loved both in different ways. GIL God it's so French. Er - you remember me? GUIDE I do. Qui - you were with the group, the pedantic gentleman. GIL Yeah, pedantic - perfect word. You're very observant. I need some advice. I'd like a woman's take. A French woman - an observant French woman. I met some woman that I very quickly became smitten with. Smitten? GUIDE Uh-huh. GIL I'm engaged to be married. I know Rodin had a wife and a mistress but I'm American - we can't handle that - we're monogamous. GUIDE You're engaged and you met a new woman - GIL Yes. Her name's Adriana. Right now she's living with Picas-- with a Spaniard - er he paints - fairly well. 58 CONTD:  45                                                                45
guide		Yes - and does she love him?   Or you? GIL Love him or me? Well I hardly think, me. But we've just met. See, another very gifted man flirts with her, a writer. All these geniuses fall in love with her. And what am I? And then of course there's another big problem. I can't exactly explain. GUIDE Yes?
gil		I don't know whether to call it an age difference - or a problem of geography - I'm so messed up. I'm not Hemingway, I'm not Picasso, I'm not Rodin. I'm just a guy who was born too late. CUT TO:
omitted		46                                                                   46
john		He's engaged to my daughter - to marry and I want to be certain she's making a wise decision. Naturally discretion is paramount. DUBOIS You've come to the right place, monsieur. Monsieur Tisserant - will personally keep track of the gentleman and report back on his whereabouts at night. CUT TO:
omitted		50                                                              50 60
omitted		52                                                              52
omitted		54                                                                 54
omitted		56                                                                      56
gil		It's a little complicated to explain. Thanks for translating - GUIDE The writer clearly has feelings for this man Gil. That's your name, no? GIL She finds him no genius - naive and unassuming - that's not exactly dazzling. GUIDE To some women naivete is   endearing. And she's romantic. She    dreams of Belle Epoque Paris and a   gift of earrings and making love   with this man.
inez		Daddy got chest pains. GIL Really? JOHN I'm sure it's indigestion. HELEN Well we can't take a chance. INEZ Daddy had an angioplasty three years ago. JOHN They put a balloon in me.    Big deal. HELEN  59                                                        59
gil		No - sure - is there anything I can get you, John? JOHN I'm fine. I'm sure it's the beef bourguignon. INEZ What's this.  59                                                          59
helen		Cheap is cheap is what I always say. INEZ You never saw the necklace he got me. I've never actually worn it. You'll see why immediately. Opens her jewelry box, holds up moonstones. GIL I thought you'd like their simplicity. INEZ That's just it, they're too simple. HELEN I agree. INEZ Hey - where are my art nouveau earrings? GIL You probably didn't pack them. INEZ I've worn them here. GIL I guess you lost them.     They probably dropped off. INEZ Both of them?     My ears are pierced. HELEN I told you to keep everything in the hotel safe. INEZ You think it was the maid? HELEN It's always the maid. INEZ I remember seeing them there this morning. 69 CONTD:  59                                                      59
helen		I would report the theft right away. INEZ I'll bet it was that maid. She was so snotty yesterday about turning out the beds. She goes to phone. GIL Gee I wouldn't jump to any conclusions. I mean an accusation of theft. INEZ  59                                                             59
gil		The main thing is they're not stolen. DOCTOR I'm going to send you for some tests but I think that you are right and this is only indigestion. 71 CONTD:  59                                                                  59
john		See. Incidentally, it was very nice of you to come over so late. HELEN Yes - my god, is it midnight already? Gil is disappointed. CUT TO:
omitted		61                                                                  61
stein		 Gee, why don't I pick up half a dozen? I could clean up - but how's all this possible - I should have paid more attention in my physics class STEIN Well? GIL Oh er - I brought a rewrite of the first few chapters of my book and was hoping you would tell me if you thought I was on the right track. STEIN Leave it with me. GIL Er - have you heard from Hemingway? STEIN Oh yes, they've been back for days. The trip didn't work out. I knew they wouldn't hit it off. That's over. with Picasso too. She's at Deyrolles - by herself. GIL By herself? STEIN On of those surrealist painters is getting married and they did it up there. She'll be glad to see you. CUT TO:
gil		Here. ADRIANA How remarkable - they're beautiful.
adriana		 70                                                        70
adriana		Nous aimons, tous les vos dessins et peintures, en realite tout ce que vous faites. GIL Yes, I love your pictures too. LAUTREC  70                                                       70
adriana		He says they find this generation sterile and empty - GAUGUIN La Renaissance est beaucoup mieux - better to have lived during the Renaissance. ADRIANA No - this is the Golden Age - L'Age D'or. DEGAS Pas do tout - la Renaissance - c'etait mieux - leur vetements sont tres, tres modernes, tres originaux. ADRIANA He says your clothes are very modern and original. GIL Er - yes - Monsieur Lauren - Ralph.  Shouldn't you be in Tahiti? GAUGUIN I? What? Yes - I live on the island - a much better life than here - better there - but then I miss Paris - up and back - Qu'est que vous faites dans la vie? ADRIANA What do I do? Je suis etudiante. En haute couture - fashion designer but studying - DEGAS Ah ga compte pour les vetements outrageux.
lautrec		Vous devriez la presenter a Richard. GAUGUIN He wants Degas to have you meet his friend Richard. 
gil		It's not the present for me - I'm from 2010. ADRIANA What do you mean? GIL I dropped in on you just the way we dropped in on the 1890's. ADRIANA You did? GIL I wanted to escape my present just like you wanted to escape yours. To a golden age. ADRIANA Surely you don't think the twenties are a golden age? GIL To me they are. ADRIANA But I'm from the twenties and I'm tellin~ you the golden age is the Belle Epoque. GIL Yes but don't you see - to these guys the golden age was the Renaissance. They'd all trade the Belle Epoque to paint alongside Michelangelo or Titian. And those guys probably imagine life was better when Kubla Khan was around. I'm having an insight. A minor one but that accounts for the anxiety of my dream. ADRIANA What dream? GIL Last night I dreamed I ran out of zithromax - and then I went to the dentist and there was no novacaine - these people have no antibiotics - 82 70                                                         70 CONTD:   
adriana		What are you talking about? GIL And even in the twenties - no dishwashers - no 911 if your appendix bursts - no "movies on demand" ADRIANA But if we love each other what does it matter when we live? GIL Because if you stay here and this becomes your present, sooner or later you'll imagine another time was really the golden time. And so will I - I'm beginning to see why it can't work, Adriana. The present has a hold on you because it's your present and while there's never any progress in the most important things, you get to appreciate - what little progress is made - the internet - Pepto- Bismol. The present is always going to seem unsatisfying because life itself is unsatisfying - that's why Gauguin goes back and forth between Paris and Tahiti, searching - it's my job as a writer to try and come up with reasons why despite life being tragic and unsatisfying, it's still worth it. ADRIANA That's the problem with writers - you're all so full of words - but I'm more emotional. I'm going to stay and live in Paris' most glorious time. You made a choice to leave Paris once and you regretted it. GIL Yes, that one I regretted but it was a real choice and I made the wrong one. This is a choice between accepting reality or surreal insanity. 83 CONTD:  70                                                                     70
adriana		So finally you do love Inez more than me. GIL No - I love you - but this way lies madness - and if I'm ever going to write anything worthwhile I've got to get rid of my illusions and that I'd be happier in the past is one of them. ADRIANA Goodbye, Gil. GIL Goodbye Adriana.     Good luck. They kiss, she turns and goes to the table of artists. CUT TO:
stein		He finds it hard to believe the protagonist doesn't see his fiancee is having an affair that's going on right before his eyes. GIL with - STEIN The other character - the pedantic one - GIL It's called denial. Thanks again.  You're Ezra Pound right? T.S. Eliot says you owe him forty francs. CUT TO:
inez		You're crazy - Paul and me? Where did you get such an insane notion? GIL From Ernest Hemingway. He thought it out and it makes perfect sense. INEZ Gil, your brain tumor's acting up again. GIL There's nothing crazy about Ernest Hemingway or Gertrude Stein or Fitzgerald or Salvador Dali - INEZ Nothing except they've all been dead for years. GIL It was William Faulkner who said, the past is not dead.  72                                                            72
inez		Have you met someone else?      All those late night walks. GIL I was attracted to another woman but it was the whole deal - meeting Gertrude Stein and Hemingway and Dali and Scott and Zelda - INEZ Honey, you better listen to yourself. You're a psycho. You don't know what you're doing. You see everything here through magical colored glasses. You're a California film writer with a house in Beverly Hills with two Mercedes'. You're not some kind of twenties expatriate novelist. Her parents enter from the adjoining suite. HELEN What's going on?       We can hear every word. GIL If I'm not happy I'll move back. But right now I'm going to stay. INEZ With who? All your crazy hallucinatory friends? Mother was right about you - there's a part missing. JOHN said that first. ~
inez		Anyone who's protagonist makes a living selling old cap pistols and Joan Crawford cut out books. GIL You're better off without me. INEZ Go ahead. Walk the streets - gush over the Parisian light and the rooftops. 87 CONTD:  72                                                               72
gil		Goodbye Inez. He goes. JOHN I had a private detective follow him - I knew he was up to no good. INEZ Daddy you didn't. JOHN I did. He saw him get into a car at midnight each night and he followed close behind. HELEN What happened? JOHN I don't know. The detective agency says the detective is missing. CUT TO:
omitted		74                                                               74 88
gabrielle		It's midnight. GIL Midnight - right - right - pretty name. FADE OUT as they walk off together in the rain.
****Dialogues from script :Mighty_Joe_Young.txt****

august 1997		Final Production Draft
for educational		PURPOSES ONLY
ruth		Jill.   What did I tell you?
jill		But Joe started it!
ruth		It's not good for them to interact with us.  Besides, that wasn't Joe. It was Marley.
jill		No it wasn't.    It was Joe.
ruth		Joe is just a baby, Jill.      He was too big to be Joe.
jill		Check.   Check the pictures.
mountain range		 The dark peaks silhouetted against the stellar glow.
pov shot		 Charging THROUGH dense, primeval forest. We hear an eerie metallic JANGLE of what sounds like wind chimes riding right with us. Something is moving quickly up this mountain.
clearing		 A small circle of huts forming a campsite around a night fire. We go inside...  one of them --
ruth		Jill, what made you think the gorilla we saw today was Joe?
jill		I was right, wasn't I?
ruth		My notes say that Joe is only six months old. Either I got confused, or he's a very unusual gorilla.
jill		 I told you so.
ruth		Yes, you did. And Mommy's going to write it down in her book.
ruth		Right here. '... and my trusted colleague, Dr. Jill Young, showed me the error of my ways.'
ruth		Now go to sleep.
ruth		 'Sleep till the night ends, the night wind will sing for you. Your song and my song. It goes on forever.'
jill		Goodnight, Kweli.
ruth		Kweli?   What is it?
kweli		You should come. Quickly.
jill		Mommy, can I...
ruth		Stay here, Jill.
kweli		 Stay here, child.
ruth		 Poachers.
ruth		 Let's go.
africans		... n'gai zamu!... n'gai zamu!...
garth		They're at it again.
strasser		Mystical nonsense. There's only one thing they should be afraid of on this mountain.  And it's staring them right in the face!
garth		Gorilla.   We're close.
joe's pov		 A nightmarish collage of images accompanied by the CLANGING of the dogs' COLLARS, the charge of the African poachers, the SCREAMS of the MOTHER and the other GORILLAS. Then he sees Strasser run forward, raise his rifle with icy precision.
through scope		 Strasser has Joe's mother dead on. Her head in the cross-hairs as she tries to get away. The MOTHER'S raspy animal SCREAM is unmistakably maternal, heart-breaking. It ECHOES across the mountain as she tries to reach a deep stretch of woods.  On her back, Joe turns once more to look back and sees --
on joe		 We see Joe thrown THROUGH FRAME, tumbling into the high grass.  Then, silence.
garth		 Get the baby!
strasser		 Don't shoot it! They want the babies alive!! Bring the sack!
joe's pov		 THROUGH the tall grass in the b.g., he can see the Africans disappear up the hill hunting down the others.
another pov		 Something is running TOWARDS her.
jill's pov		 of Strasser's and Garth's boots. Jill can hear the sound of their voices, but their words are indistinct.
strasser		 She's got to be here somewhere. She's got that damn devil with her.
garth		 I think you might've hit the woman.
strasser		 These people want to live like heroes, let them die like heroes.
strasser		That little demon took off my damn trigger finger.  Monstrule!
garth		Your little 'monster' couldn't have gone far. Want to keep looking or...?
strasser		 No.    Let's get out of here.
jill		Mom!
jill		 Mom, there were men, they...
ruth		I know, I know. Shhh.
ruth		Oh, look who it is.    Hello, Joe. 
jill		He's scared.
ruth		Poor baby.   He lost his mommy tonight.
ruth		He needs someone to protect him. Will you do that for me, Jill?
ruth		Promise me you'll protect him, Jill.
jill		I... I promise.
kweli		Don't worry, little one.   I will take care of you.
kweli		You will love living in the village. There are other children, and...
kweli		Jill!
on kweli		 Starting after her at first, but then stopping.    He lets her go.  CUT TO: 11B.  A14   EXT. PANGANI FOREST - DAY                                       A14  Jill pushes her way through the brush, finding Joe, waiting for her.
on jill		 Joe in her arms now, running through the woods as fast as she can, and we PULL BACK and...  DISSOLVE TO:
humvee		 racing at breakneck speed over the dirt highway. Driven by GREGG O'HARA -- anyone would consider him young, strong and handsome -- except that right now, it's all hidden under the grime from a long flight and a week's growth of beard. Hair long, unkempt; clothes wrinkled.  Gregg passes four local men burning a clearing in the woods for yet more farmland.  Pushing its way up the mountain side. The humvee is packed with EQUIPMENT that RATTLES as Gregg hits every bump in the road.
gregg		You must be Pindi.
pindi		The one and only, bro.
pindi		Six men, three cars... everything you ask for, Mr. Ohara.  All paid for in advance, out of Pindi's pocket...
gregg		Sweet-looking bunch of guys.
gregg		I asked for experienced trackers.
pindi		These men are the best -- I assure you. Very best.
pindi		Nice piece you got there. What are we hunting, elephants?
gregg		We're not hunting anything.
pindi		Ah! Tranquilizer darts. I agree -- much nicer to animals than bullets.
gregg		 Your men know how to use this, right?
pindi		Oh sure, boss.     Only professionals here.
pindi		So tell me, boss -- where are we going today?
gregg		There.
pindi		There? Uh, boss, that is not such a good mountain. The men don't like it very much at all. You see there is a legend they believe in, that a creature lives there...
gregg		'N'Gai Zamu.' The sacred guardian of Mount Pangani.
pindi		You know it? How funny!  That's not, by any chance, what you are looking for, is it, boss?
gregg		Looking for a legend?   No.   Why would I do that?
gregg		Gimme those.
pindi		What are you listening to?
gregg		Sounds.
pindi		Like that right there?
gregg		Yup.
pindi		I understand completely: jungle sounds! Very important. I know a guy, he can get you a C.D. of jungle sounds, cheap. Even cheaper if you buy ten.
pindi		 How do you like that, boss? I told you these men were the best.
gregg		 You're a beauty.
gregg		 Okay, set him free.
pindi		 Why ask for a cage if you are not keeping the animal?
gregg		Because I'm only keeping this.
pindi		Yes, but I know a guy, in Botswana, he'd pay you ten thousand American dollars for that leopard. I'd be willing to split with you -- fifty/fifty.
pindi		Perhaps you're right. Sixty to you, forty to me. That's a very fair deal!
pindi		My goodness -- you're an excellent negotiator. Okay, boss! Seventy/thirty it is.  Take him to the truck.
gregg		Put the cat down... now.
pindi		 They never understand me. I don't know what to do...
pindi		Uh, excuse me.     Time to flee, right?
gregg		Don't anybody move.
pindi		 How about... I move... just over here...
gregg		Come on!!   We're going after him!
pindi		What is this 'we'? There is no way my men will ever agree to...
gregg		 Triple your fee.
gregg		Herd him towards me!   I gotta get close.
gregg		Real close.
another angle		 The lead car, a Land Rover, comes right up behind Joe.
land rover		 The guy with the tranquilizer RIFLE panics and FIRES!
gregg		Experienced trackers, my ass!
gregg		No, we don't want to...
gregg		Hold the wheel!
their pov		 Joe has just emerged from the tree stand, dragging the thoroughly-battered, modified Land Rover and its dazed occupants. Joe sees the humvee heading towards him.
pindi		I hope you are planning on throwing that at him, because...
gregg		Pindi!   Look out!
the chain		 Pulled taut between Joe and the modified Land Rover, has become a moving clothesline, and the humvee is heading right into its path. Pindi tries to swerve, but they can't avoid it. He ducks and...  Gregg leaps out of the car, hurdling the chain, just as...  It shears the top right off the vehicle!  Gregg tumbles to the ground, as the humvee rolls to a stop nearby. Meanwhile, the --
land rover		 is SPINNING OUT, still connected to Joe. Joe is almost curious about the chain. He begins to pull back as the modified Land Rover circles him. The modified Land Rover bucks -- and for a second there is a standstill. Then Joe yanks...                                                  23  And the chain, the winch, the tracker in the hot seat... in fact, the entire axle of the modified Land Rover, are pulled from their moorings.  The tracker racks up against a tree, followed closely by his chair and winch...  The axle tumbles to a stop...  The LAND ROVER COLLAPSES like a stack of cards.
joe		 stands at the edge of the field, observing his victory. Then he beats his chest and ROARS.
pindi		Stop!
pindi		Hurry up, bro!     Get in!
pindi		Excuse me, boss, but please, I would like to avoid being killed.
gregg		Get those men down the mountain. They need help.
pindi		Crazy Americans!
pindi		Get us out of here.
gregg's pov		 Staring down the path of crushed growth that Joe has left in his wake. He takes a deep breath, then exhales. Then he heads off into the jungle.
gregg		 screams as he's jerked helplessly into the air. Joe shakes Gregg viciously -- then whips him back and forth, knocking him against a sapling. Gregg fights to free himself but he's no match for Joe's strength. He knows Joe is going to hurt him badly -- maybe kill him.  Joe cocks his arm -- to crush Gregg against a wide tree trunk.  Joe!   Stop!  Joe looks surprised, caught with his hand in the cookie jar.
gregg		Oh, wow.
jill		Joe...
jill		... drop him.
pov shot		 LOOKING UP AT KWELI, 12 years older than we last saw him. Kweli looks right INTO CAMERA, then says something over his shoulder in Swahili.
gregg		Where am I?
kweli		The infirmary. You've been unconscious for an entire night. You're lucky to be alive.
gregg		Strange, I don't feel lucky.
kweli		You crashed your vehicle. It is waiting for you outside.
gregg		You're an injury behind. The kicker was getting dropped on my head by N'gai Zamu.
gregg		Think that's funny? You should try it?
kweli		N'Gai Zamu is just a legend, my friend.
gregg		No, he's a giant gorilla with a mean backhand. There was also a woman...
kweli		A woman?
gregg		Out in the jungle. She saved my life. A beautiful woman.
kweli		You were dreaming, Mr. Ohara.
gregg		No.    I never remember my dreams.
kweli		It would be wise for you to see a doctor in Kimjayo. I took the liberty of calling one for you.
gregg		Don't need one.
kweli		But he is expecting you. If you can drive, you should leave today.
gregg		Damnit.
school children		Hello!    Hello!     Hello!
gregg's pov		 as Kweli steps into a fruit stall, letting the kids fly by him.  Then Gregg's eyes widen as a tall and lovely young woman steps INTO VIEW next to Kweli.
kweli		Our visitor must be feeling better. He should be leaving the infirmary today.
jill		Looks like he just has.
jill		He's walking so soon. Joe should have dropped him harder.
kweli		He's not a poacher, Jill. He's working for an animal conservancy in California.
jill		 He can't be trusted.   He's an outsider.
kweli		A grateful outsider. He told me he was saved yesterday by a woman.  A beautiful woman.
jill		And what did you tell him?
kweli		What could I tell him? He knows what he saw. He's not a fool.
jill		I'll be the judge of that.
gregg		 watches this bizarre ritual, wondering what Jill could possibly be doing.  CUT TO:
on gregg		 The thunderous sound making him nervous...
jill		 Hey, handsome. How are you?
jill		What were you thinking yesterday, letting those men see you? Don't do that again, okay? Please.  Please.
jill		One.   Two.   Three. Four...
jill		... seven, eight, nine, ten.  Ready or not, here I come!!
jill		 Oh, my God! I can't find Joe. Where's Joe?
jill		Come out, come out... wherever you are!
jill		I found you!
jill		Bye-bye, Joe!
gregg		Oh boy.
jill		Now get out of here, Joe.     Run.
jill		Run, Joe.   Run!
gregg		 Nobody better try and tell me I imagined this.
jill		Anything broken?
gregg		 No... no. I think I'm... oh.
jill		Hmm -- it looks okay.     I think it's still working.
gregg		 Oh -- good.
jill		Well -- I can fix that.
gregg		 Hey -- wait a minute!
gregg		Hang on a second -- what's the problem?
jill		You. You're the problem. That's the second time I've stopped you from being ripped in two -- and next time I'm just going to watch. Understand?
gregg		 You saved me. I'm grateful. Now I just want to talk to you -- Miss Young.
gregg		I know who you are. I read all your mother's work. Books... notes... everything I could get a hold of.
jill		 So?
gregg		So it's why I'm here.
gregg		She knew about Joe? Did she have a theory on him? How old is he? I can't believe you kept him a secret all these years. How'd you manage that?
jill		By keeping people like you off the mountain.
gregg		You got this all wrong.   I want to help you.
jill		You're not helping anybody here. You're just making matters worse.
gregg		How's that?
jill		This mountain will be crawling with people, thanks to you. You go back to wherever you're from, put the word out...
gregg		The word is out. It's done. I'm not the only one who saw him, remember? Rare animals mean big money and Joe's as rare as they come. It's going to be tough to protect him here. Maybe impossible.
jill		'Here' is Joe's home. And 'here' is where he must live. He doesn't have a choice.
gregg		That's not true. Place that sent me could take care of Joe. They got the facilities...
jill		Just what Joe needs.   A cage.
gregg		Not a cage, a preserve. A place where he'll be free from poachers, free from land development...
jill		But he won't be free.
gregg		How long do you think Joe will stay free here? I'm telling you there's gonna be a hunt starting on this mountain tomorrow. And I don't expect they'll give it up until one of them bags the prize. You should think about it.
anderson		Tell me, why is it that you keep such a low profile about this wonderful place?
strasser		Our only interest is the well- being of our animals.
anderson		 Well, I think I've come to the right place for Morris.
anderson		You can see how depressed he is. He's grown out of his habitat, and our zoo doesn't have the budget to do anything about it. That's why he needs a new home.
strasser		Poor thing. Yes, he will be much happier here on our preserve. Back to the wild. Free again.
garth		Phone for you.     Urgent.
strasser		Will you excuse me, Mr. Anderson?
strasser		See what our friends in China will give us for a Bengal tiger, Garth.
garth		Looks like a big fellah.  I'll set a new record with you.
strasser		Strasser.
strasser		 What do you want, Pindi?
pindi		Not what I want, boss, what you want. How about a giant gorilla?
strasser		Talk.
pindi		Big as three men, two thousand pounds, at least.
strasser		You've been drinking, haven't you?
pindi		Swear to God, boss. Saw him with my own two eyes.
strasser		Don't waste my time again.
pindi		Hello?   Boss...
pindi		I'll catch him and charge you double, madar chode.
poacher		Stupid girl! What do you think you're doing?
jill		I found this in the forest this morning. Thought maybe you dropped it and might want it back.
jill		Poaching is illegal!   Get off this mountain!
kweli		 Come here immediately! You are needed at the school this moment!
kweli		We have to talk. Now.
kweli		Your mother slept in this bed. She worked at this desk. She died in this jungle. Do you plan to do everything just like her?
jill		My mother would have been proud of what I did today.
kweli		 Proud? Of that foolishness out there? Of you risking your life?
jill		She risked hers -- why shouldn't I risk mine? I'm just doing what I promised, and I promised to protect Joe. And I'm going to do everything I can to stop the poachers...
kweli		You can't stop them.  Even she couldn't stop them.
kweli		Jill, the other gorillas have moved south, to safer lands... but Joe has stayed behind.
jill		They don't want him.   They won't let him come.
kweli		Maybe... or maybe you won't let him go.
jill		 He needs me.
kweli		The danger here is building for both of you. I feel it -- and so do you.
kweli		I know what the American is offering, Jill.
kweli		Think about what he has to say. That's all I ask.
jill		Leaving?
gregg		I'm gonna head up the mountain. See if I can throw some of the poachers off the trail.
jill		 You think it will work?
gregg		Not for long. Just trying to buy you a little time, that's all. With more of these bastards arriving every hour, I suggest you get Joe as deep into the jungle as you can -- as fast as you can.
jill		Okay!
gregg		Okay what?
jill		Okay we'll go.
gregg		We?
jill		Me and Joe. To that place of yours in California.  What?! You didn't think you could take him without me, did you?
gregg		You're sure about this?
jill		No. I am completely unsure about this. But I'll do it. On one condition.
gregg		Name it.
jill		I'm in charge of Joe.
gregg		Done.
jill		 Done? Just like that?     That was way too easy.
gregg		You're not a very trusting soul are you, Miss Young?
jill		No, I'm not.
gregg		 Tough, isn't it? Trying to measure me up -- decide if I'm a fraud...
jill		... or a fool.
gregg		Well, I'd like to know if you're a bona fide lunatic or just a mixed up monkey girl but -- but I guess we'll have to take our chances and figure it out as we go along.
gregg		Come on, Jill. Trust it.      You'll be in charge of Joe.  Let's shake on it.
jill		I don't shake. That's not how we make pacts around here.
gregg		 Alright, how do you make pacts around here?
jill		You have to endure a bite from a Makiki spider.
gregg		A what?
jill		You'll have a high fever and hallucinations. You'll say things -- lots of things. We'll hear what's in your heart. Then, if your intentions prove true, the pact is made.
gregg		A spider bite and hallucinations?
jill		That's right.
gregg		Then you'll trust me and let me have Joe?
jill		That's right.    Well?
gregg		Well... I think... that's the biggest load of crap I've ever heard.
jill		Good. Maybe you're not a fool after all.
gregg		Get your things together. Fast. We're getting out of here as soon as we can.
gregg		 Makiki spider.
jill		I don't know what else to do.
harry		This is crazy. All I said was, 'Bring back some blood samples.' So what does he bring back? A giant gorilla.
cecily		Don't even pretend to be upset, Harry.
harry		You know how much it cost to convert the tiger habitat? Try half our operating budget.
cecily		You'll be on the cover of National Geographic, Harry.
harry		Hey, I just said it was crazy.    I didn't say it wasn't worth it.
jill		There are more cars on this road than I've seen in my entire life, total.
gregg		Welcome to L.A.
jill's pov		 We see the cab of a large trailer following their car.
jill		 Think he's okay back there?   I think he's okay back there.
jill		You think he's okay back there?
gregg		 Don't worry. He's doing fine.
jill		Sorry.    I'm a little tense.  Yeah.    I think he's okay back there.
gregg		Good.    Thanks for the update.
jill		So this is L.A.  It all looks the same.   How do you know where you are?
gregg		Beach is that way, mountains are that way, Mexico's that way, Canada's that way. Don't worry about the rest -- you'll never see it through the smog.
gregg		Maybe you better check and see if Joe's okay back there.
jill		 Ha ha.
boy's pov		 PUSH IN CLOSE ON the trailer and Joe's two big eyes staring out. They lock eyes momentarily.  The boy isn't sure if he's seeing things. Then two enormous fingers extend out from between the slats and wave at him.
conservancy worker		Main gate to Dr. Banks. They're pulling up now.
cecily		Elvis is in the building! I repeat, Elvis is in the building...
cecily		You hear that, Harry?
cecily		They smell him.
harry		Gregg, or the gorilla?
harry		I'm confused, O'Hara. You phone us to say you're bringing back a two thousand pound wild animal...
gregg		Hello, Harry.     Cecily.
cecily		 Welcome back, baby.
harry		... but security tells me you've requested no firehoses, no restraints of any kind...
gregg		Let me introduce you to...
harry		How are we supposed to control the animal? With a giant, rolled-up...
harry		... newspaper?
gregg		Jill Young, Dr. Harry Ruben -- he run the place -- and Dr. Cecily Banks, who makes sure he doesn't screw it up.
cecily		 Chief veterinarian. Hi.
jill		Hello. It's a privilege to meet you both.
jill		Coming, Joe! Hold on!  I think he'd like to come out now -- if you don't mind.
harry		 Mind?    No, of course I don't mind.
gregg		Harry?   I think it's time you met Joe.
harry		Hold it!
harry		Jack? Vern?    Get the sedatives ready.
jill		 We won't need any of that.
harry		Miss Young, we know what we're doing here, and the best way to...
gregg		Harry -- you and I made an agreement. The lady's in charge of Joe.
jack		Easy, big boy.
vern		Don't forget who's gonna feed you.
jill		I'll take it from here.
harry		You sure she knows what she's doing?
gregg		She knows.
jill		Come on, Joe.     Come on, big guy.
cecily		That is one, big gorilla.
harry		Hey! What do I pay you for?    Get some shots -- of me, too.
harry		What -- he did it.
jill		Come on, ya big baby. Come on back.   Do I have to come in there and get you myself?
jill		 That's it. That-a-boy.
gregg		 Go on, Joe. Go on.
harry		Alright.   Take the platform away.
jill		Hold on -- I'm going in with him.
harry		No. We can't allow that. We don't have insurance to cover anyone in there who's not an employee.
gregg		Harry...
jill		But you said -- I'm in charge of Joe.
harry		Yes. And I'm in charge of this facility.
jill		 'I'm in charge of this facility.' Who is that guy? I bet that man hasn't spent one night outside in his entire life.
gregg		Probably not.
jill		You said I was going to be in charge of Joe. I should be sleeping down there, with him, not in this... this...  cage.
jill		What's wrong with this window? 
gregg		 I'll do everything I can for you.
jill		 Thank you.
cecily		Where's Gregg?
harry		Beats me. He collected his pay check. He's probably in some jungle by now, not using deodorant.
cecily		I think he should be here. This is his discovery, after all.
harry		Excuse me, Gregg's expertise is pitching tents, not explaining primate behavior to the Chairman of the Conservancy Board.
cecily		 Know what I think, Harry?
harry		I have a feeling I'm gonna find out.
cecily		I think you're jealous.
harry		Just once I wanted to go into the field and find a new species... mollusk, anything. Instead, he makes the zoological discovery of the century.
cecily		And he still has a full head of hair.
harry		That's not funny.
cecily		Heads up.
harry		Elliot.   Good to see you again.
baker		Harry.    Dr. Banks.
baker		So?   Let's go see him.
cecily		Right this way.
harry		I always had a suspicion that the legend coming out of the Pangani forest might have some truth to it. It was just a hunch -- sort of a gut feeling -- but I sent my field zoologist to check it out.
cecily		That field zoologist, Dr. O'Hara, had a theory -- and Joe's blood work confirms it. The gorillas in the Pangani carry a recessive gene that pops up every four or five generations with this rare form of gigantism.
baker		 And that's where the legend comes from! That zoologist of yours -- what's his name, Harry?
harry		 Gregg O'Hara.
baker		Pretty damn sharp.
harry		Here we are.
baker		Where is he?
harry		 I told him the Chairman of the Board was coming and he promised to come say 'hi.'
baker		Well I don't see him.
harry		Mmmm. We'll feed him.    That'll get him to come out.
cecily		Uh, Harry...
harry		I know what I'm doing.   Let's open the gate.
gregg		I was coming to get you.
jill		What is that noise?
gregg		Come on!
gregg		What the hell is going on?
cecily		It's Joe, he's gone crazy!
joe		 who is standing in a clearing, SNARLING and beating his chest. Which is scaring the crap out of...
harry		 who, white as a sheet, hides behind a tree, his hands shaking. He doesn't dare move an inch, for fear Joe will spot him.
gregg		Stop!
jill		Harry!   Jump out from behind the tree!
jill		Jump out and say 'You found me!'
gregg		Do it, Harry!
harry		You found me!
jill		He's playing hide and seek.
jill		Okay, where are you? Come out, big guy! Where'd he go?  There you are!
baker		Put that girl in charge of the gorilla, Harry.
harry		What? Elliot, she's got no scientific...
baker		That ape is the best fund-raising tool this conservancy has ever seen. He's happy -- I'm happy. Put her on the payroll.
jill		He's playing!    Did you see?
gregg		 I saw.
jill		He likes it here! Isn't it great?
gregg		It's great.
cecily		Sorry, babe, but in a pissing match the monkey kicks your ass.
gregg		What are you talking about?
cecily		Oh please. I was wondering why you hadn't taken off yet. Normally, you're out the door soon as the animal's in his habitat.
gregg		You've got an active imagination, Cecily.
cecily		I don't think so. I think Mr. World Traveller has goo-goo eyes for the gorilla girl.
gregg		Like what you've done with the place.
jill		Too bad it's always so cold -- somebody broke my window.
gregg		I just came by to tell you that I think Joe looks real good out there...
jill		I know! This is working out -- better than I expected.
gregg		... and that I'm hitting the road.
jill		Where you going?
gregg		Back to Africa.  For a couple of months.
jill		No kidding?   When do you leave?
gregg		Now.
gregg		It's the job, y'know. Always on the road. It's what I like, anyway -- can't stand to be caged up...
gregg		You and Joe will be okay...
jill		Oh -- of course.
gregg		Yeah.   Well...
jill		 Say hello to Africa for me.
strasser		 My God. Pindi was right.
strasser		 He's beautiful. The most beautiful animal I have ever seen.
garth		And the most valuable, that's for sure.
strasser		I want him.   He belongs here with me.
garth		 It'll be a bit tricky, won't it? They're not gonna want to part with...
strasser		Wait!   Be quiet!
on tv		 Intercut with shots of Joe are shots of the conservancy staff. Jill is among them, and her look of displeasure with the photographing of Joe makes her stand out from the staff. This shot is replaced with side by side photographs of Jill and her mother, Ruth.  REPORTER  Both Joe and Jill's mothers were killed by poachers, twelve years ago, in the Pangani Forest, orphaning them on the same night.
garth		 Bloody hell. That's the little monster that...
strasser		 I am always amazed how, if you wait long enough, the opportunity for justice finally comes.
strasser		Book us two tickets to America. We're going to pay a visit to this incredible animal.
strasser		I think I know how to convince his current owners to part with him.
harry		This fellow is one of only three hundred wild yaks remaining on the planet. There are those who would ask, why should we care if this sub-species of yak survives?
harry		 You certainly can -- for the mere price of a 'Diamond Circle Benefactor Ticket' to tomorrow night's benefit.
harry		It's all for a good cause.
harry		Good-bye. Good-bye.  Throw money... throw money...
jill		Harry -- see what's in that cart? That's all we have left of the lobelia leaves for Joe. Did you by any chance place that new order I asked for?
harry		 Of course I... actually, perhaps I...
jill		 I wouldn't be surprised if you forgot, considering you have so much on your mind.
harry		I'll go rush order it for you now.
jill		 Thank you so much.
cecily		 She's nice. I'm not. If you forget to order something I need, I'll knock you upside the head.
harry		I keep telling you -- stop talking to me like that.
cecily		Please.   You love it.
gregg		Lobelia leaves. Should have called me in Africa. I would have brought 'em back for ya.
gregg		Nice to see you running the place, Jill.
jill		You're back early. What happened? Run out of humvees to crash?
gregg		No -- just wanted to get back.
jill		 Really? And why is that?
gregg		Guess I missed Harry.
gregg		They want me to show my face at the fundraiser tomorrow night... and I guess I got my mind fixed on a good meal in a fine restaurant. Thought you might like to join me.
jill		 No thanks. I still don't want to leave Joe.
gregg		'Still'? Haven't you been out of here yet?
jill		 What's to see? Beach is that way, mountains are that way, Mexico's that way, Canada's that way...
gregg		Come on. Have dinner with me, Jill.  You won't find a better excuse to brush your hair.
jill		I'll brush my hair if you take a shower.
gregg		 Deal.
garth		You remember, don't you?
jill		So this is what you call a good meal in a fine restaurant?
gregg		 Yeah.
jill		Don't point that smile at me. I'm still mad at you for taking off and leaving me here all alone.
gregg		 I'm sorry -- I had things I had to do...
jill		 Uh-huh...
gregg		Besides, you weren't all alone. You had Joe.
jill		 That's right. Me and Joe.   Just like always.
gregg		Growing up with him around -- what's it been like for you? I mean -- most guys are afraid of girls' fathers. I can just see a guy telling Joe he'll get you home by midnight...
jill		 Never had anyone to bring home anyway. All that stuff -- I don't even know what it's like.
gregg		All what 'stuff'?
jill		 Whatever you want to call it. Being in love.
jill		Oh yeah?   How's that?
gregg		 You'll get a kind of a fever...
jill		Fever?   Really. How high?
gregg		Pretty high.
jill		Interesting.   Hallucinations with that?
gregg		Oh yeah... and you'll, uh -- find yourself saying things. Lots of things.
jill		Aaah!
jill		Come on!
vern		He's ripping out saplings like bam-bam-bam!
jack		And taking out irrigation pipes. One good yank -- on comes the flood.
harry		He just pulled out another acacia tree. You know what I paid for those?
gregg		 Do you know what's wrong with him?
cecily		 Do you?
jill		No.
harry		Well could you get in there and calm him down before he pulls out the rest of my landscaping?
baker		 Impossible.
jill		 Please, Mr. Baker -- I   wouldn't be asking you to postpone   the benefit unless I thought there   was something really wrong   with Joe. And I do.
baker		From what I heard, you sang him to sleep last night like a baby. What's really wrong about that?
jill		I swear to you, Joe's still not himself -- he's nervous and agitated. He shouldn't be exposed to a crowd of strangers right now. If you would only delay the party a few more...
baker		It's too late, Jill.
jill		 No.   It's too soon.
baker		Miss Young, let me give you some advice. Stop worrying about Joe, and start worrying about what you'll wear tomorrow night.
jill		Oh!   Excuse me.
strasser		No, excuse me.     My fault.
strasser		 I'm so sorry -- it's just -- you must be Jill Young...
jill		Yes...?
strasser		 And -- you look just like her.
strasser		I'm Andre Strasser. An old friend of your mother's. 
jill		How wonderful to meet you.   What are you doing here?
strasser		I've come to talk with your Mr. Baker.  I believe she would agree with me -- a magnificent wild animal like Joe needs more space -- like the Raha Preserve I run in Botswana.
jill		Raha?   A preserve?
strasser		I have twenty thousand acres there where the animals are free to run. I would like to offer them to Joe.  Here, it's such a shame... to see Joe living in a man-made habitat and being used as an attraction to raise money...
strasser		Oh -- I've upset you! Please... I only mean to offer an alternative. I will be attending the event tomorrow night. Maybe we can talk more about this matter then.
jill		I'll look forward to it.
strasser		Good-bye.
cecily		Don't you clean up nice.
gregg		Cecily -- you're ravishing. Harry -- you got shrimp on your shirt.
harry		 Of course. I look ridiculous.
cecily		No.  You look fine.  They look ridiculous.
harry		Hel-lo.   Look what we have here.
cecily		 I picked out the dress.   Aren't I smart?
gregg		Brilliant.
cecily		Shut your mouth, Harry -- you're catching flies.
jill		 Tell me the truth -- do I look stupid in this? Everyone is staring at me.
gregg		 They're staring at that... uh... banana tower.
jill		Very funny.
garth		Quite a turnout they have here.
strasser		All the better.
strasser		Let's go.
baker		When was the last time you laid eyes on something so unique, so spectacular, that it literally took your breath away? Well, prepare yourselves, for tonight you will have such an experience.
jack		 There's nothing in this punch, man. I could drink twelve of these and not feel a thing.
vern		Sorry!   Here's your... uh... key chain.
strasser		Thank you.
joe's pov		 Garth stands at the railing surrounding the moat, rattling the dog collars. It's a sound that haunts him, from the darkest depths of his memory. He starts to GROWL and then he sees something that really drives him nuts.  Strasser steps into the light, joining Garth by the water's edge. He rattles the dog collar, and now...
strasser		 Have you forgotten this?
garth		What do you think the big guy is worth? A couple million?
strasser		I will get that for the paws alone. After we sell him off piece by piece, who knows how much we'll make?
garth		Got you going now! That should rattle the jewelry off the ladies.
strasser		 And come back for it -- after.
strasser		Come, we've done our job here.
baker		... and now to introduce our remarkable new acquisition, I would like to bring up to the podium the director of the conservancy...
baker		Well! I suppose there's no need to add to that introduction.
baker		Here's Dr. Harry Ruben.
harry		 In the time it took you to drive here tonight, three species have disappeared from the Earth. Extinct. Never to return. We here at the conservancy say this is a tragedy...
harry		 Obviously Joe agrees.
harry		But tonight, rather than focusing on what we've lost, I'm going to introduce you to something we've found.
harry		Ladies and gentlemen, the California Animal Conservancy proudly introduces our newest member, Mighty Joe...
jill		 Hey, Joe. I'm right here. You hear me? Good boy. Take it easy, Joe. We don't want to scare anybody, do we?
joe		 heads through the people towards Strasser.        The party erupts with screams.  Joe makes his way towards Strasser, swatting people out of the way.
on strasser		 Frozen, in horror, as Joe plows through the party, heading straight for him. Tables are broken like match sticks, GLASS SHATTERS.  Joe catches up to Strasser, grabs his tuxedo jacket and hoists him into the air.
jill		My God.   What's wrong with him?
gregg		We've got to bring him down.   I'm going for the tranq guns.
jill		No -- let me stop him.
terry		 Faster! Faster!
ray		I'm trying!
jill		 is pushing against the tide of people to get to Joe. Somebody shoves against her hard: it's Baker, in a panic to get away.
joe		 continues to make his way towards Strasser.   As he rushes towards him...  A security guard runs into the tent, raising his TRANQ gun and FIRES...  The dart misses, hitting a fleeing guest, who, we see as he crumples to the ground, is actually Baker.
strasser		 is fleeing for the exit.
baker		Joe has been transferred to a special steel reinforced concrete bunker.
baker		That won't be happening anytime soon. In the meantime, we will do anything necessary to ensure the safety of the public.
jill		Joe... look at me. Over here, big guy.
jill		 I knew something was wrong with him.
gregg		What do you think happened out there?
jill		 Joe never would have hurt all those people unprovoked... something must have got to him.
gregg		Something.   Or someone.
harry		Can I talk to you for a second?
gregg		 Well this wasn't in the brochure, was it?
gregg		I promised you wouldn't be put in a cage. I'm sorry, Joe. I helped put you here. And now I'm going to do everything I can to get you out.
harry		The City Attorney talked to Baker. It wasn't my decision, and there's nothing I can do about it.
jill		About what?
harry		Joe stays in there until they decide what to do with him.
jill		 In there? Harry, look at him. He's depressed, he won't eat. If he stays in there, he'll die within days.
harry		So sue me.    Everybody else is.
jill		Listen, Harry, either you tell them you're getting Joe out of there or I will!
harry		Don't you get it? This is way beyond you, and me. Joe freaked out on some very influential people. He's a public relations nightmare. No zoo will take a two-thousand-pound killer gorilla...
jill		 He's not a killer!
harry		... and unless you can write a check for millions of dollars to buy him a big back yard somewhere, Joe's got nowhere to go.
jill		That's it?    You're not going to do anything?
jill		I need your help.
gregg		You got it.
cecily		 Good evening.
gregg		 We're conservancy doctors. Do me a favor -- stay here and guard the door.
jill		Come on, Joe. We're leaving. Let's get you out of here.
cecily		I'm Dr. Banks, the head vet. And I'm taking Joe for a CAT Scan.
gregg		 Officer, you don't want to point that gun at him, believe me.
jill		 He didn't believe you.
cecily		Bring him out.
strasser		Jill, I got the plane. It's waiting at the airport. We must hurry.
cecily		I'm going to miss your ugly face. Be good, Joe.
harry		You'd better leave out of the west gate. The guard there got called away. Urgent business.
jill		You're not such a big coward after all.
harry		 Okay, okay, let go.
cecily		Write me when Joe gets settled.
jill		I promise.
jill		 You coming to the airport, or...?
gregg		 I think I better stay here and keep people away from that bunker. Give you a head start before they realize he's gone.
jill		 Well -- if you're ever in Botswana, come by and take me out to a good meal in a fine restaurant. That is, if you're not afraid to tell Joe that you'll get me home by...
gregg		 Take care of her for me, will ya?
strasser		Jill!   We must go!
garth		Hello.
strasser		Don't worry, Jill. Soon Joe will be back home again.
cecily		 How many minutes do you give it before the whole world knows he's missing?
gregg		Five. How many minutes do you give it before we're both lookin' through the want ads?
cecily		Six.
gregg		What're you guys doing here so late?
jack		Baker wants the tent cleaned up A.S.A.P.
vern		Check out the loot we plundered in the wake of mass party panic! This is some weird lost and found, man.
jack		Yeah, and we've got the fun job of getting this stuff back to everybody.  Somebody's head is cold!
gregg		 Where did you find this?
vern		Oh -- that was by the habitat.  Guess we've got to find those two guys again.
gregg		 What two guys?
jack		That, uh...  What do you think that one guy is? Russian? Lithuanian?
cecily		 Be careful!
jill		Please!   Be careful...
strasser		Always worrying, eh? Your mother was a worrier, too. Always worrying about the gorillas. It made her a lot of enemies. It led to tragedy.
jill		My mother was brave.
strasser		So are you, my dear.
strasser		It's not so pretty, I know.
jill		 What happened?
strasser		Well... you could say I had an encounter with a monster.  Monstrule.
jill		Murdering bastard!
jill		Joe!   Get out!
strasser		 Drive!
jill		 Do you know who they are?
gregg		I know.
gregg		Come on.   Let's go get him back.
strasser		Wait.
garth		Police'll be here any minute.
garth		We better go.
garth		Come on!   We need to get out of here!
tourist		Hey! It's that gorilla that was on TV!
joe's pov		 It is indeed an urban jungle -- made up of neon and steel.
angle		 Joe walks down the street and bumps into:
parked mercedes		 Whose ALARM GOES OFF immediately.   Joe wheels and smashes the car until the sound STOPS.
ray		Whoa... Hey, Joe!
cop		Up there!
gregg		He couldn't have gotten far.
jill		 Joe!   Joe!
excited neighbors		This way!
closer		 beat -- then Joe steps through.     He's at the apex of the urban mountain range.
jill		 No! He's not dangerous! You're dangerous! You're dangerous!
gregg		 She didn't mean that.
jill		 Yes I did.
gregg		Better cool it, baby.
jill		They're going to shoot him.
gregg		Not if we find him first.
gregg		Let's follow them.
garth		What are you doing? You don't think we can get the gorilla now, do you?
strasser		We need a car.     Now.
rubbernecker		Fifth goddamn time this year.
rubbernecker		Hey! I was going! No need to be so pushy about it.
gregg		Any idea where he might've headed?
jill		Look.
jill		That's where he'll go. He'll think that's me calling him.
young couple		 stops to share the view -- and a kiss.   Until a LOUD GROWL makes them jump back.  Joe has appeared under the arch. The young girl screams -- her boyfriend pulls her back.
jason		Mom, I don't think I can let you go on the ferris wheel.
jason's mother		Why not?
jason		Because the last time after you ate two hot dogs, you threw up, remember?
jason's mother		What if I promised to throw up over the side?
jason		Mom, I think I should do this ride by myself.
jason's mother		 Okay... I'll watch you.
by light		 Joe arrives at his destination -- the bright light that drew him here. He's confused by the fact that Jill's nowhere to be found. Desperately, he scans the park...  People scream and panic around Joe. The noise drives him deeper into the park, searching for Jill. Meanwhile --                                                  118  AT ARCADE - BIG SAFARI BOOTH  Three college guys shoot replica AIR GUNS at cardboard lions and elephants, setting off fake explosions in a "Big Safari" booth.
joe		 feels threatened and recoils. Then he continues past them. The rush of people away from him gets more frenzied.
jill		He's gotta be here.   Do you see him?
garth		 Hold on, now -- just who are you aiming at?
garth		No.   You can't do that.
strasser		If that girl starts telling people who we really are, our whole cover operation will be blown.
garth		She's not an animal. That's a human being you're about to kill.
strasser		Go wait in the car.
jenny's mother		Oh God...
strasser		That was very stupid, Garth.
garth		You're not a hunter, you're a murderer, and I won't be a part of this...
strasser		Anything else on your mind?
jill		What was that?
gregg		Go find Joe, get him out of here.  I'm gonna see if I can help.
jill		 heads over to the carnival games.  CUT TO:
jenny		Mo-om!!
jenny's mother		Oh my God!   Somebody help!
gregg		Don't be scared. Climb down my back.
gregg		Come on.
jenny's mother		Thank you!   Oh God, thank you!
jill		Joe!   Joe!!
commander gorman		Get the marksmen up here! Now!
jill		Come on, Joe.    Come on.
jill		 Joe got Strasser. He was trying to kill me.
gregg		I know.   I just hope they do.
jill		Joe?
jill		Joe!
sharpshooter		 Talk about an easy target.
gregg		Don't shoot him.
commander gorman		 Ready...
jill		Stop! He's not dangerous, please...
commander gorman		 Get them out of here! Now!
jason's mother		Officer, help! I can't find my son! I think he's still on the Ferris wheel.
jill		Look!
sharpshooter		 follows Joe's ascent through his viewfinder.
jason's mother		 Oh my God! Jason!
jill		He'll save your boy.
jason's mother		Don't shoot.  Let him try.
gorman		Hold your fire.
on ground		 All eyes watch, in awe, as Joe presses Jason to his massive chest.  ON JILL -- smiling through tears.    Gregg puts an arm around her.
behind them		 Camera crews from local TV news stations have poured into the park. They film all of this.
jason's mother		Oh, please, no...
gregg		It's going to tip! Everyone back up!
on joe		 As he cradles Jason tight in his arms.  The wheel begins to fall towards the ground.   116.  128   CONTINUED:                                                      128  Joe jumps away from the burning wheel --
pov shot		 As the ground comes rushing up at him.
joe		 hits hard, just clearing the falling wheel by inches.    He doesn't move.  PAN the crowd -- an eerie silence falls over everyone. The only sound the CRACKLING of the FIRE.
jill		 breaks free from Gregg and runs toward Joe.   Jason's Mother races with her.
jason		Mom?
jill		 She kneels by Joe stroking his great chest. Joe doesn't respond. Jill bows her head and cries deeply.  People back away to give her room. How strange to see this huge, powerful animal stilled.
jason's mother		I'm so sorry...
jill		 That's right, Joe -- that's right, big guy. That was a big fall but you're okay, aren't you? You're tough. You're so tough. Yes you are. Yes you are.
gregg		 And get him somewhere safe.
jill		 Somewhere safe? Where is that?
jason's mother		 Perhaps... I mean, maybe... isn't there anything we can do?
jill		 No. I don't think so. Not unless you have a few million dollars on you to buy him a home somewhere.
jason		Here.   For Joe.
gregg		Thanks.
gorman		For Joe.
cops		Here.   For Joe.
cut to:		A118A.
pindi		For Mighty Joe, bro.
dissolve to:		118A.
gregg		Hey, Joe -- come on, big guy...
aerial shot		 TRACKING WITH Joe, who begins to run now, limbs out- stretched with energy and joy, claiming his freedom.  The CAMERA RISES OFF of Joe to the verdant African landscape beyond. Joe's home -- protected and free.  FADE OUT.
****Dialogues from script :Mighty_Morphin_Power_Rangers__The_Movie.txt****

voice		In a time of great strife, a legendary interdimensional being known as Zordon, came to the city of Angel Grove to establish a vanguard in the never ending struggle against evil.  with the aid of his trusted assistant, Alpha 5, the noble master sought out six extraordinary teenagers and gave them the power to transform into an unstoppable fighting force.  In time of great need, the young heroes could now call upon colossal assault vehicles known as "Zords".  while the identity of the six remained a guarded secret, their courageous exploits soon became the stuff of Legend, earning them the title...  The Mighty Morphin Power Rangers.
rocky		YeeeoowwWWWWW!!!
rocky		We're OUTTA here!!
kimberly		Easy, Rock.
tommy		Once we hit the target zone we've got fifteen seconds to make the drop.
bulk		The Stealth Eagle is about to fly.
skull		Ditto for the Swooping Swallow.
aisha		Lead on, flyboys.
skull		Bulk... where'd the earth go?
billy		Five seconds to the target zone!
tommy		Aisha  you' re  on !
rocky		Stylin!
adam		On your tail!
billy		All systems
tommy		Surf's up!
kimberly		Catch you on the flipside.
bulk		Be the eagle.  Be the eagle.
skull		Be the swallow.  Be the swallow...
tommy		Let's BREAK!!
bowler		How `bout a show tune?!
fred		Hey dad, get with the program!
tommy		Touch down.
fred		Looking good up there.
tommy		Thanks, man.
fred		Awesome!   Ryan's Comet is passing over in two days!
aisha		Who's up for lunch?
rocky		You read my mind.
kimberly		Last one to Ernies buys.
adam		Let's roll!
skull		Stealth Eagle, huh?  The Lame Duck is more like it!
tommy		Let's take the shortcut!
reporter		We're here at the World Center Construction Site, where a mysterious object was just uncovered in a freak accident in which one workman suffered minor injuries...
12		12 thru    OMITTED 13                                                                  13
reporter		... Angel Grove Police have cordoned off the area until it can be determined whether or not the unidentified object poses any threat.  The injured workman was quoted as saying...
tommy		It's one smooth move and then you've gotta explode off the top.
tommy		Nice and easy.
ernie		Hey, no Karate on the patio!
fred		Actually, Ernie, it's Tae-Kwan Doe.
ernie		Well Tae-Kwan-Do-it some place else.
ernie		So, what're the plans for the weekend?
kimberly		Aisha and.I are checking out a new dance spot.
aisha		I heard that!
billy		I'll be at the Observatory Sunday.
ernie		That's right - Ryan's Comet.
rocky		We should throw a little comet shindig.
adam		Any excuse for a party.
aisha		The Eagle has landed.
bulk		The earth was hurtling toward us at seven hundred miles per hour, and we knew at that moment that we were facing death straight in the eye.
skull		We could smell it's breath.
rocky		There's a spot over there.
kimberly		'Like Right Now.'
tommy		We're on our way.
tommy		What's happening?
alpha 5		Ay,  yi,  yi,  yi,  yi !  Our thermionic-sensors have been hit by a CATACLYSMIC surge of evil!
zordon		Rangers, you must act swiftly. The planet is in GRAVE danger!
kimberly		Danger from what?
zordon		Six thousand years ago a morphological being known as Ivan Ooze, ruled the world with a reign of unparalleled terror. Finally, a rebel factor known as the "Order of the Meledon" lured him into a hyperlock chamber and buried him deep underground.
alpha 5		In a place that came to be known as Angel Grove.
zordon		The chamber has been accidently UNCOVERED!  You must return it to the depths. or  anyone should open it and Ivan is released!
alpha 5		To assist you I have retro-fitted your helmets with new Opti-Scan devices.
zordon		Use extreme caution, Rangers. You are dealing with an evil here that is beyond ALL comprehension.
rita		Another Saturday night and I'm traipsing around the galaxy with the THREE LITTLE PIGS!  My mother warned me this would happen! Rita, she said, after 89 marriages you might wanna think about throwing in the towel.  Why didn't I listen to her?!
zedd		That's a good question.
zedd		No need to wake him.  In fact, why don't you take a little nap yourself.
mordant		Hey bonehead, get off my hoof!
zedd		After two thousand years of searching...  I have finally found you.
mordant		Yo, earth to Bigfoot!
goldar		Watch your mouth, fuzz-ball!
zedd		SILENCE!
goldar		Mordant's my second cousin three times removed on my mother's side.  He`s just visiting for the summer.
rita		Well put a muzzle on him!
rita		What... you spent two thousand years looking for this tub of SNOT!
zedd		Don't you ever have anything nice to say?!
rita		Well, if I did I certainly wouldn't say it to you!
mordant		Boss.
zedd		For your information this is not just your average, run-of-the- mill tub of snot !
rita		You're trying to tell me there`re different levels of snot?!
mordant		Boss.
zedd		WHAT!
ivan		Ahhhhhhhh.
ivan		Ladies and Gentlemen... the OOZE is back!!
rita		He's so cute.
zedd		I am Lord Zedd, sworn enemy of all that is good and decent.  It is a supreme honor to finally meet you.
ivan		How can I ever repay you?
zedd		Do you recall the name...  Zordon of Eltare?
mordant		Seems to ring a bell.
zedd		I want you to destroy Zordon, so that my evil may once again reign SUPREME.
rita		Finally, a real man.
goldar		Here's his address.
mordant		It's like a freeway.  How long have  you  been  locked  up? !
zedd		We shall leave you to weave your wicked ways.
rita		Now we go out on the town.  First dinner, then dancing, then --
ivan		What is that odious stench?
ivan		Smell's like...   TEENAGERS!
billy		Remind me to have a word with Alpha about his teleporting calculations.
aisha		Anybody see anything?
tommy		... Let's take a look over there.
security guard		You had me scared there.
aisha		Makes two of us.
kimberly		You haven't by any chance seen a ... morphological being lurking around?
security guard		The only thing I've seen is you teenagers.  And you know... if there's one thing in the world I reeeeally hate....
ivan		It's TEENAGERS
kimberly		GroSS!
ivan		You're too kind.  Allow me to introduce myself.  I am the infamous, world-reviled, universally despised, IVAN OOZE!
rocky		Well, pack your bags cause we're sending you back where you came from!
ivan		Gee, a teenager with a big mouth. Not much has changed in six thousand years.
kimberly		we're not just teenagers, raisin- head.
tommy		We're the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers!
ivan		Ooooh, where's my autoqraph book?.
ivan		Power Rangers, huh?  So Zordon is still using a bunch of rug-rats to do his dirty work.  And speaking of rats...
ivan		From this moment forth, the world as you know it SHALL CEASE TO EXIST!
ivan		WELCOME TO MY NIGHTMARE!
rocky		He's  gone.
adam		Let's take these beasts!!
zordon		Alpha, my sensors tell me the Rangers were too late!  Ivan is on his way here!
alpha 5		Hey, NOBODY enters the Command Center without a power coin!
alpha 5		Well...  ALMOST nobody.
ivan		Gee... pretty fancy-shmancy.  I guess if you invest your money well over SIXTY centuries you can buy something pretty nice.
alpha 5		HI ,  YAH !
alpha  5		Welcome to Wiener World.  May I take your order, please?
zordon		You haven't changed, Ooze. You're still picking on creatures smaller than yourself.
ivan		Put a cork in it "Z" .  Ten minutes out of the egg and I'm already listening to one of your lectures.
zordon		It worked for six thousand years.
ivan		Don't remind me!
ivan		Do you have any idea what it's like to be cooped up in a rotten egg for six thousand years?  It's BORING!  Not to mention I've had a Charlie horse since the Renaissance!  But now the tables are turned.  Now...
ivan		Oh, the things that I have missed.  The BLACK PLAGUE!
ivan		And now, finally, I have the strength to DESTROY your pathetic powers FOREVER!!
zordon		YOU WON'T GET AWAY WITH THIS!
ivan		I've got a NEWS flash for you LIGHT-BRIGHT -- I ALREADY HAVE!
alpha 5		You put your left probe in, you put your left probe out, you put your left probe in and you shake it all about.  You do the hokey- pokey and you turn yourself around...
kimberly		RAT breath!!
kimberly		Somebody needs a shave.
tommy		IT'S MORPHIN TIME!
kimberly		PTERODACTYL!
billy		TRICERATOPS!
rocky		TYRANNOSAURUS!
adam		MASTODON!
aisha		SABER TOOTH TIGER!
tommy		WHITE TIGER!
rangers		MORPHENOMENAL!
tommy		Let's teach these vermin a few manners.
kimberly		Everybody stay alert.
adam		Hold it...
billy		Activating Audio Enhancer!
billy		They're on the other side of that wall.
tommy		Anybody see them?
rocky		Activating Power Scope!
rocky		THEY'RE ABOVE US!!
aisha		Hey, handsome!
aisha		My mistake.
tommy		SABA SABER?
tommy		We've got company.
saba		Rats!  I hate rats!
adam		Bad move, Willard!
adam		STEGA-STINGER!
adam		Coming through!
adam		Target Neutralized?
kimberly		Raptor-Ribbon!
kimberly		Now you see `em.
kimberly		Now you don't.
billy		Not the brightest of beasts.
saba		Na na na na na!
saba		Fried mice, anyone?
kimberly		What's going on?!
billy		Alpha, come in!
tommy		We'd better get back.
tommy		Come on, guys...
adam		Guys!
billy		Alpha, are you okay?!
alpha 5		I'll GET you my pretty, and your little DOG toa!!
billy		He must've blown an anitromic demodulator!
aisha		... What's happening to him?'
billy		Outside of his time warp he's aging at a vastly acellerated rate!
kimberly		We have to help him!
zordon		...  Rangers... thank goodness you're safe.
tommy		We have to get you back inside your time warp.
zordon		I'm afraid that's impossible... The power has been destroyed. It's gone... The Zords, the weapons...  all of it.  The Mighty Morphin Power Rangers are no more.
kimberly		Zordon... you can't leave us. Ever since you came into our lives... you've been like another father `to  us  all.-
zordon		... You must be strong... Ivan almost overthrew the planet once...  and now I'm afraid he has the strength to see his scheme through.
billy		what're we going to do?
alpha 5		I do not LIKE Green Eggs and Ham! I do not like them, Sam-I-am!
alpha 5		Ah-Ah-Ahhhh-CHOO!!
alpha 5		Thanks, Billy.
adam		There has to be something we can do.
tommy		Come on, guys, think!
aisha		Alpha.  Is there any way we can defeat this  monster?  Any way at all?
alpha 5		... Perhaps there is a way... I have heard tales of another power.
adam		What?!
alpha 5		... They say that somewhere beyond the Hyperion Constellation there exists a mythological power that is beyond all comprehension.
tommy		How can we get to it?
rocky		We have to try, Alpha.  It's our only hope.
alpha 5		It's far too dangerous.  Zordon would never allow it.
aisha		If we don't try, Zordon won't survive!
adam		If Ivan  Ooze  isn't  stopped, nobody will survive.
alpha 5		Ay, yi, yi, yi.  The legend speaks of a Master Warrior who lives on the planet Phaedos... This is the only person who knows the secrets of the power.
aisha		How can we reach Phaedos?
alpha 5		Zordon's going to have my orbicular spheroids when he hears out about this!
alpha 5		This is an emergency reserve of morphonic emissions.  It should be enough to get -you there.
alpha 5		There is one problem.  I only have enough reserve to send you Phaedos...  I can't bring you back.
adam		So how do we get back?
alpha 5		... You'll have to pray that the legends are true.
alpha 5		You're sure you want to do this?! The Rangers share purposeful looks.
tommy		It's our only hope.
alpha		Safe journey, Rangers!
alpha  5		BE CAREFUL!!
alpha 5		Ay, yi, yi, yi.  They're DOOMED!!
goldar		According to the TX Tracker, they're headed for Phaedos.
zedd		I'm gonna fire that slimeball so fast his not gonna know what hit him!
ivan		Hi, honey, I'm home !
rita		You garlic-sucking DINGLEBRAIN! The Rangers are going after the Great Power  He's nothing but a slime- infested, jelly-bellied blob of --
rita		Rrgh mmffpprr brghuh!!
zedd		How dare you?!  Nobody shuts up Rita but me!
ivan		Sorry, slick, there's been a slight'change of plans.  The "booger man" is taking over.
zedd		Nobody double-crosses Lord Zedd and lives!
mordant		Zedd's gonna kick this snotball into next week!
ivan		Ooooh, that tickles!
ivan		My turn.
rita		This is all your fault!  If you'd taken me out tonight like you were suposed to, none of this would've happened.
ivan		Now you have a choice, either serve me, or join those insufferable cheesedongs.
goldar		We never liked the cheesedongs in the first place.
mordant		Couldn''t stand them -- low-class all the way.  And did you catch a whiff of their BREATH?!  It's like having a conversation with a couple of ONIONS!  Not to mention...
ivan		Ah yes, the RANGERS!!!
mordant		Gasunteidt.
ivan		SHUT YOUR BEAKS !!
ivan		Tengu Warriors, you will fly to Phaedos, find the Power Rangers...  and TEAR THEM APART!
ivan		Mordant, go with them and report back to me!
mordant		You know boss, I'd really like to help out but I've got this gastronomic condition which rules out all space trave--
mordant		IIIIIII!!!
zedd		Isn't this just TYPICAL!  We finally do somebody a good turn and just look what happens!
rita		From now on it's E-V-I-L, NO exceptions!
mordant		Watch the HAIRRRRRRRR!!
tommy		Everybody okay?
kimberly		Where' s  BILLY? !
alpha 5		Ay, yi, yi, yi!  The filamentary transistors have malfunctioned!
alpha  5		Why you low-frequency, battery operated --
billy		WHOAAAAAAHHHH!!!
kimberly		You okay?
billy		I think so.
billy		This puddle thing is really getting on my nerves.
aisha		Welcome to beautiful downtown Phaedos.
rocky		... Incredible...
tommy		Let's see if we can find this Master warrior.
ivan		Taking over the world is one thing.  It's finding good help to run it for you that's the killer.
goldar		You want me to place a few calls?
ivan		No need.   I'm going to use the young minds of Angel Grove.
goldar		No offense, boss, but they might find you a little disgusting.
ivan		Yes, well, I suppose you'd know a little something about that.  Not to worry.  I'll ever so gently lure them in and mold them into an army of devils!  And what better way to entice them ... than with a little Ivan's Ooze?!
goldar		But boss, what about their parents?
ivan		Ah, the old and doddering.  I'm going to SCOURGE their puny minds, reducing them to ZOMBIE'S. And then I'll put them to work rebuilding my empire.
skull		I understand you're looking for a few new assistants.
bulk		Well put your mind to rest `cause now you've got the best.
ivan		What is this?!  I advertised for brilliant and good looking assistants!
skull		Hi, I'm brilliant.
ivan		And I'm Little-Bo-Peep.
skull		Bulk... why don't we give Mr. Peep here a chance to think it over?
ivan		Not so fast, greaseballs.
ivan		You'll have to do.
tommy		Hey.
tommy		You okay?
kimberly		I was just thinking about Zordon...  everything we've been through together.
aisha		You know, meeting Zordon... teaming up with you guys, it's the best thing that's ever happened to me.
rocky		It's the best thing that's ever happened to all of us.
adam		... He's gonna make it, guys.
tommy		We'll get this warrior...  save Zordon...  and send that SLIMEBALL Ivan Ooze back to the SEWER he crawled out of.
rocky		TAKE COVER!
kimberly		THEY'RE T00 STRONG??
adam		WE NEED OUR POWERS!!
mordant		WHAM!  KAPOW!  BOOM!
mordant		#0!@!#!
tommy		HANG ON, KIMBERLY.
mordant		What's the matter with you woodpeckers!  Take this guy out!
mordant		The Tengu Warriors my butt!  The Tengu TURKEYS is more like it!
mordant		Hey, aren't you bird-brains forgetting something?!
mordant		Watch the meathooks!!
kimberly		Wow!  That was amazing for such a little dude!
figure		You're trespassing.  Now state your business.
tommy		We're looking for the Master Warrior.  Do you know where we can find him?
figure		The Master Warrior doesn't entertain visitors  -
kimberly		But we have to find him.  Our leader Zordon is dying.
figure		Zordon?
dulcea		How did this happen?!
kimberly		The lady asked you a question.
tommy		Huh ... Oh, uh, we re, ah...
kimberly		He was attacked by this horrific being -- Ivan Ooze.
dulcea		Ivan Ooze is free?!  We are all in mortal danger!
dulcea		Let' s go.
aisha		Kind of bossy, isn't she?
ivan		Boys and girls, girls and boys, gather round and feast your eyes. This ain't sludge and this ain't guck... this is the one and only Ivan's Ooze!  Yesireebob.  It's ooey, gooey and even kind of chewy.  But best of all it's FREE!
bulk		Here you go!  No pushing!
skull		There's enough for everybody!
fred		So where'd this guy come from?
skull		Uh... that's classified, top secret, confidential, undercover information.
bulk		If we told you -- we'd have to kill you.
skull		INCOMING!
wizard		Come on, come all -- it's an COZE FREE FOR ALL!
aisha		Is this... food!
dulcea		They're called squirbs.
kimberly		Mine seems to be a little undercooked.
dulcea		Add a few dried weevils and you'll never know the difference.
billy		... Not bad.
tommy		Listen, we appreciate your hospitality, but we really don't have much time.
dulcea		What do you know of the Great Power?
kimberly		Only that we need it to defeat Ivan Ooze.
dulcea		It is said that to those who possess the Power... all things are possible.
billy		Where did it originate?
dulcea		In another time, another dimension.  It was brought here long ago by the "Nathadians", a people who are now all but extinct. They built an impenetrable stone Monolith to store the power and keep it from their enemies.  For thousands of years, beings from all over the Universe have tried to obtain it... ALL have perished.
aisha		So how can we get to it?
dulcea		The only way to obtain the power is to achieve the highest state of being...
tommy		And how do we do that?
dulcea		By learning the ancient art of Ninjetti.  It is the Genesis of what you on earth have come to know as the Ninja.  It is the perfect union of mind, body and spirit.
rocky		Look, Zordon doesn't have much longer to live.  And for all we know, Angel Grove could already be under attack.  We don't have TIME for this.
dulcea		You don't understand.  If you do not have the Ninjetti, the power will destroy  you.  To reach the Monolith we must traverse the Neola jungle.  We will train today, and set out on foot tomorrow.
snoggle		HNUGLHLU PHUNGLUMP BUGHLSMRPH GBUJIPHN HUPHLGMPNORU!!!
dulcea		Snoggle, you watch your language!
snoggle		Slnughyu buglhugrmrph?
aisha		Excuse me?
snoggle		Slnughyu buglhugrmrph?
dulcea		He wants to know if you'd like a cube of sugar in your tea.
aisha		Ah... sure.
aisha		Ah... thanks.
billy		... Not bad.
dulcea		In the language of the Nathadians, "Nin" stands for "man", "jetti" stands for "animal".  Ninjetti  - man and animal, together as one.  Now, put your hands inside the flame.
aisha		Yeah, right.
dulcea		It will not harm you.
aisha		Just kidding.
aisha		Wow.  Sand.
dulcea		Now tell me... what do you see?
dulcea		Aisha, you are the Bear, stalwart and bold.
aisha		Stylin'!
rocky		I see... an Ape.
dulcea		Rocky, you are the Mighty Ape.
billy		I see... a fox
dulcea		Close.  Billy, you are the Wolf, cunning and swift.
kimberly		I think its some kind of bird.
dulcea		Kimberly, you are the Crane, agile and sublime.
adam		That's gotta be a frog.
dulcea		Adam, you are the Frog, quick as lightning.
tommy		It's... an eagle?
dulcea		Look closer.
tommy		... A falcon?
dulcea		Tommy, you are the Falcon, Winged Lord of the Sky.
dulcea		I... am the sole living descendant of the "Nathadians".  Now prepare yourselves for the most intense physical and mental training known to man and animal.
fred		Dad... ??!
fred		DAD?!
fred		I can't find my dad either.
wild kid		Ooze, ooze, ooze rules!!
fred		That guy was the student body President
dulcea		The crane maintains it's agility through the perfect harmony of mind, body and spirit.
kimberly		Awesome!
kimberly		Let's see you do it .
dulcea		Snoggle, we don't have time for you to show off
dulcea		The ape is strong, but more importantly it is flexible and free.
rocky		Who is this lady?
rocky		Here goes!
dulcea		The wolf relies on it's enhanced senses to guide it...  He can hear what we cannot hear, he can smell what we cannot smell.
dulcea		The frog remains still and silent while it assesses its target... then strikes out in the blink of an eye.
adam		Show off.
dulcea		The bear is sturdy as a towering tree.  Nothing can uproot it.
aisha		Girl, you've got to be kidding me.
dulcea		The falcon never struggles with the air, but rather becomes one with it.
tommy		You can do this.  You can do this.  You can do this...
zordon		... Alpha, I am deeply concerned about the Rangers...
alpha 5		I told them it was too dangerous, but they wouldn't listen.
zordon		... We must try to communicate with them.
alpha 5		Perhaps if I could locate a vertical-deflector then I could assemble a holographic-comlink.
alpha		Ay, yi, yi, yi, yi .
dulcea		Each of you must reach deep within and draw upon your natural instincts...  Only then will you know the way of the Ninjetti.  Rest for a few hours.  We will continue at daybreak.
kimberly		So where are we supposed to sleep?
snoggle		Buhph nghujr.
kimberly		That guy's cruisin' for a bruisin'.
billy		I can hardly walk...
aisha		I've never been this sore in my life.
billy		Do you guys really think we can pull this off?
adam		Maybe if we had more time.
tommy		We should get some rest.
ivan		Ladies and gentlemen, Simon says...  STOP!
ivan		Simon says... stand on one foot!
ivan		Simon says...
goldar		Quack like a'duck!
goldar		It just slipped out.
ivan		SHUT UP!!
goldar		You didn't say "Simon says".
ivan		This is the Iast time I use parents for anything!
ivan		Let's pick it up here!  I've got a schedule to keep.  In twenty four hours the ooze is gonna hit the fan!
goldar		Hey, boss!
mordant		What kind of landing was that?! These clowns are a menace to the sky
ivan		How did you fare?
mordant		Oh, it couldn't've gone better. The Power Rangers didn't know what hit them .
mordant		That's right.  And then we threw one of them off a mountain and another one into a raqing river!
ivan		So they've been destroyed?
mordant		"Basically".
ivan		What do you mean "basically"?
mordant		Well... we were about to finish them off... when this huge monster came out of nowhere!
mordant		Okay, maybe he wasn't so huge. But you should've seen the size of his STICKS
ivan		Did these sticks make a whistling sound?
mordant		How'd you know?
ivan		Dulcea!  That miserable, manipulating loathsome she-devil of a WITCH!!
ivan		How could you let them get away?! If Dulcea leads them to the Great Power, everything will be ruined! They must be OBLITERATED!
mordant		What're you talking about?!  It wasn't my fault!  You're the featherbrains that let them get away!
ivan		I call upon the Powers of Darkness to enrich the evil of my creatures by tenfold!
ivan		And now the coup de grace, to lead my tribe to victorious battle!
mordant		Where does he come up with this stuff?
ivan		Queen Tengu, lead-your warriors to Phaedos, FEAST YOURSELVES UPON THE POWER RANGERS AND BRING ME DULCEA!
snoggle		BUGHU PHUNGL MURHPUGNU!!!
tommy		How the heck?!...
rocky		What's going on?!
kimberly		I don't believe it!
dulcea		You have been visited by the animal spirits... they have given you their blessing.
crowd		OOZE!  OOZE!  OOZE!  OOZE!
ivan		Thank you!  Please!  You're too kind.  Finally. a little appreciation where it's deserved.
voice		We love you Ivan!
ivan		Right back at ya!-  Now, WHO MISSES SCHOOL?!
crowd		NOT US!
ivan		AND WHO MISSES RULES?!
crowd		NOT US!
ivan		AND WHO WANTS TO JOIN ME IN RAISING HELL ACROSS  THE UNIVERSE?!
fred		Can I have a word with you guys?  What's really going on here?! Where are everybody's parents?
skull		Like we said before, that's classified, top secret...
fred		Look, Ivan wants me to go dump a load of garbage all over them.
bulk		Well, why didn't you say so?!
skull		They're at the World Center Construction Site.
fred		Uh.   OOZE RULES!
tommy		Dulcea... how do you and Zordon know each other?
dulcea		We belonged to an interstellar Peace Keeping Force known as the "Order of the Meledan".  Zordon was widely regarded as the finest Commander in the Galaxy. He was a true Legend... If it wasn't for him, the Universe would be a very different place from what it is today.
rocky		So...  what happened?
dulcea		Over time our enemies were defeated...  I returned to Phaedos, Zordon moved on to continue the struggle elsewhere.  Until you kids showed up, I hadn't heard from him for centuries.
dulcea		He was always an inspiration...
dulcea		This is why I'm taking you to the Nathadian Monolith.  That is why I'm teaching you the Ninjetti.  If Zordon dies... then a piece of all of us dies... and the force of good within the Universe will be dealt an irreparable blow.
mordant		As soon as we've taken over the world I'm gonna change my name to Sir Mordant.  Or how about MAJOR Mordant?!
goldar		How about Major Moron?
ivan		How about the two of you shut Up and pay attention!!
mordant		What is THAT!
ivan		Feast your eyes upon the exoskeleton of the barbaric HORNITOR!  ONCE I HAVE MY ECTO-MORPHICON MACHINES UP AND RUNNING, I SHALL ANNIHILATE ANGEL GROVE... AND THEN... THE WORLD
fred		Dad...?!
fred		We have to get out of here!
fred		Dad?!... It's me, Fred!
mordant		Just shut your gap!
goldar		Did I say anything?
alpha 5		By bouncing ultra-high frequencies off one of the network satellites, I can send a long-range pulsar signal to within TWO FEET of the Rangers coordinates.
zordon		 ... I just pray we're not too late.
alpha 5		Let's give it a whirl.
reporter		Angel Grove Police have been fielding hundreds of calls from concerned citizens as the number of missing gersons continues to grow
ivan		Hi, folks, Ivan Ooze here.
alpha 5		Ai,  yi,  yi,  yi,  yi
ivan		Are you bored with your work? Are you bored with your family Are you bored with your 1ife Well, come on down to Ooze City and LET'S GET STICKY!
dulcea		The Monolith is there in the distance.
dulcea		This is as far as I can take you.
kimberly		You're leaving us?!
dulcea		I have taught you all that I know.   Now you must achieve the Ninjetti on your own.
dulcea		It is said that once you've reached the power... you have only ten triacs to release it.
billy		What's a Triac?
dulcea		About twenty seconds in your time.
tommy		And how do we release the power?
dulcea		The legend goes that you release the power with the power.
adam		What does that mean!
dulcea		That is a question that even I cannot answer.  Remember, ten triacs.  After that something bad will happen.
kimberly		Like...how bad?
dulcea		They say the power will throw off a super-heated, radioactive fireball, instantly reducing you to ash and bits of charred bone.
aisha		That's pretty bad.
tommy		Thank you, Dulcea.  For everything.
dulcea		Ka'Alabas tor nartu En'Kata-Tay.  May your animals watch over you.
ivan		Finally, after centuries of waiting, my Ecto-Morphicon machines are ready to take on the world!
ivan		GET THAT THING OUT OF MY FACE!
mordant		Oh, man, that was a rental!
ivan		Mordant... let the ooze flow!
ivan		Goldar... the roof!
ivan		Looks like a fine day for raising HELL!
ivan		HECALE MENNIPUS LIBRI MAGUS!
ivan		Bullseye!
ivan		LIFE!!  Give my creatures LIFE!
mordant		This guy is the King!
ivan		PARENTS OF ANGEL GROVE.
ivan		YOU HAVE SERVED YOUR PURPOSE. NOW YOU WILL RETURN TO THE CONSTRUCTION SITE AND LEAP TO YOUR DEMISE!
ivan		What're you waiting for??...
ivan		What!
goldar		You forgot to say 'Simon says."
kimberly		Man, these are the last guys I wanted to see.
aisha		Whadda we do now?
billy		That's the only way to the Monolith...
rocky		We can take these guys!
rocky		LOOK OUT!
adam		The frog silently assesses its target, then strikes out...
adam		... in the blink of an eye.
tommy		Yo, Tweety!
aisha		The bear is sturdy as a towering tree.  Nothing can uproot it.
aisha		Bye, bye birdy.
kimberly		Hasta la Pasta, Bigbird!
billy		AIM FOR THEIR BEAKS!
aisha		It's up to you.
rocky		Polly wanna cracker?
kimberly		ALL RIGHT, ROCKY!
adam		WE DID IT!!
ivan		ANGEL GROVE... I'D LIKE TO INTRODUCE YOU TO A COUPLE OF MY NEAREST AND DEAREST FRIENDS... HORNITOR!
ivan		And his trimetallic partner in crime... SCORPITRON!!
ivan		THE BOYS ARE BACK IN TOWN!!!
goldar		GO IVAN!!
mordant		LONG LIVE THE BOOGER MAN!
alpha 5		That should do it.  we won't be able to hear them, but they SHOULD be able to hear us.  Here goes.
news reporter		... the Mayor has declared a state of emergency and asked that the city be immediately evacuated.  He has reiterated the need for everyone to remain calm.
news reporter		Angel Grove has never before known such a crisis and we can now only pray for the swift arrival of the Power Rangers!
alpha 5		Ay, yi, yi, yi!
zordon		... Alpha, keep trying!
rocky		... The Nathadian Monolith...
kimberly		I guess these guys weren't so lucky.
aisha		We've come all this way for a rock wall?!
billy		There should be a way to open it.
billy		... Nothing.
rocky		Release the power with the power.
aisha		Not that kind of power.
billy		... There has to be something we're missing.
rocky		It can't end like this...
kimberly		What NOW!
zordon		Rangers... Ivan has invaded the city... time is running out...
zordon		Each of you are now in possession of miraculous skills... but only when the six become one will you have the strength to harness the Great Power.
kimberly		ZORDON!!
tommy		Six become one... the combined forces of the Ninjetti.
rocky		Strength in numbers!!
billy		I am the wolf, cunning and swift!
kimberly		I am the crane, agile and sublime!
aisha		I am the bear, stalwart and bold!
adam		I am the frog, quick as lightning!
rocky		I am the mighty ape!
tommy		And I am the Falcon, Winged Lord of the Sky!
rangers		WE... ARE THE NINJETTI!!!
aisha		What HAPPENED?!
billy		Of course!  The power is of another world.  Another dimension.
kimberly		WE'VE GOT TEN TRIACS BEFORE WE'RE TOAST!!
rocky		That's twenty seconds!!
tommy		Release the power WITH the power.
aisha		What does that mean?!
billy		Our SYMBOLS.
rocky		Ten seconds and counting!!
kimberly		It's some kind of mirror!
aisha		Release the power with the power.
billy		I've got it!  We use the mirrors to reflect the light back into itself!!
rocky		THREE SECONDS!!
tommy		LET'S DO IT!?
tommy		WE HAVE THE GREAT POWER!!
rocky		NEW POWER COINS!!
billy		OUR MORPHERS ARE ON LINE!
adam		HANG ON, ANGEL GROVE.
kimberly		WE'RE ON OUR WAY!
snoggle		Spherhlegnu.
dulcea		Yes, Snoggle... they now have the Great Power of the Ninjetti!
bulk		There goes the neighborhood.
skull		A real shame.
fred		EVERYBODY, LISTEN UP!
fred		You've been brainwashed!  This Ivan is no Wizard.  He's some kind of DEMON!
fred		You gotta believe me -- he's EVIL!
fred		Listen to me!  Our parents are in danger!  If we don't help them they're going to be killed!
bulk		We could take it with us.
aisha		ALPHA?!
alpha 5		Rangers...  I'm afraid you're too late.
aisha		What?!
alpha 5		Zordon...  he's gone.
kimberly		... This can't be...
tommy		"To those who possess the Great Power...   all things are possible."
rangers		ZORDON!!
zordon		Welcome back, kids.
adam		It's good to be back.
alpha 5		HE'S ALIVE!  HE'S ALIVE!
kimberly		We thought you...
zordon		It's good to see you again, too.
alpha  5		AI, YI, YI, YI, YI   Ivan s Ecto- Morphicon machines are leveling the city!
rocky		We've got news for you, Ivan...
tommy		The Power Rangers are BACK IN BUSINESS!!
ivan		 POWER RANGERS!
kimberly		What're THOSE?!
tommy		Let's DO it!
kimberly		NINJA CRANE ZORD!
billy		NINJA WOLF ZORD!
aisha		NINJA BEAR ZORD!
adam		NINJA FROG ZORD!
rocky		NINJA APE ZORD!
tommy		NINJA FALCON ZORD!
skull		Look, kid, I don't think you realize who you're dealing with.
fred		I don't think he realizes who HE'S dealing with.
fred		EVERYBODY ON BOARD!
ivan		 These brats are ruining EVERYTHING!
ivan		Let's TANGO!
alpha 5		GO, Rangers!  GO, Rangers!  GO, Rangers!  GO!
billy		ACTIVATING NINJA MEGAZORD BATTLE MODE!
goldar		I'm outta here.
mordant		Wait for me!
goldar		GET OFF ME!
mordant		BUT I'M YOUR COUSIN!
goldar		SECOND COUSIN, THREE TIMES REMOVED.  NOW  GET OFF ME!
rangers		WHOOAAAAAHHH!!!
fred		EVERYBODY HANG ON!!
tommy		The monorail is in trouble! I'm going in!
rocky		What's he doing?!
billy		Let's go after him!!
tommy		Ultra Ninja Megazord complete!
tommy		I'm in!
billy		LET'S FLY!
fred		There they are!
bulk		They're heading for the cliff!
skull		That's gotta be an eighty foot drop!
fred		FOLLOW ME!!
adam		We've got him locked!
billy		Speed?
aisha		1600 m.p.h.  and increasing!
tommy		Everybody hold on tight.  We're gonna send this sucker into OBLIVION!
rita		You call yourself a hell-hound?! A basset hound is more like it. If you were a real outlaw you would've gotten me out of this blizzard HOURS ago!
zedd		This is the last time I marry a witch.
rita		It's Ivan and the Megazord!!
billy		WE'RE BREAKING UP!
adam		He's on us!!
billy		Wait a second...  What time is it?
rocky		Two thirty three a.m.
billy		Ryan's Comet!!
kimberly		What about it?
billy		It's passing over earth as we speak!  Trajectory coordinates are
adam		Billy, that's BRILLIANT!
billy		We get Ivan into the Comets PATH--
aisha		-- and KABOOOM -- he's space dust!
fred		Come on!  Come on!
fred		All right!
fred		DAD!!
bulk		SKULL!!
skull		BULK!!
rita		I hope those Rangers put that lousy lowlife out of his misery!
zedd		GO POWER RANGERS!
tommy		WE'RE GOING TO IMPLODE!
billy		THREE DEGREES OFF THE COMETS TRAJECTORY!
rocky		GIVE IT EVERYTHING WE'VE GOT!
alpha 5		Ay, yi, yi!  The Rangers are going to be CRUSHED!
zordon		Don't lose hope yet, Alpha!
billy		009843... 42... 41!  WE'RE IN ALIGNMENT!
rocky		THERE'S THE COMET!
billy		IMPACT IN FIFTEEN SECONDS!
tommy		WE HAVE TO GET OUT OF HERE!!
adam		WE CAN'T BREAK FREE!
billy		IMPACT IN EIGHT SECONDS!
aisha		Desperate times call for desperate measures.
kimberly		What're you doing?!
aisha		Taking care of business.
aisha		Bull's eye!
billy		FOUR SECONDS TO IMPACT!
tommy		WE'RE OUTTA HERE!
rangers		MORPHENOMENAL!!
alpha 5		HOORAY, POWER RANGERS!!
zedd		That was a CHEAP shot!
rita		We couldn't have done it better ourselves.
zordon		Rangers, by going after the Great Power, all of you knowingly put your lives at extreme risk... and in so doing you not only saved my life, you saved all of Angel Grove and the world from a reign of unthinkable terror.
alpha 5		Everybody say cheese.
rangers		POWER RANGERS!!!
goldar		What'd we do?!
zedd		It's not what you DID, it's what you DIDN'T do!
mordant		We tried to rescue you every chance we had!
rita		LIARS!
goldar		Ouch!!
rita		Do you know what it's like to be stuck in a BLIZZARD FOR TWO DAYS?!
mordant		... Cold?
zedd		Are you trying to be funny?!
mordant		Hey, watch the hair!!!
****Dialogues from script :Milk.txt****

harvey milk		Hello, I'm Harvey Milk, and I'm here to recruit you.
harvey milk		If I was speaking to a slightly hostile or mostly straight audience, I'd try to break the tension with a joke...
harvey milk		I know, I know, I'm not what you were expecting, but I left my high heels at home. Harvey gets a LAUGH from the AUDIENCE.
harvey milk		I fully realize that a person who stands for what I stand for - an activist, a gay activist - becomes the target or potential target for a person who is insecure, terrified, afraid or very disturbed themselves...
dianne feinstein		As President of the Board of Supervisors, it's my duty to make this announcement. Both Mayor Moscone and Supervisor Harvey Milk have been shot... and killed. GASPS from the REPORTERS. Dianne struggles to be heard.
dan white		Something has happened.
harvey milk		Knowing that I could be assassinated at any moment, I feel it's important that some people should understand my thoughts. I think that--  I wish I had time to explain everything I did. Almost everything that was done was done with an eye on the gay movement.
harvey milk		Hey. I'm Harvey.
scott smith		 Okay, Harvey...
harvey milk		Today's my birthday.  No, today is actually my birthday. Well, tonight. At midnight.
scott smith		Really?
harvey milk		And, believe it or not, I don't have any plans. People took me out after work...
scott smith		 Work? So, that would be... Let me guess. Ma Bell or AT&T.
harvey milk		The Great American Insurance Company. I'm part of the big, evil, corporate establishment that, let me guess, you think is the cause of every evil thing in the world from Vietnam to diaper rash.
scott smith		You left out bad breath. Falling for it, Harvey covers his mouth. Scott laughs. They both smile, realizing they share a wry sense of humor. A TRAIN IS COMING, Harvey has to work fast.
harvey milk		So... You're not going to let me celebrate my birthday all by myself are you?
scott smith		 Listen, Harvey, you're kind of cute for a suit... But I don't do guys over forty.
harvey milk		Well then, I'm in luck.
scott smith		How's that?
harvey milk		Because I'm still thirty-nine...  And it's only eleven-fifteen.
harvey milk		Where are you from?
scott smith		Jackson, Mississippi.
harvey milk		Well, this isn't Jackson, but you still can't respond to every strange man you meet on a subway platform. It's too dangerous.
scott smith		Now you tell me.
harvey milk		There's nothing tougher than a New York City cop. They're arrogant, and they're everywhere. I'll show you the cruising spots, if you want, if you promise you'll be careful... little Scottie-san.
scott smith		Are you on uppers or what?
harvey milk		No. This is just... plain old me.
scott smith		You're afraid of the cops?
harvey milk		I'm just discreet. I know a lot of people here. If they found out, I could lose my job.
scott smith		 I think you need a change of scenery. New friends.
harvey milk		I need a change.
scott smith		 You're forty now.
harvey milk		 Forty years old and I haven't done a thing I'm proud of.
scott smith		 You keep eating like this and you'll be a fat ass by fifty.
harvey milk		 No. Don't you worry. I won't make it to fifty. Scott distracts him, playful, like a newlywed at a wedding, he rubs a slice of pie in Harvey's face. Harvey reacts. Wipes the pie from his eye, and tackles his young, frisky new lover. They kiss. The mess getting everywhere. Harvey brushes it out of Scott's hair.
scott smith		Where to?
harvey milk		In those days, San Francisco was the place where everyone wanted to go... To drop out... To fall in love...
scott smith		I cashed my last unemployment check yesterday...
harvey milk		Well, I hope you did something useful with it.
scott smith		I bought an ounce of pot. I was just wondering if you had any
harvey milk		Don't move. Harvey straddles Scott. He begins SNAPPING PHOTOS of him.
scott smith		I suppose I can wait tables.
harvey		No way. I want you right here with me... Did you see place downstairs is for rent?
scott smith		Yeah.
harvey milk		I was thinking we could open a shop together.
scott smith		What kind of shop?
harvey milk		One with very little overhead. Not too much work... A little one, just like Morris and Minnie Milk of Woodmere, New York...
harvey milk		Just a little to the left... The old liquor store owner from earlier, MCCONNELLY, crosses the street to watch. Harvey gives him a warm welcome:
mcconnelly		You're the new renters?
harvey milk		Yes. Welcome to Castro Camera.
mcconnelly		I don't think your application will be approved, Mr. Milk. This is a family neighborhood. Your kind are far more welcome on Haight street.
harvey milk		 What "kind" do you mean, sir?
mcconnelly		 The Merchant's Association will have the police pull your license if you open your doors.
scott smith		Based on what law?
mcconnelly		There's man's law and there's God's law in this neighborhood and in this City. The San Francisco Police force is happy to enforce either.
harvey milk		 Thanks for the warm welcome to the neighborhood!
scott smith		We pay taxes you know! Harvey grabs Scott's hand... keeps him from heating up, from pouncing. It's not the time for them to bite yet.
harvey milk		We'll form our own business association! Start with the gay- owned businesses... We'll take down the addresses of every customer that comes in for a roll of film. We'll ask them what they want to see done here... what they want changed... We'll get money rolling into this neighborhood. Revitalize it...
scott smith		Can I come in now?
scott smith		Harvey. What's with all this political activist crap? I thought you were a goddamn Republican. Harvey walks into the small dining room holding two plates of food. He sets them out on a small dining room table, still rambling on to Scott in the bedroom.
harvey milk		I'm a businessman, Scott. I think businesses ought to treat their customers right. Even their gay customers. For God's sake, this is San Francisco!
scott smith		Harvey. It's just like every other city in this country. People hate us. Big surprise.
harvey milk		We should have at least one block in one city right? Start there and take over the neighborhood.  Okay, you can come in now! Scott heads toward the kitchen. The table is LAID OUT with a home-cooked meal, CANDLES and a huge bouquet of FLOWERS.
scott smith		Wow. This is--
harvey milk		Happy birthday! Scott chases Harvey around the apartment, trying to smear some of the CREAM PIE onto him.
harvey milk		Thanks for joining the Castro Village Association! Harvey arrives at A LONG LINE OF GAY MEN winding out of the Irish liquor store . He squeezes past them, into the store, leaving Scott outside.
mcconnelly		Fine.
harvey milk		So you don't mind all these homosexuals in here, do you? McConnelly grins, uncomfortable. The line of gay men is
harvey milk		And people started hanging around our store. Not customers. Activists, kids, folks who needed a home away from home...
danny niccoletta		Opera is passe, Harvey. It's about street theater, now.
harvey milk		What you're not getting is the spectacle of it, the bigger than life emotions... Danny jumps up and IMITATES the LARGER THAN LIFE GESTURES of an opera diva, making Harvey laugh.
scott smith		Harvey... This guy wants to talk to you.
harvey milk		 Welcome. What can we do for you?
allan baird		Hi, I'm Allan Baird. Teamsters representative, and Director of the Coors beer boycott in California.
harvey milk		Everyone, this is Allan Baird. He's a very big deal, so behave yourselves.
allan baird		I was told you were like the Mayor of the Castro, said you organized the CVA, you might know some people in the bars.
harvey milk		I do have friends in awfully low places, but just so you know, it's not official yet.
allan baird		What's that?
harvey milk		The Mayor part. I've considered gathering an army of queers to march up to City Hall and secede, but so far the young gays seem more interested in jeeps and jeans. But if I could be of any use, I'm all ears!
allan baird		We can't get Coors to go union. These guys are like me, they can't be out of work too long. Harvey pulls Allan aside, away from the audience, easing his nerves. It's Harvey at his best.
harvey milk		I'm just curious. Are we your first stop or your last?
allan baird		 It's been a tough one, Mr. Milk.
harvey milk		Well, you seem to have noticed that my kind of people drink a lot of beer. If we're going to fast for your sake, I think we should get to deliver some of it when you win this fight, don't you?
harvey milk		And allies. I'll have Coors out of every bar in the Castro by the end of the week. Deal?
allan baird		 Thank you Mr. Milk.
harvey milk		No more Coors beer. It's gotta come out of every bar. Gay and straight.
scott smith		What's he giving you?
harvey milk		Nothing for me. That's a convert.
scott smith		A convert to what?
harvey milk		The cause.
harvey milk		Maybe that was the day someone first called me the "Mayor" of Castro Street.  Or perhaps I invented it myself.  28 INT. CASTRO CAMERA - ANOTHER NIGHT  Harvey, Jim & Dick, Scott, Danny and Dennis debate the merits of working within "the system" versus dropping out. Everyone is talking over each other...
cop		Clear the sidewalk! Some of the GAY MEN move out of the COPS' way but some of them don't move FAST ENOUGH. The COPS start BEATING them. Harvey, Scott and the OTHERS try to break into the crowd, to get closer to the fight. To pull the cops off their friends. Danny HANGS BACK, snapping PHOTOS of the event. Scott SHOVES his way past the cops. A COP BRINGS HIS NIGHT STICK down hard on SCOTT'S HEAD.
harvey milk		...if we had someone in the government who saw things the way we see them, the way the black community has black leaders who look out for their interests--
scott smith		You're gonna run for Supervisor, is that the idea?
harvey milk		Politics is theater. It doesn't matter if you win. You make a statement. You say, "I'm here, pay attention to me."
scott smith		Harvey, you do that every time you cross the street.
harvey milk		Coors looks like it might cave. The union boys will owe me. Imagine if we get their vote... It'll be fun!
scott smith		Fun? Harvey starts kissing him all over.
harvey milk		We'll make it a spectacle.
harvey milk		A week ago, Police officers came into our area with covered up badges and sent fourteen of our people to the hospitals, and to jail. The charges, "Blocking a Sidewalk." Like a round girl at a boxing match, Scott parades around a blown up PHOTO from his shopping cart: TWO SF COPS DRAGGING
harvey milk		Public dental care for retired people... Legalize pot, vote Milk. Harvey is distracted. A young, long haired CLEVE JONES
harvey milk		Where's home?
cleve jones		Phoenix.
harvey milk		I'm Harvey Milk. I'm running for Supervisor. What's your name?
cleve jones		Cleve... Jones.
harvey milk		Well Mr. Jones, we should walk up to my camera shop and register you.
cleve jones		Fuck that. Elections of any kind are a bourgeois affectation.
harvey milk		Is that right? Do you trick up on Polk Street?
cleve jones		 If I need the cash... But I'm selective about my clients.
harvey milk		Tell me one thing before you get back to work then. What was it like to be a little queer in Phoenix?
cleve jones		I faked a lung disease to get out of PE. So what? What are you, some kind of street shrink?
harvey milk		Sometimes. But what I'm saying is, Phoenix can change. But we have to start with our street: rent control, police abuse, pot, parks, seniors.
cleve jones		 Well, good luck with all that.
harvey milk		You know what I think, Cleve Jones?
cleve jones		That you're gonna get somewhere if you keep talking?
harvey milk		No. That you need to do what you're good at. Be a prick. Fight City Hall. Fight the cops. Fight the people who made you come here to do what you do.
cleve jones		Sorry old man, I'm leaving for Spain tomorrow. Europe. Got all the cash I need in my back pocket. A GROUP OF CLEVE'S FRIENDS shout at him to join them. Harvey watches him dart across the street to his friends.
harvey milk		--look up to, no hope for a better life. Those that did were outcast... arrested.. suicide. And the young ones, who did escape home... and who arrive in San Francisco, and then what...
cop		The fruit was walking home with his trick when they were jumped. REVEAL: Harvey picks a blood stained whistle up off the street, the man's last attempt to call for help.
harvey milk		He used to come into my shop. Are there any witnesses?
cop		Just the "trick." Jerry Taylor.
harvey milk		Jerry wasn't a trick. They were lovers.
cop		Call it what you will. He's our only witness and he says he can't identify the attackers.
harvey milk		There'd be a dozen witnesses if they thought you boys had any real interest in keeping them safe.
cop		You're the Mayor of Castro Street now, right Harvey? You really wanna help? Get your people to show some discretion on the streets, huh? HARVEY'S POV: The PARAMEDICS pull up the zipper on the body bag. We follow the zipper past the victim's bloody hands, his torso, his face.
jim rivaldo		Well, it looks like the big guns and the rich gays in San Francisco are going to back Dianne Feinstein and other straight candidates they consider "gay-friendly."
scott smith		Who cares about those old queens? Scott is laying down on THE BIG RED COUCH.
harvey milk		Why isn't my campaign manager leading the meeting?
scott smith		I'm beat, Harvey. I passed out flyers for seven hours straight.
harvey milk		In the bathhouse?
scott smith		 People in bathhouses vote. I'm tired. I'm taking a nap. Scott heads up the stairs to their apartment. A CUSTOMER comes in. Danny quickly gathers the REVEALING PHOTOS and puts them back in the envelope.
harvey milk		Just checking the exposure. That a new boyfriend? He's very cute.
customer		 Um... Thanks, Harvey.
harvey milk		 So who are these so-called "gay leaders?" And who appointed them? And what are you suggesting, Jim, that I'm supposed to go and solicit their endorsement? PAST HARVEY WE SEE A GRANDMOTHERLY VOLUNTEER, THELMA, opening the mail, casually reading a letter, then rising and approaching Harvey.
harvey milk		We're down here, on the streets, trying to help people, so where they hell are they?
dick pabich		David Goodstein is the publisher of The Advocate and he has a house--
jim rivaldo		A mansion--
dick pabich		--in Atherton.
thelma		 Harvey, you should read this. CLOSE ON THE LETTER as it goes from Thelma to Harvey.
scott smith		"Harvey Milk will have a dream journey and nightmare to hell, a night of horror. You will be stabbed and have your genitals, cock, balls, prick cut off."
harvey milk		They probably wrote it.  Hey, If somebody tries to kill me, I'll get the sympathy vote, right? Could be just the push we need.
scott smith		You think this is funny? Look at it. Reluctantly, Harvey takes the letter from Scott.
harvey milk		It's a complete joke. No rhythm. No humor. It's insulting. CLOSE ON THE LETTER: Someone has drawn a STICK FIGURE of Harvey being tortured - bullets, knives, fire, etc. Harvey makes a DECISION: He sticks the DRAWING to the refrigerator, the first thing he'll see in the morning.
scott smith		Don't do that.
harvey milk		If you put it away, hide it in a drawer, it'll just get bigger and scarier. Now it's there. We'll see it every day. It can't get us.
scott smith		All this energy... to make yourself a target. And what for? Something we have no chance to win. Harvey wraps his arms around him.
harvey milk		I keep telling you, it's not just about winning.
david goodstein		I worked for a financial institution. I was very discreet. But someone spotted me at the opera, sitting in a box, next to my lover. And I was fired. That's when I decided to do something. So I bought The Advocate. And I use my money and my influence in quiet ways, to do what I can...
harvey milk		Endorsing straight candidates is what you think is best to help us?
david goodstein		Yes, if they're friendly to our cause.
harvey milk		But I am running for office. I'm on the ballot. I have the union rank and file, the seniors, and I could use your magazine's endorsement.
david goodstein		Harvey, we're like the Catholic church. We welcome converts, but we don't make them Pope the same day.
harvey milk		And why haven't you run?
david goodstein		It's too early for a gay candidate for Supervisor. Especially one from the Castro. It's bad for the community's image. Scott climbs out of the pool and sits at the table, naked and sopping wet.
scott smith		What's wrong with the Castro?
david goodstein		Nobody works there. It's all sex and drugs and more sex and no one taking responsibility for their own problems.
harvey milk		The cops come into our neighborhood and beat us. They turn a blind eye if one of us is murdered.
rick stokes		Then we file a lawsuit against the city. We go to our political allies in City Hall...
harvey milk		There are no real gay allies. Yes, our friends may sense our struggle, but they can't feel it. It's not life or death for them. We need our own in office.
rick stokes		You can't demand acceptance overnight.
harvey milk		Why not? How can we ask them to respect us if we don't show ourselves some self respect, David.
david goodstein		The more out you make us, the more you incite them. Step back and quiet down.
harvey milk		Go back into the closet? Is that what you're saying? Because I know the closet. I lived in it for more years than I care to remember.  I don't need your endorsement. I'm not asking anyone for acceptance. I don't have time to ask.
david goodstein		For you, politics is a game, a lark. Like putting on a rock festival or staging a "love-in." You're too old to be a hippie, Harvey Milk! Harvey turns around, ready for a fight.
harvey milk		I'm not a candidate, I'm part of a movement. The movement is the candidate. There's a difference. You don't see the difference. But I do.
scott smith		 Thanks for the swim. I'm sorry I pissed in your pool.
harvey milk		So... I went for it again in '75... with just a few... minor... adjustments.
scott smith		No. Not cute. The shoes are hideous and I hate your hair. You're not fooling anybody.
harvey milk		I'm not gonna let the Pacific Heights biddies write me off again because of a ponytail. I like it. Scott is horrified. Harvey pulls a pair of movie ticket stubs from its inner pocket.
lily		No, no. You won't run into the owner. He died in that suit.
scott smith		This isn't sexy, Harvey. Harvey grabs Scott, kisses him. Then playful:
harvey milk		Too bad. No more pot, no more bath houses for me and little poo.
harvey milk		It's a racket. It's 1976 and you still have to be straight, white, Catholic and male to get into the San Francisco police force. It's Racist. Homophobic.
art agnos		How many people do you consider enemies, Harvey? I've counted five already. Art smiles. Chuckles flutter through the audience.
harvey milk		You're right, Art. And many are your closest friends. You see, I don't think State Assembly seats should be awarded on the basis of service to the Democrat Machine. Machines operate on oil and grease. They're dirty, dehumanizing, and too often unresponsive to any needs but those of the operator.
art agnos		Mr. Milk, I've worked for years as a social worker in this city. I know Sacramento. I know how to get done what we all need done there.
harvey milk		Tell me Mr. Agnos... right here in the Castro, Robert Hillsbourough was murdered for walking home with his long time partner. Stabbed,
art agnos		You know Harv', your whole rap's a real downer.
harvey milk		My God, you're handsome up close. I can't tell you how much I'm looking forward to licking you... in the polls.
scott smith		Harvey. Dinner.
harvey		... get some union boys in the audience, they love me...
jim rivaldo		I can't control who's in the audience...
scott smith		Harvey, you need to eat something. Now.
scott		If you say one thing about politics or your campaign or where you're speaking tonight or whose endorsement you need... I'll stab you with my fork I swear to God.
harvey		I just wanted to say... This is the most delicious meal I've ever eaten in my entire life. Harvey gives a warm smile. Scott gives a laugh, but he looks like he's about to lose it.
harvey milk		If we lose this one, it'll be just me and you again. I promise. Scott nods. That's exactly what he needed to hear.
harvey milk		Phoenix?  We should go inside. They do. Harvey locks the door behind them.
cleve jones		You staying up with me?
harvey milk		The election's tomorrow. I won't sleep... Was he good looking?
cleve jones		No. He was hideous.
harvey milk		Hard to tell what's worse. With me, my boyfriends usually find better looking ones to cheat with.
cleve jones		I thought we were gonna spend the rest of our lives together.
harvey milk		Guess what, Cleve Jones.
cleve jones		What?
harvey milk		You're going to meet the most extraordinary men, the sexiest, brightest, funniest men, and you're going to fall in love with so many of them, and you won't know until
cleve jones		Is that supposed to help?
harvey milk		Maybe a little. Or not.
cleve jones		I went to Spain last month... long story. In Barcelona, there was this memorial march for gay people who died under Franco. The police tried to break it up. It started a riot. A bullet ripped through a drag queens scalp, his wig flew off, but he kept fighting. There was blood literally running in the gutter.
harvey milk		We could have a revolution here too. But you can't just use the Castro to cruise. You gotta fight.
cleve jones		You think you'll win?
harvey milk		Winning isn't my strong suit.
harvey milk		Can you assemble a thousand people in an hour?
cleve jones		Yeah, sure.
harvey milk		All right, if I run again, you're my man.
cleve jones		If...?
harvey milk		Polls open in 3 hours. Lets hit the bus stops.
jim rivaldo		 I remember when that used to work. I want to show you something. This is remarkable. Jim starts laying out his trusty MAPS, color coded with precinct results from that night.
harvey milk		I don't know if I have another one in me. Or Scott. But Harvey's gaze deceives his words. HOLD ON HARVEY - contemplating a FOURTH run for office.
tv reporter		Gays in Florida can now be removed from their jobs and prosecuted if their "deviant" lifestyles are uncovered. HARVEY'S POV OUT A WINDOW: FURIOUS GAYS pour out of the bars BLOWING WHISTLES, raising TRASH CANS... It might turn into a
tv reporter		Bryant, a spokeswoman for the orange juice industry, vowed to
harvey milk		Scottie?
boy's voice		I'm sorry sir. I um... I read about you in the paper.
harvey milk		I'm sorry. I can't talk right--
boy's voice		Sir, I think I want to kill myself.
harvey milk		No. You don't want to do that.
boy's voice		In Minnesota.
harvey milk		You saw me in a paper in Minnesota? How'd I look?
boy's voice		My folks are taking me to this place tomorrow. A hospital. To fix me.
harvey milk		There's nothing wrong with you. Listen to me. You don't have to hurt yourself, okay? Are you there?  Here's what you have to do. Are you listening?
boy's voice		Yes.
harvey milk		Get on a bus. Go to the next biggest city. New York, San Francisco, LA, or even Minneapolis. It doesn't matter. Just leave.  You won't be alone. There are people out here just like you who will welcome you and love you.
boy's voice		I can't.
harvey milk		Yes. You can. Just get on a bus.
boy's voice		I can't... I can't walk, sir. I'm in a wheelchair... Sir. Are you there? Harvey FORCES HIMSELF TO SOUND CALM...
harvey milk		That's okay. It's going to be okay. Over the phone, Harvey hears the SOUND OF AN ADULT VOICE, someone finding the BOY on the phone, then... The LINE goes DEAD. It's all too much for Harvey. There's nothing a speech or a pep talk can do to fix this. Harvey is overwhelmed. Dick comes upstairs.
dick pabich		Harvey, you better come down. There's gonna be a riot. Moving in a daze, stunned by the call, Harvey digs out A BULLHORN and heads out.
cleve jones		Out of the bar and into the streets! Anita Bryant is coming after you!
policeman		If you can't control em', we will.
harvey milk		Give me permission to march them.
policeman		Where?
harvey milk		Anywhere.
harvey milk		I know you are angry. I am angry. Follow me through the streets of San Francisco to share our anger! Harvey jumps down and begins walking, not sure if the mob will follow. Finally, they do. Cleve catches up.
cleve jones		Yes. Where are we going?
harvey milk		I don't know.  We have to keep them moving. Exhaust them. March them till they drop. We can't have a riot tonight. Harvey LIFTS THE BULLHORN. He starts a marching chant. The crowd starts following along. JUMP TO: Gays glare at cops. Cops beat their nightsticks against their chests and power poles. Anger burns as Harvey marches the mob toward City Hall. Dick and Jim catch up.
dick pabich		They're still too hot in back. They'll burn the joint down.
harvey milk		Help me turn them up Van Ness. We'll go all the way to Broadway.
harvey milk		My name is Harvey Milk... And I want to recruit you. The CROWD ROARS APPROVAL.
harvey milk		Hope for the worker who awakens from the American dream to find that all the jobs have left the country... We gotta give em' HOPE! PAN FACES OF TEAMSTERS - Several MINORITY FACES. CLOSE ON
harvey milk		--they allowed people to elect Supervisors directly from their own neighborhoods. A black neighborhood could elect an African- American. Chinatown could elect a Chinese Supervisor... And the Castro could choose me or Rick Stokes. But decent art begs for balance, right? So little district 8, two miles south of The Castro--
dan white		I'm not going to be forced out of San Francisco by splinter groups of social radicals, social deviants, and incorrigibles. You must realize there are thousands upon thousands of frustrated, angry people such as yourselves waiting to unleash a fury that will eradicate the malignancies which blight our beautiful city.
harvey milk		Evelyn Lear's in town, at the Opera house in Tannhauser.
scott smith		Clearly.
harvey milk		What if she strolls into the Castro for a cocktail?  Just one more. We can't let Rick Stokes take it.
scott smith		Let Rick have it. Nobody thinks you're a fraud here, Harvey. You're not in New York, you're not a closet case asshole anymore. People respect you here. Relax for a year. Get us back on our feet.
harvey milk		If people are ever going to take me seriously, I have to win this one.
scott smith		Since when did you care if anyone took you seriously?
harvey milk		Anita wants to put us all back in concentration camps. Rick Stokes is too weak to beat her back if she gets to California. I have to be in office to protect us from them.
scott smith		I can't do another one.  I'll be back for my sheets. If you're not here, I'll see you in the shop next week. Scott picks up his box of clothes and starts out of the apartment. Harvey, not meaning a word:
harvey milk		If you leave me right now... I can find someone new.
scott smith		I know. You're a catch. Scott leaves. Harvey is in shock, unable to comprehend the loss. Unable/unwilling to reverse the choice he's made.
harvey milk		--Ring out the old, ring in the new. This is over. Done. I don't want to see anything that say's fucking Assembly. This three-time loser faggot is running for Supervisor goddamn it! ANNE KRONENBERG, 23, parks her motorcycle outside, WALKS INTO THE CAMERA SHOP, and plants herself behind HARVEY'S DESK. Cleve, Mike, Jim and Dick are STARING at Anne.
jim rivaldo		Who the heck is she?
harvey milk		 Our new campaign manager. She called last week to volunteer and I asked her to help.
dick pabich		Help or take over? What about Scott?
harvey milk		We need new blood. 
anne kronenberg		Hi guys. Mr. Milk... Rick Stokes isn't pulling out. He's officially filed to run against you. My friend at The Advocate says David Goodstein is backing him.
michael wong		A gay candidate against a gay candidate. It's unfortunate.
jim rivaldo		They'll split the gay vote. The straights will divide and conquer.
harvey milk		Try to find out when they're going to announce.
dick pabich		You replaced Scott with a lesbian?
harvey milk		Anne worked on a recycling campaign up North. She's very organized.
jim rivaldo		How do you know she's not a plant from Rick Stokes' campaign?
anne kronenberg		Are you guys always this paranoid?
michael wong		Yes. They take after Harvey.
harvey milk		Shouldn't you be doing someone's laundry?
michael wong		Right after you redecorate my house.
anne kronenberg		 Sir, my girlfriends say you guys don't like women. Just asking, is there a place for us in all this, or are you scared of girls?
harvey milk		Gentleman, we already have a tinker bell, a lotus-blossom, Jim and Dick in your three-piece suits. We need someone to manage things. A woman this time. She's the right price, and she has bigger balls than any of you.
anne kronenberg		Just give me whatever's left over in the register at the end of the day. So should I call the Chronicle about getting US an endorsement? No? OFF the group of misfits, considering the addition.
rick stokes		Young lady, you must be confused. This is my night, not Mr. Milk's.
anne kronenberg		 No, sir. I'm Harvey's new campaign manager. Anne Kronenberg.
rick stokes		Then you should know this race is for District 5, the Castro, not for all of your lesbian... compadres-- A tough lesbian kisses Anne and stares Rick down as she heads in. Rick looks uncomfortable around all these women.
anne kronenberg		I'm sorry. Are we distracting you, Mr. Stokes? I'd hate to screw you up on your big night. Dick runs up looking for more fliers. Taking Rick even more off his game, Dick is flirtatious.
dick pabich		Hi Rick, handsome suit. Annie, do you have any more hand cards?
rick stokes		These people are not from this area. They need to leave. Now.
dick pabich		Not true. Guess where we found them all, Rick? A slew of them. Way up on Valencia Street. Living right there in our district. And you see, as it turns out, Annie here is very, very popular with the ladies. Dick puts his arm around Anne. Rick is stupefied.
harvey milk		They've accused me of many things, but never as blatant a lie as this.
anne kronenberg		First ever newspaper endorsement.
cleve jones		 They endorsed you for being a good businessman? Has Scott read this? He'll piss himself.
harvey milk		Yeah? Go show him. 
cleve jones		I'm going to The Stud. Meet me out. Cleve goes. His energy is boundless. Harvey sits alone watching the bargoers return home through his front window. A bitter-sweetness lingers. A couple waves, one shouts out:
gay man		Gonna win this time, Milk? They walk on, not waiting for an answer. Then, a drunk, cute, Latino, JACK LIRA, 25, stops. He stares in at the political ads in the window. Harvey watches him sway drunk out of his mind, waiting for him to fall. The two make eye contact. Harvey smiles. Jack tries to. Harvey picks up a folding chair and walks it out to him.
jack lira		 You're more handsome in the posters.
harvey milk		Thank you. Where do you live?
jack lira		 ...Palomino's are my favorite horse. They're smart. They're fast and compact. Do you think I'm more like a Palomino or a Stallion? Jack smiles, out of his mind. Then he sits/falls down into the chair, and slides off. Harvey stands above the passed out young man. A newcomer. A wounded bird. Perfect.
jack lira		My father beat me when he found out... So I came here. I stay in this man's house. But I don't like him.
harvey		Shh, it's okay, now. No one's ever going to beat you again. A long, comforting beat between them.
jack lira		I love you.
harvey		 Harvey.
jack lira		I love you, Harvey.
rick stokes		We just want to congratulate him.
cleve jones		I'm sorry. We're all full.
david goodstein		 Harvey! Harvey!
harvey milk		It's too crowded. Sorry! JACK LIRA shoves his way toward the door...
jack lira		Harvey! Harvey PULLS JACK INSIDE, right past Goodstein and Stokes. Harvey CATCHES A GLIMPSE OF SCOTT OUTSIDE...
harvey milk		Scottie--? But Scott fades into the CROWD. Harvey  is pulled back into the party.
cleve jones		 The new Mrs. Milk. I give it a week.
jack lira		 Harvey, is this all for you? Are you this famous?
harvey milk		No, darling. We do this all the time. Do you like it? Jim is calling out NAMES of the OTHER WINNERS.
jim rivaldo		Carol Ruth Silver... Gordon Lau... It's the most liberal Board in years!
harvey milk		What about Dan White? Did he win?
harvey milk		I have to be. That's what I was elected for. I have to be there to open up the dialogue for the sensitivities of all people, all their problems, the problems that effect this city effect all of us.  Thank you San Francisco! Thank you!
harvey milk		I, Harvey Milk, do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of California against all enemies, foreign and domestic; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter and during such time as I hold the office of Supervisor, City and County of San Francisco. Bulbs FLASH. A light rain begins to fall. Umbrellas go up.
harvey milk		How long were you a fireman, Dan?
dan white		A couple of years.
harvey milk		And before that... You were a police officer? Dan studies Harvey suspiciously... What's his point?
dan white		You have something against cops?
harvey milk		No. They tend to have something against me.
dan white		I appreciate it.
harvey milk		I meant what I said. I'd like to work together. Dan hesitantly accepts Harvey's handshake. It's a step.
dan white		 I'll see you at the office, Mr. Milk.
harvey milk		What do you think of my new theater?
cleve jones		A bit over the top.
harvey milk		What's with the suit?
cleve jones		I got it from a friend. Harvey leads Cleve from the elevator to the grand staircase.
harvey milk		When you come here, I want you to wear the tightest jeans possible. Never blend in. And no elevators. Ever. Always take the stairs, you can make such a grand entrance going up the stairs.
harvey milk		And street talk only around Feinstein. Shit, goddamn, fuck,
anne kronenberg		Will do.
harvey milk		Come into my office...
harvey milk		The first order of business that will come out of this office is a city wide Gay Rights Ordinance. Just like the one Anita shot down in Dade County. What do you think, Lotus Blossom?
michael wong		I think it's good. Not great.
harvey milk		Then make it brilliant. I want Anita's attention here. In San Francisco. I want her to bring her fight to US... This Bill needs a unanimous vote. We need headlines.
jim rivaldo		Dan White won't vote for this. Harvey puts his fingers to his lips and points down the hall, indicating Dan is down there. Harvey whispers:
harvey milk		Dan's fine. He's just uneducated. We can teach him. Dan pops his head into Harvey's office.
dan white		Harvey, committee meets at 9:30. Oh, hi Michael, Jim.  Hey, did you get the invitation to
harvey milk		I'll be there.
dan white		Great! All smiles, Dan leaves. Cleve mocks him. OFF Mike Wong's expression: THAT WAS BIZARRE.
anne kronenberg		Are you going?
harvey milk		Hey. I'll let him christen me, if he'll vote for my Gay Rights Ordinance. We need allies. We need everyone.
harvey		Jack?
jack lira		Welcome home, Harvey! I hope you're hungry. I only know how to cook one thing, but I make it good.
harvey		Did you... break in?
jack lira		I asked the boy downstairs to let me in...
harvey		Danny?
jack lira		He wouldn't let me in. So I came in this way. Your friends aren't very nice to me.
harvey		 I have a Town Hall meeting tonight, Jack.
jack lira		You work too hard. I'm sorry about your window. I'll fix it tomorrow.  Are you surprised?!
harvey milk		Jack, I have to go. I have an invitation to a party tomorrow. Lots of rich people, politicians. We could get all dressed up... Jack turns up the music, takes Harvey's hands and guides him through a simple dance.
jack lira		So I could be the first lady?
harvey milk		Uh-huh.
jack lira		I watched TV here today. All day. I saw All My Children. They killed Margo. I knew it was going to happen. They try and trick you but it never works.
harvey milk		 You always see it coming?
jack lira		What? Killing the blonde? Every time. I'm good with that.  I think now the old lady is going to have an affair. Then she'll get killed or married. Always one or the other. Dead or married. Jack starts dancing with Harvey again. It's sweet, intimate.
harvey milk		If I make you a key, you won't break my windows again, right?
jack lira		That's right. The dance lesson is a lovely distraction. Harvey won't be going back to work tonight.
harvey milk		I'm proposing a citywide ordinance. It ensures that a person who already has a job can't be fired for their orientation.
dan white		I'm not sure my constituents would favor that. Dan looks over to his WIFE and NEWBORN SON.
harvey milk		Is anyone else here from the Board?
dan white		You're the only one who showed up I think.
harvey milk		Were you christened here?
dan white		Yes. Right here. Same Parish. My grandma immigrated here when this was an Irish Catholic city. The City of St. Francis... A lot's changed here since then.
harvey milk		You're more like one of us now... an outsider.
dan white		You're not like most homosexuals, are you, Harvey?
harvey milk		Do you know a lot of "homosexuals?"
dan white		 Say, where do you stand on the Psychiatric Center the City's been pushing into my district?
harvey milk		Well, I'd have to study it...
dan white		Getting it out of my district was a key piece of my platform. It only attracts arsonist, rapists, all that, you know.
harvey milk		Sure, sure. A campaign promise.
dan white		A big one.
harvey milk		I'd like that, too, Dan. Mary Ann White approaches with their child. It's awkward, as if she's walked in on something intimate.
dan white		I'm sorry. Slipped into some shop talk.
harvey milk		The Gay Rights Ordinance. My fault.
harvey milk		Hey, don't knock it till you've tried it. His attempt to break the tension goes down in flames. She cracks a polite smile. They're from very different worlds.
dick pabich		Supervisors Silver and Lau are asking you to vote to keep this Psychiatric Center in Dan's district. It'll go down 6 to 5 if you vote to get rid of it.
michael wong		It's a Youth Campus, Harvey. These are kids that would be displaced from their families if it's moved.
harvey milk		I can't just dump Dan. The guy's got nothing going for him. No friends...
cleve jones		Here we go, Harvey to the rescue. Isn't it enough we have to put up with Jack?
harvey milk		Lay off. He registered 120 voters last week.
cleve jones		So do any of your volunteers, but you don't make them all first lady.
michael wong		What does Dan White do for you? Really? Politically?
harvey milk		He intrigues me... I think he may be one of us. Everyone groans. Cleve camps it up:
cleve jones		Dear God, say it ain't so!
harvey milk		It's just a theory...
dick pabich		You just think he's cute.
harvey milk		No... I know what it's like to live that life. That lie. You can see it in Dan's eyes... The fear, the pressure... Anne Kronenberg walks in. She's got that look in her eyes. Something's up.
anne kronenberg		Not great. State Senator John Briggs is Anita Bryant's go-to guy in California for sure. He's filed his petition for a statewide referendum to fire all gay teachers and anyone who supports them. A pall falls over the room. This is worse than expected.
harvey milk		How many signatures will he need to qualify for the ballot?
cleve jones		Whatever. He can get them in two Sundays at church in Orange County.
harvey milk		 This means the fight's coming here, where we can do something about it! Wichita's one thing, Kansas City. But Anita's heading for San Francisco! She's not going to know what hit her. Smile, children! This is the fight we've been waiting for.
john briggs		My proposition promises to protect our children from these gay perverts and pedophiles who recruit our children to their deviant lifestyles, including the ones who
tom ammiano		And how are you going to determine who's a homosexual?
john briggs		Sir, my bill outlines procedures for identifying homosexuals.
another protester		How? Will you be sucking them off?
john briggs		Sir, you can argue with me, but you cannot argue with God. It's getting ugly fast. Briggs is whisked away by TWO OFFICERS. He trips off the curb and is quickly scooped up.
david goodstein		Hello, Harvey. Running late? 
harvey milk		Excuse me, David?
harvey milk		You're right, I know, I was late by twenty minutes. I'm sorry, Jack.
harvey milk		I was at work. Come out, sugar pea.
harvey milk		Then go home, Jack.
david goodstein		The Briggs initiative is polling at 75 percent for approval statewide.
cleve jones		80 percent in other polls. Some even have us losing San Francisco.
david goodstein		 So it's important we not deceive people into thinking we can beat this, or we'll have riots and only increase this backlash.
harvey jones		Good point, David. Let's just roll right over. Make it easier for Briggs to fuck us up the ass. Rick and David are horrified. Phil Burton rises above it, passing out copies of his new Anti-Briggs Initiative flier.
phil burton		We're taking this very seriously in my office. We want to send one of these to every home in California. We'll need money to do that.
harvey milk		 Does it even say the word gay on this thing? Anywhere?
david goodstein		No Harvey, purposefully not.
phil burton		With the heat bearing down on your movement right now, we think it's best to dodge the "gay" bullet. Go for the human rights angle.
harvey milk		People need to know who's affected. This flier needs at least one old queen on it.  Why don't you volunteer for that, David?
rick stokes		 Corey Wares is an out gay--
harvey milk		This is shit. Shit and masturbation. It's a coward's response to a dangerous threat.
david goodstein		 I think you should leave. In the face of Phil Burton, most the others seem to agree. HARVEY PUTS PHIL BURTON'S FLYER IN THE FIREPLACE on his way out of the room.
harvey milk		Jack, it's time to go.  Get everyone together. I want young people, women, fresh heads. Fighters and organizers, not politicians.
cleve jones		 What about, S-C-O-T-T? OFF HARVEY, knowing Scott would be an asset. Jack opens the door and grabs Harvey's hand. They go.
cleve jones		We're not interested in working with those old Democratic Party shits. THE DOOR OPENS and someone new enters. He's HOLDING THE HAND OF... SCOTT SMITH. They are obviously a new couple.
jim rivaldo		But we can't afford infighting anymore, Cleve. We have to bring together every group. Even the old school Democrats.
harvey milk		 Is anybody gonna pay the pizza guy, or are we just gonna stare? People start chipping in for the HANDSOME PIZZA GUY.
dick pabich		"Come out, come out, wherever you are!"
harvey milk		I'm serious.  We're going to tell everyone in the state to come out. Every gay doctor, lawyer, teacher, dog catcher... We have to leave the ghetto, let all those people out there know that they do know one of us. And if people won't step out of the closet, we open the door for them.
anne kronenberg		Jesus.
scott smith		The whole state is not San Francisco.
harvey milk		Clearly, Scott.
jim rivaldo		It could be dangerous. There is such a thing as a right to privacy.
harvey milk		Privacy's our enemy. You want real political power? Let's tell the truth for a change. Starting here. If there's anybody in this room, right now, who hasn't told their families, their friends, their employers... Do it. Now.
anne kronenberg		My folks know already. A beat. The room is silent. Dick looks ill.
dick pabich		I haven't told my father yet...
harvey milk		 People vote two to one for us if they know just one of us.
cleve jones		It's in the bedroom. After a moment, Dick RISES and follows Cleve out of the room. People are stunned by Harvey's outrageous demand. Harvey sees Scott GLARING at him.
harvey milk		I thought you were done with politics.
scott smith		Politics. Not the movement. What the hell was that in there?
harvey milk		The movement needs people to be up- front. Why were you fighting me?
scott smith		You were the biggest closet case alive in New York. You told me and all your boyfriends to keep our
harvey milk		My parents are gone. My brother knows. I'm sure they knew.
scott smith		I had to listen to your phone calls home to Mom. Hear you deny that I existed. You want to be "normal" as bad as any of us. More than any of us... Those are kids in there. You're asking them to lose their families.
harvey milk		If their families won't love them for who they are, who they really are, then they should lose them.
scott smith		That's fucking insane.
harvey milk		 Who's he? Do you live together?
scott smith		Someone I'm seeing. He's good for me. He makes me stay home at nights, out of the bars...
harvey milk		 I miss you.
scott smith		Oh, Harvey, don't...  What's that about?
jack lira		 Har-veyyyyy!
harvey milk		He needs me. Scott nods. THAT'S ALWAYS BEEN HARVEY'S ACHILLES HEAL. He walks away from Harvey, leaving him alone.
harvey milk		--I want it noted that I never promised to back moving any Mental Health Centers. I greatly respect Supervisor White, but I would like his remarks stricken.
dianne feinstein		Duly noted. We will take a recess before recording the vote. Fellow Supervisor, CAROL RUTH SILVER, leans over to Harvey.
dan white		Can I have a moment with Harvey? Alone, please, Carol? She politely recognizes the tension and gets up.
harvey milk		I didn't have all the details. I'll help you craft a different version that doesn't displace any kids.
dan white		Harvey, I can't go back to my family and to my folks and to my district without this. Don't do this.
harvey milk		I'm getting a lot of pressure, Dan.
dan white		You strung me along. And now you're throwing me to the wolves.
harvey milk		You only need one more vote, Dan. There are 5 other Supervisors you could convince besides me. Dan grabs Harvey. It's threatening. A new side of Dan.
dan white		I'll vote against your Queer Law. I'll get Quentin against it.
harvey milk		It'll still pass. You can't keep alienating yourself here, Dan.
dan white		I gave you a chance, Harvey. I really did. You blew it. You really blew it. Dan goes, the rage of a scorned adolescent under his suit.
harvey milk		Across the country, a handful of city councils had passed the very first ordinances protecting gay people against discrimination. But Anita Bryant and her right wing Christian fundamentalists were creating and exploiting and fanning a backlash. Now she had referenda to repeal all of these gay rights ordinances. While we were preparing for the battle against Briggs and Prop Six, Anita Bryant was taking her show on the road... sweeping the country. Her next stop was Wichita, Kansas.
anita bryant		I give thanks for all of our foot soldiers of God here in Wichita. But we must push on. Look what happened to Sodom and to the world of Noah. Onward Christian soldiers!
cleve jones		Hi. We're losing Wichita. Rally tonight. Sundown. Market and Castro. A MULTIPLYING FRAME EFFECT: the person he called calls two others, they call four, then more and more as the tree grows.
cleve jones		They're moving. I don't know where, but...
harvey milk		Did Jim call the press?  Get out there with your camera!
danny niccoletta		I'm going!
cleve jones		Press is covered. But we don't have a permit to march.
harvey milk		 When I got Coors out of the bars, the Union gave me this. I want you to have it.
cleve jones		What do I do with this?
harvey milk		You're an activist. Take it. March them.  March those people up to the front doors of City Hall. When it looks really bad, the city's first gay Supervisor will come out and play peacemaker. We save the city from a riot. We can turn this night into more political power for the cause.
cleve jones		I can't do it like you do it.
harvey milk		I won't always be here. Somebody else will have to take over.  I need you to be the scary one now.
cleve jones		Forty years ago tonight, the gay citizens of Germany found out they no longer had civil rights. Tomorrow morning, the gay citizens of Wichita will also awaken to find that they too have lost their civil rights. You have whistles. You use them when we have been attacked. Tonight we have been attacked. Initially Cleve is successful, but then the crowd turns, marching toward City Hall without him.
jim rivaldo		 What are you doing? Where's Harvey?
cleve jones		We're shutting down traffic, both directions. Cleve looks up at the press that's arrived on the overpass above, and turns to two HIPPIE KIDS near the front.
harvey milk		Hello. My name is Harvey Milk, and I want to recruit you.  I want to recruit you for the fight to preserve our democracy against the Anita Bryants and John Briggs who are trying to legalize bigotry! We have a choice to make. The fight is at our doors. We must either go back in the closet and shut it tight, or fight... History shows
cleve jones		They're calling it a "successful mediation." You're a God damn hero. Fuck. It came this close to a riot.
harvey		Lose the note cards next time. Your job is just to say into that bullhorn what they're all feeling.
cleve jones		You're just jealous it wasn't you out there.
harvey milk		We're losing Prop Six by 60% and you're over there celebrating a riot. I need more visibility...  If we're going to beat this thing, we have to get Briggs to acknowledge us. Harvey steps away, hot, pensive. Anne gets quiet.
anne kronenberg		Every paper's calling Prop Six the main event now. We lose this, we'll have anti-gay laws in all fifty states, and Briggs won't return our calls for a public debate.
dick pabich		He's ignoring us to death.
harvey milk		 We need something populist. What's the number one complaint about city life?
cleve jones		The piss smell in the Tenderloin.
harvey milk		Close.
frank robinson		Dog shit.
jim rivaldo		If you cleaned up all the dog shit in the city, you could be elected Mayor.
cleve jones		"Mayor Milk."
harvey milk		I like it.
harvey milk		Dog mess is a hazard, and on top of that, it's disgusting. Under the ordinance, dog owners that don't clean up can be fined. This really is the bottom line! He smiles at his own joke, punctuating it by "accidentally" stepping in Cleve's well-placed dog shit. A BIG grin. BULBS FLASH. These flashes transition into:
clerk		Supervisor Lau?
gordon lau		Aye.
clerk		Lau, Aye. Supervisor Silver?
clerk		Silver, Aye. Supervisor White?
dan white		No.
clerk		White, No. Madam President, I have ten ayes and one no. Dianne Feinstein BANGS HER GAVEL down hard.
dianne feinstein		The San Francisco Gay Rights Ordinance sponsored by Supervisors Milk and Silver is passed.
mayor moscone		I can't get my stories on page ten, you're getting page one?
harvey milk		Doggy-doo's a real problem, George. With a shit eating grin, Harvey offers up a powder blue pen.
mayor moscone		Good morning, everyone... I don't do this enough, taking swift and unambiguous action on a substantive move for civil rights. Moscone signs the law with the powder blue pen. Harvey leans over him. THE PRESS CAPTURES THE MOMENT.
harvey milk		What are you working on, Dan?
dan white		If you have something to discuss, you can have your aide make an appointment with my aide.
harvey milk		Listen, I know you're disappointed about the Psychiatric Center... What else do you have coming up?
dan white		Now you need something from me. You want my me to join in with the Queers on this Prop Six business?
harvey milk		We prefer the word "gay," Dan. Just as I'm sure you prefer the word, "Irish-American" to "Mick."
dan white		Harvey, our society can't exist without the family, without the church.
harvey milk		We're not against those things.
dan white		You're not? Can two men reproduce?
harvey milk		 No. But, we keep trying!
dan white		Okay. You introduce an initiative for Supervisor pay raises.
harvey milk		 It's a bad time politically. I have an election next year.
dan white		You asked for something. Introduce pay raises. I can't take care of my family on our salaries. You don't have that problem, do you? Dan's AIDE steps into the doorway. She seems surprised to see Harvey in Dan's office.
harvey milk		What's wrong, Taco Bell?
jack lira		Anne and Cleve tried to cut me out of your table. You should fire them.
harvey milk		I'll take it under consideration. Why don't you get us a drink? A kiss and Jack heads to the bar. Scott approaches.
scott smith		Don't let Cezar Chavez hear you calling him Taco Bell.
harvey milk		He's getting better. He's enrolling in classes on Monday. Scott wipes PIE CREAM from Harvey's jacket.
scott smith		I remember when your birthdays were a bit less... lavish. More intimate.
harvey milk		Who invited you? Anne?
scott smith		My boyfriend got an invitation. I was his "plus one."
harvey milk		Congratulations. It was a tough ticket to get.
scott smith		Congratulations to you. Looks like you're part of the Machine now.  You can do better.
harvey milk		When I come home to Jack, I don't have to talk politics or talk intelligently. Or even talk.
scott smith		You're not so old. You look handsome... Happy 48th. Looks like you're gonna make it to fifty after- all, Mr. Milk. Scott gives Harvey a BIRTHDAY KISS.
dan white		Sorry I missed the party, Harv...
harvey milk		No problem, Dan. Good to see you.
dan white		Dog poop?
harvey milk		Yeah.
dan white		It's good! It's a good one.
harvey milk		Thanks. But it's a real problem.
dan white		Oh, yeah. I mean, God knows how many problems it causes. All kinds of diseases, birth defects probably, I mean, stuff you can't even...  Hey, I got you a little something.
harvey milk		You didn't have to--
dan white		 You didn't have to--
harvey milk		Are you okay, Dan?
dan white		Oh, what? Yeah, sure. Harvey, I just... I just want to say... Happy Birthday. Dan PUTS HIS ARMS AROUND HARVEY for a sort-of macho but really weird birthday hug. Harvey stiffens, it's such a peculiar moment. Dan steps back, looks him over.
harvey milk		I doubt that.
dan white		No, I have. You gotta get out there. Get noticed. That's how it works. But, you have an issue. That's your advantage.
harvey milk		It's more than an issue, Dan.  Dan. I've had four relationships in my life. Three of those four tried to kill themselves. I know it was my fault they did it. I told them to stay quiet. To hide. Most of my life I've been closeted. That's what living this life is like for most of us. The way things are... This isn't just about our jobs, or any issue, it's our lives we're fighting for. Jack emerges from the bathroom, barely together and leans on Harvey. Dan steps back from Harvey and Jack, his moment alone stolen away.
dan white		I've learned a lot from you, Harvey. I'm going to get my picture in the papers, too. You'll see. I've got my own issue. That's right. Dan White's Got An Issue!
harvey milk		Come out! Just come on out! DRIVING THE CAR: Anne keeps a close eye on the parade watchers. Any one of them could be an assassin.
dan white		I see naked men walking around, naked women walking around, which doesn't bother me as far as my personal standards of nudity, but it's not proper. We wouldn't allow it for any other parade in San Francisco, and it should not be allowed for the gay parade.
anne kronenberg		It came in the mail today.
harvey milk		"You get the first bullet the minute you stand at the microphone."  Looks like the publicity's working.
anne kronenberg		You don't have to go up there.
harvey milk		It could happen any day, any night, any time...  The nation's eye is on us. I have to do this. JUMP TO: POV shots of cops and loners amongst the massive audience hint at Harvey's paranoia. Like diving off a cliff, Harvey launches up to the microphone. The deafening cheers surely would have drowned
cleve jones		The Mayor says Briggs is on his way here. He could intercept him for us. We could get him face to face. He couldn't ignore us anymore.
harvey milk		Get the press.
john briggs		The parade is the other direction.
driver		They're taking us another way, Sir.
john briggs		I have a right to be here, Mr. Mayor.
mayor moscone		I'm afraid it's not in the interest of your safety, or my public's safety to let you into that parade grounds. Finally face to face, Harvey extends his hand. Its a show for the FLASHING CAMERAS. Briggs is clearly uncomfortable.
harvey milk		Hi, I'm Harvey Milk. It's quite an honor to meet you, Mr. Briggs.
john briggs		I'm aware. Sad you're too afraid to fight this out in public, Mr. Milk.
harvey milk		No sir. I would love to have a public debate. I'm very interested in the details of your argument.
john briggs		You know the details. As do the people. Look at the votes across this nation. The "public" is with me.
harvey milk		Yes sir, today they are. But with my City's Mayor and the San Francisco press as my witnesses, I'm challenging you to a public debate. John nods, stiff. He can no longer avoid Harvey Milk. He gets back in his limo.
harvey milk		Senator, as a Christian it's interesting that you don't seem to understand what Christ was about. He was about accepting people and giving love, not carrying a Bible in one hand and hatred in the other...  ...Now all the gay myths have been shattered, all the fears, all the--
john briggs		Not in my mind they haven't--
harvey milk		That's it. In your mind they haven't, and I'm wondering why--
john briggs		Mr. Milk, we don't allow people who believe in practicing bestiality to teach our children, and the reason we don't is because it is illegal. But it's not illegal to be a homosexual in California.
harvey milk		And your law goes even further. Any school employee who even supports a gay person will be fired--
john briggs		True. But, gay people don't have children of their own. If they don't recruit our children, they'd all die away. That's why they want to be teachers, to encourage our children to join them.
john briggs		If they're going to lead such an open life of homosexuality that they want a 21-gun salute every time somebody goes by them, those people are going to be in danger of being removed their job.
harvey milk		We were really genuinely frightened by Proposition Six, and with the backlash gaining strength, we were very pessimistic. We didn't think there was any chance we could beat it. What we hoped to do was to organize to the point that when we did lose, there would be a revolt... That all hell would break lose.
dick pabich		People are coming out, though. We met with groups in Bakersfield, Redding, a dozen people showed up in a library basement in Fresno asking for our support if they came out. Last Sunday, the Reverend of St. Mary's came out to his entire congregation...
harvey milk		We're still losing, 60 to 30. We have to take the show on the road. Call Briggs's office. Do a press release. Tell them he can pick the town, the audience, and I'll ask our supporters not to attend.
dick pabich		Their audiences are insanely devout. We'll get killed.
harvey milk		Get me Orange County.
jack lira		You just have to go down to LA and guess the right things on TV and they'll pay us... You have to use your fame now while you have it. We could have nice things.
harvey milk		I don't have time to do game shows right now... This stops Jack cold.
jack lira		You are horrible! I have worked on this surprise for you for weeks!
harvey milk		Are you drunk right now?
jack lira		You are an ungrateful asshole!
harvey milk		Jack, I'll have more time soon.
jack lira		You're ashamed of me!
harvey milk		That's not true. I think you're smart. You're capable. No matter what your family or your father said. I believe in you... We should figure out something for you to do. I could get you a job.
jack lira		I'll never be good enough for you! Jack THROWS A PIECE OF POTTERY AT HARVEY. It misses, CRASHING THROUGH THE WINDOW onto the street below.
harvey milk		I'll get a broom. Harvey goes. Jack collapses into a chair.
harvey milk		If in your statements here you say that child molestation is not an issue, why do you put out literature that hammers it home, why do you play on that myth and fear?
john briggs		Same thing with VD Harvey, we put out publications about VD so you can avoid it.
harvey milk		 But you've even admitted that there's more molestation in the heterosexual group! So why not get rid of the heterosexual teachers? Boos from the conservative audience.
john briggs		We are not talking about homos... child molestation, the fact is, at least 95 percent of the people are heterosexual. If we took heterosexuals out AND homosexuals out, you know what--
harvey milk		--No child molestation... So you're saying the percentage of population is equal to the percentage of child molestation?
john briggs		 No, no, I'm not saying that at all--
harvey milk		That's what you just said.
john briggs		No. I'm saying that we cannot prevent child molestation so let's cut our odds down and take out the homosexual group and keep in the heterosexual group-- Harvey laughs in disbelief at the asinine argument. Briggs looks down to his notes, lost. Harvey takes the opportunity to rip into the State Senator:
harvey milk		 --Sir, in your own drive for personal power, how many careers are you willing to see destroyed? How many lives will you destroy in your lust for power, and when will you stop? The crowd boos, rails. This isn't San Francisco, it's Orange County. In the audience, Dick Pabich sweats, taken aback by the level of hatred. Harvey tries to maintain his composure.
dan white		All I'm really saying is, if we don't protect ourselves with this kind of legislation, a transvestite can show up at a public school with all the qualifications for teaching and they can't refuse to hire him.
harvey milk		Hey Jack, what's wrong?
jack lira		Nothing. I just want to know when you'll be home.
harvey milk		You just had them pull me out of my big vote on the dog shit ordinance. Did you do this on purpose, Jack?
jack lira		It's poop, Harvey. Aren't I more important than poop?
harvey milk		Yes, but... I don't know when I'll
jack lira		Fine. 6:15. Harvey hangs up. His patience is slipping. He looks up in time to see Dan heading down the hall with his briefcase.
harvey milk		Dan? How's the baby?
dan white		You didn't bring up Supervisor pay raises. In fact, I heard you plan to publicly oppose them.
harvey milk		I heard you planned to vote against them too, Dan. Were you trying to set me up?
dan white		(parrotting Harvey
harvey milk		Dan, there's a vote to approve the police desegregation settlement, give me that and I'll consider backing pay raises.
dan white		 I don't trade votes... unlike you, the way I was raised, we believe in right and wrong. Moral and immoral.
harvey milk		Black skin and White in your police department?  Dan, even Ronald Reagan's come out against Proposition Six. You're looking more and more out of touch.
dan white		If I come out against Prop Six, it's only for the invasion of State's rights issue.
harvey milk		 And the potential witch hunts against you "straight people," right? Dan tries hard to come up with a cogent response. He can't. His behavior is alarming. He sets down his briefcase.
dan white		You underestimate me, Milk. You're very, very wrong about me.
harvey milk		I don't know what you mean. A moment. Dan is on the verge of tears, hot angry tears.
dan white		You don't... You can't humiliate me. And you will not demean me.
passerby		You're the asshole that just passed that dog shit thing aren't you? What the hell do you have against dogs?
harvey milk		 Sir, blind people can't see "shit." What the heck do you have against blind people? The young folks surrounding the PASSERBY laugh and hoot at Harvey's joke. Even the harassing PASSERBY can't help but crack a grin. Harvey beams.
scott smith		Harvey. Look at me. Look at me. You did everything you could.
harvey		No, I didn't. Not everything...
scott smith		What else could you have done?
harvey		I could have come home at six o'clock, not six-fifteen. Scott puts his arm around Harvey. Harvey buries his head. Anne helps Cleve take down Jack's many hidden notes. Cleve quietly reads a prominently placed one:
cleve jones		"Beware. The ides. Of November."
harvey milk		Jack was gone. I didn't have time to mourn... There was no choice but to keep on... to keep fighting.
harvey milk		Thank you for this great honor. But do you think once the magazine is done snapping pictures, maybe I could keep the suit for a while?
harvey milk		 Would you like to trade with me?
girl		No. What the heck are you?
harvey milk		Oh, me? I'm an elected official. I run this city.
dick pabich		San Bernadino is coming in. Not good.
harvey milk		Of course not. How not good?
michael wong		60% for Briggs. Same in Fresno.
harvey milk		Dear God, little Lotus Blossom. Harvey is stunned. Other districts follow with similar results. They go up in red on the map.
jim rivaldo		Imperial is 69% "for" so far.
harvey milk		Put it up on the board. Harvey tries to stomach this major defeat, loss after loss. He starts reflexively tying his tie in a knot. Cleve comes up to Harvey, concerned.
cleve jones		I can have 15,000 people in an hour. But there's gonna be riots if this thing passes.
harvey milk		 There goddamn better be.
cleve jones		 What are you telling me?
harvey milk		I can't say it because I'm a public official, but for God's sake, if this thing passes, fight back. Cleve is stunned, holding the weight of Harvey's words. Harvey's focus is interrupted when Anne brings him the phone.
anne kronenberg		Don Amador down in LA.
harvey		 Kind of a bad time, Don.
harvey milk		Paul who?
harvey milk		 I thought you were a goner, Paul.
young teen		I'm sorry. I should have called. When I read in the paper that you won the Supervisor seat, I got a friend to put me on a bus to LA.
harvey milk		Who did you know in Los Angeles?
young teen		Nobody. That's the uh... I just didn't want to die anymore, sir.  I met your friend Don down here. I turned 18. I voted today against Prop Six... Thank you, Mr. Milk.
harvey milk		No. You did this all by yourself.
young teen		I don't think I'd be alive right now without you, sir. You were right about LA. It's like gay Disney World.
harvey milk		Then you have to see San Francisco!
young teen		Okay. I will. Don wanted me to um... congratulate you on what he says looks like a big win for us tonight. Congratulations Mr. Milk. Harvey turns back to the map. Jim Rivaldo is now coloring in LA county with green. On the other end of the phone, Harvey's friend in LA, Don Amador, is back on the line.
harvey milk		I gotta go, Don. Thank you.  LA by 65% put it up! Put it up! The tone in the room is changing. Jim storms up.
jim rivaldo		The polls were off. Briggs is going down by more than 2 to 1. The only district where it's leading in San Francisco is Dan White's. Harvey takes a moment to absorb the map. Anne, Dick & Jim, all the volunteers. What this apparent win means to him, to his people. To Cleve:
harvey milk		Well crap Cleve, now what are we going to do tonight?!  Cover up Lady Liberty. The cameras will be coming our way.
harvey milk		To the gay community all over this state... my message to you is... so far a lot of people joined us and rejected Proposition Six, and now we owe them something... We must destroy the myths once and for all, shatter them. We must continue to speak out... and most importantly, most importantly, every gay person must come out.
cleve jones		What's the matter?
harvey milk		You ever heard of sore losers? Well, I'm a sore winner... I thought we were goners.
cleve jones		I told you, I don't "do" losing.
harvey milk		I think maybe we're best with our backs to the wall. It's too quiet.  I think we should march on Washington D.C. next year.
cleve jones		Milk, you're a decent politician, a mediocre businessman, but you're a lousy gay man.  Nobody will want you after that... I can handle D.C.
harvey milk		 The people voted for us, Cleve Jones.
cleve jones		They did. There's nowhere to march tonight, Mr. Harvey Milk. Lets go back inside. Turning back, they savor the moment, like father and son walking to Castro Camera, growing ever smaller in the frame.
dan white		Could you give this to the Mayor for me? As soon as possible.
harvey milk		Morning, Dan.
dan white		I just resigned. Congratulations. I'm sure you're pleased. Harvey doesn't know what to say. Dan's right, it does make him happy. But it's not that simple.
harvey milk		I'm sure we could work together-- Dan walks away from Harvey. He doesn't want to hear anything Harvey has to say. Harvey watches as Dan is met in the hallway by an OFFICER from the POLICE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION.
officer		Hey, Dan. Just got word. Can we talk to you for a minute?
dan white		Sure... Dan heads for his office.
officer		Downstairs. The Association meeting room... Harvey watches as Dan follows the officer down the stairs to an ASSOCIATION MEETING ROOM on the next floor. When the DOOR OPENS, Harvey sees SEVERAL REPRESENTATIVES from the Police Department wearing somber expressions. It looks as if Dan is about to get REAMED OUT.
dan white		It was a major decision on Friday that I had to come... to arrive at. But since that time, people unknown to me, plus my family and friends, have come to me and stated that they want me to stay in office, that they support me... So I'm asking the Mayor to let me stay in office to serve the people...
harvey milk		He gets dragged into a closed door meeting with the Police Officers Association, and comes out demanding his job back? What do you think they promised him? Or worse, how did they threaten him?
mayor moscone		A man has the right to change his mind. Give me some peace.
harvey milk		How many of our propositions has Dan shut down? We could finally settle this police desegregation nonsense. Cement rent control. It's his vote on this Board that stands in our way.
mayor moscone		I get it, Harvey. I've been lobbied all week. Enough.
harvey milk		Let me just remind you that you're up for re-election. If you re- appoint Dan, you lose the gay vote. They listen to me. You won't get elected dog catcher.
mayor moscone		 You know what you sounded like just now? Boss Tweed or Mayor Daly.
harvey milk		 A "homosexual" with a bit of power... rather scary isn't it, Mr. Mayor? OFF Harvey. He's come a long way.
dan white		 Yes. This is Dan White.
dan white		I'm sorry. I don't know anything about that. Dan hangs up on her.
scott smith		Hello? REVEAL: Scott, half asleep.
harvey milk		Sorry to wake you up.
scott smith		What's wrong?
harvey milk		I went to the opera tonight. Guess who my date was.
scott smith		Who?
harvey milk		Bidu Sayao herself. She was in the first Puccini I ever saw. The crowd went wild. It was like I was young again, seeing my first live opera...
scott smith		If you go to the opera again, you should call me.
harvey milk		Really? Scott gets out of bed, considers his words. It's intimate.
scott smith		Yes. I'd go with you.
harvey milk		I'd like that. Harvey is quiet, a rare moment of reflection. An unexpected tear rolls down his cheek.
scott smith		Harvey?
harvey milk		Look out the window, the sun's coming up.
scott smith		It's late. You should get some sleep.
harvey milk		I don't want to miss it.
scott smith		Miss what?
harvey milk		This. Harvey's single word answer means, "Life." OFF Harvey: Neither wants to hang up the phone.
man		Hey, wait a minute, Mr.--
dan white		My aide was supposed to come down here and let me in the side door, but she never showed up.
man		And you are?
dan white		I'm Dan White. City Supervisor. We follow Dan down the hall and into the grand entry-way.
harvey milk		Who's it gonna be? Is he replacing Dan with that God Damned liberal lefty Don Horanzy? That'll really shake up the Board, huh?
dianne feinstein		All I know is that we're getting a new Supervisor today. If Dan shows up, just avoid him. We don't need a scene today, right Harvey?
harvey milk		 Heaven forbid, Dianne.
dan white		You can't take this away from me! Moscone has his back turned, pouring them cocktails.
mayor moscone		The issue is what's fair, for the people of your district. Take some time off. Spend it with your family.
dan white		Say, Harve, can I see you for a minute?
harvey milk		Sure. Dan walks Harvey down the hall to his old office.
harvey milk		Oh no... N-- Dan Fires again, silencing Harvey's cry for help.
harvey		--from Altoona, Pennsylvania, and the voice was quite young, and the person said... "Thanks." You've got to elect gay people so that that young child and the thousands upon thousand like him know there's hope... hope for a better world...
scott smith		 Where is everybody? Didn't anyone give a damn?
harvey milk		I ask this... If there should be an assassination, I would hope that five, ten, one hundred, a thousand would rise. I would like to see every gay lawyer, every gay architect come out--
harvey milk		You gotta give em' hope... you gotta give em' hope. Harvey closes his note pad, puts down his pencil, and pushes stop on his recorder.  160 EXT. CASTRO CAMERA - NIGHT  Push in on Castro Camera. The sign still in the window, "We're Very Open."  FADE TO BLACK.  161 END TITLES:  TITLE CARD: A JURY OF DAN WHITE'S PEERS FOUND HIM GUILTY OF  MANSLAUGHTER, THE MINIMUM CHARGE FOR BOTH MURDERS. THE  DEFENSE ARGUED DAN WHITE'S DIET OF JUNK FOOD CREATED A  CHEMICAL IMBALANCE THAT CAUSED THE KILLINGS.  TITLE CARD: THE VERDICT SET OFF "THE WHITE NIGHT RIOTS," THE  MOST VIOLENT UPRISING IN THE GAY MOVEMENT'S HISTORY.
****Dialogues from script :Miller_s_Crossing.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Mimic.txt****

susan		We'll see...
anchorman		Only after the numbers had reached into the thousands were officials able to identify the carrier of the deadly infection...
director		Cut to three.
anchorman		Blattida Germanica.  The common cockroach.
director		 Tell them we're ready for a live feed.
reporter 1		...an insect that has proven virtually immune to chemical control...
reporter 2		...the announcement by the Health Department that an end to the nightmare has finally...
reporter 3		...an ex-colleague of Doctor Susan Wyeth...
protester		...Susan has always been opposed to biological tampering. A real advocate for ecological causes, it's not...
peter		 ...in Nature, evolution is a long, leisurely conversation between an organism and its environment. We, however, did not have the luxury of time...
susan		With the aid of genetic labs throughout the country, we recombined cockroach DNA with genetic information from termites and mantids. We were able to create a biological counter-agent.  A new ally, if you will...
susan		Blattida Traditor.
susan		The Judas is a non-carrier of Stricklers, with a short life-span and heightened pheromone emission.
susan		The female is basically a sexual magnet; common males travelled miles and fought for the right to mate with them.
susan		When they did, they took away something else we added -- a hormone, passed through sexual congress that causes their metabolism to go into overdrive.  No matter what their food intake, they starved to death in a matter of hours.
peter		We've achieved almost total eradication of the roach population.  As of today, the disease has been officially contained.
peter		Fucking thing! I hope someone's taping this.  Sus?
peter		Life's a bitch. Our 15 minutes came and went and all we got was bad cable...
peter		Hiding from the hard glare of publicity?
peter		A shame.  You looked great tonight.
susan		Please.
peter		You did!
susan		Do you think we did the right thing?
peter		Taking a cab instead of hiring a limo?
susan		You know what I mean...
susan		We did no impact evaluation.  The consequences of...
peter		 Is this a Catholic guilt thing...?
peter		You hear that?  Flawless.
susan		We just don't know.
peter		We know we saved lives.
peter		There're gonna be a lot of kids running around next year because of you.
peter		Who know?  We get lucky, maybe a couple of 'em'll be ours.
susan		 We're down to a "couple" now, huh?
peter		Oh, I don't know. People are beginning to talk about us...
susan		Don't worry, I'll save your honor. Maybe I'll even marry you.
chinese preacher		No.  Please, God, no!
chuy		 Funny, funny shoes...
peter		Excuse me, ladies...
susan		...no, guys, these have to fit perfectly.  No spaces in between. Let me tell you why. Insects have no hands. All they have is this set of mandibles.
susan		See?  This little piggy will grab the prey.
susan		Then this little piggy will tear it in half...
susan		...and this little one will grind it to a pulp and push it in... all the way into the mouth.  These are precision tools here. Can you remember that?
susan		Good.  Then get it right.
peter		 "Baby in a bottle..."
susan		Don't tease.
peter		You know where they get this fertility stuff?  They extract it from the urine of menopausal Italian nuns.
susan		 Monks bottle their own wine. Don't they?
susan		Trust me. I've never been this late. Never.
susan		If nun's pee is what it takes...
susan		You were the one who ran around with ice in his underwear, don't forget that.
peter		Don't get kinky here...
peter		Okay, meet me out front.  I gotta go. Josh's picking me up in five. see you tonight.
susan		I'll be late.
susan		Siri, sandblast that thing. It looks like Trump Tower.  Those mounds are supposed to be made of dirt and excretions...
siri		 Just like Trump Tower, then.
josh		...So I say "buddy, you have every violation in the book.  Gimme one good reason not to close you down." You know what the Kraut says to me?
josh		The blintzes!  "Try the blintzes..."
peter		 Selling your sould for a fistful of carbohydrates...
josh		Not just any carbohydrates, mind you. It was like being on the receiving end of some kind of transcendent oral sex.  We should get a strobe on this thing. Maybe even a siren.
peter		Yeah, and a loudspeaker so you can yell "Epidemic! Epidemic! You're all going to die!"
josh		Health Department...
peter		You really love flashing that thing, don't you?
josh		Hey. I'm a short guy. Waddaya want?
peter		Peter Tyler, DOH. You gentlemen were the first on the scene?
woychek		 We were both on patrol, saw this paint mess. Then I looked through that cellar window. We both did...
peter		You gone in?
woychek		No. We waited.
peter		Good.
peter		 Get the EMT's in there, now.
manny		C'mon Chuy, we're gonna be late.  Cops are bad news. Don't look at them.
peter		Jesus.
woychek		 They look real sick, don't they?
susan		...as long as they're ready for the opening I don't care, just tell them that.
siri		I'm on it.  Don't worry.  Look, Susan...I don't mean to pry, but... I kinda overheard you and Peter.
susan		 Watch your step, Siri.  Your grant could be on the line here.
siri		I just...well, I had this cousin in Delhi.  She was having problems, too. She, ah...
susan		What?
siri		She used a baster.
siri		Not a big one.  I mean, it was like a turkey baster.
susan		Oh, Jesus.
susan		Come on, darlin'...
siri		 She kept it under her bed. Thing is, it kinda worked.  I mean, she had to hide it from her husband, but...
susan		What's this?
siri		Oh, right... They been here since noon. I told them you're real busy.
susan		Hello.
ricky		You the bug lady, right?
susan		 I suppose so.
ricky		We're here to deal.
susan		Metaxonycha Godmani, Trigonopelastes Delta.  Field Butterflies.  Have you been upstate?
davis		Avenue B.
susan		 I guess they got lost in this city.
ricky		So, you wanna buy em?
davis		There's extra wings in the bag.
susan		You guys have done a nice job.  How bout five dollars?
ricky		 That's it?
davis		 Show her the weirdbug.
ricky		Cost a dollar just to look.
davis		It's a great bug.  We kinda broke it a little...
susan		Fellas, I'll tell you what...ten dollars for everything.  Plus a killing jar, some tweezers and mounts so the next bunch you catch will be in better shape.
davis		Deal!
ricky		You crazy! That's the best!!
davis		Bug's almost dead anyway.
davis		Thanks, lady.
siri		Ten dollars?
susan		Alphabet City kids- there's much worse things they could be selling.
siri		I hate this fucking window...
peter		 There's plenty of systemic infection already, so as soon as we get a preliminary reading, start them on anti-biotics. You saw this?
peter		Internal hemorrage. 2 our of 5 have it.  No definite signs of TB, but we'll quarantine them a week just to make sure.
josh		Immigration's gonna love you for that.
peter		Tell them to send flowers to the usual address.
josh		Two shifts, people rotating from bed to work.  One toilet. We're in Wal-Mart hell, here.
peter		Did they get the sleazebag who owns this place?
josh		Triad, Chinese Mafia. They bring people from Yunan. Slave labor...  Reverend Harry Wong, a preacher had the flophouse fronting for them. No sign of him.
peter		Tell her she's going to be alright. We'll take care of her.
yang		She's delirious.  Keeps saying the "Dark Angels" are coming for her. She says they took some of her people away.
peter		Dark Angels?
yang		 Probably a gang.  Chinese people, man. They come up with some wacky stuff.
susan		Siri?  Siri?!
siri		...the fuck?
susan		 Can you...?
susan		 Could you...help me...?
susan		I'm gonna pull it out and I want you to pin it down, okay?
siri		What is it?
susan		I have no idea.  Are you ready?
siri		Oh my God...
siri		Shit!! Get it!  Get it!
susan		 It bit you.
siri		No shit.
susan		This wing configuration. I've never...
siri		 Fuck! It broke the skin...
susan		And they're not fully developed.  This thing's not even an adult.
susan		My God.
siri		What?
siri		That's impossible.  Insects don't...
susan		I know.  Help me get a sample.
susan		Hold on, big guy, hold on...
susan		Hold on a second...
siri		What?
susan		Call security.
manny		Not too little, not too much. You rub it in, around and around like this. Let the leather take it.
manny		You watching? You should learn to work the shoes. You're good with your hands...
manny		Chuy...you gonna get all wet.
manny		Did you look at the story book I got you?
manny		Our Animal Friends.  Can you say that, Chico?  "Friends"?
manny		In this city. A friend is a hard thing to find...
chuy		Funny Shoes...
chuy		Alli.  Mr. Funny Shoes.
manny		No one is there. Is empty.
manny		Chuy, listen to me.  They have Jesus on the cross, but that is not a holy place. You understand?
manny		Ah, Nino.  God only knows what goes on in your head, eh?
chuy		Mr. Funny Shoes...
peter		Josh, what was Immigration's countdown?
josh		Thirty-three workers.
peter		There are thirty five listed in the reverend Wong's roster...
josh		Shit.
peter		Remember what that woman said, about people being taken? Check with the copsin the area.
peter		Sus?
peter		 Susan?
peter		 Thought it was my week for that.
susan		 I needed to think. It was either this or the weather channel.
susan		This thing was the size of my fist, Peter!! That's off the charts!
peter		Okay. So you lost a great specimen-
susan		Don't you get it? It's more than that.
susan		You know why insects don't grow larger? Because they don't have a complex respiratory system. What I saw did. It had lungs.
susan		Evolution doesn't work that fast. Something pushed that thing to take the leap. We need to find another specimen.
peter		We?
susan		I did a PH test on its tarsal pads.
susan		There's only two species who match the enzymes I found.  One's a leaf-cutter ant in the Amazon...
susan		The other we released here two years ago.
armenian driver		Avenue B... again! Maybe you got wrong letter, uh?
susan		Keep going. We'll tell you when to stop...
peter		Maybe they lied to you.
susan		Even if they did... that's all we have, isn't it?
armenian		No... Oh, shit. Get away, you Turk!
susan		Pull over!
armenian driver		What...?
susan		Metaxonycha Godmani.
peter		So?
susan		We're here to deal.
peter		Here, let me...
susan		You sure you didn't see one of these?
ricky		Gross. What is it?
susan		An "Ootheca". An eggcase. It probably had more, uh "weirdbugs" inside.
ricky		 No way. I see one of those, I'd puke.
davis		It was in that corner over there.
ricky		Sucker was fast, man.  Had to take it out with one a these.
peter		Okay, guys.  We'll take it from here.
ricky		Make it ten an' we won't tell the cops you're here.
peter		Let's keep it at five and I won't condemn your clubhouse.
peter		 Look, a broken tooth...
susan		There's something under here.
peter		Shit.
susan		Let me try.  My hands are smaller.
peter		Honey, just leave it.
susan		No, there's...
leonard		 Now don't tell me.
peter		Look, I showed you my badge...
leonard		Yeah, and you gonna have to show me a lot bigger one you wanna go down there. That's the old maintenance grid, Doc. Swiss cheese: tunnels, tracks...
peter		The Department of Public Health...
leonard		...should know better'n to go sneakin' around my turf...
peter		Fine.  You want me to call your supervisor?
leonard		Please do.  He's a lonely guy.
ernest		Your shoes.
susan		 That's wonderful!  What grade are you in?
ernest		No school. Shoes're all Chuy knows about.
manny		 He's special.
leonard		He can imitate anything, you just watch him.
peter		 Excuse me, I'm talking to you.
leonard		No, you talkin' at me.
ernest		 Is there some reward for this?
susan		I guess that could be arranged.
peter		For Chrissakes.  You gonna lay a two- bit bureaucratic, territorial number on me?
leonard		You wanna keep up the conversation, you best come back with the proper permits and the right attitude.
peter		You give someone a fucking uniform and... Did you hear how he talked to us?
susan		I heard how you talked to him.
peter		Oh, so I'm the bad guy now?
susan		He was just doing his job.
peter		Fine, then I'm the bad guy. Jesus!
peter		He wants a permit, I'll get him a permit.
ernest		Chrissakes...
ernest		Guys, c'mon.
ernest		I told you to stick by the maintenance area.
bag lady		Nah... It's private property now.
skeletal bum		He eats down there.
ernest		Who?
homeless man		The Stickman.
bag lady		Long John.
ernest		Graffiti artist, uh?  Look guys, just get off my beat, you hear?  Get moving.
ernest		Hey, buddy!
ernest		Get off my track...
ernest		Sweet Jesus...
peter		Heya.  Where's the boss?
siri		Ant mound.
peter		You okay?
siri		It's just a headache.  We were sandblasting Trump Tower here since four this morning.
peter		Maybe you should sit...
siri		I'm fine. Go talk to Susan.  She could use a good word right now.
peter		Great crowd.
susan		No such thing, baby.
susan		I get the feeling they came more for the potroast than the apterids.
peter		Fuck 'em.  They don't know what they're missing.
susan		 Right.
peter		What's wrong?
susan		Oh...nothing that a little menopausal's pee daikiri couldn't cure. Least that's what I thought.
peter		 Oh, no, you were-
susan		I was just late.
susan		Ironic, don't you think?  These guys can hatch hundreds of offspring in a single clutch of eggs, right? And here we are...
peter		Susan, we're not b-
siri		 I'm sorry.  I think...I need...
susan		Siri...
susan		Siri!
peter		...I think it's some kind of systemic infection, Chris.  I saw a few cases like it yesterday. A sweatshop in Canal.
raymond		 Okay, look.  You better come in with me.  Help me through.
raymond		 All hands on deck, Pete. Remember the dril?
peter		It'll come back to me.
peter		Looks like a Lyme disease rash.
raymond		It's not consistent with the internal bleeding. Any idea what bit her?
raymond		I think we're gonna need to have that specimen here.
chuy		Mr. Funny Shoes.
susan		...you don't even know what you're looking for.
peter		You said that thing was big as your hand.  I don't think I'm going to miss...
susan		Why take the chance?  Just let me go down there with you...
peter		No.
peter		Susan, listen to me:  you handled that insect almost as much as Siri...
susan		It didn't bite me.
peter		I know.  But if it was carrying something...there's a chance you could have been exposed.
peter		Chris is going to run some blood tests on you.  I want you to stay here till he's absolutely sure you're clean.  Okay? Then you'll call me... You'll catch up with us...
peter		We'll be all right, Sus.  I promise.
manny		My father saw me stay in bed, he'd go get a pitcher. Cold water, whoosh, I tell you that's some alarm clock, brrrrr!
manny		Ah! There you go! The way you like 'em, Chu-chu...  We're low on milk, you remind Grampa to pick some up tonight, okay?
workman		Hold up!  We gotta block on filter D.
workman		Oh, God...
control booth		VOICE What's the problem?
workman		I think it's a baby!
raymond		How you feeling?
susan		You tell me.
raymond		Your blood tests were all negative. You checked out.
susan		What about Siri?
raymond		She's stable.  I don't think there's any immediate danger, but we'll have to keep her under observation...
susan		You think it's some form of Strickler's, don't you?
raymond		Pathology's still working on the tissue samples.  If it is...it must be an errant strain.  Shorter incubation period.  I'm sorry, Sue.  We just don't know yet.
jeremy		Take it out back and throw it in the friggin' dumpster!
emt		Not unless somebody signs for it.
susan		Oh, my God.
jeremy		Hey, you can't...
susan		What's your name?
jeremy		Jeremy...
susan		Okay, Jeremy...go get Dr. Chris Raymond, will you?
jeremy		Lady...
susan		Did you hear me?  Get Dr. Raymond! NOW!!
jeremy		Okay.
susan		 Where'd you find it?
emt		Washed up at the filtration plant on Bank street. Some asshole there thought it was a baby. They called us.
emt		It's a lobster, right?
leonard		Better hurry it up, Doc. My shift's almost over.
peter		Guess someone requested you for overtime...buddy.
susan		Posterior sternites are gone...half the protonum rotted off.
raymond		Maggots...
susan		Near hatching.  Thing must've died about three weeks ago.
susan		Do you have a polaroid?
leonard		You all watch your step.  We got some burrows goin' down seven stories here.  You fall, I don't wanna have to come pick you up.
josh		 New York's finest.
josh		There's really people living down here?
leonard		Mole people. This section was pretty popular, all the way to Fulton Street...
leonard		Substance abusers, mental cases... Then about a year ago, Poof! All gone. Rumors got started... Someone found a couple of stiffs...
leonard		Down here's the land of talk, see? So the wildest version goes the farthest. They mark that area with a sign or a drawing, and its as good as closed.  We had one fella... for years said he was Bela Lugosi. Got him on Geraldo.
susan		It's me. Can you hear me?
peter		 Yeah, barely. We haven't found anything down here. Nothing...
susan		I have.
susan		I'm on my way. I've got something for you to look at...
peter		We'll be back at the platform in...
leonard		20 minutes. If you don't go sight-seeing anymore.
peter		 Susan?
leonard		Funny.  Shoulda seen some track bunnies by now.
josh		What?
leonard		Track bunnies.  Rats.  They're usually around.
manny		No, no, please understand... I can't wait that long.
manny		Please. I write it down.  2... 8... 7... 3. What does this mean "case number"? Okay. So, now what?  When can you...?
manny		No, I can't wait...no, listen...
manny		Hijos de puta.
manny		Mr. Funny Shoes.
josh		 Smells like acid.
peter		Ammonia.
josh		Peter...
peter		Yeah...?
josh		There's some weird shit here.
peter		Weird shit...?
josh		Take a look.
josh		Fecal matter, unknown origin: weird shit.  Whatever it is, it's not human.
leonard		And it needs some metamucil.
manny		Chuy...
manny		Chuy...
repairman		Hey, Lady, all power will be down in five minutes, okay?
susan		Okay....
susan		Peter?
leonard		I've never been this deep. This area here is the Old Armory station. They built it in the 40's. Ran out of money half-way through...
leonard		Okay, the fat lady's singing. Time to go.
peter		Don't!!
leonard		Did you see the size of that thing?!
peter		Look what you did! You stupid sonofa-
josh		Peter!
peter		It's okay.  I'm all right.
leonard		Get the hell away from me!
peter		 He's all right, too.
leonard		Oh, that's gonna work.
peter		You got a better way up?
leonard		 Show that to the station manager.  Tell him Leonard's gonna have his bubble-butt he don't have someone down here in ten.
josh		H-how do I get...?
leonard		Way we came.  Take the first tunnel to your right...
josh		I think so. One right, two lefts...
leonard		And a right.
josh		Right.
peter		Go Josh. Now.
susan		HELP!!!
josh		Oh shit, oh shit, oh shit!
peter		Any luck?
leonard		Well...there's an old service elevator half a mile down the tracks.  Ain't gonna be much use, though.  Lines are dead.
peter		You said those cables're still live. Can't we rewire...?
leonard		Oh, man, there you go again.
peter		What?
leonard		Those things bring juice to the new stations.  You just can't rewire that shit...
peter		For Chrissakes, what's the problem? You need a memo every time you fart?
leonard		All right, motherfucker, that's it.
peter		Shh! Shh!
leonard		 Manny?!
leonard		My God, what the hell are you...?
manny		Hurry, the woman needs help!
peter		Woman?
susan		 Don't.
peter		Listen to me:  we're getting you out.
peter		 Give me your belts.
leonard		 What are you doing down here?
manny		Chuy. He was taken. He's down here somewhere...  Oh, please, hurry. I saw what was after her.
peter		What's...?
manny		Just hurry.
peter		I'm coming, Sus, I'm coming.
susan		No, Jesus, no.
peter		 Toss the flare down!
leonard		I only got...
peter		Just do it!
peter		Oh, Jesus...
leonard		What the fuck is that?! What the fuck is that?!
susan		 Peter...
peter		Wrap it around your hand!
peter		Come on!
peter		Get on my shoulders!
peter		Let's go!
peter		Oh, shit...
manny		There!
leonard		Get the goddam door!
peter		Push it! Push it! Don't let up!
leonard		What the fuck was that?
leonard		You better tell me what the hell's going on here!
manny		Hey, hey!! Take it easy!!
peter		 We don't know!! We don't know what it is!
peter		Wait a minute-
leonard		Fuck you, wait a minute. I'm going to-
leonard		GET IT!  GET IT OFF ME!
peter		Its muscles are locked.
leonard		 Oh, Jesus!!
manny		Wait...
leonard		Oh, Jesus! It's hitting the bone man, get it off!!
peter		 Hey hey hey...
manny		Is how we make loose the ticks back home.
peter		Just keep holding it.  Can you do that for me?  Susan?
peter		You feel anything?
leonard		Yeah, I feel like ripping your fucking eyes out...
peter		Leonard, listen.  I need to see if there's any nerve damage before we carry you back.  Look, I'm trying to help you here...
leonard		Oh, you helped me here, all right, white boy.  You and your goddam memo. You needed to prove your point, uh?
peter		I'm sorry.  But I don't think letting you bleed to death is the best apology.
manny		Where the hell'd that thing come from?
peter		 A mistake.
leonard		"Mistake"?  What's that supposed to...?
peter		It doesn't matter, all right?  It's dead.
leonard		How you know that?  Shit, it was runnin' around with its buttside gone and a fucking pipe through its heart...
susan		 It doesn't have a heart.
susan		Just inner chambers...
manny		But it look like a man. It... I saw it.
susan		No...
susan		That's what it wanted you to see.
peter		So, you're saying this is like those bugs that -- that look like twigs or leaves or...
susan		 That's camouflage...
susan		This is mimicry. They evolve to mimic their predators. A butterfly can look like the eyes of an owl.  A catterpillar can copy a snake...
susan		This has evolved to mimic the most dangerous predator it's ever had...
susan		Us.
susan		Mantids can mimic. We gave the Judas that code...
manny		 "...and behold he will come that walks as a man, yet is not a man- ..."
susan		This, is our baby Peter. Yours and mine. Aren't you proud?
susan		All these...they're like tunnels of an insect colony. Once these things hit a certain population density, they'll have to move out, form new colonies.
susan		We have to get help down here.  Burn the tunnels before...
leonard		Get the doors!
peter		Is there a switch?
leonard		Third rail is dead.  Get me up.  There must be a manual override in the booth.
susan		 The lights!
leonard		 Where's the damn crank?!
peter		 They're coming!
susan		I got it!
susan		Hurry! Please!
leonard		Come on, you son-of-a...
susan		Oh, God.  The blood...
susan		His blood! It's driving them crazy! We have to mask the odor!
peter		How?!
peter		It's no use! They know we're in here!
susan		They don't know anything Peter, they just sense. They're hardwired!
peter		Right. Hardwired to eat anything that's not like them!
susan		Exac...
susan		 Give me your razor.
peter		What are you doing?
leonard		 Shit!
susan		Rub it on the windows!
peter		What-
susan		Just do it!!
leonard		What are you putting that crap on me for?
susan		Scent glands.  Insects use 'em to identify themselves to each other.
leonard		This track we're on? Goes down into the repair area.  The elevator's over here. Leads up to the active tunnels.
peter		Can we get this car there?
leonard		Someone'd have to go to the switchroom, pull the coupling lever, that'll send us left and to the elevator.
susan		But the power...
leonard		Hell, I might be able to juice the whole area, if I can get to the power box. It's just a couple of cables...
manny		Oh, how you gonna get there, Leonard? Hop?
peter		 Just talk me through it. I can go with Manny.
leonard		It would take a minute or so.  You won't last that long out there.
susan		Peter, you couldn't even fix our TV!
peter		We'll cover ourselves with this. They can mimic us-  we Goddam mimic them!
susan		Peter-
peter		It worked before...
susan		 The scent won't last...
peter		That's why we should do it now.
leonard		It's just a regular old pump switch, okay? Right by the track signal board.
leonard		The lights come up, you pull the switch.
manny		I pull.
leonard		You don't do that, we're on the wrong track.  You...
leonard		You gonna finally get to fuck around with the wires.  Think you can handle it?
peter		Depends.  You got a memo?
leonard		All right then.  You gonna find two wires.  One's green.  The other's blue...
manny		He's out there. I heard him. How can he be? This things...
susan		Manny...
manny		I didn't protect him, lady. He trusted me. And I didn't protect him... His father...I lost his father to the streets and now, Chuy...
susan		We'll find him. We'll be back and find him.
susan		You're going to have to keep it really slow.  Their eyes react to sudden movements.
susan		Don't touch it.  And for Godsakes, try not to sweat.  They can sense chemical changes...
peter		Try not to sweat?
leonard		Okay, people...
leonard		Whatever you do, don't step on the third rail coming back. Six hundred volts'll blow your leg right off.
peter		I was just thinking how I could use a pair of pliers... and I remembered where they are...
susan		 That's it. That's it. Breathe easy.
peter		In the tool box under the kitchen counter...
susan		Open it.
susan		Choke on it, motherfuckers.
peter		 Green...Blue...
manny		Chuy...?
manny		 Nino...
manny		Chuy...
peter		Dammit!
susan		 The scent's fading...
leonard		 What's Manny doing? I can't see him anymore.
manny		Nino, please...
manny		Dios mio...
manny		 Chuy...
chuy		 Friends.
manny		NO, NO, CHUY, NO...
chuy		Friends.
manny		God has closed his eyes. This, he cannot see...
susan		Over here! Over here! Goddam you!!
susan		 THE DOOR! OPEN THE FUCKING DOOR!
peter		Manny...
susan		Peter!!
peter		Come on, kid...
peter		 Jesus!
susan		Run!! Peter!!
susan		 GO!!
leonard		The kid...
peter		The kid's with them!!
leonard		What do you-?
peter		Go!! Just go!!
leonard		He didn't do it!
susan		What?
leonard		Manny never threw the coupling switch!! We're goin' the wrong way!!!
susan		MOVE BACK!!!
susan		You all right?
leonard		 Can't feel it.
susan		Which way?
leonard		Across both tracks!!
peter		Shit.
leonard		 Lemme go.
susan		We're no leaving you!
leonard		No way we can outrun 'em together. Move it!
leonard		NOW!! GO!! Get the hell off my beat!
leonard		Come on.  Come to poppa.
susan		There.
leonard		Come here, you mealy-mouthed...
leonard		Multi-legged...
leonard		Maggot-munchin' motherfu...
susan		I can't tell if it's working!
susan		Oh, come on, come on!
peter		Jump in.
peter		You go first. I'll be right below you.
susan		Your arm, you can't...
peter		I can.  We can do this...
susan		We're gonna make it!
peter		Don't hold your breath!  Keep it going, even flow!
peter		C'mon...
susan		Ah...
peter		Talk to me.
susan		Peter...
susuan		I'm really glad I'm not pregnant.
peter		Hang onto me.
peter		Hang on tight!
peter		Come on!
susan		Don't look back!
susan		No...
peter		We can do it!
little girl		Mommy, there's people...
peter		 We-can-do-this!!!
peter		It'll be fine... it... They're still down there. We'll seal the whole system, go in with whatever it takes...
peter		It'll be fine... We nailed them before, we'll do it again...
susan		 They've come up...
train announcer		The 11:16 local to Poughkeepsie, boarding now, Track 32- the 7:20 Connecticut local, making connections to South Norwalk-
****Dialogues from script :Mini_s_First_Time.txt****

3.		CONTINUED:
mini		Yo, bee-ach!
kayla		Yo, birthday bee-ach!
mini		Is it on?
kayla		Oh, it's on!
mini		That's my girl!
4.		CONTINUED:
diane		What the hell are you doing? I said wait until-  She's not even here, you morons!
caterer		But, but her friend said--
mini		SURPRISE!
kayla		 Oh, God, it's Troy.
mini		Just keep walking and don't look at him. T ROY, a cocky, chiseled, all-around nightmare, sticks his tongue in his cheek, simulating a blow job.
troy		Yo, Kayla, I got some more of what you were looking for Saturday night.
troy		Yo, Mini, why don't you use that mouth for something useful and suck my dick?
mini		Actually, now that you mention it, I can't think of anything I'd rather do than suck your dick.
7.		CONTINUED:
troy		Well, it's all for you, babe.
mini		Really?
troy		 If you can fit it all in.
mini		 I'm going to suck your dick, Troy, you said I could.
troy		Yo, this ain't funny!
mini		No, Troy, I want to suck your dick right now!
troy		Jesus, Mini, come on, get off!
mini		 No, Troy! You said I could, now come on!
8.		CONTINUED: 
mini		Let's see it! Come on, I want to suck your throbbing member right now!
mini		WHAT?!
diane		When I call you, I expect you to answer.
mini		 Sorry.
diane		Don't patronize me.
mini		 Sorry!
diane		If you're trying to get me to call you a spoiled little ungrateful bitch, you're out of luck, because I won't give you the satisfaction.
9.		CONTINUED:
mini		Thanks, mommy.
diane		I'm going out and I need you to wait for the delivery from the liquor store. They'll be here by nine.
mini		Fine.
diane		Just thought you should know, that makes your thighs look fat.
mini		 Gosh, you're right, mom, I'm such a cow.
mini		Have fun, don't do anything I wouldn't.
diane		 Well, that doesn't leave much.
mini		 Cunt.
jimmy		 Hey, Mini, how you doin'?
mini		You're late.
12.		CONTINUED:
diane		Jesus Chr--Mini, why aren't you in bed?
diane		Don't worry, Larry, she's going to bed, right now. Aren't you? I NT. MINI'S TINY BEDROOM - NIGHT
mini		Oh, I will...Like some coffee for the road?
diane		Do you want to live in this shit hole your whole life?
diane		Then stay in your fucking room until they leave. Got it?
mini		 You're home early.
martin		Yeah...uh...  A dinner with a client got canceled.
mini		Tough day?
martin		About the same...
mini		Protecting all those poor defenseless oil companies from those big bad environmentalists? M ARTIN Someone's got to make the payments on your Beemer.
16.		CONTINUED:
martin		Is your mother around?
mini		No, she went to a party off Beachwood. She was in one of her "happy moods", so I doubt she'll be sleeping here...
martin		Oh.
mini		 If you were thinking of inviting a guest over.
martin		 I wasn't, but thanks for the concern...You're going out on a school night?
mini		Yeah?
martin		Mmm...Is your homework done?
mini		Haven't even cracked a book.
martin		 Mmm...
18.		CONTINUED:
diane		 Oh...wha- what are you doing here? M ini stops and looks at her mother, absorbing her insightful question. Mini sighs and heads for the bedroom.
diane		Did you have fun, dear?
mini		Yeah, I turned two tricks and went down on a dyke cop.
20.		CONTINUED:
diane		Thass nice...
21.		CONTINUED:
22.		CONTINUED:
martin		Hello?
mini		Uh...hi,  Sorry, I'm Mlate.
artin		Don't worry about it.
mini		Mind if I freshen up?
martin		Sure.
23.		CONTINUED:
mini		 Just peachy. Listen, Sugar, would you mind turning the lights off, I'm kinda new to all this and a little shy.
mini		Sure can, in two shakes of a lamb's tail.
24.		CONTINUED:
martin		The deluxe.
mini		Oh, so you want complete access?
martin		 Y...yes.
mini		You do know that's extra?
mini		Just so we're clear...Now, close your eyes.
mini		Come on.
mini		Now just keep them shut for a while.
martin		I...  that was...you were really good.
mini		 Thanks, Sugar.
martin		I'd like to see you again, but...uh...I never got your name?
mini		Ginger.
martin		Ginger, I won't forget.
26.		CONTINUED:
martin		...Jacket.
mini		 You were great.
mini		Uh, that fall probably won't kill you, and considering what a caring nurturer your wife is, I don't think that's a risk you can afford to take.
27.		CONTINUED: 
martin		Morning, Kiddo, you finish those math problems?
28.		CONTINUED:
martin		I'd be happy to help you with it, if you need.
mini		Actually, I'm thinking about starting a 401K plan at work, could you help me pick a good mutual fund?
mini		 Yeah?
30.		CONTINUED:
mini		God, I've told you a thousand times to knock.
diane		Have you seen Martin? I think he was in his study a half hour ago.
mini		Uh...can't say that I have.
diane		Well, I assume he's gone out, so I've invited Ricardo over for a...cocktail. You know how children make him uneasy, so I'd appreciate if you and...  ...your friend could either stay in here or use the back door when he arrives.
mini		Oh...sure, no problem.
mini		Okay, she's gone.
32.		CONTINUED:
martin		So...
mini		So.
martin		I don't want to have to sneak around in my own house.
mini		Well, I don't think telling her is such a hot idea.
33.		CONTINUED:
martin		I mean, I don't want to live under the same roof with her.
mini		You can't leave, she'll get half.
mini		Can I ask how the hell you married her without a pre-nup? Her?
martin		 She wasn't as bad an actress as you think.
mini		Well, there is another option.
martin		There is?
mini		But it will take some planning... and some resolve.
martin		Wait, you don't mean-
mini		Kill her?
mini		No, of course not, she is my mother.
martin		Good...
34.		CONTINUED:
mini		But I've been thinking, if she suddenly got ill-
martin		Ill?
mini		Unstable, unpredictable, irrational...dangerous to the safety of her husband...her child...She would have to be sent someplace where they could give her the care she needs.
mini		The only truly caring action we could take.
martin		As painful as it would be for me to be without my loving wife.
mini		You did it for the well being of your daughter. The selfless act of a devoted parent.
martin		Of course, we'll have to make sure her episodes are well documented.
mini		And corroborated by friends and people outside the family.
martin		A public complaint by a neighbor wouldn't hurt.
35.		CONTINUED: 
mini		No, that would be useful.
martin		And we'll find her a very comfortable place out in the country.
mini		With lots of fresh air.
martin		It will be a much better life for her.
mini		Much.
36.		CONTINUED:
diane		Goddamn it! Goddamn it! Goddamn it!
diane		Fucking shit! Where are they?
diane		I'm gonna be late! It took me three weeks to get an appointment with Anton...
diane		...and now I'm gonna miss it because I can't find my fucking car keys?!
diane		I could use a little help in here!
37.		CONTINUED: 
martin		Coming, honey.
martin		Diane, sugar, do you remember where you put them when you came home last night?
diane		Yeah, in the fucking bowl by the fucking door where I always fucking put them!
mini		Well, uh, you were kinda out of it last night.
diane		No, I wasn't! I had one drink with Marie, one!
martin		Uh, are you sure? You did seem a bit tipsy.
diane		Yes, I'm sure, you dickless wonder. D iane starts rummaging through the drawers of a desk near the front door.
mini		 Now don't you listen to her, you are not a dickless wonder.
diane		Mini, I'm taking your car. Martin, take her to school.
38.		CONTINUED:
martin		Diane, I have a meeting with Chapman, he's our biggest client--
diane		 Tell him it's an emergency.
mini		 Hello, Anton? It's Diane Tannen, I know it's late notice, but I'm going to have to cancel our appointment. What? No, of course, I realize I'll still have to pay...yes, something came up.
diane		Anton? But...Jeanette?
jeanette		Uh...hi, Diane?
anton		 But, Mrs. Tannen, you call and cancel zee session thirty meenutes ago?       D IANE What? No, I didn't!
39.		CONTINUED:
anton		Yes, I spoke to you myself, you say sometheeng come up.
diane		Jeanette, you knew I had an appointment today, did you pretend-
jeanette		 No, I, I ...Anton called me and told me he had a cancellation.
anton		Yes, I call her after you call me.
diane		Why, you sneaky little bitch!
mini		Do you think she'll press charges?
diane		Are you kidding? She should get twenty to life! When I told Margo and Penny about her little stunt, they both said they'd have ripped her eyes out. She'll be lucky if anyone speaks to her again.
40.		CONTINUED:
martin		Here comes the choo-choo.
diane		For god's sake, I didn't break both hands.
mini		Jeez, I still can't believe you broke your hand on her face? It's so Linda Hamilton.
diane		 I hope she enjoys shitting out the teeth she swallowed.
carlos		R osa Angelica, this is Carlos.
carlos		Ah, s, Senora Tannen, como esta?
carlos		 Okay.
41.		CONTINUED:
mini		Gosh, look at all the pretty flowers.
carlos		Your mother said you are having a big party!
mini		 I know, can you believe all this?
diane		Carlos, what the hell is going on?
carlos		Senora Tannen, the delivery you ordered yesterday for the party?
diane		Ordered, I didn't order anything?! Who told you to bring these here?
carlos		 But, but, Senora, you did, you called me, I talked to you.
diane		No, you didn't!
carlos		S, you said you were having a party, don't you remember? 
42.		CONTINUED:  You were very excited, saying you were going to have the most wonderful party and invite everyone you knew and it had to be just perfect. Perfect, that's what you said.     M INI Mom, is that what you were talking about yesterday?
diane		What?!
mini		Well, it was after lunch and you had washed your pain killers down with some wine. You mumbled something about a party before you took a nap.
diane		No, I did not!
mini		 Mom, you did. The doctor said no more mixing pain killers and alcohol.
diane		But, but...I only slept for--
mini		 I am so sorry. Listen, we'll pay, don't worry.
diane		Oh, god.
43.		CONTINUED: 
martin		What is going on?! Carlos, what the fuck are all these flowers doing here?!
carlos		Seor Tannen, we--
diane		Uh, Martin, I, I...
martin		Diane, did you order all this?!
mini		Mom, go inside, just go, I'll handle him.  It's under control, Dad. Please, let's not make a scene.
44.		CONTINUED: 
bishop		As we see from a closer examination of the facts, Abraham Lincoln's decision to...
mini		Mr. Bishop, can I go to the little girls room?
45.		CONTINUED:
bishop		Of course, Mini.
46.		CONTINUED:
diane		 Mini! I asked you for that drink ten minutes ago!
mini		You're welcome.
47.		CONTINUED:
diane		Mmm...this is really good. What's in it, Sweetie?
mini		Oh, this and that.
diane		My god, let me tell you, breaking my hand on that bitch's face...
diane		...was the best thing that ever happened to me.
diane		I feel fantastic, just fabulous. I mean, I feel like I could run a marathon like that Bruce Jenner guy. He did that, right? Boy, I'll tell you before he had that face lift that made him look like a drag queen, I would've let him stick his javelin in me any day.
48.		CONTINUED:
diane		 I want to talk to you about juries, will you come and talk to me about juries?
diane		I'd like to be on a jury and say "guilty!" or "sidebar!" What do you think goes on in all the sequestered situations? Do you think any of the jurors have sex with each other? I was once on an episode of Love Boat, playing the role of "Bikini Girl" and my line was "I'll have another," it was with "Isaac" at the pool bar. I had to suck one of the associate producers off to get the line, but it got me my SAG card, so I guess it was worth it. T he men shoot each other an uncomfortable glance.
diane		But, but we were talking about juries and Isaac and, and that drag queen I broke my face on and..
diane		Hey! COCKBREATH!
49.		CONTINUED: 
diane		 ...And then I told him that I had been an extra on Hello Larry and Mike Farrell had tried to--
mini		MacLean Stevenson.
diane		What?
mini		MacLean Stevenson played "Larry."
diane		Right, that's what I said...and then MacKenzie Phillips tried to slip me the tongue!
martin		Listen, great job, but you need to give me more warning. I was at dinner with Chapman, and it's the second time I've had to re- schedule.
mini		I'm sorry, but it was a golden opportunity. You always said you can't pay enough for good publicity.
50.		CONTINUED:
mini		Hey, boys.
mini		Wanna have a little fun?
51.		CONTINUED:
diane		Hello?
diane		Yes?
diane		Hello?...What do you want?
diane		 Who is this?
diane		 Who is this?
diane		If this is some kind of joke...
52.		CONTINUED: 
diane		I'm hanging up.
diane		 Why are you doing this?
diane		Leave me alone!
diane		 Get away!!!
53.		CONTINUED: 
diane		 How do you know where I live?
diane		No!
diane		No! I can't leave, he knows where I live!
diane		Did you hear me?! He knows where I live!
54.		CONTINUED:
diane		Him!
diane		What are you doing?!
diane		It's him! Answer it! Answer it! He said he was gonna kill me!
diane		He, he knows where I live!
55.		CONTINUED:
diane		You're leaving? Both of you?
diane		Why don't we just order in?
mini		Mom, we can't stay in here forever. Do you want to come with us?
mini		Mom?
diane		I...can't. You two go.
mini		Okay.
56.		CONTINUED:
diane		Hello?
iane		Please, please, oh god.
diane		Oh god, oh god!
57.		CONTINUED:
diane		No...no...help! Help!
diane		Oh, God! Help! Someone!
diane		 No, please, no.
iane		Help! Someone please, help me!
58.		CONTINUED:
diane		Please God, please God...please!
mini		Mom, we're home!
martin		Diane, honey, we brought you a pulled pork plate!
martin		Honey? You okay?...Honey?
mini		Mom?
martin		Diane, it's us, wake up.
mini		 Wake up, Mommy.
martin		Mini.
mini		Killjoy.
martin		Diane, come on, come on.
60.		CONTINUED:
mini		Martin... H e looks up and immediately sees the bottle.
mini		I picked that prescription up three days ago. It was probably more than half full.
mini		 I suppose we should call an ambulance?
martin		Her pulse is almost gone.
mini		Do you really think they can save her?
martin		I...I don't know.
mini		She'll only try it again. You know she will.
martin		She will if we keep this torture up.
martin		 This is wrong, call an ambulance.
61.		CONTINUED: 
mini		Hold on, who are we to say her choice was wrong? She put those pills in her mouth.
martin		Mini--
mini		Don't "Mini" me, you've been bankrolling my little project from day one.
martin		We both agreed murder was out.
mini		I'd hardly call it murder, if anything, we're just helping to fulfill her last wish.
martin		She wouldn't have taken the pills if we hadn't-  Mini, for gods sake, she still has a pulse.
mini		So do people in comas. It's just a matter of time-
martin		Mini, we-
mini		Look, you can drop the indignant outrage, because if you really cared, you'd have already grabbed the phone and dialed 911 by now.
mini		 Can't we just admit how lucky we are? It's the perfect alibi, she put the drugs in her system.
martin		What? Just leave her here?
62.		CONTINUED: 
mini		Exactly.
martin		I don't know.
mini		Can you think of one person she knows who would say she's sane at this point? This is just the natural, sad and inevitable conclusion to a tragic life. M artin ponders the choice.
mini		We're this close from being free...let's just let nature take its course.
mini		And so we passed the time watching my favorite show.
host		Welcome to "Absolutely Positive!" The show where we give couples about to get married a last chance to make sure they're...
studio audience		Absolutely Positive!
host		That's right! We send them out on one last date with someone other than their fiance, so they can be sure they're really ready to make that lifelong commitment.
63.		CONTINUED:
64.		CONTINUED:
mini		Come on, let's go.
martin		What?
mini		It's time to speed this up.
martin		Speed this up?
mini		We can't wait anymore, our alibi is only believable for maybe another hour. We can say that after dinner we went to a movie, but if she hasn't croaked by midnight, you can forget about this.
martin		No, I'm sorry, this is going somewhere I'm not prepared to go.
mini		Oh, but you were prepared to sit here until the pills did her in? I hate to break it to you, but wherever you "weren't prepared to go"...the hypocrite express just rolled into the station.
martin		What are you suggesting?
mini		Well, I thought we'd disembowel her and leave her for the raccoons.
mini		Kidding...God, you've lost your sense of humor. Don't worry, it'll be painless.
65.		CONTINUED: 
artin		Come on, we don't have time.
mini		Look, if we're going to screw up the details we might as well call San Quentin and tell them to fire up the dutch oven.  Martin, please, I can't explain everything.
martin		I don't think this is a good idea.
mini		Have you lost your mind, "Mr. Public Relations"? What's the one thing all her friends are going to be talking about when they find out?  "How did she look"? Do you think anyone will think twice if the answer is "fabulous"?
mini		Well, if you've got anything to say to her, now would be the time.
martin		Could you just pretend to have a little remorse?
mini		Help us, please! My mom, I think she's dead!
mini		Mommy, wake up!
67.		CONTINUED:
martin		It's okay, sweetheart, everything's going to be okay.
first paramedic		Mr. Tannen, I think you should take your daughter in the house.
mini		Oh, please, don't let her die!
garson		Mr. Tannen?
martin		Yes?
man		I'm Detective Bill Garson, LAPD.
martin		Yes?
garson		I'm sorry to be here right now, but whenever there's an apparent suicide we are required to do an investigation to rule out homicide.
martin		 Oh...uh...right.
garson		It's really just a formality.
68.		CONTINUED:
mini		 My mother just killed herself! They haven't even taken her away yet! What's wrong with you? M ARTIN Mini, please! He's just doing his job.
mini		Tell him to leave! This is outrageous!
martin		 Could we do this another time?
garson		Of course we--
martin		Thank you.
garson		But I do need to ask just a few simple questions before I go.
mini		Didn't you hear him?! He said--
martin		 Mini, it's okay...just go lie down for a moment.
martin		So after dinner and the movie, we came home at around 11:30 and found her in the garage. I turned off the car and opened the garage door to let out the exhaust.
69.		CONTINUED:
garson		What about trying to revive your wife?
martin		Of course, we did that too, but I couldn't feel a pulse. Mini took a course at school in CPR and tried that, but...  it didn't work.
garson		So your wife did this sometime between 8:00 and 11:33 when you placed the 911 call?
martin		Yes.
garson		May I ask why you left your wife alone when she had been acting in such an unstable state?
martin		We never thought she'd do anything like...this. After the episode in the mall, Diane hadn't left the house for three days and my daughter and I just needed a break. It's been a very stressful time.
garson		Of course. So this was your wife's car?
martin		Yes.
garson		Was it in the garage when you left for dinner or did she drive it in?
martin		What?
garson		Was it in the garage when you left?
70.		CONTINUED: 
martin		 Is, is that important? G ARSON Just trying to reconstruct what happened.
martin		Oh, well...after she was brought home from the mall, the car was towed here and we put it in the garage.
garson		And no one drove it during those three days?
martin		No, Mini and I have our own cars.
garson		We are going to have to impound it for a few days to take it to the crime lab.
martin		Crime lab? Oh, okay.
garson		Again, purely routine.
martin		Sure.
garson		Have you found a note yet?
martin		 I'm sorry?
garson		A suicide note? The deceased usually leaves one.
martin		Oh...right, no...not yet. But we haven't really looked.
71.		CONTINUED: 
garson		Mind if I take a look around?
martin		No...of course not.
mini		Who cares if we didn't leave a note? Just relax.
martin		But they said it's--
mini		So what? He'll do his little dance and chalk it up to another failed actress who realized after forty she might as well be dead.
martin		 Oh, shit!
mini		What?
martin		The sweatsuits and goggles.
mini		I already snuck out the back and threw them in Mike Rudell's garbage cans.
martin		 Good.
mini		Angelpie, just relax, we did it, we're free.
72.		CONTINUED:
mini		You know, I've been thinking that I might enjoy working in your office this summer.
73.		CONTINUED:
martin		Really?   Sure, if you want.
mini		I want.
martin		 Oh...hi, Mike, what, what are you doing here? R udell comes over, clearly aware of how un-father/daughter they were lying.
rudell		Last week Mini mentioned you two were coming here for a little R&R, and I suddenly realized I hadn't taken a vacation in god knows when. Jennifer, this is my neighbor Martin Tannen and his daughter, Mini.
mini		I'm sorry, but, Jennifer, have we met? You look so familiar.
jennifer		I don't think so.
74.		CONTINUED: 
mike		I wanted you both to know how sorry I am for your loss.
mike		If there's anything I can do...  for either of you...
mike		...don't hesitate to ask. Remember I'm just right across the fence.
martin		 Thanks, Mike, we appreciate it.
martin		Why did you tell him?!
mini		I was just being friendly, I had no idea he'd decide to come here.
martin		He knows. He found the clothes and goggles and he fucking knows!
mini		I doubt he even knows where his trash cans are. 
75.		CONTINUED:             MINI You're overreacting. It's just coincidence.
martin		Yeah, well coincidence or not, he saw us together.
mini		It was dark, I sat up before he saw anything. M
artin		No, he knows. It was like he was toying with us.
mini		Just relax, what is he going to do? Go home and tell everyone we're a couple? We'll just laugh it off and tell everyone he vacations with hookers.
mini		Oh, come on, could that little moment between you and Jennifer have been any more awkward?
mini		I'm not jealous or anything, I just think it's funny. Talk about six degrees of penetration.
martin		You realize he could blackmail us? If the police found out about us, that suicide wouldn't look so routine.
mini		Martin, please, calm down. Trust me, nothing is going to happen.
77.		CONTINUED:
mini		 "Happy birthday, Mr. President"
mini		Yes?
garson		Minerva Tannen, Detective Garson, I don't know if you remember me?
mini		Drogues, my last name is Drogues. And "yes", I remember you, you were the big hearted lug who wanted your questions answered while my mother was still warm.
garson		 So, Mr. Tannen is your stepfather?
78.		CONTINUED:
mini		Nice work, McGruff.
garson		Again, I am sorry about that night, but it is policy that we get the preliminary facts as soon as possible.
mini		What do you want?
garson		I need to ask you a few more questions about your mother's death.    M INI Sure, come on in.
garson		It's a little early for the prom, isn't it?
mini		A girl can dream, can't she?
garson		Perfectly legal. So, anyway, we got the preliminary coroner's report. Although the pills knocked her out, she died of the carbon monoxide poisoning from the exhaust.
mini		Is it that important?
79.		CONTINUED:
garson		Well, it's just a little unusual for a suicide victim to use two methods. Her choices seemed, I don't know how to put it... improvisational.
mini		Well, maybe she wanted to drift off before the fumes got her? She clearly put some thought into that outfit.
garson		Clearly...But dying from carbon monoxide poisoning is actually pretty painless, you just basically pass out.
mini		I doubt she would have had an intimate knowledge of how car fumes feel when you choke on them.
garson		I suppose you're right...Also we checked the phone records and there was a 911 call placed at 8:12. It was a hang up and when the 911 dispatcher called back a few minutes later, there was no answer.
mini		Really?
garson		Any idea why she'd call 911?
mini		Look, I think you should come back when my father's around. He'll be upset I let a stranger in the house.    G ARSON I think you're safe with me.
80.		CONTINUED: 
mini		Even so, he won't be happy.
garson		Not a problem, will he be home tonight?
martin		And you let him in?!
mini		I played it cool, it would've looked worse to be defensive.
mini		Tonight?
mini		 Hey, I didn't know you had plans!
81.		CONTINUED:
mini		Okay.
garson		I really appreciate you taking the time to help us out. There's just a few loose ends we want to tie up.
martin		Absolutely. What would you like to know?
arson		There appears to be some question as to the time of death. You said you went to dinner and a movie-
martin		Detective, not to be overly sensitive, but do I need my lawyer here? Because these sound like the questions one asks when there's a homicide investigation.
garson		Mr. Tannen, I'd really like to just finish this up, I've got real homicides that need attention. How about if I just ask you some questions and the one's you don't want to answer, we'll just skip?
mini		That sounds good, doesn't it, Dad? I mean, let's just get this over with.
82.		CONTINUED:
martin		Fair enough.
garson		Terrific...now, the preliminary blood report indicated she had ritalin in her system.
martin		I wasn't aware my wife was taking ritalin.
garson		Neither was her physician, he had never prescribed it.
martin		Well, as you may have discovered by now, my wife had substance abuse problems, I'm sure there were many drugs she took without a prescription.
garson		I know, but it's an odd drug to be taking. It's mostly given to adults and children with Attention Deficit Disorder to calm them. But in people who don't need it, it has the reverse effect, making them incredibly hyper and agitated.
martin		Again, Detective, I really can't say why she was taking these drugs.
garson		Fair enough...Mr. Tannen, were you and your wife close?
martin		No...we led, for the most part, separate lives. We had decided to stay together for Mini.
83.		CONTINUED: 
garson		I see...
martin		Listen, Detective Garson, I must admit I don't see the relevance of these questions. Diane was an extremely disturbed person. Haven't you interviewed enough people who saw her at her worst?
garson		Yes, but what I'm still unclear about is her time of death.
martin		Well, that makes two of us... Again, detective, we were out for the whole evening.
garson		 After dinner you saw a movie that night?
martin		That's right.
garson		What did you see?
martin		That new Jackie Chan movie where the terrorists try to blow up Mount Rushmore.
garson		Ahh...My buddy told me the end is crazy.
84.		CONTINUED: 
martin		Yeah, he slides down Washington's nose with the bomb strapped to him.
mini		Dad...Don't give it away, he hasn't seen it yet.
martin		Another demerit...
garson		That's okay...Where did you see it?
martin		The Galleria.
garson		And you got home at?
martin		Now, if there aren't any more questions, it is a school night.
garson		No, that about wraps it up for now.
85.		CONTINUED: 
martin		For now? Detective we are trying very hard to put our lives back together, but every time you come by, it just dredges everything back up. We've told you everything we know.     G ARSON I wish I could be more definitive.
martin		Well, I'm telling you the next time you have a question, it had better be because you're charging us-
garson		Us?
martin		I'm just asking you to please let us deal with our grief and get on with our lives.
garson		 Thanks again for your time.
martin		What the hell was I thinking, letting you talk me into this?
mini		It's probably just routine stuff.
martin		That was not routine, my dear.
mini		Nice use of the word "us", by the way.
martin		Sorry, it just slipped out.
86.		CONTINUED:
mini		If I had a nickel for every time I heard that-
martin		 Okay.
mini		Look, just chill, I'm sure this will blow over in a few days.
martin		Chill?! Believe me, we'll be chilling in a pine box if he figures everything out. You do understand they could go for the death penalty?
mini		He's probably just trying to spook us.
martin		Hello?! They don't try and spook you unless they think you did it!
mini		It was a great plan, no one can prove we stuck those sleeping pills in her mouth, because we didn't.
martin		 Well, if it was such a great plan, why am I cancelling business dinners to accommodate a detective who appears convinced it wasn't a suicide?
mini		I'll see you later.
martin		Where are you going?
mini		Out.
martin		A phone call would have been appreciated at some point. I was worried.
88.		CONTINUED:
mini		Uh...Martin, I'm not sure you're aware, but at this point you can't be my dad and my lover. Where I go and how late I stay out is my business.
martin		I wasn't saying that as a dad.  Before your mother and I...grew apart, I would worry if she was out late.
mini		Well, that's sweet, but I'm not her and I can assure you I won't end up passed out in some greaseball's fuck pad with my panties around my ankles...  u nless I choose to.
martin		What the hell's gotten into you? I just expressed concern for you and you turn around and threaten me? Mini, in a relationship, it's okay to worry about someone else.
martin		Haven't you ever been in a relationship?
martin		My god, you haven't.
mini		Congratulations...  you're my first.
89.		CONTINUED: 
martin		Oh, angel.
martin		Morning, Lois.
lois		Mr. Tannen, this just arrived for you.
90.		CONTINUED:
martin		Lois, I need you to re-schedule the Chapman meeting...  I know...Tell him...tell him it's an unavoidable emergency.
martin		What do you mean you don't keep records on who your senders are?
clerk		When it's paid cash, we only keep records on packages, not envelopes.
martin		Yeah?
91.		CONTINUED:
martin		Thank you, Lois.
martin		Steve? Charlie? What, what are you doing in town? Why didn't you tell me you were coming-- M ATHER We just heard about Chapman...not that it matters.
boyd		We can't afford to lose any more clients.
martin		Jesus, guys, my wife just committed suicide...
mather		No one's saying this isn't a difficult time for you, but whatever's been distracting you started long before that.
boyd		There's just no way to sugarcoat this...you're a liability we can't afford anymore...
martin		Fifteen years...we've been--
92.		CONTINUED:
mather		 We'll be asking all our clients who they would prefer to stay with, and of course, you'll have an equal shot to make your case with them.
martin		Fucking shit! Fucking shit! Fucking shit!
mini		What are you gonna do?
93.		CONTINUED:
mini		Are you crazy? We're not even positive it's him!
martin		My god, the picture was dropped off at a messenger service right across the street from his office! He was the only person at the resort who knew who we were!
mini		He could go to the cops and tell them you threatened him, then they'd really start investigating us. It's just one photo and you can't even really tell if it's me.
martin		That son of bitch just cost me the firm I worked fifteen years to build.
mini		Well, if you start waving that thing around, he's gonna cost you a lot more than that.
94.		CONTINUED:
mini		Hi, Mr. Rudell, I'm sorry to bother you.
rudell		Not at all, as I said down in Mexico...  anything for a neighbor.
mini		May I come in?
rudell		It was just finished. I'm sorry your mother never got to see it completed.
mini		I know she'd approve.
rudell		If you don't mind me asking, ...how are you doing?
mini		It's been hard, but I guess I've just been telling myself that she's probably much happier where she is now.
rudell		You're absolutely-
95.		CONTINUED:
mini		Positive!?
rudell		 Well, that too, but "correct" was the word I was thinking of. Do you like the show?
mini		Oh, god, it's my favorite. I love how you never know if the couples will decide to stay together.
rudell		I could arrange for you to go to the set one day if you'd like, or even be a contestant?
mini		A contestant? Really?
rudell		Sure, those dates are really quite harmless. You just spend an evening with the person. We prep you on what to say before the show.
mini		It sounds like fun.
rudell		Anyway, what's on your mind?
mini		Well, um...this may sound strange, but you haven't seen any suspicious looking people around our house lately?
rudell		No, is everything okay?
mini		Yes, it's just that since mom's death, someone sent us a photo of Martin and I together.
96.		CONTINUED: 
rudell		Together?
mini		It indicated that we were...I know this sounds crazy, but...a couple.
rudell		A couple? You and Martin? Hmmm...I mean, certainly older men and younger women are an  ...accepted part of society, but for someone to do that, well...it's just tasteless.
mini		Exactly, so we're just trying to figure who Rit could be.
udell		Hmm, I haven't noticed anyone at all...Out of curiosity, what kind of a picture could they send you to indicate that you and Martin were together?
mini		Oh, it wasn't like we were naked or anything. I mean, of course, he's seen me naked, he is my step- father.
rudell		Of course.
97.		CONTINUED:
mini		"Who can take tomorrow? Dip it in a dream, separate the sorrow and collect up all the cream, the candy man, oh, the candy man can"
98.		CONTINUED:
mini		 "The candy man can 'cause he mixes it with love and makes the world taste good..."
bishop		Mini, I've got a message for you to go to the principal's office right away.
99.		CONTINUED:
mini		Detective Garson, is everything all right?
garson		We've lifted two prints from the door and the inside of the medicine cabinet. They don't match the nurse.
principal andrews		Mini, is there something you'd like to say to Detective Garson?
mini		Can we see the tape of the Der Fhrer sucking down her afternoon fix of Smirnoff, or don't you have cameras in the bathroom stalls?
100.		CONTINUED:
principal andrews		Young lady, stealing anything, especially prescription drugs is a serious matter.
mini		You got me, okay?   But what was I supposed to do?
principal andrews		What do you mean?
mini		 She...She said if I didn't, she was...was gonna--
principal andrews		Who?   Another student?
mini		My mother! She made me steal them for her! I didn't want to, but she said she was going to send me to boarding school in Canada if I didn't!   P RINCIPAL ANDREWS Canada?
mini		 The Yukon territories! Are you happy, now? You got me!
principal andrews		Oh my lord, I had know idea, she was--
mini		An addict? Detective Garson knew! We told him, and now what? The whole school's gonna know!?
mini		She's dead, my mommy's dead. Can't we just leave her be?
101.		CONTINUED: 
principal andrews		Detective Garson, I assume, there won't be a need to press charges against Ms. Drogues?
mini		 You gonna cuff me, Copper!?
garson		She's free to go.
garson		Ah, Mr. Tannen, we were just coming up to see you. Have you got a minute?
martin		Detective, I told you no more questions without my lawyer.
garson		I think you'd better call him.
garson		There's a small discrepancy that I can't quite figure out and I was hoping you might be able to explain it.
martin		I suppose I can try.
102.		CONTINUED:
garson		The final toxicology report came back and your wife definitely didn't die from the pills. She wasn't conscious past 9:30, but it was the fumes that killed her. M ARTIN Well, hallelujah, thanks for the update-
volant		Martin, easy.
martin		I'm sorry, but this is harassment.
garson		See, here's what I needed to ask you. The gas tank in the Jag was almost full, just a gallon had been used.
martin		And?
garson		Well, if she was unconscious by 9:30, that means the car must have been running for at least two hours when you found her. An unconscious person can't turn on a car, right?
volant		Detective, with all due respect, could you get to the point?
garson		Well, here's where I get confused, see, that particular model idling for two hours will burn at least four gallons of gas.
garson		So, there's really no way the tank could be almost full if it was running for two hours. Is there?
103.		CONTINUED: 
garson		So, I guess what I'm asking is, whose idea was it to put her in the car?
volant		Martin, don't say anything.
garson		Now, Mr. Tannen, you clearly had the most to gain from her death, but I've learned from a number of your wife's friends that she and Mini had a strained relationship.
volant		Again, Detective, my client won't be answering anything, so let's just cut the cat and mouse.
garson		I'd like Mr. Tannen to know that if he's trying to be a protective father by covering up something Mini did, I'd be careful. The district attorney is viewing this case as an opportunity to show the public that the rich don't get away with murder in this town.
olant		Does this mean he's offering Mr. Tannen immunity if he says he was protecting his daughter?
garson		It's a strong possibility. But he wants Mr. Tannen to know he will go for the maximum sentence if he doesn't. No manslaughter, no plea bargains, nothing.
mini		It was Colonel Mustard in the library with the candlestick.
pelham		 Uh...Miss Drogues, as your lawyer-
mini		Don't wet your pants, I know when to shut up and swallow...
mini		...my tongue.
garson		Look, the fact that the marriage was unhappy and there was no pre- nup gives all the motive to Martin.
mini		So you want me to say it was his idea?
garson		If it was his idea, give me one reason you should take the fall?
105.		CONTINUED:
mini		So if I tell the jury it was his idea and I was scared for my life, because he said he'd kill me if I ever told anyone, then I walk?
martin		I never doubted for a minute you were going to hold firm. Not a second. I hope you know that?
mini		Oh, I knew...I knew.
martin		Good. You realize, we've got to rely on each other?
mini		Who else do we have?
martin		Exactly. We're almost home free. My lawyer says that gas gauge theory is circumstantial as hell. I've only got one concern now.
mini		What?
martin		Rudell. If a jury knew we were a couple, we've both got a motive and that changes everything.
106.		CONTINUED:
mini		Baby, don't worry about him, he's just jealous 'cause you've still got rockin' abs and a better hairline.
mini		Even if he did send that picture, what does it prove?...Nothing.
107.		CONTINUED:             MINI I had asked Martin to be home by eight for a big surprise.
mini		Oh, hey, come and watch. You're missing me, I'm on TV!
martin		What? Why?
mini		Hurry up, the commercial's almost over!
host		Welcome back to Absolutely Positive. Now it's time to hear how the date between Jason and Mini ended.
martin		You? You went on-
mini		Yeah, I thought it'd be a gas...now shhh...
close on the		SCREEN:
host		Jason, you said that the reason you wanted to come on the show was to test your ability to resist temptation.
108.		CONTINUED:
jason		 Well, since Becky and I have dated since high school and decided to remain virgins until marriage, I just wanted to go on a date with another girl just to see how I would react. You know, whether there'd be any feelings of doubt about my decision?
host		So, after dinner, what happened?
jason		Oh, gosh, well she suggested we go to a dance club she knew. I'm not really a good dancer, but I said "yes."
becky		 We never go dancing.
host		So, Mini, is Jason a good dancer? M INI Well, he's a damn quick learner, and not just at dancing.
mini		Martin, for god's sake, that was their line. You think I talk like that?
close on the		SCREEN:
host		Oh, really? So there was some other teacher-student stuff going on?
jason		 Uh, no, not really-
109.		CONTINUED: 
mini		Oh, come on, what about when we went back to your place?
becky		You what?!
jason		I, I don't know what she's talking about.
mini		Come on, don't be bashful. He put on some soft music and-
jason		No! This isn't true, why are you-
mini		We started kissing and-
becky		Jason!
jason		 Shut up!
studio audience		OOOOHHHHH!
mini		But, Jay-Jay, it was really special.  He loves to be called "Jay-Jay".
becky		You, you...
mini		Let me tell you, Becky, you're in for a wild ride from this Bronco.
studio audience		WHOOOOOOAAAA!
110.		CONTINUED: 
martin		Did, did you...
mini		God, Martin, it was a one time thing. He was a virgin, how could I say "no"? Believe me, she'll thank me after their wedding night.
martin		You had me come home early to-
mini		Don't be jealous. It won't happen again. It was just a goof.
martin		Rudell? He let you go on?
mini		Yeah, I thought it would be fun. I wasn't really supposed to, you know, "go all the way" but-
martin		I can't believe you...th-that couple, you ruined their relationship. M INI Excuse me, but the show is called Absolutely Positive for a reason. Clearly, the only thing Jason was positive about was-
martin		You're a sick little twist, you know that?
mini		Well, what does that make you?
111.		CONTINUED: 
martin		 I need some air.
mini		Oh, by the way, some intern from your office stopped by earlier today with something. It's on the desk.
mini		What is it?
mini		Oh, my god.
martin		 I think it's time I had a little chat with our neighbor
mini		No, this is exactly what he wants! What if he's working with Garson?
martin		Then he can't blackmail me. Wait here, I'll be right back.
mini		No, please, don't do this! Let me go with you!
martin		I said wait here.
112.		CONTINUED: 
mini		Don't do this, we can leave tonight! We'll drive to Mexico!
martin		He'll never leave us alone, you realize that?
mini		No! Let me talk to him, he promised me he wouldn't hurt us!
martin		He did? When?
mini		A few days ago!
martin		You saw him?
mini		I went to try and find out what he knew! I spent the afternoon with him-      M ARTIN You...spen-
mini		I was doing it for us! I figured he wouldn't turn us in if I...
martin		If you...?
mini		If I made him think I was... interested.
martin		And was he?
martin		Please tell me you didn't.
113.		CONTINUED: 
mini		No...
mini		I just made him think I would, so he wouldn't turn us in.
martin		 Thank you, I appreciate your restraint.
mini		Fuck you. I'd think you'd be a little more appreciative.
martin		Who were you doing it for when you did it with that kid? Huh? Who was that selfless act for!?
mini		Oh, like you're such a martyr for being faithful? It shows amazing restraint to limit yourself to just one stepdaughter!
martin		Don't lecture me about fidelity! Your mother was cheating within six months of the "I do's"!
martin		Now, if you'll excuse me...
mini		Please-- Look, I'm sorry, I really am, but this isn't the answer!
114.		CONTINUED: 
mini		You're hurting me!
martin		 Calm down or I'll snap it in two, do you hear me?
martin		Now, I want you to wait here for me. Do you understand?
mini		 Please don't do this.
udell		Martin, what a surprise, how are you?
martin		Just watched Mini on your show.
rudell		Ahh...was tonight the night? We taped that two weeks ago. Let me tell you, I have girls audition all the time for me and...  She was fucking incredible.
martin		A natural, huh?
115.		CONTINUED:
rudell		Like a duck to water...and totally willing to take direction.
rudell		I wish all the girls I worked with had her...how can I put this?... Need to please.
martin		You son of a bitch...
mini		 Yes, hello, you've got to send a police car to 2376 Mira Loma Lane right away! My father's gone crazy, I think he's going to hurt our neighbor...yes 2376 Mira Loma, oh god, hurry!
116.		CONTINUED:
martin		Where are they?! Huh?
rudell		What are you talk-
martin		Don't fuck with me! The negatives!
rudell		What?!
martin		You son of a bitch! How's that feel?! You like that?! You thought you could have my wife and my daughter too?!
117.		CONTINUED:
martin		Sorry, pal, she's mine! Diane may have taken pity on you between vodkas, but not her! Not her!
martin		Go look for the negatives!
mini		No! This is insane!
martin		We need the negatives!
mini		You're gonna kill him!
martin		What are you doing! He'll tell everyone!
118.		CONTINUED: 
officer		Drop the club and put your hands up!
mini		Thank God! Thank God, you came!
martin		Mini, you called them?! How could you call them?!
mini		He's...he's crazy, I told him not to! I told him to stop!
forewoman		Guilty.
119.		CONTINUED:
mini		I'm sorry I forgot to bring that book you wanted.
martin		It's okay, Myou can mail it.
ini		Are you okay? You look like you haven't showered in days.
martin		 Well...uh...you have to be careful about sh-...So how's school?
mini		 You'll never guess what happened.
martin		What?
mini		I was voted valedictorian!
martin		But don't you have to be-
mini		The best student? I know! But the students took a vote and they said they wanted me to have it for demonstrating remarkable courage in the face of unspeakable loss.
martin		 I wonder how the real valedictorian feels?
mini		Like slitting his wrists with the sharp end of a protractor.
121.		CONTINUED:
martin		Is Rudell out of his coma yet?
mini		I don't know, why?
martin		Why?  Mini, if he recovers, he may try to blackmail you with those pictures.
mini		 Oh...I wouldn't worry about that.
martin		But if the D.A. got those pictures, you could-
mini		I'm pretty sure he won't be doing anything with them.
martin		Mini, you're not thinking of sleeping with him to keep him quiet? Because I've met people in here who could help us with him, if it comes to that.
mini		Help us?
martin		They know people on the outside we could...pay to make sure he doesn't try to take advantage of you.
mini		Oh, gosh, that's so romantic. It's like you're a real life criminal with connections and everything, but I'm a little surprised you haven't figured it out yet.
martin		What?
122.		CONTINUED: 
mini		Oh...wow, like I thought you were just playing along `cause I'm your only link to the outside world, but you really don't know?
mini		You remember, Aurelio?
martin		Our cabana boy from Mexico?
mini		What a sweetie, I thought I might have to fuck him, but just giving him the camera was enough.
martin		You...you...
mini		It was pretty clear Garson wasn't gonna give up, and sooner or later he'd find enough to charge us. It just seemed ridiculous that we'd both end up suffering.
mini		Oh, come on, you would've done it if you thought of it first...you know I'm right.
123.		CONTINUED: 
mini		 Hey, listen, since conjugal visits are pretty much out of the question, I thought it would be cool if we tried a little prison phone sex.
mini		They don't tap these lines, do they?  I think I might even be able to open my blouse without anyone seeing...you ready?
martin		Guard!
mini		No? Are you sure? I won't be able to come back for a few weeks.  Wait, have you met someone in here?!
martin		Guard!
mini		Why, you old dog! I knew you wouldn't be single in here for long.
martin		Guard! She did it! She just admitted it! It was her idea!
mini		I guess this means I could start dating around too?
martin		Don't let her leave! She's guilty! Get the warden! G UARD Okay, that's enough!
124.		CONTINUED: 
martin		You bitch! You little whore!
mini		 Daddy, why are you saying those things!
martin		I'm gonna kill you! Do you hear me, you little bitch!
mini		 Daddy, stop! I love you! Don't say that! I love you!
125.		CONTINUED: Again, to Marvin Tepperman, the real valedictorian, he deserved this and I want to wish him a speedy recovery. I spoke to his doctors today and they say, with medication and therapy, Marvin should be able to attend Harvard this fall.
mini		While I may not have excelled in the classroom, I think my recent experiences in that bigger schoolhouse we call "life", have taught me a few lessons that I'd like to share with my fellow graduates.
mini		Follow your heart and don't question it, now matter where it tells you to go. Trust me, it'll open up a world of new experiences you can't even imagine.
mini		But as you listen to it, don't forget your family, your parents. Don't forget they're people too, and while we may not always agree with them, remember to love them when they need love.
126.		CONTINUED:  I know I did, and I just wish my dad could be here today, so after this speech I could just walk down into the audience and give him my love right here...in front of all of you. Thank you and good luck.
****Dialogues from script :Minority_Report.txt****

female		 JOHNNY, PLEASE
male right		 "Johnny, please.  Johnny please."
female		You're scaring me.
male left		 DADDY, DON'T. DADDY
male right		 I don't like you any more, Carol.
female		 Put the scissors down.  You're scaring me.  Please.
male right		Oh, Carol.
female		Johnny!  Stop!
male right		Don't grab at me!  Let
male left		Daddy!  No!
all three		Murderer!
johnny		 Why'd you let me sleep so long?
carol		It's Saturday, Johnny, you always --  Why are you staring at me like that?
johnny		I'm unhappy that you let me sleep so long.
johnny		I didn't do anything!
officer 1		Come out of the closet on your hands and knees.
officer 1		Hands and knees!
johnny		I didn't...
officer 2		POSITIVE FOR JOHN PALMER.
officer 1		 But you are under arrest for the future murderer of your wife, Carol Palmer.  You have no rights.
witwer		Thought we might a had a runner.
anderson		Yeah, a runner.
witwer		A little chase -- that'd been good.
anderson		Fifty cops on the scene takes the chase out of them.
witwer		 But only eight of us were real.
anderson		We ever get a runner, I'd be too old to give chase.
witwer		You'd chase.  You'd love it,.  Man.
anderson		I love it more Johnny boy doesn't get to murder his wife.
witwer		 It's a beautiful world.
lisa		Jesus, Paul.  Your heart's hammering.  I excite you that much?
anderson		I used to love being a cop.
lisa		You're still a cop.  I'm a factory worker.  We don't catch murderers. We process them.
lisa		You're the best homicide cop in the country.
anderson		Great -- except there's no such thing as homicide.  What I do best doesn't exist anymore.
lisa		PAUL.  You're the Director of a perfect system.  A Cop with a perfect record
anderson		The Precogs have a perfect record. They identify the accused -- I just put on my monkey suit and go round them up.
lisa		And then I prosecute them.  And they go to jail.  And lives are saved. Thousands of lives.  And that's a cop's dream.
anderson		No.  You're a cop's dream.
anderson		Who called?
lisa		No one.  I called about my hair. Getting it done this afternoon.
anderson		Come on in, neighbor.  Want some coffee?
lisa		Oh, Frank.  That's so sweet.  Thank you.
anderson		Before all this genetically engineered crap ...
anderson		Coffee?
lisa		You and Ellie come for supper then.
anderson		We'll barbecue.
intercom voice		Yes, Director Anderson?
anderson		Where's Ennis Page?  Why hasn't he delivered this morning's Precog discs?
intercom voice		I'll find him, sir.
witwer		Bullying the staff again, Director Anderson?
anderson		Screw you.
witwer		The Johnny Palmer bust?
anderson		Yeah.
witwer		It was okay.  We got our man.
anderson		When do we not get our man?
page		Sorry I'm late, sir.  Precogs put out a heavy national volume this morning -- four for our zone.
witwer		Now that's a guy who really cares.
tour guide		Welcome to the main headquarters of Precrime.  Smaller Precrime branches are scattered throughout the United States.
tour guide		That's exactly right!  A lot of people assume there are Precogs in every branch office. 
timmy		They protect us.
tour guide		 That's right, Timmy.  Because of the Precogs, you're going to grow up murderfree.  Isn't that something?
tour guide		Never, sir.  It's an infallible system.  The Precogs predict a homicide, and our Precrime police then apprehend that future murderer before the event occurs.  And right next door is the Judicial Center, where we prosecute the future murderers.
timmy		Can we see the Precogs?
tour guide		No, I'm sorry.  That part of the building is not open to the public.  Now, if you'll just step this way ...
anderson		What would they think about if we unhooked them?
page		They don't think, sir.  They just see.
lisa		Director Anderson, do you swear that the disc you now present to the court is the only and authentic disc of the future murder of Carol Palmer by her husband, John Palmer?
anderson		Yes.  This is the only and authentic disc of the event seen by the Precognitive mutants and recorded by the Precrime Division.  This is the immutable evidence of the infallible system.
lisa		The murder of Carol Palmer will occur ... ?
anderson		In one week -- June 16th, 2040 at 10:33 in the morning.
carol		Johnny, please --
johnny		"Johnny, please.  Johnny please."
carol		You're scaring me.
johnny's son		DADDY, DON'T.  DADDY
johnny		 I don't like you any more, Carol.
carol		 Put the scissors down.  You're scaring me. Please.
johnny		I didn't do it.  I'm innocent!  It didn't happen!
judge		How does the defense plead?
defense attorney		The defense acknowledges the infallibility of the system.  We are Guilty.  We throw ourselves at the mercy of the court.
johnny		No! No! The Precogs are wrong!  No!
witwer		 Looks like the old days.
anderson		That would be bad news for an infallible system.
witwer		We know it can't be a murder -- the Precogs would've seen it.  Why do you insist on coming to these things?
anderson		Keeps the system honest.  And besides, I like to pretend I'm a cop.
officer		Right here, sir.
anderson		Hi DOC.
holographic doctor		Hello, Director Anderson.
witwer		This a homicide, Doc?
holographic doctor		I'm presently analyzing neurohormones, Assistant Director Witwer.  I have not concluded my examination.
witwer		Bingo.  The guy put the gun to his own head.
holographic doctor		I have not determined that yet, Assistant Director.
witwer		You have good ears for a ghost, Doc.
holographic doctor		Please rotate the corpse to the lateral supine position.
witwer		Can you imagine if this was a homicide?  Who even knows how to hunt down a killer any more?
anderson		I know how, dammit.  You know how.
witwer		Easy, partner.  But you know what I'm saying.  The state legislatures are pushing to stop funding for training homicide detectives ...
anderson		God bless the Precogs.
holographic doctor		This event is a negative homicide. A mortal wound was generated by a .22 calibre bullet self-delivered to the parietal 'portion of the skull on June 10th, 2040, at 11:57 pm, 
witwer		It's time to stop coming to these, partner.
anderson		Yeah.  You're right.
anderson		A little bit of me dies every time I come to one of these things.
lisa		It's only a party, Paul.
anderson		I'd never have let them appoint me to Precrime if I'd have known this was going to be part of it.
lisa		You're exactly what Precrime needed. An amazing homicide cop and a real person in an unreal job.
lisa		The public loves the Precogs.  But they give people the creeps, too.  You're something they understandp a regular cop running things.
anderson		Let's invite all these irregular assholes over for a barbecue.  Burgers and beer - think they'd come?
senator malcolm		I'd come, Mr. Director.  And I'd make all the other assholes come with me.
senator malcolm		I have a dream, Paul.
anderson		I know you do, Senator.
senator malcolm		Hundreds of Precogs.  Not just predicting murders, but predicting all crimes.  Burglary, arson, assaults ...
anderson		How about jaywalking?  Littering? Now there's a crime.
senator malcolm		I don't want a police state, you know that.  But we have an opportunity here, and
anderson		No sir, we don't have that opportunity.  There are only three Precogs.  They're a lucky accident of nature.  There are no more.
senator malcolm		 We can make more.  Just give me your support.  Help me increase funding for the Precog Engineering Project.
anderson		Precogs aren't sheep or pigs.  Seeing into the future is a gift, a nonreproducible event. 
senator malcolm		Fuck Mozart.  The people want to be safe.  They want that more than they want food or love.
anderson		Senator, a world filled with hundreds of Precogs is not my idea of a safe place.
senator malcolm		Sure could use your help, Paul.
anderson		I decline, Senator.  I'm sorry.
senator malcolm		 Don't think I'll come to your barbecue after all.
anderson		Not my sort of place.
anderson		When it comes to needles and scalpels, yeah.
anderson		What do you use them on?
anderson		What's happening here?
anderson		What's in the cylinders?
anderson		From ...?
anderson		A fusion of ... ?
anderson		It's great out here, Frank.. You got the touch.
anderson		Sure, Frank.  Yeah.  INT. FRANK'S KITCHEN -- MOMENTS LATER
anderson		He'd served his time, Frank.  I know it's not fair.  It's way beyond not fair ...
anderson		Next Wednesday, at noon.
anderson		It's not in you, Frank, to kill anybody.
anderson		I know, Frank.
anderson		No.
anderson		 You blame him?  The guy killed his daughter!
witwer		Precrime did the job it was supposed to do.
witwer		It's not easy.  It beats us down. Ellie in there -- no doubt she hates you right now.
anderson		That's why I got into this business -- to be hated.
witwer		They hated us when we were regular cops.  Now we're Precrime, and they still hate US.  It's one of the little perks of law enforcement nobody knows about.
anderson		Oh, Ed ...
all three		Murderer!
angela		Sir?
anderson		Come in.  Angela.
angela		Need you to sign these.  And your eleven o'clock starts in five minutes.
anderson		My ... eleven.
angela		 You okay, sir?
anderson		Have Page take this.
angela		But sir, the procedure
angela		Yes sir.
anderson		I'll speak to Witwer, put him in charge for the rest of the day.
witwer		Breaking and entering.  That'll get you five to ten, hard.
anderson		Take over for me today?
witwer		You sick?
anderson		Yeah.
witwer		Don't give it to me.  You probably have that Trans-10 virus going around. A stomach thing.  I hate stomach things.
anderson		Ed.
witwer		Yeah?
anderson		Run the place, okay?
witwer		 Go on home before I call Infectious Control and have them spray you down with something.
anderson		Can't let them back up.  Do 'em.
witwer		Call you later.  Take it easy, all right?
lisa		Paul?
anderson		Listen to me.
lisa		I can hardly hear you.
anderson		I'm underground.  Weakens the signal so it can't be picked up.
lisa		But we're on Secure
anderson		Listen, dammit!  I'm going to murder Ed.
lisa		Paul.  Paul His crackling voice faintly comes through the phone.
anderson's voice		... home.
police officer		Hello, sir.
anderson		What's your name, officer?
police officer		Bob, uh, Robert Smythe.
anderson		These the new Python transports?
anderson		Don't move.
lisa		It's a hundred degrees in here.
anderson		I turned the furnace all the way up. Your hair dryer.  The oven.  If they come, it'll buy me twenty seconds. Maybe thirty.
lisa		Nobody's coming for you.
anderson		I'm going to kill Ed Witwer.
lisa		It's not true.
anderson		One week from today.  Tuesday, June 25, at five-twenty in the morning. I shoot him, Lisa.
lisa		 You need to take time off.
anderson		You don't have to worry about that.
lisa		 I want to hold you.
anderson		If you love me, stand there.  And don't move.
lisa		Something's wrong.  You wouldn't do it.
anderson		The Precogs are never wrong.  They emit a single disc.  "The immutable evidence of the infallible system."
lisa		We'll figure this out.  We'll review the system.
anderson		There is no review.  There's only the disc.  It Shows My guilt.  There's no defense.
lisa		You can't run.  Please, let's --
anderson		Last week.  It was strange.  I watched from the bathroom window.  You went out in the backyard to make a call.
lisa		Stop it!  Paul, please.  You're panicking.  Everything's going to look wrong.  You're going to distrust everybody and everything now.
anderson		Ed.  why outside?  Why lie about it?
lisa		Stop being a cop and listen to me!
lisa		Your birthday's tomorrow!  We wanted to...
lisa		Paul!
officer 1		He's got a hair dryer going.  Screwed up my reading.
officer 2		We're not picking up shit.
voice		Paul Anderson 0256 clear.
voice		Enter now please, Assistant Director Witwer.
cia cronin		The central question is: Why does Anderson want to kill Witwer?
fbi swanson		Personnel checks reveal no ambitious coups planned by you to topple him.  He's done nothing to you, or you to him.
witwer		No.
fbi swanson		HIS MOTHER?  HIS BROTHER?
justice pollard		So, you are friends, partners, and soul mates.  Anderson has no motive.
witwer		I can't think of one.  Maybe JUSTICE POLLARD The Precogs are mistaken?
justice pollard		You don't believe that, do you?
witwer		 No.  The Precogs are infallible.
senator malcolm		You're goddam right.  So, gentlemen -screw the motive.  We got a pre-murderer on the run, and a nasty little PR problem.
witwer		Now look--
cia cronin		The public must believe that every future murderer is pursued with equal vigor.
fbi swanson		Therefore, Precrime will put in charge the man best suited to the job.  And who would pursue a murderer harder ... than his intended victim?
justice pollard		You went after Anderson yesterday -because it was right, and because you believe.
justice pollard		Haw long will it take, Director?
witwer		He knows Precrime, of course.  And the streets -- he's rusty, but he'll remember how to work them.  It'll come back to him fast.  He's ... the best.
justice pollard		We're not here to praise Caesar -- we're here to bury him.
witwer		He can't avoid iris identification. Every door he opens, every ATM he uses, or taxi or transport he boards -- he'll get scanned.  It won't take long to find him.
technician		It's Anderson.
witwer		Paul!
technician 2		He's been Scanned.  He's on the 33rd Street Subway!
technician		His cell phone tracks for The Sprawl. We got him on the Subway, too!
anderson		Why am I going to kill you,Ed?
witwer		There's no motive
anderson		My wife calling you before breakfast?
witwer		We were planning a surprise party. It was going to be today.  Happy birthday, partner.
anderson		This party's no fun, Ed. It's a hell of a surprise, though.  I'm having trouble trusting people, Ed, I gotta tell you.
officer		The train makes two stops, here and here: 20th, then 33rd Street.
witwer		 Split the units, go to both
officer		We'll never make 20th
anderson		You there, Ed?
witwer		I'm here.  You gotta come in, Paul .
anderson		I'm a Cop, Ed. I need a motive.
witwer		Come in.  We'll figure this thing out together.
witwer		It'll get ugly if you keep running. And your eyes, Paul -- every move you make a Scanner will pinpoint you for us.
anderson		I saw a news flash.  You're the new Director.  Is that the point of this?
witwer		Fuck you.
anderson		Didn't think so.  But it has to be something, Ed.
witwer		Paul.  Come in.
anderson		If I come in, it puts me close to you.  If I get close ... I may kill you.  I can't risk that.  Anyway, they'd force you to lock me up.  And that'd be it -- I'd never get my chance to solve this thing.
witwer		You're kinds liking this, in a way, aren't you?  The action ...
anderson		And you get to be a real cop again. We get to flex our muscles.
technician 2		We have visual verification -- he's still on the train.
anderson's voice		I want to tell you something, partner. You listening?
witwer		Yeah.
anderson's voice		I gotta do this.  I have to figure this thing out.  But listen to me now.  If it was you running, I'd come after you, Ed.
witwer		You wouldn't shoot a cop would you, Paul?  Paul?  Paul?
technician 1		He's still on the line.
doc		Got a cold.
anderson		I'm not here for cat surgery, Doc.
doc		Yeah.  All right.
andersoin		I'm a cop, I know
doc		I gotta take your eyes out.
anderson		Yeah.  I get it, DOC.
doc's voice		Don't take the bandages off for twenty four hours.  You'll go blind if you do.
doc		You're in a room.  I had you moved here, a couple miles from my place. If they find you, they don't find me.
anderson		 Nano-re ...construction.
doc		Organic microrobots that reconstruct nerves and blood vessels.  It'll feel like fleas chewing on your eyeballs.  Don't scratch.
anderson		Jesus.
doc		You tighten up again in about thirty minutes.  Hurts like nothing you ever felt.  It's vicious, but effective.  I'll put it in your bag.
anderson		I'm hungry, but sick to my stomach. 
anderson		 Fuck.
officer 1		Got 27 warm bodies in this place. What should it take, three or four Spiders?
officer 2		Do four.  Speed things up, so we can go eat.
old woman		It's nice to have a little company
officer 1		Stinking drunk.
officer 2		 Or a guy who doesn't want to get read.
officer 1		Let's eat.
witwer		They told me to move into Paul's office.  I said fuck you very much.
lisa		I know.  I know that. 
witwer		Yeah.  But if he shoots a cop ...  Which is what he does four days from now, isn't it?
lisa		He'd never hurt you.
witwer		I know that.  But the other thing I know is -- the Precogs are never wrong.
driver		Welcome aboard, Mr. Symington.  Plenty of seats in the back.
anderson		Time to upgrade your alarm system, Senator.
senator malcolm		There's no motive.
anderson		There's, always a motive.
senator malcolm		What the fuck was I worried about? You can't kill me.  The Precogs would've seen it.
anderson		Tell you something about the Precogs, Senator.  They're great on murder. But it's the little things they fail to see.
witwer		He hasn't shown up on one goddamn IdentiScan in three days.
lieutenant glaser		He's found a room -- he's going to sit it out.
witwer		Yeah, except for holding a gun to senator Malcolm's goddman head in his own goddman house last night, Anderson's sitting it out!  Why hasn't he been scanned?
lieutenant glaser		Hes beating the scanners
witwer		No one beats the scanners.
lieutenant glaser		But the scarring always
witwer		He went the whole way.  The crazy bastard had his eyes removed.  New ones sewn in.
lieutenant glaser		That takes weeks to heal.
witwer		If you're prepared to go blind, a street surgeon'll juice up the repair cycle.  They don't give a fuck about risk.
spokeswoman		The United States Supreme Court has issued a special injunction allowing the unprecedented public viewing of former Precrime Director Paul Anderson's future murder of Edward Witwer, the current Director.
anderson		His mouth slowly opens.  He steps back against a wall and slides his hand into his pants pocket.  He looks at the Precog DISC in his cupped hand, then quickly puts it away.
spokeswoman		She continues her declamation
anderson		Shakes his head in confusion and disbelief.  But he has the Precog disc ...
old guy		This oughtta be good, huh?
video		KIOSK
anderson		Oh, Ed ...
anderson		"Ennis Page engages the services of prostitutes because his relationships with them compound his feelings of selfloathing."  Direct quote from your psychological profile -- the kind of shit I had to know as your former boss.
page		I fuck whores and I'm orderly, so what?
anderson		Something's out of order, Ennis. Deeply out of order.
page		 You can't make copies
anderson		Ennis -- you gave out the same disc twice.  Less than an hour apart. The one I stole.  And then another one.  Of the same event.
page		It's impossible.  The Precogs can only move forward to new events. Into the future.  They never repeat.
digital voice		Have a nice night, Mr. Symington
young guy		Hey!  Hey, you can't...
anderson		It's me.
lisa		Paul.
anderson		Your phone will be bugged.  So we can't meet, we can't do anything. Just listen.  Nowing you're listening is enough.
lisa		No.
anderson		I know.  Witwer sent them.  He saw the disc and had to do his job.  Tell me you forgive me.  Please.
lisa		Of course, I forgive you.
anderson		All these people I need to forgive me.  I love you.
lisa		 Frank hated gardenias.
voice		Paul Anderson.  Drop to your hands and knees!
driver		What the hell --
voice		Paul Anderson.  Drop to your hands and knees!
anderson		Pick one for me!
kid		What?
anderson		Point to the train I should take. Please.
kid		I don't know.
officer		Don't kill me!  Jesus.  Please.
anderson		But the Precogs would've predicted me killing you.  You'd know whether I do or not.
officer		They're off homicides.  They're redirecting them to help us locate you.
attendant		You all right in there?
tour guide		Welcome to the main headquarters of Precrime.  Smaller Precrime branches are scattered throughout the United States.
witwer		What is it?
technician		Must be a glitch ...
witwer		What?
technician		Anderson just got IdentiScanned.
witwer		Where is he?
technician		But he's had his eyes done.  Right? Sir?  Tries to think it through.
witwer		 He had to have.
technician		Jesus Christ, sir.  He's in the basement of this building.
witwer		This is ridiculous.
lieutenant glaser		Standing orders from the Security Panel, sir.
witwer		If he wants to get to me, he'll get to me.
lieutenant glaser		No, he won't, sir.
technician		Don't worry, air -emergency generators will kick on in five seconds.
witwer		Explanation, please!
technician		Uh, sir.  It seems ... he got the generators, too.
voice		Shit.
female		Save us, Anderson.
anderson		I have to get out of here.
female		Save us.
anderson		You let me get here, didn't you? You stopped giving them information, so they couldn't track me.
female		Save -- And what can Anderson do but catch her before she falls? What can he do but throw her over his shoulder, and in the fading light of the flare, make a run for freedom.
lisa		 Help me, Paul.
witwer		Why didn't the Precogs know he was coming to do this?
lieutenant glaser		We won't let that happen, sir.
witwer		You won't, huh?
technician		They're a hive mind, sir.  It takes three for their predictive abilities to be fully operational.
witwer		These two are all I have to find the man who is about to murder me.  Hook them up, and flood them with whatever kind of fucking chemicals you have to.  They are a machine, and I need that machine at my disposal.
lisa		Your IdentiScan is off, Ennis.  I could just walk in here.
page		I forgot.  To turn it on.
lisa		You don't look surprised to see me.
page		He took one of my babies.
lisa		He's desperate, Ennis.  He had to.  We have to help him.
page		I delivered ... a fake .. to him?
lisa		But he thought it was real, and ran with it.
page		He spilled coffee everywhere ... Everywhere ...
lisa		What coffee?  What are you -- ?
female		My brothers aren't here.
anderson		You didn't even look around.  You knew.
female		 We can sense each other.  You must save
anderson		Stop.  I saved You.  It was the best I could do.
female		Thank you, Anderson.
anderson		What am I going to do with you?
female		Name me, Anderson.
anderson		What?
female		Give me a name.  I've never had one.
anderson		Listen.
female		Rose.
anderson		Rose.  They shifted your precognition so you would locate me.
rose		 Yes.  And it hurt us, physically. Did you know that?  The helmets, the controls.  It hurts.
anderson		 I didn't know.
rose		We saw our chance.  You would need to shut us down, you would have to come.  We wanted you to come.
anderson		You used me -- to save you.
rose		I have been used all my life, Anderson.
anderson		Rose.  What's going to happen to us? Can you see that?
rose		I'm weak.  And away from my brothers. I see glimpses and hints of things nearby.  But it's all ... scattered.  I'm tired of the future, Anderson.
anderson		You didn't know I was going to do that, did you?
rose		No.  Oh, Anderson.  It was lovely.
lieutenant glaser		Who else could it've been?
witwer		 Page worshipped the system.  He fell apart.  Shot himself.
lieutenant glaser		Anderson.
holographic doctor		Director Witwer.  This event is a positive homicide. 
lisa		There.
lisa		The one on the left, the first disc -it's a fake.  He doesn't have blue eyes anymore.
witwer		A fake.
lisa		Exactly.  You can't tamper with the Precogs, induce them to make fakes 
witwer		Bypass the Precogs and slip a fake disc in with that day's real ones...
lisa		 We're all programmed to believe anything we see on a Precog disc. The system has never been wrong ...
witwer		 It's gone too far, Lisa She shakes her head, shocked at his response
lisa		He was set up!  You both were.  If Paul kills you, you're both out of the picture.
witwer		Who wants us out?  Of what picture?
lisa		Jesus, Ed. Stop this thing!  And then we can investigate Witwer's mouth opens and closes.  He tries again.
witwer		Ennis Page was murdered last night.
lisa		He's not a murderer.
witwer		I think he is.  A murderer ... and a future murderer.  Lisa.  What does it matter that the first disc is a fake ... if the second one's real?
anderson		Rose.  Listen to me.  I'm going to leave you here.  I have to keep moving.
rose		No.  You must save my brothers.
anderson		It's impossible.  There's no time. I've done what I can do!
rose		Come here, Anderson.
rose		It was impossible to save that boy -- but you did, Anderson.  It's in you.  It's what you are.
anderson		You knew it wasn't impossible.  That I'd get there.
rose		You are a man who saves others.  Save my brothers.
anderson		I'm in a lot of trouble right now.
rose		My brothers are in more trouble. They've moved them to ... an awful place.
anderson		Rose.  Ed Witwer -he's in the most trouble of all.  Who saves him?
anderson		Rose.  Try to drink.
rose		Your wife.  We have to get her here, Anderson.
anderson		Why?
rose		I don't know ...
anderson		What are you seeing?
rose		Glimpses, Anderson.  Please.  We have to get her here.
anderson		You're scaring me, Rose
rose		Stop talking.  It uses me up.
secretary		Sir?  I'm sorry, she stepped out for a few minutes.  Sir?
lisa		Hello?  Hello?
anderson's voice		I need you.
lisa		Two hundred dollars if you don't scan me.
man		You bite me, bitch, I'll pull your teeth out.
lisa		Cut it a little close there, honeybunch.
anderson		Rose got the street wrong.  She's getting weak.
lisa		Rose?
anderson		Two discs.  One fake.  One real.
lisa		I don't think there were supposed to be two.  Whoever planned it, wasn't counting on two.
anderson		An infallible system.  Every disc ever generated has been true ...
lisa		Somebody wants you out of the way -- so they make a fake disc.  Who ever doubts the discs?
anderson		I never doubted it.  I saw it.  And believed it, absolutely.  I was certain I was going to murder Witwer.
lisa		And generated the second disc.  The real one.
anderson		A self-fulfilling prophesy.  I believed it was true.  And that made it true.
rose		 We see what we see.  I'm sorry, Anderson.  It's been predicted.
lieutenant glaser		We can't take chances, sir
witwer		The event.
lieutenant glaser		I've been ordered to get you onto the craft.  By force if necessary.
witwer		The event is inevitable, Lieutenant.
lieutenant glaser		I don't leave this room without you, sir.  The Security Panel insists.
anderson		Nobody could slip a fake disc past Ennis Page Lisa shakes her head.
lisa		He was the weak link in the perfect system.
anderson		Obsessive compulsive niners can't allow changes in the routine
lisa		Something threw him off.  Someone was in his office with him. And coffee spilled ...
anderson		Rose.  What is it?
rose		 We weren't just lost in the future. We were in the Chamber, too.  Our eyes were open.  In the present.
anderson		Your eyes were open.  What did you see, Rose?
rose		Who would I have told?  Who ever talked to us?  Who cared that we could talk?
anderson		Rose.  Who spilled the coffee? Straight ahead ...
anderson		Ed ...
lisa		The perfect system -brought down by a cup of coffee.  My god.
anderson		 What makes me leave this room?  If I stay here I won't kill him.  Right?
witwer		You see, if you think you can put me on a hovercraft and save me, then you don't believe in the infallibility of the Precog system.
witwer		Things quiet?
officer		Sir.  Should you ... be here?
witwer		There's been a development.  A body's been found in the Sprawl.
officer		Anderson's?
witwer		They're checking it out.  I need to see what the Precogs have seen.
witwer		Borrowed this from the technicians' lounge.  You don't think they'll mind, do you?
witwer		No, no.  This is exactly where I should be.
witwer		And tv's so good for that -- soothes the mind.
witwer		And that's because ... ?
witwer		Do you think they know where Anderson is?
witwer		They know how to find Anderson for me. 
anderson		Jesus Christ.
lisa		Come on, Rose.
anderson		One hour.  We hold it together for an hour, Witwer lives -- and I'm not a murderer.
lisa		She won't last an hour.
anderson		Rose!
rose		He's killed him, Anderson!
anderson		Did he kill both of them, Rose? Rose!
rose		Does it matter, Anderson?
lisa		If you leave this room...
anderson		Then I'm a cop, just trying to do hisjob.
witwer		Is he coming?  No?  Yes?  Maybe?  I think yes.
witwer		I figured, since I can see the future, too, maybe I could get a little disc action going.  Just kidding.
anderson		There's never anything good on, you know?
witwer		There.  That's the old Paul.
anderson		You're not the old Ed. You've lost it.
witwer		You lost it.  You went weak in the knees, partner.
anderson		I'm not your partner.
witwer		The air went out of you when Frank D'Ignazio killed himself.
anderson		He was guilty.  I accepted that.
witwer		No you didn't.  The doubts were creeping in on you.  The lab trying to engineer more Precogs ... Malcolm pressuring you to expand ...
anderson		Never been my style.
witwer		Precrime needs to grow.  You would have stood in its way.  The Security Panel wouldn't have understood that. What you're capable of.  What a bulldog you are.  Look what you've been doing to us all week.  Amazing.  You're the best.
anderson		So you took matters into your own hands.
witwer		I understood the threat.  I understood YOU
anderson		You killed a Precog.  You ended the system you wanted to protect.
witwer		Wrong.  This lab will make more. Believe it, Paul.
anderson		Knowing the exact moment of your death -it's made you crazy, Ed.
witwer		You sonofabitch!
anderson		That's right.  No gun.
witwer		You see?!  That's exactly what I'm talking about.  You don't Believe!
anderson		You can't have it both ways.  You don't want to die.  That's why you lured me here -- to kill me first. 
witwer		Pick it up
anderson		Let's not do this, Ed Witwer trains his gun on Anderson.  Anderson trains his gun on Witwer.
witwer		Now do you believe?
rose		James.  Can you guess what I'm thinking?
james		 NO.
****Dialogues from script :Miracle_Worker.txt****

doctor		Shet11 live. KATE closes her eyes. I can tell you now, I thought she wouldn't,
kate		Doctor. Will my girl be all right?
kate		Is there nothing we should do?
doctor		Just let her get well, she knows how to do it better than we do. These things come and go in infants, never know why. Call it acute congestion of the stomach and brain. KELL ? moves after the DOCTOR, we hear them off-camera; we see only KATE'S face hovering over us, her hand adjust- ing the blanket.
keller		I'll see you to your buggy, Doctor.
kate		Hush. Don't you cry now, you've been trouble enough. Call it acute congestion, indeed, I don't see what's so cute about a con- gestion, just because it's yours? We'll have your father run an editorial in his paper, the wonders of modern medicine, they don't know what they're curing even when they cure it. Men, men and their battle scars, we women will have to -- Helen, Helen Captain, Captain, will you come. 
keller		Katie, what's wrong?
kate		Look.
keller		Helen. Heleni
kate		She can't hear youl
helenl		His face has something like fury in it, crying the child's name; KATE almost fainting presses her knuckles to her mouth, to stop her own cry.
percy		Why you cuttin' off that doctor's legs?
martha		I'm gonna give him a operation. Now I'm gonna cut off his arms, one, two. Now I'm gonna fix up She pushes HELEN'S hand away from her mouth. You stop that.
percy		Cut off his stomach, that's a good operation.
martha		No, I'm gonna cut off his head first, he got a bad cold.
percy		Ain't gonna be much of that doc- tor left to fix up, time you finish all them opera-- But HELEN is poking her fingers inside his mouth, to feel his tongue; he bites at them, annoyed, and she jerks them away. HELEN now fingers her own lips, moving them in imitation, but soundlessly. Again the CAMERA on this.
martha		What you do, bite hand?
percy		That's how I do, she keep pokint. her fingers in my mouth, I just bite 'em off.
peercy		She tryint talk. She gonna get read. Looka her try in' talk.. ILLEN is scowling, the lips under her fingertips moving in silence, growing more and more frantic, until in a bizarre rage she bites at her own fingers. This sends PERCY off into laughter, but alarms :MARTHA.
marti		Hey, you stop now. She pulls EELEI' S hand down, You just sit quiet and But at once HELEIT topples LTARTHA on her back, knees pinning her shoulders down, and ;-ravs the sissors. MARTHA screams, hile her tied b _nchlets of hair f17 off in snips of the scissors. PERCY darts to the bell stria on the porch, yanks it W THE DELL
bate		 Helen. She is dorm the steps at once to them, seizing Ii LE'TT S wrists and lifting her off IARTHA. VINE= runs in and chases MARTHA and PERCY OFF.
aunt ev		Arthur, something ought to be done for that child.
aunt ev		'-Thy, this ver-T famous Perkins School in Poston; they're just supposed to do wonders.
aunt ev		What, child? Obviously not hearing, HELEN commences to go around from person to person, tapping her eyes, but no one attends or understands.
kate		 As long as there's the least chance. For her to see. Or hear, or --
keller		There isntt. Now I must finish here.
kate		I think, with your permission, Captain, I'd like to write to the Perkins School.
keller		I said no, Katie.
feller		They can't.
kate		We won't know that; to be a fact, Captain, until afLLer you write.
kate		 What?
james		Some asylum. It's the kindest thing.
aunt ev		Why, she's your sister, James, not a nobody --
james		Half sister, and half-mentally defective, she can't even keep herself clean. It's not pleasant to see her about all the time.
kate		Do you dare? Complain of what 0 you can see?
keller		 This discussion is at an end] HELEN gropes her way with the doll back to AUNT EV. The house is at sixes and sevens from morning 'til night over the childl I want some peace here, I don't care how, but one way we won't have it is by rushing up and down the country every time someone hears of a new quack. I'm as sensible to this affliction as --
aunt ev		Helena My buttons.
kate		Eyes? HELEN nods energetically. She wants the doll to have eyes. Another kind of silence now, while KATE takes pins and buttons from the sewing basket and attaches them to the doll as eyes. KELLER stands, caught, and watches morosely, AUNT EV blinks and conceals her emotion by inspecting her dress.
aunt ev		My goodness me, I'm not decent.
kate		She doesn't know better, Aunt Ev. I'll sew them on again.
keller		Helen! All are in commotion, the baby screams, but HELEN un- perturbed is lying her doll in its place, KATE on her
kate		Helen, Helen, you're not to do such things, how can I make you
keller		 Katie.
kate		How can I get it into your head, my darling, my poor --
keller		Katie, some way of teaching her an iota of discipline has to be
keller		I didn't say it was her fault.
kate		Then whose? I don't know what to dot How can I teach her, beat her -- until she's black and blue?
keller		It's not safe to let her run around loose. Now there must be a way of confining her, somehow, so she can't---
kate		Where, in a cage? She's a growing child, she has to use her limbs!
keller		Answer me one thing, is it fair to Mildred here?
keller		Now what?
kate		She wants to talk, like -- be like you and me. She holds HELEN struggling until we HEAR from the child her first sound so far, an inarticulate weird noise in her throat such as an animal in a trap might make; and KATE releases her. The second she is free, HELEN blunders away collides violently with a chair, falls, and sits weeping. KATE comes to her, embraces, caresses, soothes her, and buries her own face in her hair, until she can control her voice.
aunt ev		Oh, I've a mind to write to Boston myself. If that School can't help her, maybe they'll know somebody who can.
keller		 I'll write to Perkins, Katie. He stands with the baby in his clasp, staring at HELEN'S head, hanging down on KATE'S arm.
anagnos		0 -- only that a suitable governess has been found here and will come. It will no doubt be difficult for you there, Annie, but it has been difficult for you at our school too, hmmm?
anagnos		...-This is my last time to counsel you, Annie, and you do lack some -- by some I mean all -- what, tact, or talent to bencT. To others. And what has saved you on one or more occasions at Perkins is that there was nowhere to expel you to. Above ANNIEIS seat ANAGNOS puts her suitcase, looking .down at her. Your eyes hurt?
annie		My ears, Mr. Anagnos.
anagnos		 What?
annie		0 Well, he keeps digging up that battle.
anagnos		That is not a proper thing to say. Annie, be humble. He extends a gift to her.. You'll need their affection, work- ing with this child. ANNIE, not quite comprehending, looks at gift. A gift with our affection. ANNIE opens a small box and sees a garnet ring. She looks up, blinking, then down.
annie		Dear Mr. Anagnos, 
annie		Which half? The train lurches. ANAGNOS bends and kisses her on the cheek and says,
anagnos		Goodbye. Goodbye.
annie		(She calls after him
girl		It's his hip, N ster, he was born that way. is AN' S VOICE Can't he walk without that crutch? The GIRL shakes her head.
****Dialogues from script :Mirrors.txt****

fourth draft		January 5th 2007
angela		What time is it?
angela		No, you're going to be late.
ben		Go back to sleep... I'll call you, OK?
angela		Yeah, I won't be working until later tonight.
ben		See you later, Angie.
ben		 I've been thinking about Michael's birthday tomorrow. It would be nice if we could celebrate it together ... You know, for the kids' sake... Call me... Please.
ben		Did you clean them?
lorenzo		What?
ben		The mirrors, why are they so clean?
lorenzo		That's Gary Lewis, the fellow who worked here before you. He was completely obsessed with these damn mirrors. He'd spend the entire night polishing them.
ben		Why did he leave?
lorenzo		No idea. Just didn't show up one night. I take it he's found a better opportunity somewhere else. 
lorenzo		Lorenzo Junior, my grandson... Say hello Lorenzo.
lorenzo		Lorenzo and I are going to the movies tonight...
ben		How old are you, Lorenzo?
ben		I do now.
ben		I think your grandpa just wants to scare you a little.
lorenzo		Here, this should fit you. Lorenzo, put your coat on... We are already late.  There's a drop of Jack Daniel's in the cupboard... To keep yourself warm.
ben		See you tomorrow.
ben		Fuck...
michael		Why did they say on TV that it wasn't supposed to snow today, but tomorrow instead? Why did they lie?
daisy		Sometimes they make mistakes, Michael. It happens...
michael		Grown-ups don't make mistakes. Only little children do.
daisy		Daddy!
michael		 What is that?
ben		Well I don't know, I just found this package hidden behind a tree.
michael		Is it for me?
ben		Maybe...  Daisy, has Michael been a good boy? Does he deserve his birthday present?
daisy		No! Yesterday he finished the whole bag of candy when mom had told him he could only have one piece.
michael		Not true!
daisy		Yes it's true!
michael		No, it's not true... She's lying Daddy. I've been a very good boy, I promise.
ben		Is mom back?
daisy		Not yet. Rosa came to pick us up from school today.
ben		Hello Rosa!
rosa		Hello Seor Carson. How are you?
ben		I'm good, very good... What time will Amy be back?
rosa		Not before six, Sir...
ben		OK, I'll wait for her.
rosa		Do you want me to fix you a snack?
ben		No, thank you. I'll be fine.
michael		What is it?
daisy		Duh, open it stupid!
amy		Hi Rosa... Where are the kids?
rosa		Upstairs...  ...With Seor Ben.
ben		Hey Amy...
amy		It's great, you will have to show me how it works!
ben		 Ok kids, it's time for your bath. No fooling around.
amy		What is this? I already asked you not to drop by without calling, didn't I?
ben		I do, but you never take my calls!
amy		I don't need your calls in the middle of the night. I'm better off without them.
ben		I haven't had a drink in three months but, then again, how would you know?
amy		I don't want to know, Ben. I don't want to hear about it. It's not my problem. You're not my problem. You've done more than enough harm already.
ben		You don't think people can change?
amy		We are not talking about people, we're talking about you. How many times did you tell me you were gonna change and nothing happened? It only got worse.
ben		Just give me another chance.
amy		I need more time, Ben. Listen, I will never stop you from seeing your children but we have to set up some rules.
ben		WHAT RULES?! IT'S MY SON'S FUCKING BIRTHDAY TODAY! COME ON AMY, WHAT RULE IS GOING TO STOP ME FROM SEEING HIM?
amy		Yes, honey.
amy		I don't know sweetheart. I don't know.
ben		I haven't managed to find the source of the leak. My guess is it doesn't come from the store... It must be a municipal pipe that blew with the cold...
lorenzo		I'll call the company tomorrow morning and have them come take a look at it.
angela		 What are you looking at?
ben		Nothing special...
ben		You can't avoid them. They're everywhere...
angela		What are you talking about?
ben		The mirrors... In the department store, at every street corner, in the windows of every fucking building in this city. I feel like I'm not the one looking into the mirrors, but rather they're looking at me.
angela		You need a drink.
angela		Don't you think you're being a little bit paranoid?
ben		Gary?
ben		Coming...
deliveryman		Mr. Carson?  Would you mind signing here, please?
lorenzo		I've just been through the craziest day here... No kidding! Your ex- colleagues came to pay us a visit...
ben		What happened?
ben		Did they mention the cause of death?
lorenzo		No... they wouldn't tell me.
ben		Have a good night, Lorenzo.
31.		54   CONTINUED:                                                       54
ben		 Damn... What is happening to me?
ben		Amy, I need you to do me a favor...
amy		Listen, I am in the middle of work, I don't really have time now.
ben		I need your help... It won't take more than twenty minutes. Please, Amy?
amy		Why do you want to see him?
ben		He used to work at the Mayflower as a night watchman, before I replaced him.
amy		Where did you get his driver's license?
ben		I found his wallet in the department store. I need to find out how he died...
amy		You are no longer a cop, Ben. This isn't your business anymore.
ben		He sent me a package before he died, with newspaper articles about the Mayflower... I think he was trying to tell me something... I don't know him. I've never even met him, Amy... I need to figure this out.
young doctor		Gary Lewis... Gary Lewis... Oh, there he is, 58B... He slashed his throat...
amy		 There you go... There's your answer. Your man committed suicide.
young doctor		 Well, all I know is that the cops are still investigating this one. That's why we still have the body. People can be very creative when it comes to suicide. I'm sure it's not the craziest thing you've seen.
amy		I've got to get back to work, Ben. They're waiting for me upstairs.
ben		How... What did he slit his throat with?
young doctor		With... with a piece of mirror.
gary		...ESSSEKERRR...
amy		Are you OK, Ben? What's going on?
ben		 I need to see his files...
amy		What?
ben		I NEED TO SEE HIS FILES!
amy		Come on, Ben, what is it you're after? I am not supposed to show you any file... You're not even allowed to be here. I could get fired for this.
young doctor		Well, I'll be off. Amy, you know where to find me if you need me.
amy		What is happening to you? What is all this supposed to mean? What is going on, Ben?
ben		I won't leave until I see that file.
ben		Look at this picture... Come and see, Amy.
amy		What!?
ben		Look at the piece of mirror in his hand. In the reflection of the mirror it's covered in blood, and look- in reality, it's clean. Not a drop of blood...
amy		So what?
ben		Don't you find it strange that this mirror doesn't reflect an exact image of reality?
amy		I can't see the difference. It must be an effect of the angle from which the photograph was taken. What is it you are you trying to prove?
ben		What if the mirrors were showing us something different?
amy		What? For Christ's sake, listen to yourself, Ben! What are you talking about?
ben		What if the mirrors were reflecting something that goes beyond reality?
amy		 OK... This is way over my head. I don't have time for your barfly theories.
ben		Thanks for your help...
amy		You should go home and get some rest. This guy probably just killed himself because he couldn't live with himself anymore. It happens to thousands of people, you know...
angela		I'm off... Amy called me today, she's worried about you. What's happening, Ben?
ben		I made a deal, Angie... I can't just walk out on them like that. I need this job, I need the money. I'm not going to sleep on your couch for the rest of my life!
angela		You won't have any trouble finding another one. A daytime job, a regular job...
ben		LEAVE ME ALONE...
ben		Mrs. Lewis... Sorry to bother you... My name is Ben Carson. I worked with Gary, at Mayflower. Could I come up and talk to you for a few minutes?
ben		Did he use any drugs?
ben		Did you notice anything different, the days prior to his leaving the house, anything unusual in his behavior?
ben		What kind of changes?
ben		Sleeping?
ben		Busy doing what?
ben		Is that you standing next to him?
ben		Mrs. Lewis, I found a note that Gary wrote. 
41.		60   CONTINUED:  A piece of paper, where he'd scribbled down the name, Esseker... Does that mean anything to you?
ben		May I see his room?
ben		Do you mind if I stay in here for a moment?
ben		 WHERE ARE YOU?!!
michael		Mom! Mom!
amy		What is it Michael?
michael		There's a lady screaming...
amy		Where Michael?
michael		There... In the mirror...
amy		No, Michael... Look, there's nothing there.
michael		I saw her mom. I swear I did.
amy		It was just a nightmare. It's late, you have to go back to sleep. I'll turn on the night-light, if you want.
daisy		Mom, can you leave the door open?
amy		Sure sweetheart... OK, you two go to sleep now.
angela		Hello... Ben?
angela		No, no, I just got home from work. What's wrong? You sound strange.
angela		Are you sure?
angela		Are you sure?
angela		Be careful... Love you.
police inspector		Look... Isn't Ben Carson in the picture?
49.		67   CONTINUED:                                                     67 LARRY  The person who did this must have had the keys to her apartment, or otherwise it was somebody she knew...
amy		He would never have laid a finger on her. When their father died, Ben took care of his sister. Angela meant the world to him.
amy		No, lately, communication hasn't quite been our strong point...  I only found out yesterday that he was staying at his sister's. What are you going to do with him?
amy		You have to see someone Ben. You cannot stay in this situation any longer. You need help, psychological support.
ben		No, I don't want to put them in any danger.
amy		What do you mean?
amy		Ben, look at me! I don't want you to get into any trouble. Think about Daisy and Michael. You are not going to solve this case. Please, stay out of it.
amy		In that case, you have to tell them everything.
ben		They wouldn't believe me and neither would you... Goodbye.
amy		Ben, wait...
ben		Why did you do it? WHY? WHY DID YOU HAVE TO KILL HER?
esseker		 CUT TO:
ben		...Look up Esseker... Yes, Echo, Sierra, Sierra, Echo, Kilo, Echo, Romeo... Esseker. No idea, my guess is that it's a name... No, I haven't got a first name. Yes, in New York. Over the past five or six years. I know it's hazy but that's all I've got. I already looked it up in the phone book. I also called someone at the IRS and at the DMV, but nothing there. It's very important Larry. You'll call me back? Ok...
amy		Do you want the cereal in your hot chocolate or in a separate bowl?
michael		In the chocolate...
amy		...In the chocolate, please, mom...
michael		 ...Please, mom.
daisy		Yuck, that's gross, how can you eat that?
amy		Come on, come on, let's get going, or you're going to be late for school.
daisy		Mom?
amy		What is it sweetheart?
daisy		Do you know that Michael has a new friend?
michael		No, that's not true!
amy		Really, what's his name?
michael		 You promised not to tell.
amy		Does he go to your school?
michael		He doesn't want me to talk about him.
amy		Why doesn't he want you to talk about him? Is he a grown up?
michael		No...
amy		So, he's a little boy your age, then?
daisy		He lives in the mirror in our room.
amy		Is it your father who told you that?
michael		No Mommy.
ben		Did you consider Terrence innocent?
59.		76   CONTINUED:                                                     76
terrence		In order to... to destroy the mirrors. Only fire can destroy a mirror, isn't that right, Doctor?
terrence		They killed Helen and my three little girls...
terrence		Because I didn't...
terrence		They asked me to find Esseker...   Like they did with the others...
ben		Amy...  I have to go.
terrence		I DON'T KNOW WHO ESSEKER IS! I DON'T KNOW WHO ESSEKER IS, I DON'T KNOW!!
daisy		What are you doing dad?
ben		Don't worry, there's nothing wrong. Everything is OK...
daisy		But why are you doing that?
ben		I'm doing it to protect you.
amy		Do you mind telling me what the hell you're doing?
ben		Look Amy, you've got to trust me, I know what I'm doing... It's for your own good.
amy		I want you to stop what you're doing and get out of our house right now. 
62.		80   CONTINUED:                                                     80 AMY  You're scaring the kids acting like this.
ben		You have to trust me Amy, I'm not completely crazy... These mirrors are dangerous. At first, I thought it was only the ones at the store, but now I know they can get you anywhere. They got Angela... I promise I'll leave the house once I've taken them all down.
amy		Do you realize what you're saying, Ben? What is wrong with you? I know that what you're going through isn't easy. Angela was a part of our lives too, but you have no right to do this to us... Ever since your obsession with these damn mirrors the kids are scared to death. Your son has nightmares. He's scared Ben... Your behavior is starting to rub off on him. He's only 5 years old... And I have to protect him.
ben		Come Amy, come with me, I want to show you something.
ben		Look, you'll see...
amy		What are you doing with that gun... Put it down, BEN... PUT IT DOWN RIGHT NOW!
ben		Wait, look, you'll see...
amy		SEE WHAT, BEN?! WHAT AM I SUPPOSED TO SEE ?!
ben		But... I swear to you I... I saw...Amy...
amy		Get out...now! I don't ever want to see you here again, Ben. And I'll have the lawyers make sure the same goes for the kids. You are insane, Ben, and dangerous... You've got to get help.
ben		Hello, Larry? It's me... I'm going to need your help again-
ben		Mayflower used to be a hospital before it became a department store. St. John's Hospital. Do you have any idea where all the medical records could have ended up after it closed down?
ben		Go to the city hall archives... They must have something considering it was a public hospital.
ben		Larry, Larry stop it... If I could go myself, I wouldn't be asking you. Go to the City Hall archives, and ask them to look up Esseker among the former patients. Please.
ben		Please, do it for me.
ben		Talk to you later.  Ben hangs up.  He glances back at the rear view mirror and sees ANGELA'S CORPSE, SITTING ON THE BACK SEAT!  Startled, he loses control of the vehicle. A truck approaches at full speed in the opposite lane. He barely avoids the collision.  Two other cars appear. Ben zigzags in and out, just barely avoiding a fatal crash.  He stops along the edge of the road.  Ben closes his eyes and rests his head against the steering wheel in an attempt to clear his mind. He looks up into the rear- view mirror again-  ANGELA'S REFLECTION IS STILL THERE. Behind her long black hair, she fixes him with a milky gaze.  Ben flies into a rage. HE SMASHES THE REAR-VIEW MIRROR WITH HIS BARE FIST, REDUCING IT TO SCRAPS...  Ben is alone and lost.  BEN  What have I done? I don't understand... What have I done?  Insert on what is written on the side rear-view mirror-  "OBJECTS IN MIRROR ARE CLOSER THAN THEY APPEAR"
larry		He was arrested. They found him dead on the first day of his hearing. He had slit his wrists with a piece of his cell mirror!
amy		Come on, come on... Let's go... Daisy, Michael?
amy		What are you doing Michael? Come on, we're going to be late.
ben		Amy ? What's wrong?
ben		What?
ben		What's happening?
ben		Where are Daisy and Michael? Are the kids all right?
ben		Get out of the house. I'll be right over...
ben		I'm right here, Amy. I'm here now... Thank god you're alright.
amy		We can't stay here, we have to leave the house now... We can go to my mother's or to a hotel...
daisy		When will you be back, Dad?
ben		As quickly as I can, sweetheart. I promise.
michael		I love you, Dad.
amy		What if you don't find her? Maybe she doesn't live there anymore? Maybe she's really dead.
ben		They want her, I'm gonna find her wherever she is. We don't have any other choice.
amy		I know.
ben		Amy, I want you to stay here with the kids until all this is over. All the mirrors are covered, there's no more danger. I'll come back as soon as I can.
ben		Hello... Is this the Esseker farmhouse?
woman's voice		What is it Jimmy?
jimmy		I don't know Mom.  What can I do for you sir?
ben		I am looking for Anna, Anna Esseker.
jimmy		 Anna Esseker, Mom!
jimmy's mother		What is it you want with Anna Esseker?
ben		I huh... I am doing some research for a book on the history of St. John's Hospital, in New York...
jimmy's mother		Jimmy, go tell grandpa that there's a man here who'd like to talk to him about his sister.
robert		You know, up to this day, the visions of Anna's fits still haunt me at night.
robert		No, not with Anna...
ben		With the mirrors?
ben		Where is she now?
robert		To protect us, she left the house and joined the monastic orders, where mirrors are forbidden... St. Augustine's monastery, on the road to Midwich.
sister		Yes, how can I help you?
ben		Hello Sister. I have come to visit a member of your community... Sister Anna? Her real name is Anna Esseker.
sister		Is she expecting you?
ben		No, not really.
sister		Are you a relative?
sister		If you are not listed, I cannot help you sir. 
79.		104   CONTINUED:                                                    104 SISTER  We have strict regulations concerning visitations, which are exclusively for family members.
sister		Wait here for a moment.
sister anna		St. John's closed down in 1952. Who are you?
ben		My name is Benjamin Carson. I work as a night watchman at 1229 West 38th Street in New York City, what used to be St. John's Hospital.
sister anna		What is it you want Mr. Carson?
ben		I need your help.
sister anna		My help? I don't quite see how I could possibly be of any help.
ben		My wife and children are in danger. What is threatening my family is asking for you...
sister anna		It is not the wish of the mirrors to find me, but of what is imprisoned inside them. The mirrors are merely windows on our world...
ben		A window... For what? For whom?
anna		At the time that I was at St. John's, Dr. Kane's therapy for personality disorders consisted of locking the patient up in a mirrored room for several days on end, in order to force him to confront his own image. I spent the darkest days of my life in that room. On the 6th day the nurses found me lifeless, almost dead. Since that day, I have never had another fit. But deep down inside I've always known the truth.
ben		What truth?
anna		There is no cure for schizophrenia, it was something else, Mr. Carson. And whatever it was, it entered the mirror.
anna		The consequences of such an act, Mr. Carson, would be more devastating than letting them suffer where they are now. I'm going to pray for you and your family. That's all I can do right now, Mr. Carson. God bless you...
ben		Wait... Please, listen to me- Terence Berry, Gary Lewis and many others before me... Those are the people who died trying to find you. Because they failed, their families died too. My sister was murdered two days ago... My wife and kids will next if you don't come with me. Look-  From his wallet Ben takes out a wrinkled photograph of Michael, as a baby, in Amy's arms. Daisy stands next to them in the picture. Ben presses the photograph against the grating for Anna to look at it.  BEN  I KNOW YOU ARE SCARED OF GOING BACK THERE. IT'S EASIER TO KEEP HIDING BUT THIS IS NOT THE HOUSE OF GOD ANYMORE. WHILE YOU'RE PRAYING PEOPLE ARE DYING ON YOUR TIME!  Anna doesn't respond and disappears in the distance.  Ben failed. He's desperate and lost. He has a hard time containing his anger.
daisy		What is it Mom?
amy		 No Amy, stay with me...
ben		Amy? Amy? Answer me?  He tried to redial but that doesn't work. He knows something weird is happening there.  Without hesitation, Ben grabs his gun inside the car and walks back towards the monastery gates.
anna		If I come with you Mr. Carson, you have to promise to do everything I tell you. My way. No questions.
ben		You have my word.
amy		Micha...  She turns around, but Michael is not behind her. The reflection lied.  SUDDENLY HER ARM IS PULLED INTO THE BATHTUB.  AN INVISIBLE FORCE PLUNGES HER HEAD INTO THE WATER TO DROWN HER. AMY STRUGGLES FRENETICALLY BUT THE PRESSURE IS TOO STRONG FOR HER TO BREAK FREE.
amy's reflection		Come sweetheart... Come, come closer... Come...
daisy		What are you doing in there, Mom?
amy's reflection		Come closer, don't worry... Everything is all right, sweetheart.
amy		Michael?! Michael?
amy		Oh my god, don't move baby, don't move...
daisy		Why did you do this, Mom?
amy		 It wasn't me Daisy, it wasn't me... I would never hurt you, you know that.
daisy		Whe...where is Michael ?
amy		I don't know where he is... I'm going to take care of you and then we're going to find him...OK But for now, we have to get out of here.
daisy		Is Daddy coming back soon?
amy		Yes, he'll be here soon as he can.
amy		Listen to me carefully Daisy... I want you to stay in here and be quiet.
amy		Michael ? Michael ?
michael		They want to come play with us, Mommy.
amy		Michael, I want you to drop that knife, do you hear me? You know very well you are not allowed to play with that, don't you?
ben		Answer! God damn it... Answer the phone...
ben		Something's wrong over there, my wife is not answering.
anna		They are waiting for me...
amy		Michael ?
daisy		Tiger! Come here kitty, come here...
ben		Watch your step, a water pipe has burst, the whole basement is flooded.
amy		Michael ?
daisy		It is over, Mom?
amy		Yes sweetheart, it's over...
****Dialogues from script :Misery.txt****

"misery"		 by  William Goldman  Based on the Novel by  Stephen King
paul		Still got it.
paul		An old friend. I was rummaging through a closet and it was just sitting there. Like it was waiting for me.
sindell		 It's... it's nice, Paul. It's got... character.
paul		When I wrote my first book, I used to carry it around in this while I was looking for a publisher. That was a good book, Marcia. I was a writer then.
sindell		You're still a writer.
paul		I haven't been a writer since I got into the Misery business--
sindell		 Not a bad business. This thing would still be growing, too. The first printing order on Misery's Child was the most ever--over a million.
paul		Marcia, please.
sindell		No, no. Misery Chastain put braces on your daughter's teeth and is putting her through college, bought you two houses and floor seats to the Knick games and what thanks does she get? You go and kill her.
paul		Marcia, you know I started "Misery" on a lark. Do I look like a guy who writes romance novels? Do I sound like Danielle Steel? It was a one- time shot and we got lucky. I never meant it to become my life. And if I hadn't gotten rid of her now, I'd have ended up writing her forever.  For the first time in fifteen years, I think I'm really onto something here.
sindell		I'm glad to hear that, Paul, I really am. But you have to know--when your fans find out that you killed off their favorite heroine, they're not going to say, "Ooh, good, Paul Sheldon can finally write what we've always wanted: An esoteric, semi- autobiographical character study.
paul		 I might just have something that I want on my tombstone.
annie		 You hear me--Breathe! I said breathe!!!
paul		 ...where... am I...?
annie		 Shhh... we're just outside Silver Creek.
paul		How long...?
annie		You've been here two days. You're gonna be okay.  My name is Annie Wilkes and I'm--
paul		--my number one fan.
annie		That's right. I'm also a nurse. Here.  Take these.
annie		Here.
paul		What are they...?
annie		They're called Novril--they're for your pain. 
paul		Shouldn't I be in a hospital?
annie		The  blizzard was too strong. I couldn't risk trying to get you there. I tried calling, but the phone lines are down.
annie		 Now you mustn't tire yourself. You've got to rest, you almost died.
annie		Your legs just sing grand opera when you move, don't they?  It's not going to hurt forever, Paul, I promise you.
paul		Will I be able to walk?
annie		Of course you will. And your arm will be fine, too. Your shoulder was dislocated pretty badly, but I finally popped it back in there.  But what I'm most proud of is the work I did on those legs. Considering what I had around the house, I don't think there's a doctor who could have done any better.
annie		It's not nearly as bad as it looks. You have a compound fracture of the tibia in both legs, and the fibula in the left leg is fractured too. I could hear the bones moving, so it's best for your legs to remain immobile. And as soon as the roads open, I'll take you to a hospital.
annie		In the meantime, you've got a lot of recovering to do, and I consider it an honor that you'll do it in my home.
sindell		This is Marcia Sindell calling from New York City. I'd like to speak to the Silver Creek Chief of Police or the Sheriff.
sindell		Whichever one's not busy.
buster		I'm pretty sure they 're both not busy, Ms. Sindell, since they're both me. I also happen to be President of the Policeman's Benefit Association, Chairman of the Patrolman's Retirement Fund, and if you need a good fishing guide, you could do a lot worse; call me Buster, everybody does, what can I do for you?
sindell		I'm a literary agent, and I feel like a fool calling you, but I think one of my clients, Paul Sheldon, might be in some kind of trouble.
buster		Paul Sheldon? You mean Paul Sheldon the writer?
sindell		Yes.
buster		He's your client, huh?
sindell		Yes, he is.
buster		People sure like those Misery books.
sindell		I'm sure you know Paul's been going to the Silver Creek Lodge for years to finish his books.
buster		Yeah, I understand he's been up here the last six weeks.
sindell		Not quite. I just called, and they said he checked out five days ago. Isn't that a little strange?
buster		I don't know. Does he always phone you when he checks out of hotels?
sindell		No, no, of course not. It's just that his daughter hasn't heard from him, and when he's got a book coming out, he usually keeps in touch. So when there was no word from him...
buster		You think he might be missing?
sindell		 I hate that I made this call--tell me I'm being silly.
buster		Just a little over-protective, maybe.  And if anything turns up, I'll call you right away.
sindell		I appreciate that. Thanks a lot.
buster		G'bye, Ms. Sindell.
virginia		We actually got a phone call. Busy morning.
buster		 Virginia? When was that blizzard?
virginia		Four or five days ago. Why?
buster		 ...no reason...
paul's voice		 I guess it was kind of a miracle... you finding me...
annie		No, it wasn't a miracle at all... in a way, I was following you.
paul		Following me?
annie		 and I'd try to imagine what was going on in the room of the world's greatest writer.
paul		Say that last part again, I didn't quite hear--
annie		 Well, the other afternoon I was on my way home, and there you were, leaving the Lodge, and I wondered why a literary genius would go for a drive when there was a big storm coming.
paul		I didn't know it was going to be a big storm.
annie		Lucky for you, I did.  Lucky for me too. Because now you're alive and you can write more books. Oh, Paul, I've read everything of Yours, but the Misery novels...
annie		I know them all by heart, Paul, all eight of them. I love them so.
paul		You're very kind...
annie		And you're very brilliant, and you must be a good man, or you could never have created such a wondrous, loving creature as Misery Chastain. 
paul		When do you think the phone lines'll be back up? I have to call my daughter, and I should call New York and let my agent know I'm breathing.
annie		It shouldn't be too much longer. 
paul		You want to read it?
annie		 If you wouldn't mind.
paul		I have a hard and fast rule about who can read my stuff at this early stage--only my editor, my agent, and anyone who saves me from freezing to death in a car wreck.
annie		 You'll never realize what a rare treat you've given me.
annie		Boy, it's like clockwork, the way your pain comes--I'll get you your Novril, Paul. Forgive me for prattling away and making you feel all oogy.
annie		What's your new book called?
paul		I don't have a title yet.
annie		What's it about?
paul		 It's crazy, but I don't really know, I mean I haven't written anything but "Misery" for so long that--you read it you can tell me what you think it's about. Maybe you can come up with a title.
annie		 Oh, like I could do that?
libby		Nothing unusual about Mr. Sheldon's leaving, Buster--you can tell by the champagne.
buster		Maybe you can, Libby.
libby		No, see, he always ordered a bottle of Dom Perignon when he was ready to go. Then he'd pay up and be out the door.
buster		No long-distance phone calls, Federal Express packages--anything at all out of the ordinary?
libby		 I don't think Mr. Sheldon likes for things to be out of the ordinary. Considering who he is and all, famous and all, he doesn't have airs. Drives the same car out from New York each time--'65 Mustang--said it helps him think. He was always a good guest, never made a noise, never bothered a soul. Sure hope nothing happened to him.
buster		So do I...
libby		I'll bet that old Mustang's pulling into New York right now.
buster		I'm sure you're right.
annie		 I know I'm only forty pages into your book, but...
paul		But what?
annie		Nothing.
paul		No, what is it?
annie		Oh, it's ridiculous, who am I to make a criticism to someone like you?
paul		I can take it, go ahead.
annie		Well, it's brilliantly written, but then everything you write is brilliant.
paul		Pretty rough so far.
annie		 There, I said it.
paul		The profanity bothers you?
annie		It has no nobility.
paul		Well, these are slum kids, I was a slum kid, everybody talks like that.
annie		They do not. What do you think I say when I go to the feed store in town? "Now, Wally, give me a bag of that effing pigfeed and ten pounds of that bitchly cow-corn"--
annie		--and in the bank do I tell Mrs. Bollinger, "Here's one big bastard of a check, give me some of your Christing money."
annie		 There! Look there! See what you made me do!
annie		Oh, Paul, I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. Sometimes I get so worked up. Can you ever forgive me? Here...
annie		I love you, Paul.  Your mind. Your creativity--that's all I meant.
virginia		This sure is fun.
buster		 Virginia, when you're in this car, you're not my wife, you're my deputy.
virginia		Well, this deputy would rather be home under the covers with the Sheriff.
buster		 Stop--stop right here.
virginia		What? What is it?
buster		Look at that broken branch there...
virginia		Could be the weight of the snow.
buster		Could be--or a rotten branch or a mountain lion could have landed on it. Could be a lot of things.
virginia		Anything down there?
virginia		 You really think Sheldon's out there?
buster		Hope not--if he is, he's dead. Let's go to the newspaper office.
annie		Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to wake you.
paul		It's fine.
annie		They had it at the store, Paul, there was a whole batch of them there. As soon as I saw it, I slammed my money down. I got the first copy.
paul		Then the roads are open...
annie		The one to town is, but that's about it. I called the hospital and talked to the head orthopedic surgeon. I told him who you were and what had happened. He said as long as there's no infection, you're not in any danger, and as soon as the road to the hospital is open, they'll send an ambulance for you.
paul		The phones are working?
annie		Well, mine's still out. But the ones in town were working just fine. I called that agent of yours.  What a wonderful first page--just to read the name Misery Chastain...
paul		My daughter must be going nuts.
annie		...it's like a visit from my oldest, dearest friend.
paul		I was supposed to be home for her birthday three days ago.
annie		Your agent said she would tell her you were okay. But I'm afraid you'll have to wait until tomorrow if you want to speak to her yourself.
annie		 Oh, Paul, what a poet you are...
annie		I made you my speciality--scrambled eggs a la Wilkes. And I'm on page
paul		I guess that means it's okay.
annie		No. No, it isn't, it's--  --oh pooh, I can't think of any words. Would "great" be insulting?
paul		I can live with "great."
annie		 No, it's not just great, it's perfect, a perfect, perfect thing.
annie		I'm up to page 185. I always get sad when I pass the halfway point. Will you do me a favor? I'd love it if you would autograph my copy. I already have your autograph on a picture, but it would mean so much to me to get it in person. I know you're right- handed, so don't worry if it's not so legible. I'll cherish it anyway.
annie		I don't mean to pry, but I've read in two magazines now where you were seeing this model who does those disgusting jeans commercials. And I said it can't be true. Paul Sheldon would never waste his time with a trampy woman like that.
paul		Well, you can't believe everything you read in magazines.
annie		I knew it. I knew it wasn't true. Boy, how do they get away with printing stuff like that?
paul		You'd be amazed at what some people will believe.
annie		Thank you so much.
paul		My pleasure.
annie		I thought it was time you two should meet. Paul, say hello to my favorite beast in all the world, my sow, Misery.
paul		Misery?
annie		Yes. I told you I was your number- one fan.
paul		I'm getting to believe you.
annie		This farm was getting kind of dreary, what with just the few cows and chickens and me--  But when I got Misery here, everything Changed--she just makes me smile so.
paul		She's a fine... uh... pig is what she is...
annie		 I'm on page three-hundred now, Paul, and it's better than perfect--it's divine. What's the ceiling that dago painted?
paul		The Sistine Chapel?
annie		Yeah, that and Misery's Child--those are the only two divine things ever in this world...
annie		Woink! Whoink! Whuh-Whuh-WHOINK!
annie		When my husband left me... I wasn't prepared, it wasn't an easy time...
annie		For a while I thought I might go crazy.
paul		I know how that can be.
annie		I don't know about you, but what I did to get through it was I dove into work--days, nights--night shifts can be lonely at a hospital. I did a lot of reading. That was hen I first discovered Misery. She made me so happy. She made me forget all my problems.  'Course, I suppose you had a little something to do with that too.
paul		Yeah, well...
annie		 I just kept reading them over and over. I know when I finish this one-- and I've only got two chapters to go-- I'll just turn right to the front page and start reading it again.
paul		I'm...
annie		 Done?
paul		Yeah, thanks.
annie		No problem.
annie		Don't get me wrong. I'm not against marriage per se. But it would take a pretty special guy to make me want to go down the aisle again.
paul		Well, it's not something you should enter into lightly.
annie		It boils down to respect. People just don't respect the institution of marriage any more. They have no sense of real commitment.
annie		I'd love to stay here and chat, but I'm right at the end and I gotta find out what happens.
paul		Well, I hope you like it.
annie		Of course I'll like it. Misery's about to have her child. What's it gonna be, a boy or a girl? Ooh, don't tell me.
annie		You...you dirty bird. She can't be dead. Misery Chastain cannot be dead! How could you?
paul		Annie, in 1871, women often died in childbirth, but her spirit is the important thing, and Misery's spirit is still alive--
annie		 I DON'T WANT HER SPIRIT! I want HER! And you MURDERED her!
paul		I DIDN'T...
annie		Then who did?
paul		No one--she just died--she slipped away, that's all.
annie		 She slipped away? She slipped away? She didn't just slip away. You did it. You did it. You did it. You did it. You murdered my Misery.
annie		I thought you were good, Paul, but you're not good, you're just another lying old dirty birdie and I don't think I better be around you for awhile.  And don't even think about anybody coming for you, not the doctors, not your agent, not your family--because I never called them. Nobody knows you're here. And you better hope nothing happens to me because if I die, you die.
buster		No, Ms. Sindell, there's no point in coming up here now. Everything that can be done is... Yes, we're working closely with the state police, and the FBI has been informed. Right... Right... As soon as we know anything we'll let you know. No, it's no bother. Call anytime. Bye, Ms. Sindell.
virginia		Here's the list of all Sheldon's credit charges. Nothing after the Silver Creek.  Any calls?
buster		Just from his agent.
annie		What are you doing on the floor?  I know this hurts, but it'll only take a few seconds. There you go. Comfy?
paul		 Perfect.
annie		You're such a kidder. I have a big surprise for you. But first there's something you must do.
paul		I don't suppose I could have a little snack while I wait for the surprise?
annie		I'll get you everything you want, but you must listen first. Sometimes my thinking is a little muddy, I accept that. It's why I couldn't remember all those things they were asking me on the witness stand in Denver.
annie		But this time I thought clearly. I asked God about you and God said "I delivered him unto you so that you may show him the way."
paul		Show me the way?
annie		Yes.
paul		When I mentioned a snack, I was thinking more along the lines of a cheese and crackers kind of thing.
annie		Paul, this is no time for jokes. You must rid the world of this filth.
paul		You want me to burn my book?
annie		 Yes.
paul		You want me to burn my book?
annie		I know this may be difficult for you, but it's for the best.
paul		This isn't difficult, my agent's made dozens of copies. There's gonna be an auction on this, and every publishing house in New York is reading it now. So if you want me to burn it, fine. You're not ridding the world of anything.
annie		 Then light the match, Paul.
paul		No big deal.
annie		So you've indicated. Do it.
annie		I know this is the only copy, Paul. When you were twenty-four you wrote your first book and you didn't make a copy, because you didn't think anybody would take it seriously. But they did. And ever since you've never made any copies because you're superstitious--it's why you always come back to the Silver Creek Lodge. You told that story to Merv Griffin eleven years ago.
paul		You know, Annie, this book never would have survived without you. When it gets to new York, there will be a big auction, and whatever it brings we can split.  God knows you're entitled to it.
annie		Oh, Paul. This isn't about money. It's about decency and purity. It's about God's values.
paul		You're right. You're right. I don't know what I was thinking. I'll tell you what. It doesn't have to be published. Nobody ever has to see it. I'll just keep it for myself. No one will ever have to know it exists.
annie		As long as it does exist, your mind won't ever be free. I think you should light the match, Paul.
annie		Can't you see it's what God wants?
annie		You're so brilliant. I would think you'd certainly be able to see that.  We're put on this earth to help people, Paul. Like I'm trying to help you.
annie		Please let me help you.
annie		You're doing the right thing, Paul.
annie		 Goodness!
annie		Goodness--Goodness--Oh, my gracious--
annie		Well, isn't that an oogy mess?
buster		 The only other place up here is the Wilkes farm.
buster		That's no '65 Mustang. There's nothing else out this way--circle on back.
annie		I do believe the winters are getting shorter and shorter every year. People say it has something to do with the ozone layer. What do you think?
paul		I don't know.
annie		Yeah, well, it's a theory. Here's your Novril.  How does tuna casserole sound for dinner?
paul		Great.
annie		See, isn't this nice?
paul		Great. I've always wanted to visit the other side of the room.
annie		And look what I've got for you. An electric razor so you can shave yourself now.
paul		If I knew this was gonna be the surprise, you could've gotten me to burn all my books.
annie		 Now don't josh. This is a very big day for you, Paul. Here. You just sit tight, and I'll set everything up.
paul		Set what up?
annie		That's the big surprise. Your new studio--after all, writers do need a place to work.
paul		Work? You mean write? What in the world do you think I'd write?
annie		Oh, but Paul!  --you're going to write a new novel-- your greatest achievement ever-- Misery's Return.
paul		 Misery's Return?
annie		I know you didn't mean it when you killed her, and now you'll make it right.
annie		Yes. It will be a book in my honor. For saving your life and nursing you back to health. I'll be the first one to read it.  Oh, Paul, you're going to make me the envy of the whole world...
paul		You just expect me to whip something off, that it?
annie		 I expect nothing less than your masterpiece.
paul		You do understand that this isn't the ordinary way books get written-- I mean, some people might actually consider this an oddball situation.
annie		I have total confidence in your brilliance--besides, the view will inspire you.
annie		You just inhale that. I'll be right back.
paul		 I guess you don't get bothered by neighbors much.
annie		Don't worry about that. You'll have total solitude so you can concentrate on your work.
paul		Great.
annie		I got you this expensive paper to type on.
annie		 And I got a great deal on this fifty- pound clunker--on account of it's missing an "n." I told the saleslady "n" was one of the letters in my favorite writer's name.
paul		It's two of the letters in my favorite nurse's name, Annie.
annie		 Did I do good?
paul		 You did great, except there's just one little thing--I can't work with this paper. It's Corrasable Bond, it smudges. Maybe you could go back into town and bring me some white, long-grained mimeo.
annie		But mine cost the most so I don't see how it could smudge.
paul		 C'mere, I'll show you.
annie		 Well, it does smudge after all--isn't that fascinating?
paul		I thought you'd be interested. I'd like you to be in on everything, Annie. Not just the finished book, but how it's written.
annie		Thank you for thinking of me.  Anything else I can get while I'm in town? Any other crucial requirements that need satisfying? Would you like a tiny tape recorder? Or maybe a handmade set of writing slippers?
paul		No, just the paper will be fine.
annie		 Are you sure? 'Cause if you want, I'll bring back the whole store for you.
paul		Annie, what's the matter?
annie		What's the matter? I'll tell you what's the matter. I go out of my way for you. I do everything to try and make you happy. I feed you, I clean you, I dress you. And what thanks do I get? "You bought the wrong paper, Annie. I can't write on this paper, Annie." Well, I'll get your stupid paper, but you just better start showing me a little more appreciation around here, Mister Man.
paul		 Shit...
paul		You've written how to do this--now do it!
paul		 What do you know, it actually works.
paul		What a surprise.
paul		Operator...  ...Shit!
paul		You crazy bitch...
annie		Just the kind you asked for.
annie		Paul, you're dripping with perspiration, your color is very hectic--what have you been doing?
paul		You know goddamn well what I've been doing--I'VE BEEN SITTING HERE SUFFERING. I need my pills.
annie		 Poor dear... Let's get you back in bed and I'll get them for you.
paul		 I want my pills NOW!
annie		It'll only take a second.
paul		I want my pain to go 'way, Annie-- make it go 'way, please Annie--  --please...
annie		 It just breaks my heart to see you like this...
annie		...and I'm absolutely convinced that the main reason I've never been more popular is because of my temper. You must be so mad at me. The truth now.
paul		Well, I don't  hold grudges. After all, who doesn't let off a little steam once in a while.
annie		My genius needs his rest before he writes.
annie		Here, in case you think of any ideas.
paul		Yeah, well I wouldn't expect too much.
annie		Don't be silly. You'll be brilliant. Think of me as your inspiration.
annie		I have faith in you...  ...my darling...
annie		Catch this--  --ummmm-wahhhh.
buster		 Walter, we could be skipping lunch today.
virginia		You don't think he's dead, do you?
buster		He might well be. But not the way they say. He didn't crawl out of that car by himself. You saw those dents on the door--someone pulled him out.
virginia		It was an old car--those dents could have been there forever.
buster		There's two kinds of people that drive around in old cars: the ones that can't afford new ones, and the ones who wouldn't give 'em up for anything in the world. That second bunch don't drive around with twenty- five-year-old dents.
annie		 --just remember, I'll treasure whatever you do.
annie		I'm sorry, Paul. This is all wrong, you'll have to do it over again.
paul		 What? What happened to "I'll treasure whatever you do?"
annie		Paul, it's not worthy of you. Throw it all out except for the part of naming that gravedigger after me. You can leave that in.
paul		I really value your criticism, but maybe you're being a little hasty here.
annie		Paul, what you've written just isn't fair.
paul		--not fair?
annie		That's right--when I was growing up in Bakersfield, my favorite thing in all the world was to go to the movies on Saturday afternoons for the chapter plays...
paul		 --cliff-hangers--
annie		 --but I didn't cheer, I stood right up and started shouting, "This isn't what happened last week--have you all got amnesia?--THEY JUST CHEATED US--THIS WASN'T FAIR--"
annie		"HE DIDN'T GET OUT OF THE COCKADOODIE CAR!"
paul		They always cheated like that in cliff--  --chapter plays.
annie		But not you. Not with my Misery. Remember, Ian did ride for Dr. Cleary at the end of the last book, but his horse fell jumping that fence and Ian broke his shoulder and his ribs and lay there all night in the ditch so he never reached the doctor, so there couldn't have been any "experimental blood transfusion" that saved her life. Misery was buried in the ground at the end, Paul, so you'll have to start there.
paul		Look at this, I've got Lizzie Borden for an editor, here.
annie		What's the matter, Paul? You haven't written a word.
paul		I can't write this anymore.
annie		Don't be silly. Of course you can.
paul		I'm telling you, I can't.
annie		You can--you have the "gotta"--
paul		The what?
annie		The "gotta." Remember, you talked about it in Playboy magazine. You said there's a million things you can't do in this world; you can't hit a curve ball, you can't fix a leaky faucet or make a marriage work-- but there's one thing you always have, and that's the power of the "gotta."
paul		I said that?
annie		You said you can make it so they gotta turn the page. You know, "I 'gotta' know will she live," "I 'gotta' know will he catch the killer." "I gotta see how this chapter ends." You said it. I don't usually buy that magazine. I only got it, 'cause they were interviewing you.
paul		 What about a bee...?
annie		What?
paul		Nothing.
paul		Well, is it fair? Should I keep going?
annie		You better. Oh, Paul, when Ian realized that the reason they'd buried Misery alive was because the bee sting had put her in that temporary coma--
annie		--and when Gravedigger Wilkes remembered how thirty years earlier, the same thing had happened to Lady Evelyn-Hyde--  --and then old Dr. Cleary deduced that Misery must be Lady Evelyn-Hyde's long-lost daughter because of the rarity of deadly bee-stings--my heart just leapt.
annie		I've known from the very first book that Misery had to be born of nobility and I was right!
paul		 Yeah, yeah...
annie		Oh, Paul, can I read each chapter when you finish? I can fill in the "n"s.  Will she be her old self, now that Ian has dug her out, or will she have amnesia...?
paul		...have to wait.
annie		Will she still love him with that special perfect love?
paul		Have to wait.
annie		 Not even a hint?
annie		Misery's alive! Misery's alive. Oh, it's so romantic--this whole house is going to be filled with romance. I'm going to put on my Liberace records--  --you do like Liberace, don't you?
paul		 Whenever he played Radio City, who do you think was right there in the front row?
annie		I'm going to play my records all day
long		--to inspire you--he's my all-time favorite.
paul		Annie?
paul		Would you have dinner with me tonight?
paul		To celebrate Misery's return. I couldn't have done it without you.
annie		Oh, Paul. It would be an honor.
paul		Jesus Christ.
virginia		 No, he's not here. I don't know where he went. He never tells me anything anymore. He's probably out having an affair somewhere. Wait a minute. I think I hear him coming.
virginia		 It's Jim Taylor. He wants to know who you've been having an affair with.
buster		Hey, Jim, what's doing? Uh-huh... uh- huh... Jim, we've been over this. If you're gonna have benches in front of your store, people are gonna sit on them. I don't like him either, but I'm not going to come over there and tell him to move. Give my best to Denise. Bye.
virginia		 Well, whoever she is, she sure likes to read a lot.
buster		Virginia, I'm flattered you think I got that much energy. I just figured if I can't find Paul Sheldon, at least I can find out what he wrote about.
virginia		What do you expect to find? A story about a guy who drove his car off a cliff in a snowstorm?
buster		Now, you see, it's that kind of sarcasm that's given our marriage real spice.
annie		I hope you like it.
paul		It looks wonderful. And so do you.
annie		Oh...
paul		I've never had meatloaf this good, what do you do to it?
annie		My secret is I only use fresh tomatoes, never canned. And to give it that little extra zip, I mix in some Spam with the ground beef.
paul		Oh.  You can't get this in a restaurant in New York.
paul		Annie, I think we should have a toast.
annie		A toast?
paul		Yes, to Misery. Let me pour you some more wine.
annie		To Misery.
paul		Wait, let's do this right. Do you have any candles?
annie		Oh, I don't know. I think so. I'll go look.
paul		Did you study decorating, or do you just have a flair?
annie		Oh, you. I just picked things up over the years.
paul		Well, it certainly says you.
annie		You really think so?
paul		Absolutely. Listen, if you can't find any, it's okay. I just thought it might be nice.
annie		Are you kidding? If anyone ever told me that one day I'd be having a candlelit dinner with Paul Sheldon in my own house, I woulda checked both legs to see which one was being pulled. Will this do?
paul		It's perfect.
paul		To Misery and Annie Wilkes, who brought her back to life.
annie		Oh, Paul, every time I think about it, I get goosebumps.
annie		 Can we pretend this never happened? To Misery?
paul		To Misery.
annie		Paul, this is positively the best Misery you've ever written.
paul		I think you're right.
annie		I think it's so wonderful that Misery would sacrifice her title to take up the cause of her people. That's true nobility.
annie		Here's your pills.
paul		Annie, what is it?
annie		 The rain... sometimes it gives me the blues.
annie		When you first came here, I only loved the writer part of Paul Sheldon. But now I know I love the rest of him too. As much as Misery loves Ian.  I know you don't love me--don't say you do--you're a beautiful, brilliant, famous man of the world; and I'm...not a movie star type. You'll never know the fear of losing someone like you if you're someone like me.
paul		Why would you lose me?
annie		The book is almost finished. Your legs are getting better. Soon you'll be able to walk. You'll be wanting to leave.
paul		Why would I want to leave? I like it here.
annie		That's very kind of you, but I'll bet it's not altogether true.
paul		It is.
annie		I have this gun, and sometimes I think about using it.
annie		I better go now. I might put bullets in it.
buster		"There is a justice higher than that of man. I will be judged by Him."
virginia		What?
buster		They're hauling Misery into court.
virginia		That's nice.
buster		 "There is a justice higher than that of man--I will be judged by Him."
paul		 Holy shit.
annie		 Paul, I know you've been out.
paul		What?
annie		You've been out of your room.
paul		No, I haven't.
annie		Paul, my little ceramic penguin in the study always faces due south.
paul		I don't know what you're talking about.
annie		Is this what you're looking for? I know you've been out twice, Paul. At first, I couldn't figure out how you did it, but last night I found your key.  I know I left  my scrapbook out, and I can imagine what you might be thinking of me. But you see, Paul, it's all okay.
annie		Last night it came so clear. I realize you just need more time. Eventually, you'll come to accept the idea of being here. Paul, do you know about the early days at the Kimberly Diamond Mine? Do you know what they did to the native workers who stole diamonds? Don't worry, they didn't kill them. That would be like junking a Mercedes just because it had a broken spring-- no, if they caught them they had to make sure they could go on working, but they also had to make sure they could never run away. The operation was called hobbling.
paul		Annie, whatever you're thinking about, don't do it.
annie		Now don't fuss, Paul.
paul		Why would I run away? I'm a writer, Annie--it's all I am--and I've never written this well--even you said that this is my best, didn't you?
paul		Didn't you? Why would I leave a place where I'm doing my best work? It doesn't make any sense.
annie		Shh, darling, trust me--  It's for the best.
paul		Annie, for God's sake, please.
annie		Almost done, just one more.
annie		God, I love you...
buster		Just leave it, all right?
virginia		Oh, I like that tone.
buster		How many times do I have to tell you-- I have a system here.  Where the hell is that thing?
virginia		What thing?
buster		That thing.  Here it is. Right where it's supposed to be.
virginia		What is it?
buster		I'm not sure. Maybe nothing.
virginia		It's good you found it.
buster		There's that spice again.
buster		Interesting.
annie		Hi, Punkin.
annie		Give us a smile?  Such a kidder.
buster		Hey, Pete.
pete		Buster.
buster		Answer me a couple things?
pete		If I can.
buster		Do you have any of those new Paul Sheldon books?
pete		We had a batch. Sold 'em all in three days.
buster		You wouldn't happen to remember if Miz Wilkes bought one, would you?
pete		Are you kidding? Every time that fella writes a book, she makes me set aside the first copy.
buster		Has she been buying any odd things lately?
pete		Miz Wilkes? Same old stuff.  --Lest you call paper odd.
buster		Newspapers?
pete		 No, the typing kind.
buster		Oh. That kind. Nothing odd about that.
annie		Paul, don't you think it's time for you to start writing again? It's been over a week.
paul		I don't know, it's weird, but a couple of broken bones hasn't done a lot for my creative juices. Get the fuck out of here.
annie		Don't talk to me like that.
paul		 Kill me? Take your best shot.
annie		 Why are you so mean, Mister you'd-be- dead-in-the-snow-if-it-wasn't-for- me?
paul		Oh, no reason, you keep me prisoner, you make me burn my book, you drive a sledgehammer into my ankles...
annie		I'll drive a sledgehammer into your man-gland if you're not nicer--
paul		 Be my guest.
annie		 That's disgusting.
annie		I don't think I'll ever understand you. I cook your meals, I tend to you practically twenty-four hours a day, and you continue to fight me. When are we going to develop a sense of trust?
annie		 Oh, my!
buster		Sorry, didn't mean to startle you. You didn't give me a chance to knock.
annie		 Guess you can tell from my reaction, I'm not all that used to visitors out here. What can I do for you?
buster		I was just wondering if you happen to know anything about Paul Sheldon.
annie		 What do you want to know?
buster		Anything you can tell me might help.
annie		Well, he was born in Worcester, Massachusetts, forty-two years ago, the only child of Franklin and Helene Sheldon, mediocre student, majored in history...
buster		 Excuse me, that's not exactly the kind of information I was after. You see, he's been missing for quite some time now, and...
annie		I know. It's so upsetting. I'm his number-one fan...I've got all his books, every sentence he ever put down. I'm so proud of my Paul Sheldon collection...  ...here I am, prattling on and my manners have just flown away. I haven't invited you in. Please.
buster		Thank you.
annie		'Course you must know about that horrible accident.
annie		Almost killed me, too. I prayed when I heard the news. I got down on my knees and begged for it not to be true.
annie		You're going to laugh at what I'm about to say, but go ahead, I don't care...  ...when I was praying, God told me to get ready.
buster		Get ready for what?
annie		To try and be his replacement--he gave so much pleasure to so many people and there's a shortage of pleasure on this planet these days, in case you hadn't noticed.
annie		God told me, since I was his number- one fan, that I should make up new stories as if I was Paul Sheldon. So, went to town. And I bought a typewriter. And paper to type on. The same kind Paul Sheldon used. And I turned the guest bedroom into a writing studio. Would you like to see it?
buster		Sure.
annie		It's right this way.
annie		It's right here. I knew how he wrote, the kinds of words he used, the wonderful stories he told--  --but it's just not the same.
buster		Well...  ...maybe it takes time to get the hang of it.
annie		 I could give you a couple of hundred pages of mine, and you could tell me what you think.
buster		I'm not much of a critic.
annie		Well, I just thought--oh, look at me. You'd think I'd never had a house guest before. Would you like something to drink?
buster		Sure.
annie		How does a nice cup of cocoa sound?
buster		Sounds good.
annie		There's some already made.
buster		Must get lonely, living out here all by yourself.
annie		I always say if you can't enjoy your own company, you're not fit company for anyone else.
buster		You got a point there...
annie		Here you are.
buster		Thanks, Miz Wilkes, but I don't want to take up any more of your time. I best be going.
annie		But you didn't even taste your cocoa.
buster		I'm sure it's wonderful, but really should be getting back.
buster		If you don't mind, perhaps I could pay you another visit sometime.
annie		I'd be delighted. Now that you know the way...
buster		Miz Wilkes, are you all right?
buster		Miz Wilkes?
paul		 Here. I'm down here. Down here.
buster		Mr. Sheldon?
annie		Don't feel bad, Paul. It had to happen. I've been waiting for this sign.
annie		I've known for some time why I was chosen to save you. You and I were meant to be together forever. But now our time in this world must end. But don't worry, Paul. I've already prepared for what must be done. I put two bullets in my gun, one for you and one for me. Oh, darling, it will be so beautiful.
annie		Now don't be afraid. I love you.
paul		I know you do. I love you too, Annie.  And you're right. We are meant to be together. And I know we must die. But it must be so that Misery can live. We have the power to give Misery eternal life. We must finish the book.
annie		But the time is now. Soon others will come.
paul		It's almost done. By dawn we'll be able to give Misery back to the world.
annie		Here, Paul. I'll fix you something to eat.
annie		Oh, Paul. It's beautiful.
paul		Three more chapters to go.
annie		The stranger staying at the Inn, is he someone from Misery's past?
paul		Maybe.
annie		This is so exciting. It's Windthorne, her first love, right?
paul		Maybe. Are you ready for the next chapter?
annie		 Oh you!
annie		 Sorry, it's just that this is so wonderful.
paul		I'm glad you like it.
annie		Paul, this will be our legacy.
paul		It will.
annie		Oh, Paul. I'm dying. Does she wind up with Ian or Windthorne? You have to tell me.
paul		You'll know very soon. I'm starting the last chapter. And when I finish, I want everything to be perfect. I'll require three things.
annie		What things?
paul		You don't know?
annie		 Dome Pear-igg-non.
paul		Dome Pear-igg-non it is.
paul		 Annie! Annie!
annie		Yes, Paul.
paul		I'm almost done.
annie		Oh, Paul, this is so romantic. Ian and Windthorne dueling for the right to Misery's hand. Does Ian win? Oh, don't me. It's Windthorne, right?
paul		You'll know everything in a minute. Get the champagne.
annie		 Ahh!!!
annie		Did I do good?
paul		You did perfect. Except for one thing. This time we need two glasses.
annie		Oh, Paul.
paul		It's all right here, Annie. Remember how for all those years no one ever knew who Misery's real father was, or if they'd ever be reunited? It's all right here. Will Misery finally lead her countrymen to freedom? Does she finally marry Ian or will it be Windthorne? It's all right here.
annie		Paul, you can't.
paul		Why not? I learned it from you...
annie		No, no, NOT MISERY--NOT MY MISERY...!
annie		I'm going to kill you, you lying cocksucker...
paul		Here. Here. You want it? You want it? You can eat it--eat it--eat it till you fucking CHOKE--you sick, twisted fuck.
younger cop		It's the writer--the dead one--
paul		 --right! I'm the dead one--
older cop		Where's Sheriff McCain?
paul		He's in the cellar. She killed him.
older cop		Annie Wilkes?
paul		Yeah. She's in there.
older cop		Mr. Sheldon? There's no one in there.
paul		Sorry I'm late. Jenny's basketball game went into overtime. If anybody ever told me I'd have a daughter who'd get a triple double, I'd...
sindell		Did they win?
paul		Yeah. They're in the semis.
sindell		Here it is.  Very first copy.
sindell		The word I'm getting is the Times review is gonna be a love letter.
paul		That'd be a first.
sindell		And my contacts at Time and Newsweek tell me they're both raves. And don't laugh--for the first time, I think you've got a shot at some prizes.
paul		 Great.
sindell		I thought you'd be thrilled. You're being taken seriously.
paul		I'm delighted the critics are liking it, and I hope the people like it, too. But it's not why I wrote the book.
paul		I like it. Remember how you once said I live my whole life as if I'm in danger of being found out? Well, I believe I've managed to get that guy down on paper.  Don't think I'm completely nuts, but in some way, Annie Wilkes, that whole experience, helped me.
sindell		Paul, since you brought her up, I have to ask you this, or I'd be drummed out of the agents' union-- what about a non-fiction book? The truth about what went on in that house.
paul		Gee, Marcia, if I didn't know you better, I'd think you were suggesting I dredge up the worst horror of my life just so we could make a few bucks.
sindell		Now you've hurt me, Paul.
sindell		I thought you were over it.
paul		I am. Well, maybe not completely--
paul		I don't know if you can ever be totally over something like that--I just don't think about it as much anymore, and when I do, it's not so terrifying.
paul		I mean, once they found her body, my nightmares stopped.
waitress		Would you care for anything?
paul		 Cut me something sinful...
****Dialogues from script :Mission_Impossible.txt****

anatoly		Kasimov, Kasimov, good that you called us.
kasimov		 I don't remember what happened!  We were at the bar, drinking, laughing -- having fun.
kasimov		I don't even know how I got here. I swear, Anatoly, I never touched her!  I didn't lay a finger on her.
anatoly		Kasimov.  Don't flounder.
kasimov		You're right, of course.
ethan		IS THERE ANY PARTICULAR REASON WE'RE NOT OUT OF HERE YET?!
phelps		 What the hell's made you decide to take your leave at the worst possible time? Claire's in a weird mood too.
phelps		 Ah, God, forget it.  What are we talking burnout here?
ethan		Why not?
ethan		He won't be back in a hurry?
ethan		Always.
ethan		In position.  Jack open the door, let the package roll.
ethan		Stairway, youre wrapped, go to transport.
hannah		En route.
jack		Hey.
phelps		Jack, what are you doing?!
jack		Im not doing anything!  .
phelps		I dont have it -- I dont have control!
jack		Uh -- then I have a problem.
ethan		Cut the power.  Cut the power Jack.  Do you hear me.
ethan		Jack.  Jack.
phelps		Man down.  Stay where you are.  Im on my way.
phelps		En route.
sarah		The package is in the open.
ethan		Jim.  Jim.  Hes in the open.
ethan		Can you lose him?
sarah		Ethan.  Hes out of pocket.
ethan		 Jim we cant.
ethan		Negative, Golitsyns on the move.
ethan		Sarah eye on the package.  Jim, Im coming to you.
sarah		Jim gave an abort, we should walk away.
ethan		No, were going to recover the disk, understand?!  Now move!
ethan		About two hundred yards from the bridge.
ethan		JIM!
ethan		CLAIRE!
ethan		Central Europe.  Unsecured.
ethan		Bravo Echo one one.
ethan		Go secure.
ethan		Theyre dead.
ethan		My team.  Claire, Jack, even Jim - - Hannah, maybe, I -- dont know
ethan		They knew we were coming.  Golitsyns dead too.  The disk is gone.
ethan		Do you read me?  The list is in the open!
ethan		I dont think so.
ethan		Yes.
ethan		Youre in Prague?
ethan		No sir.
kittridge		Passport, visas - you know the drill. We'll work the exfiltration thru Canada, debrief you at Langley.  Throw the Prague police a bone, you know toss them a few suspects.  Follow me?
ethan		Let's see if you can follow me around this room.  The drunk Russians on the embankment at 7 and 8 o'clock...The couple waltzing around me at the Embassy at 9 and 11. The waiter behind Hannah at the top of the staircase - Bowtie, 12 o'clock. The other IMF team.  You're worried about me. Why?
ethan		Job.  Job 3:14.  March fourteen.  Job 31 March.
phelps		Ethan, what are you doing?
ethan		Take off your coat.
ethan		I've been disavowed.  They think I killed Jim and everyone else.  Somehow a hundred thousand dollars found its way into my parents' bank account.  Kittridge assumes I'm a mole they've been tracing and I've been in the employ of an arms dealer, Max, for the last two years, to get him our NOC list.
ethan		Claire, Claire, Claire, if you're not dead, he's going to assume you're with me.
ethan		I'm going to answer it.
matthias		Would you remove your hat please?
ethan		I thought I was going to see Max.
max		Really?  And you thought if you simply showed up I might give it to you?
max		On what?
max		It's quite out of the question.
max		And how might you know that?  Are you another Company man?
ethan		I'm NOC.  Was.  Now disavowed.
ethan		That's the question I want to ask Job.
ethan		Tell you what.  How good's the RF scanner you used in the car?
matthias		Fifty-seven. Fifty-nine.
max		I don't have to tell you what a comfort anonymity can be in my profession -- like a warm blanket.  My deal with Job was subject to a successful boot scan.  Obviously it didn't pass muster.  Deal's off.
ethan		How will you make sure Job will be there?
max		How will you make sure I'll have the list in three days?  It's been a delight.  Now where can I drop you dear boy?
ethan		I deliver the NOC list, Max delivers Job.
ethan		We need help, and we don't have time. They have to be local.
ethan		Simple game.  Four players.  -- cyber ops lifts the wallet.
ethan		This doesn't sound like the Luther Stickell I've heard of.  What'd they used to call you?  The Net Ranger?  Phineas Phreak?  The only man alive who actually hacked NATO Ghostcom.
ethan		May take a little time. That's not what Claire tells me about you.
ethan		I just need you to be safe.
claire		What about you?
ethan		What about me - Jim called an abort - I didn't comply.  I lost the team. I just need you to be safe.
kittridge		Too short sighted.  This guy's proactive, he initiates.  The question is what does he want now and where does he need to get it and Barnes what the hell is that noise?!
barnes		That's S.O.P..
ethan		Do you want to blow the fire through the whole building?
ethan		Let's move!
cia analyst		William Donloe.
ethan		Time up.
krieger		That's not it.  That's not the list.
ethan		Hauling Mom off to jail in shackles was an especially nice touch.
phelps		..the next day I managed to drag myself to the safe house, must've just missed you..anyway, I checked our aliases.
ethan		- and picked us up in the States -
ethan		Why, Jim?  Why?
phelps		..when you think about it, Ethan, it was inevitable..no more Cold War.  No more secrets you keep from everyone but yourself, operations you answer to no one but yourself.  Then one morning you wake up and find out the President of the United States is running the country - without your permission.  The son-of-a- bitch!  How dare he?  You realize its over, youre an obsolete piece of hardware not worth upgrading, youve got a lousy marriage and sixty-two grand a year.  Kittridge, well go after that no good son-of-a-bitch, big time!
ethan		We dont have to, Jim.  Hell come after us.
phelps		Whats going to make him do that?
ethan		What he didnt get in Prague.  The NOC list.
phelps		Jesus, Ethan.  Good for you.
ethan		A meeting tomorrow on the TGV, enroute to Paris.
phelps		Tight security.  No guns.  Real plus.
ethan		If I supposedly deliver the NOC list to Max, Max has agreed to deliver Job to me. Ill have Claire and Luther Stickell with me on the train.  Marcel Krieger will have helicopter transport waiting in Paris.
ethan		Jim...?
phelps		I was sitting in a cafe waiting for you and suddenly there she was, standing in the rain just outside the safe house..alive and beautiful..and thinking Im dead and gone.  God knows what shes had to do forget about me to keep going and get the job done, I..
phelps		- no.  She cant know about me.  No one can.  Not til this is over.  Theres too much at stake, Ethan.
ethan		Youre probably right.
phelps		I usually am.
ethan		Once we leave the safehouse, get in there and crash.  Ill call you from Paris.
phelps		You got it.
ethan		And get a doctor.
phelps		Good luck.
claire		What happened?
ethan		 I sent the message to Max.  Were on for tomorrow.
claire		Okay...
claire		Yes.......come here....viens pres moi...
kittridge		 How long to the London Terminus?
agent		Twenty, twenty-five minutes.
kittridge		Youve got ten.  Move!
max		How long until we reach the Chunnel?
matthias		Twenty minutes.
matthias		Yes...  Its him.
max		 This wasnt what we discussed.
max		 Ha, dear boy!  I do hope this doesnt prelude a meeting in private.
max		The possibility alone is worth ten million.  Baggage car, rack 3.  Silver
max		I wouldnt worry about him.  Once youve got the money -- hell find you.
barnes		Only four more cars.
kittridge		And if we dont find him - well search the whole train again.
barnes		Whats Hunt doing on the TGV?
kittridge		High speed train.  No-one gets on.  No- one gets off.  High security.  Good place for a pass off to Max.
barnes		But why tell us?
kittridge		Hes putting on a show, Barnes.
barnes		What kind of show.
kittridge		I dont know.  It didnt say on the tickets.
claire		Ethan...Kittridge is on the train.
ethan		Kittridge is Job.  Max delivered.  How far is he from Luther?
claire		Two cars.  Where are you?
ethan		You are my eyes.  Stay with him.
max		 Hes in the baggage car.
max		Whats the problem.
matthias		Connection denied.
max		Try it again.
matthias		Its not working.
max		Is something wrong with the phone?  Well is something wrong with the batteries?
matthias		I always check the batteries.
max		Run it through from the top.
barnes		Nothing but civilians, Gene.
kittridge		This is bullshit - we dont even know what Max looks like.
barnes		Maybe we dont have to know what he looks like.  If hes got that list, hes going to want to check it.  We should be looking for laptops.
kittridge		Good idea.
waiter		Excuse me, Sir, your telephone...
matthias		Its working.
max		Phew!  Weve got five minutes...
kittridge		Get this door open.
kittridge		Hello, Luther.  Wheres Hunt?
luther		Mr. Kittridge, the NOC list is being modemed off the train.
kittridge		Where?
claire		Ethans right behind me.  Listen to me Jim.  Is it such a good idea to kill him? We take the money.  Ethan takes the blame.  No-one else has seen you alive. No-one will believe him.
ethan		Of course - Im sorry to hear you say that Claire.
claire		Ethan?
phelps		Yes.  Ethan Hunt, darling.  Remember him?
claire		You knew about Jim?
phelps		Course he did.  Just exactly when he knew is something of a question.  Before or after I showed in London, mind telling me, Ethan?
ethan		Before London.  But after you took the Bible out of the Drake Hotel in Chicago.
phelps		They stamped it, didnt they?  Those damn Gideons.
phelps		Two minutes til Krieger shows.  Thisll have to be quicker than Id like. Certainly quicker than youd like.
claire		Ethan, if you knew about Jim?..Why..
phelps		Why the masquerade?  Why take the risk? Well, Claire, youve asked the question and you are the answer.
ethan		I knew about Jim.
phelps		But, he didnt know about you.  In all fairness, Ethan, Claire was never convinced her charms would work with you. But I was supremely confident - having tastes the goods.  "Thou shall not covet thy Neighbours wife", Ethan.  Oh, Ethan is in love with you, Claire, make no mistake about it.  And like all the worlds lovers, hes tortured by the same, one pathetic question - "does she feel the same way I do?"
phelps		Well Claire do you?  Have you been exploiting his feelings or returning them?
claire		Jim - lets just get the money and get out of here.
ethan		Youve earned it.
phelps		Count it.
ethan		Tell me something Claire, that night in Prague, was it you or Jim that blew up the car and scattered Hannah all over town?
phelps		Keep counting Claire.
claire		It was me.  I did it.
phelps		Satisfied?
claire		All ten million.
phelps		Fold it.  Fold it tight.
ethan		Arent you going to thank me Jim.  Ten million is better than six.
phelps		Dont flatter yourself - six was for Eastern Europe.  You made a lousy deal - ten for the world?  What is that?  But I needed you for the transfer with Max.  I got a little extra change;  and you got a little extra too.
phelps		Sorry Ethan.  Times up.  Say goodbye.
ethan		Youre wrong about one thing.  Im not the only one whos seen you alive.
kittridge		Good morning, Mr Phelps.
phelps		You son of a bitch.
claire		Dont Jim.
phelps		Now we dont have to eliminate him?  You like that, dont you Claire?  Dont you?
claire		Yes.
ethan		Jim, its over.
phelps		Ethan - Ive always taught you, nothing can be more dangerous than the truth.  It can kill you.
ethan		Claire...Hey...
claire		This stuff is so sticky.
ethan		Claire.
claire		Its all right, Ethan..youll bring me back...wont you...
max		Damn!
luther		I think this is what you're looking for.
ethan		About what?
luther		 Cheers.
ethan		Here's to  you, Luther.   To being off the disavowed list.
ethan		You're more than that, Luther.  They were mistaken about you and they're trying to show you they know it.  They want you back in.
luther		Sure.  They want me back in so I won't break in!  They still can't figure out how we did it.
ethan		No, thank you.
****Dialogues from script :Mission_Impossible_II.txt****

guard		What's this, then?
captain's voice		- folks, we're a little over two and a half hours from touchdown in Atlanta, but if you look out your windows on either side of the aircraft, we'll soon be crossing the southern section of the Rocky Mountains, a range which includes more than 50 peaks rising above 14,000 feet. The chain's loftiest point, Mount Elbert, at 14, 433 feet should be coming into view as we pass over central Colorado shortly..
ethan		You keep staring at that watch as if your life depended on it, Doctor..
ethan		They're ready and waiting.  You'll soon be with old friends.
ethan		Sorry it couldn't be under happier circumstances.
ethan		He was quite a man.  Did he know before the end you two had succeeded?
ethan		..not in time to save him.
ethan		You carry them together?  Safely?
captain's voice		You Captain again.  We've experienced a slight but abrupt drop in cabin pressure..
captain		 Pan, pan, pan, Denver Center.  This is Trans Pac Flight two-two-zero-seven, 747 heavy.  We are not reading you.  We're unable to maintain cabin pressurization. We have initiated a descent to one six thousand.
nekhorvich		..it seems we have a problem, Dmitri.
ethan		 You keep calling me Dmitri.  You really shouldn't.
nekhorvich		You're not Dmitri?
ethan		- no.
ambrose		- pull the NO2 tank and dump it, it's potential evidence..
stamp		 All done, chief..
ambrose		 - don't go too far ahead of me now -
stamp		Not possible..
wallis		Checkpoint Charlie plus 30, altitude minus two-zero-thousand.  Airspeed one-seven- niner knots..
ambrose		It's that time.  Go.
voice		Terrain, terrain.  Pull up, pull up.
ethan		Whoaa..
ethan		You're welcome.
electronic voice		Identity confirmed.
swanbeck		Good morning, Mr. Hunt.
swanbeck's voice		Your mission, should you choose to accept it, requires you to recover a stolen item, designated Chimera.  Essential to the mission is the recruitment of a civilian -- a Miss Nyah Nordoff-Hall.  She is a highly capable professional thief currently active in Spain.
ethan		If I let you know where I'm going -
ethan		Do you know me?
nyah		No.  Should I?
ethan		No.  You just looked as if you did.
nyah		No.  Just as if I'd like to.
ethan		Oh.  Well.  I think that can be arranged.
nyah		Not tonight.  Bad timing.  Sorry -
ethan		There's not enough time in the world for any of it to be bad.
nyah		Look, it's either you or the rent and I don't mind telling you it's not an easy choice.
ethan		What if I pay the rent?
nyah		Uh-huh.
ethan		Uh-huh?
nyah		Go find the wealthy lady you came with and next time we meet - I'll pay your rent.  Now bugger off.
nyah		 Mmmm.
ethan		Decisions, decisions.
nyah		What are you doing here?
ethan		Think you're the only one who can pick a lock?
nyah		 I see.  You're not just another pretty face..
ethan		I take it you prefer tenors.
nyah		Would you mind if I'm on top?
ethan		Oh, either way works for me.
ethan's voice		You're never gonna find it there.
nyah		 Damn it!  Find what?
ethan		His ex-wife's Bulgari necklace that goes up for auction Tuesday.
nyah		- right..where is it?
ethan		Far right.
nyah		Where's the bloody -
ethan		 - torque wrench.
nyah		- this is very disconerting..
ethan		Hey, you put me here.  I just do what I'm told.
nyah		- right..
ethan		 I wouldn't do that.
nyah		Do what?
ethan		That.
ethan		Well, Senor de l'Arena the goods news is that the heat sensors were activated.   But Miss Nordoff-Hall, my associate -
ethan		- did feel that she had rather too long to work on the safe before they triggered the alarm, isn't that right Miss Hall?
nyah		Oh yes.  Absolutely.  Much too long I should yes.
ethan		Under the circumstances I think we would recommend re-setting the senors to respond to a lighter load.  How do you feel about forty kilos, Miss Hall?
nyah		Indeed.
ethan		Well, Senor de l'Arena, there's no reason to disrupt your party any longer.  we have some further concerns about the disposition of your security guards, which you'll receive in our written report by fax in the morning, hard copy to follow.  Shall we?
nyah		The necklace?
nyah		I'm missing something here, aside from a 500,000 pound necklace.  Even after I botched the job, I could've walked out of there with the bloody thing.
ethan		At least you walked.
nyah		If you weren't going to let me get away with it, why did you let me go thru with it?
ethan		Wanted to see how good you were. I'm hoping we might work together.
nyah		May I say something, no offence?  You look like a gigolo, you sound like a thief, you act like a cop - what the bloody hell do you have in mind?
ethan		Working under adverse conditions.  Highly adverse conditions.
nyah		Sounds smashing.  I'm in.  Muchacho, mi carro, por favor!  Now be serious.  You couldn't possibly want me off tonight's performance..
ethan		You didn't do that badly.
nyah		 You're apologizing for me?  Quite the gentleman..
ethan		 Not really.  I triggered the alarm..
ethan		Hey, the Bulgari job last week was flawless.  And I've always been partial to pale yellows.
nyah		 I don't do laundry, or put up with cheeky bastards who set me up on their territory so they can poach on mine.
nyah		 Hola..
ethan		Hi.  Would you mind slowing down?
nyah		Where did you get this number?  I don't even have it!
ethan' voice		Would you like it?
ethan		Pull over and listen to me, will you? Just listen..
nyah		Listen to what?
ethan		I need your help and I thin you can use mine.
nyah		Your help?  What are you talking about?
ethan		Scotland Yard, Interpol, every Dutch authority.  I can make them go away.
nyah		Oh bloody hell.  You're a spy.
ethan		 I deserved that.
ethan		 Slow down, slow down.
nyah		 Uh-oh.
ethan		No!
nyah		Oh..oh..
ethan		Don't look down.  Just..look at me. That's it..that's it..
nyah		What's you name?
ethan		Ethan Hunt.
nyah		Well, Ethan Hunt, what is it you want to talk to me about?
ethan		...more than I thought..
nyah		Awfully short notice..
ethan		Care to wait a decent interval?
nyah		Who wants to be decent?..
ethan		So what've you got against spooks?
nyah		When they've got your recruiting technique?  Not a thing.
ethan		Oh.  Well..this isn't exactly by the book.
nyah		They've got a book for this?
ethan		They've got a book for everything.
nyah		The only other spook I knew was a liar. Charming but absolutely incapable of telling the truth.  He'd lie about his favorite color.  But then I reckon it's an occupational hazard.  All spies really do is conceal the truth and tell lies.
ethan		Not revealing information doesn't necessarily make someone a liar.
nyah		That's not the point.  In the end what spies rely on is the one thing they think they know that you don't.
ethan		Which is?
nyah		That they're lying.
ethan		So where did I got right?
nyah		You're not a liar.  Or you're an awfully good one..  ..this thing these blokes pinched..
ethan		I don't know that they 'pinched' it. Don't even know that they're blokes.
nyah		Well, then, what I am I doing here?  I assume I'm meant to be some sort of thief-to catch-a-thief..
ethan		So do I.  Sort of.
nyah		Spoken like a spook..you ever afraid?
ethan		Of what?
nyah		Ask a question, you get an answer!..
ethan		Damn, you're beautiful.
nyah		That's because I'm on my back.
ethan		I don't think so.
ethan		Are you gonna be here a while?
vendor		Si, senor.
ethan		I'll pick'em up on my way out, okay?
swanbeck		Fetival's a pain in the ass.  Honoring saint by setting'em on fire.  Sit down, sit down.
ethan		Sorry I didn't let you know where I was.
swanbeck		Don't be.  Wouldn't be on vacation if you did.
ethan		Well.  You're sorry and I'm sorry.
swanbeck		Why did you phrase it like that?
ethan		Like what?
swanbeck		'You're sorry and I'm sorry.'
ethan		You gotta be kidding.
nekhorvich		 Well, Dmitri!  How are you?..
ethan		..I'm fine..and you?
nekhorvich		I'm fine..
ethan		I'm fine and you're fine..
nekhorvich		I'm fine too.. I'm fine and you're fine - do you remember, dear fried, how you got Sergei and I to repeat those lines from Dr. Strangelove and we gave you the name of that silly Soviet Premier because we didn't know your name?..In those days, you not only saved our lives, you saved our sanity.  'Now, then Dmitri - we have this little problem': Every search for a hero must begin with something that every hero requires; a villain.  Therefore, in a search for our hero, Bellerophon, we created a monster Chimera.  I beg you, Dmitri, come to Sydney and accompany me to Atlanta immediately. However we travel, I must arrive at me destination, within 20 hours of departure. Forgive this fanciful explanation, but for now prudence dictates that I communicate nothing but the gravest urgency. I fear I can entrust this to no one but you, Dmitri.  as we say, 'I'm sorry and you're sorry'..
swanbeck		Let me ask you something.  You have any idea what the hell he's talking about?
ethan		An idea, yeah.
swanbeck		Like?
ethan		Like it's a good idea to pick him up in a hurry.  And a bad idea to fly him on a commercial carrier.  So let's get on with it.  He's still in Sydney?
swanbeck		Dr. Vladimir Nekhorvich is dead.  So is his colleague, Gradski, but that happened earlier.  We had Nekhorvich on a flight from Sydney that crashed in the Rockies..
ethan		If he didn't want to go anywhere without me, how did you get him on the flight?
swanbeck		You were there.
swanbeck		When I couldn't find you, I had to replace you.  Sean Ambrose was the obvious choice. He double you, what?  Two, three times?
ethan		Twice.
swanbeck		What did you think of him?
swanbeck		Not necessarily.
swanbeck		Airline record list Captain Harold Macintosh as the pilot for Flt 2207.  as far as the media and all governmental agencies are concerned, Captain Macintosh died on the flight, but in fact he missed it.  He did, however make the next flight - in cargo, stuffed into a rather small suitcase considering his size.
ethan		So there's one thing we know Ambrose doesn't.
swanbeck		Then you do think it was Ambrose.
ethan		Whatever Nekhorvich was carrying Sean wanted and he wanted to conceal the fact that he took it.
swanbeck		Enough to kill Nekhorvich and two hundred innocent passengers?
ethan		Sean feels he hasn't done the job unless he leaves a lot of hats on the ground.
swanbeck		The question is why?  What was this Chimera Nekhorvich was carrying?
ethan		Right now only Ambrose knows that.
swanbeck		In any case, you've got to recover Chimera and bring it to us.
ethan		In order to do that, I've got to figure out how he plans to make money with it.
swanbeck		- right.  In fact since the plane went down our banking sources have confirmed a marked increase in the stock pilling of cash in terrorists accounts.
ethan		'Terrorists?'
swanbeck		Well you know Nekhorvich's history. You're the one who got him out of the Soviet Union was it still in bio- weapon business.
ethan		If that's what you're thinking Ambrose would have set up a bidding situation with any number of buyers before he got on the plane.  Locating him in time to stop something like that -
swanbeck		- is where Miss Hall comes in.
ethan		 Excuse me?
swanbeck		Miss Hall and Ambrose had a relationship which he took very seriously.  She walked away and he's wanting her back ever since.  We believe she's our surest and quickest way of location him.
ethan		 And then what?
swanbeck		Then makes sure she continues to see him. Gets him confide in her and report to you.
ethan		You made it sound as if I was recruiting her for her skills as a thief.
swanbeck		Well, then I mislead you.  Or you made the wrong assumption.  Either way we're asking her to resume a prior relationship, not do anything she hasn't already done.
ethan		She's got no training for this kind of thing.
swanbeck		Go to bed with a man and lie to him? She's a woman.  She's got all the training she needs.
ethan		I don't think I can get her to do it.
swanbeck		You mean it'll be difficult.
ethan		Very.
swanbeck		Well it's not mission difficult, Hunt. It's mission impossible.  Difficult should be a walk in the park for you.  If you can think of a quicker way to get to Ambrose, you're welcome to try.  Oh, by the way, you might want to take a look at these..if you have any further qualms about getting her to do the job.
street vendor		Senor, senor!  Your flowers.
ethan		Yes.  They're very nice..
nyah		What's the population of Seville any idea?
ethan		Five, six-hundred thousand.
nyah		There's nearly 2 million in London.
ethan		And six billion in the world.
nyah		That's lot of people out there..how many of them, I wonder, are capable of something like that?
ethan		Sean Ambrose, for one.
nyah		Right...
nyah		 Not that it matter much but..I seem to recall you staying something like, 'I was hoping we could work together.'
ethan		This wasn't what I had in mind, Nyah.
nyah		But it is what you'd like me to do. so tell me to do it..
ethan		Go and insinuate yourself back into Sean's life.
nyah		I'd like a little more conviction..
ethan		So would I.  But it's not mine to give.
nyah		 You've either got it or you don't.  Let your conscience be your guide?
ethan		Something like that.
nyah		But I don't have a conscience.  I'm a bloody thief.
ethan		You can be a thief and have a conscience.
nyah		No.  You can be a thief and have a conscience:  Not me.  Why did you have to tell me about this!  What do I have to do to get away from this guy?  When you're with him, he messes about with your head every waking moment..even now I'll be at some out-of- the-way-place, a tin of caviar and a bottle of Crystal shows up at the table, with two glass, God knows how he finds out at any given moment where I am in the world but he does.  And it looks like he's done it again.  You know his definition of a  true paranoid?
ethan		I don't.
nyah		Someone in possession of all the facts.  Are you telling me I have to do this?
ethan		Generally, I don't favor coercing someone. Not when there's a chance my life could end up in their hands.
nyah		And that's the only reason?
ethan		Can you think of a better one?
nyah		Not me.  I was just hoping you might..or that..somehow in the course of business this got personal as well as physical.
ethan		Look, would it make you feel better if I didn't want you to do this?
nyah		Much.
ethan		Then feel better!..
nyah		Sean will never be anything but suspicious if he picks up some sort of 'yoo-hoo-I'm- not-nad' message.  Not after the way we broke up.
ethan		What wouldn't make him suspicious?
nyah		Probably that I needed him in some urgent way..destitute - in serious trouble..the kind I couldn't possible sort out myself..
ethan		Serious trouble, Nyah, is something I can always arrange..
ethan		This little chip sends a coded signal that can be picked up only by our computer.
ethan's voice		When it's in your ankle we can track you within three feet of anywhere in the world.
ethan		Look, I can't run your arrest in CNN, but I guarantee he's monitoring every law enforcement agency in the world, for what they might be saying about him, if nothing else - he's got the ability and, we assume, the desire to get you out of there.
nyah		This doesn't seem to be accomplishing much.
ethan		Well, I mean it's not a total loss.  It is keeping a very capable thief off the street..
nyah		Very funny..maybe he has heard and doesn't want to know.  Maybe he's lost interest.
guard		 Your lawyer to see you.
nyah		What lawyer?
ethan		Well, here we go.
ethan		Stop and look for something in you purse..kneel down..
nyah		Limo's waiting.
ethan		- Ambrose will have counter-surveillance second to no one's.  When and if he contacts you, push this button before you actually end up under his roof it'll scramble your transmission to us.
nyah		When will you be there?
ethan		Before you are.
nyah		How can you possibly?  I've got to get right on the plane.  I'm leaving now.
ethan		You don't trust me.
nyah		Oh, I do.  But as we know I'm a very poor judge of character.
ethan		He's got you on Qantas flight 2735.  It's going to be delayed.
nyah		Yes?
ethan		You'll be fine.  I'm going to lose you.
nyah		Ethan, you take care of yourself, I'll take care of myself because if push comes to shove, I'm gonna bail - and without giving two week notice.
ethan		Well, forewarned is forearmed.  And while we're at it, be especially sensitive to any sudden change in Ambrose's plans, especially any involving you..
ethan's voice		Welcome to Australia, mate.
luther		Thanks - mate.
luther		It's the transponder.
ethan		Put in the coordinates and let's get a visual.  The visuals aren't coming up.
luther		The satellite doesn't work as fast as I do.
billy		Yeah, I've heard about you, Luther, and I just want to tell you it's an honor and a pleasure to be working with you blokes, whoaa!  That's some transponder!
luther		 It certainly is.  How did we get so lucky?
billy		Damn.  Just when it was about to get interesting.
ethan		It's okay.  She scrambled the transmission.  Luther, continue feeding the GPS her position.
ethan		Can't we speed this up.
luther		With what?  This is the only computer that'll do this.
billy		- right.  Now there's a bloke who knows how to deliver a proper welcome.  Don't get me wrong, mate.  You were quite hospitable.  Is it him, then?
luther		It is, Billy.
billy		Then we got'em!
ethan		We don't know what we've got because we don't know what he's got, where he's got it or what he's doing in Sydney with it.
ambrose		Not much luggage.
nyah		I left in a bit of a hurry.  I'm terribly grateful, Sean.
ambrose		How grateful?
nyah		Well that depends.
ambrose		On what.
nyah		How hard you had to work to get me out of there..how in the world did you ever find me?
ambrose		 How I usually find you, Nyah.
nyah		How do you that.
ambrose		Magic...
nyah		Ahh..
wallis		No flies on her.  No bugs either.  She's clean.
stamp		 All cats are.
nekhorvich		...therefore in a search for our hero, Bellerophon, we created a monster, Chimera.
billy		What you got there, mate?
ethan		A myth..just a myth...shouldn't you be checking out their countersurveillance?
billy		Well you know his blokes'll place the OSCOR in his annex, where else if you're pinpointing transmitters, video signals, covert chip cameras, anything radiating, oscillating..
ethan		..or hard wired..
billy		 - or hard wired, right.  First line of perimeter defence'll run from the back of the dock to the front of the house. Whatever moves burps or bleep is gonna be picked up to a height of twenty feet. Basically impenetrable, I'd say.
luther		Ethan, here's Nekhorvich, and here's his boss
ethan		Not at all.  But how about going into town and confirming your intuitions on site?
billy		Oh well, if that's how you feel about it.
luther		..then Cambridge..Harvard..entrepreneurial efforts..in efforts..in 1989, acquired Biocyte in hostile takeover..
mccloy's voice		We at out state-of-the-art solar powered Biocyte building recognized that eternal vigilance is the price of health.. whether it's funding the teaching center at the Royal Prince Edward Hospital, removing aerosol products from the marker or braving the influenza quarantine at Bruny island late last month..at Biocyte your life..is our life's work..
ethan		 ..Biocyte workers at Bruny Island.
nyah		Your room.
ambrose		 Mmmm.
nyah		And my room?
ambrose		Thought you could use a little something to wear.
nyah		No changing room?
nyah		You're not interested in seeing how it looks.
ambrose		Oh, I am.  Later..
nekhorvich		..therefore in a search for our hero, Bellerophon, we created a monster, Chimera.
luther		Why's Nekhorvich going on about an old Greek myth?
ethan		Nekhorvich specialized in recombining DNA molecules.  In the myth, Bellerophon killed Chimera, a recombinant monster with the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent who plagued the ancient world.  I think Nekhorvich has created a monster virus in Chimera and apparently the means to kill it in Bellerophon.
luther		That simple, huh?
ethan		Why not?
nyah		Did you say something?
ambrose		I said you're beautiful, Nyah.
nyah		Only because..it's spring..chalk it up  - to spring fever.
ambrose		Won't do, love.  It's not spring.  It's nearly autumn..You're in Oz.  everything's upside down and backwards here.
nyah		 Maybe that's it, then.  Everything's upside down and backwards...
ethan		Luther..get us everything you can on the outbreak of influenza on Bruny Island last month, including photos of the victims.
luther		Right.  I guess there aren't many flu epidemics in the middle of summer.
ethan		Yeah?  I've just rolled up a snowball and tosses it into hell.
ethan's voice		Now we'll see what chance it has.
ambrose		Twenty-four mil..
ambrose's voice		Thirty-seven million pounds.  That's a promising bid.
ambrose		We'll need this at the track.  Well then. Sorted.
ambrose		From her point of view or mine?
stamp		Wasn't exactly gagging for it when she left you six months ago..The question is, do you trust her?
ambrose		One considers her timing, of course - getting nicked within a week of the plane going down.  Suggestive, even borderline suspicious, but hardly conclusive.
stamp		Well, you've thorough about it, at any rate.
ambrose		Tell me, Hugh.  You don't exactly hang on Nyah's every word and gesture, do you? Fairly ratty nail, that.
ambrose		You're not scrutinizing any casual shrug for some hair-splitting nuance, are you?
stamp		Sean, please..
ambrose		Suppose she is some sort of Trojan horse sent in by IMF to spy in us, why should I deny myself the pleasure of a ride or two? Or don't you think I can learn more from her than she can from me?
stamp		 I do!..
ambrose		Now Hugh, you must realize that some of us have the burden of sex to deal with..and my dear chap.  I may or may not know why she thinks she's here, but I'm willing to take the risk, because Hugh, I am gaging for it..
ambrose		 You won.
nyah		 I suppose I did.
ambrose		What made you pick that nag?  She'd never won a bloody thing.
nyah		'Thief in the Night?'
ambrose		Say no more.  I'm off to grab a drink. Still favor Bellinis?
a voice		Naturally Vain..
nyah		Pardon me?
billy		'Naturally Vain.'  In the fourth. Check her out.  She's due.
ethan's voice		You can speak as if I'm right by your side.
nyah		 Where are you?
ethan's voice		At the mounting enclosure, just off the tracks at two o'clock.
ethan		How's it going?  Everything okay?
nyah		Just like old times.
ethan		Just like old times?
nyah		Just about..
ethan		Tell me who you've run into at Ambrose's.
nyah		 Near as I can tell, there's at least a half-dozen other blokes about the place. Maybe more.  Hugh Stamp, an old mate of Sean's, is the only one I recognize, bit of a creep and then some..
ethan		We know him.  He's over your left shoulder, looking right at you as you go on..
nyah		- Michael, his driver's an Aussie, new to me.  Then there's the blokes in the annex at the back of the house.
ethan		Have you met them?
nyah		Annex is strictly off limits to me and they never come to the main house, Michael even takes their meals to them all but shoves them under the door.
ethan		 I've no doubt.
billy		Ambrose is meeting some bloke in the bar. Big bloke, ginger hair. They're into something.
ethan		I'll be damned.  It's McCloy, the Biocyte CEO.
luther		Nekhorvich's boss?
ethan		Yep.
nyah		Ambrose has photographs of newspapers with loads of money piled on them -- thirty- seven million on the London Times.  What's that about?
ethan		Bids from possible Chimera buyers -- to prove that as of the date on the newspaper those bids are back up by earnest money --
luther		Looks like Ambrose is showing McCloy how to use a digital camera..
ethan		Whatever McCloy's looking at, he's not happy about.
luther		Ambrose just pulled the memory card out of the digital camera and put it into an envelope, put it in his inner left jacket pocket...
ethan		Left jacket pocket?
luther		Roger that.
ethan		Confirm.  Left jacket pocket.
luther		Left jacket pocket confirmed.
ethan		Nyah, Ambrose is heading back.  There's an enveloped inside --
nyah		-- his left jacket pocket.
ethan		Affirmative.
nyah		 Where do I meet you?
ethan		Betting table twelve off the paddock. Nyah, are you up to this?
nyah		I'll muddle through.
ambrose		See anything you like?
nyah		Yeah.  Naturally vain -- but they're about to close the betting table and I haven't a sou..
ambrose		 Nyah!
ethan		Billy, make sure Nyah's not followed.
billy		No worries, mate.
nyah		Would you mind terribly?
nyah		I've no doubt..
ambrose		 Hold on.
nyah		To win?
ambrose		What else?
ethan's voice		Luther, smallest digital you got.  Ready to transmit.  Betting table twelve.
billy		 Sorry about that, mate, that must've really - aggrhh!..
stamp		Say again?
billy		Aggrhh-aggrhh-aggrhh...
stamp		Whatever you're about in future, watch your step.  Never know who you might run into...
stamp		Where's the loo then?
billy		 - aggrhh-aggrhh-aggrhh...
billy		 ...
ethan's voice		How'd you do?  Don't turn around.
nyah		I managed.
ethan		You noticed.  What're you going to do? Spank me?
billy's voice		Stamp's out of the loo.
luther		There in twenty, Ethan..
billy's voice		Stamp's a little shaky, but headed your way, mate.
ethan		Copy that.  Who do you like?  In the race?
nyah		 What race are we talking about?
billy's voice		He's heading down the stairs, now..
ethan		I want you out of Ambrose's place.
billy's voice		He's one tier from the bottom.
nyah		What are you talking about?
ethan		I want you out of there.
nyah		Why?  What's happened. What did you see?
billy		Thirty steps..
ethan		Nyah, you've done more than enough.  Even the best of snake charmers get bit.
nyah		Ethan, tell me -
billy's voice		Twenty, nineteen..
ethan		I want you out of Australia!  ..I don't know how much more plainly I can put it.
nyah		How do you suggest I go about it?
ethan		He's touched your heart.  You're overwhelmed.  You need to think it over. You'll meet him somewhere in a month.  If You're not out in 48 hours I'm coming in and getting you out.  Give me the ear piece.
stamp		Get your bet down?
nyah		Just..
ambrose		Your nag is making a run for it on the outside!  Bloody hell, Nyah!
nyah		Well, that's good, isn't?
ethan's voice		Dr. Segi Gradski, Nekhorvich's colleague and lifelong friend..
ethan		Six hours later.
luther		Here's a victim from the Bruny Island outbreak.
billy		Oh, happy day.
ethan		Nekhorvich said 'However we travel, I must arrive at my destination within 20 hours hours of departure.'
ambrose		To Australia.  It's made so many convicts feel at home.  Here's hoping it does the same for you..
nyah		Sean, there's something I've been meaning to talk to you about... Isn't going to be easy for me to say.
ambrose		 Then don't say it.
nyah		I don't know what to do about you, Sean. I'm more than a bit muddled.  I need time.
ambrose		To do what?
nyah		Sort it all out.
ambrose		And you're going to have time.  There's been a change of plans.
nyah		A change of plans?
ambrose		Yes.  We won't be able to have dinner tonight.  Something's come up.  I hope you don't mind.
nyah		Oh, no, not at all.  Maybe just a bit.
ambrose		Ulrich will be about.  He'll look after you.
nyah		Lovely.
stamp		I thought you were going to dinner.
ambrose		 Hugh, take care of the Nekhorvich memory card.
stamp		Where is it?
ambrose		In the envelope in my pocket.  My right.. jacket..pocket..
ethan		Chimera attacking human blood..
billy		Ambrose obviously got these from Nekhorvich on the plane.
luther		What manic invents  disease like that in the first place?  Why would he do it?
ethan		I don't know, but Nekhorvich was not a manic.  Get me a twenty on Nyah.
luther		She must still be on the property.
ethan		I told her to get outta there.
mccloy		George.  George.  George.
mccloy		Bloody room..just..shut your eyes, shut your eyes.
nekhorvich		A visit from an old friend.
mccloy		What's happening here?  You're dead!
nekhorvich		Fatigued, certainly.  But dead is a little extreme.  On the other hand, when me dear Gradski had your pulse and blood pressure he has less than ten hours to live.
mccloy		 It was in the bloody papers, on the telly..what's this about Gradski?
nekhorvich		You are infected with Chimera, my friend.
nyah		International, please.  I'd like to make a reservation on the next available flight tonight.
operator		Where to?
nyah		Where is next available flight going?
nyah		Fine.  I'll take it.
nyah		Ulrich?..Ulrich!...
ethan		Easy, easy, easy, shhh!
nyah		Oh Ethan!..
ethan		Are you okay?
nyah		I am now.  Get me out of here.  Just get me out of here.
ethan		It's going to be okay.
nekhorvich		No use, my friend.  The medical staff wants no part of this.  Doctors don't fancy the idea of dying any more than anybody else.
mccloy		How could I possibly be infected?
nekhorvich		That's exactly what Gradski said - 27 hours before he died.  With Chimera, the most minute exposure can be fatal.
nekhorvich		But then you shouldn't be feeling to ill. not for another three of four hours anyway.
mccloy		You have Bellerophon.
nekhorvich		 Do I?
mccloy		You took it!  All of it!  And what if I need it?
nekhorvich		 'If?'  My, my, my...the five hundred people on Bruny Island that you deliberately infected with Chimera needed it as well.
mccloy		Oh, please!  How was I to know they had to be treated with Bellerophon within twenty hours?
nekhorvich		By asking me.
mccloy		You still don't get it, do you?  You want to make an omelet, you break a few eggs - I needed to know just how bad the disease was - in the real world, not the lab.  And you never know til you try.  You thought you were genetically splicing together strains of influenza to create a cure for all influenzas.  But I saw you creating a disease so terrible in Chimera that the cure would be priceless.
nekhorvich		You wanted the disease in order to peddle the cure.
mccloy		Well, the thought had occurred to me.  I needed Chimera in order to peddle Bellerophon.  For hero to be appreciated, you need a monster. Now that's not so difficult to understand, is it?  Look, time was a shot of penicillin could knock off every bloody bug in the zoo!  Not anymore!..have you any idea the R&D money it takes to float one little pissy boutique antibiotic that's barely effective against one strain of one bacterium?  If I couldn't makes money killing the microscopic little shits that are out there, you'd help me put one out there I can make on!..there it is.  I've confessed.  I, John C. McCloy, am in business to make money.  Lilly's making billions feeding Prozac to depressed dogs.  Pfizer doesn't even know where to put the money they're making on Viagra, and let me tell you that shit didn't do a thing for me even at twice the recommended dose, Jesus, who do I have to screw to get a a break!..now get me out of here, get me treated and let's go back to work!..
nekhorvich		You know, I think it's a little late for that.  Do give my regards to Gradski if you see him.
nyah		Ethan, you know what frightens me most when I'm with him?..the thought of never seeing you..how are we getting out of here?
ethan		Nyah, it's very important not do anything to alarm Ambrose..
nyah		What?  You told me to get out of here.  I thought you were here to collect me.  I was so relieved.
ethan		 No time to explain.  You've done well, and we're so close.  So close.  It's critical that you do whatever Ambrose asks.  Don't worry - it'll be over soon.. That's a promise.. Come on, now off you go!
luther		 So Ambrose has Bellerophon and McCloy's got Chimera.
billy		There guys are walking around with different halves of the same dollar bill?
ethan		Ambrose got Bellerophon from Nekhorvich on the plane, but he didn't get the Chimera virus.
luther		Yeah.  Why else would he come back to Australia?  If he had them both, he could sell them anywhere.
ethan		I kill Chimera at Biocyte and he's sitting on a cure without a disease.
luther		You've got the voice print, I'll get us in..
stamp		You were right.  Hunt stung McCloy tonight.  He knows.  They'll be going into Biocyte...
ambrose		Good..then we go where he'll be, don't we?  Well done, Hugh.  Well done.
billy		You're home, guv'ner.  Home..
mccloy		- where's George.  My regular driver. Where is he?
billy		Took ill, guv'.  Touch of the flu. They say it's going around.  Nasty business. Mind you don't catch a chill now.
ethan		Luther, do you have the building up and running?
luther		Sorry, that it a Biocyte facility, their storage structure..
ethan		Nyah still on the property?
billy		She hasn't left it.
luther		Okay, here you go -
ethan		Let's start from the inside out.
luther		All storage and production of Chimera is done here, in this lab on the forty-second floor, the heart of the building.
luther's voice		Chimera itself is kept in two places: in production vials in an incubation room and housed in a small airtight chamber - inside three injection guns.
billy's voice		Mate, you kill it in both places, we're laughin' and we go home.
ethan		Now how to get in there.
luther		No garage entrance.  Lobby's protected by five guards on rotating patrol.
ambrose		If you look at Hunt's operational history, he invariably favors misdirection and deception. For a start he won't go into Biocyte from the ground where he has to risk confrontation with security.
luther's voice		 The atrium?  One of a kind.  Runs down the center of the building.  Provides 24-hour natural light via mirrors and daylight storage cells.  Optimal growing conditions for the virus.  Ends in a glass floor which doubles as part of the lab's ceiling.
luther		Hey, atrium roof closes at sundown.
luther's voice		And if the louvers are open for more than thirty seconds at night, the Civil Emergency alarms are tipped.  Those even I can't stop.  Thirty seconds total to get you in and the cable out.
ethan		Security?
luther		Thirty-second opening in the roof and a 250-foot drop.
ethan		I'm not waiting 48 hours.  When we're done at Biocyte, if she's not out of Ambrose's, I'm going in and getting her out.
ambrose		No, Hunt will prefer to engage in some sort of acrobatic insanity to enter Biocyte somewhere through the atrium where security is minimal..
billy		Package away in five..four..three.. two..one...
luther		I'm not ready!
ethan		I'm gone..
luther		 C'mon!  C'mon!  C'mon!
luther's voice		..nineteen..eighteen..seventeen...
luther's voice		 ..sixteen..fifteen..
ethan		Luther, I'm looking at security.
luther		 Alarm in cosmetics.
billy's voice		Cable's clear.
luther		Transponder activated..Reading package and Cable is clean.  He's on his way.
luther		I am. She is.
ambrose's voice		If Hunt actually manages to squeak thru the atrium he's liable to make it to Chimera before we will..
luther		Five and a half minutes.  He's breached the hot zone..
computer voice		 Alert.  Chimera-working-seed-stock-pH-and- temperature-level-outside-optimal range.
billy's voice		How're we doin', then?
luther		He should've have killed the virus in the incubation area..Nyah's exited the elevator on the same level as the lab.
billy's voice		What can we do' mate?
luther		 Hope he kills all the bugs before the yellow dot gets to the red one.
computer voice		Subject is contaminate free.  Zero contaminate factor.  Subject contaminate free.
luther's voice		He's still got three injection guns in the test lab..They're loaded with doses of Chimera which he'll destroy by firing into a hyper-thermal chamber.
luther		- twenty-seven, twenty-six, twenty-five, come on, Ethan we're almost there!  I-I'm off sensitive for this..
luther		 Oh - oh - oh -
ambrose		 Get it.
ambrose		Those were two explosions, your van and your safehouse, in case you didn't hear them both -- I believe that means you've also lost a friend.
ethan		And you couldn't walk to tell me about it.
ambrose		 Hold your fire, dammit!
ethan		 Fight a bit of a cold..
ambrose		And you're happy about that?
ethan		Beats fighting the flu, I'm here to tell you.
ambrose		You know, that was the hardest part of having to portray you.  Grinning like an idiot every fifteen minutes.
ethan		I would've thought the hardest part was exercising restraint.  Curbing that pressing need of your to get your gun off.  You were in such a hurry to knock off that 747, you never figured out where the virus really was.
ambrose		I knew where it was.
ethan		Oh.  then you knew the only way could smuggle the live virus to the CDC scientists in Atlanta was by injecting himself and using his own bloodstream as a Petri dish, doing it inside of twenty hours so he could take the anti-virus and still have it be effective.  You knew that while you were knocking him off and destroying the very thing you came for.
ambrose		Stop!  Put a sock in it!  Hit that bloody gun and you'll spray the bloody virus all over the place!
ethan		There it is, guys, the last of it.
ambrose		Yep.  You've provided us with a golden opportunity to have both the bug and the bug killer.
ethan		What was the top bid?
ambrose		Why, you going to make me a better offer?
ethan		Than thirty-seven million pounds?  Not really.
ambrose		 Somebody's been slipping you our mail. Come on out here, you bad girl.
ethan		She doesn't belong here, Sean.  Let her go.
ambrose		She wouldn't  be here if it wasn't for you, Hunt.  from this moment you're responsible for what happens to her, and if you're looking out for her well-being, I suggest you advise her to pick up the gun and bring it to me.  Ball's in your court, Hunt.  What've you got to say? Nyah's waiting for your answer.
luther's voice		 Ethan, Nyah's in the building!  Do you copy?
ethan		 Thank you.
ambrose		Oh, Hunt, please! One can't hold Nyah responsible for her actions..
ethan		In other words, you're calling her a flake.
ambrose		You know women, mate.  Like monkeys, they are.  Won't let go of one branch til they've got a grip on the next...get it, Nyah.  I'll cover you.
nyah		 This isn't exactly working out the way you thought it would, Ethan.  Sorry.
ambrose		 You..bitch!
nyah		You're not going to shoot, Sean.  Not this bitch.  She's worth thirty-seven million pounds.
ethan		 What did you think you were doing!
nyah		I wasn't thinking!  Just..trying to keep you from getting hurt, that's all.
ethan		- you who don't have a conscience.
nyah		 I guess I lied..You can't get both of us out of here, can you?
ethan		No.
nyah		Then you'll have to kill me before it's too late.  Before I start killing people.
ethan		No.
nyah		I'm infected with Chimera.  You know you don't have a choice.  Just do it now.
ethan		We've got 19 hours and 57 minutes before you start killing anybody.  I'll get Bellerophon into your system by then. Just stay alive.  I'm not gonna lose you.
swanbeck		 'Dreaming of Birds and Flying Fox,' 'Bushfire Dreaming,'  'Wind Dreaming,' -- oddly appropriate -
ethan		 Not yet.  We did manage to pull any sensitive equipment and material out of our safehouse wreckage.
swanbeck		We could lock down passport control and all ports of authority, but that won't stop Ambrose, and beyond him, we don't know who else we're looking for -- all terrorist bank accounts of which we're aware are stable.  No deposits, no withdrawals.  Therefore no suspects.
ethan		We think we've got our finger on the buyer.
swanbeck		Do you?  Even assuming you're able to prevent Ambrose selling Chimera, you've now got an additional problem.  You destroyed all of Chimera at Biocyte.  If Ambrose is going to sell Chimera now, he'll have to do it by taking a pint or so of Miss Hall's blood to market.
ethan		Yes, I believe that's right.
swanbeck		But that leaves another seven or eight pints of Chimera.
ethan		You mean that leaves Miss Hall.
swanbeck		Yes, I believe that's right.  Now my understanding is that 20 hours after exposure, the victim becomes infectious. Highly infectious.
ethan		She sacrificed herself..
swanbeck		Brave girl.  If you can get hold of Bellerophon with the time limit, you may spare her the ultimate sacrifice.  But in either case you've got less than nine hours to kill her or cure her.  After that it's out of our hands and a matter of worldwide material law.  And Hunt.  However you obtain it, we want you to preserve a sample of Chimera.  Bring it back alive.
ethan		Aren't you even curious?  About why she did it?
swanbeck		No.  I can't afford to be curious.  And neither can you, Hunt..
ambrose		Feel like pleading for your life?
nyah		 Not as much as you feel like hearing it.
ambrose		God damn it, Nyah!  Why did you do it?  Why did you save that bastard?
nyah		If it'll make you feel any better I won't do it again.
ambrose		If it'll make you feel any better, you're going to take a lot of Aussies with you and make me a lot of money.
nyah		What are you talking about?
ambrose		In just a few hours you can be assured of going down in history as the typhoid Mary of Oz.  G'day.
ethan		Luther?..Luther.
luther		Ethan, I keep telling you there's not a chance of locating Nyah til I access the satellite and there's not a chance of doing that til I get this thing booted up and running!  How much time does she have left?
ethan		Ninety-seven minutes, twenty-seven seconds.
billy		Before we kill her or cure her..
luther		Right.
ethan		Wrong.  All we've got to worry about is Ambrose.  Nyah will take care of Nyah.
billy		What are you talking about?
ethan		Unless we dose her with Bellerophon on the next ninety-seven minutes, Nyah will kill herself.  So, first things, first. Swanbeck said there's no cash movement from any monitored terrorist accounts.
ethan's voice		Confirms what Ambrose is gonna do -
billy's voice		Ethan's out from under the bridge and on the south-east face..
billy's voice		Ethan, Ambrose and his tem have over the bridge -
ethan		Copy that.
billy's voice		You all right, mate?  From here it looks like very security.  What's it look like like from there?
ethan		Risky.
ethan		Breached the structure at the ten o'clock grating.  In the tunnel moving toward the target.
chemist		It's a DNA match.  The blood's loaded with Chimera.
mccloy		Well, then.  You've got both the virus and the anti-virus, Chimera and Bellerophen. Which means I've thirty million for you
ambrose		Not exactly.  Wallis?
wallis		 More like two-two point two million.
ambrose		In any case we don't want your cash.
mccloy		Then what do you want?
ambrose		Stock, Mr. McCloy.  Stock options, to be a little more precise..  How quickly can you manufacture more of the antivirus.
luther's voice		Ethan, just picked up an Ambrose call - Nyah's been dropped off.  I think she's alive.
ethan		Where is she?
luther		Somewhere in Sydney.
luther's voice		Ethan?  Do you copy?
ethan's voice		'Somewhere in Sydney?'  Care to harden the target?
luther's voice		Can't.  Until I can get the GPS up on our computer..it's still down..
ethan		The clock is ticking..
mccloy		Bellerophen?  No time at all once I've got it.
ambrose		Good.  Biocyte stock is just a week or two away from going through the roof.
mccloy		 What are you talking about?
ambrose		An outbreak of Chimera.
mccloy		Where?
ambrose		In downtown Sydney for a start.
ambrose		-- now here's the way it's going to work..Wallis, the shares outstanding are..
wallis		Ninety-three point four million.
mccloy		Outrageous.  I won't let you take control of my company.
ambrose		Run that bastard down.
ambrose		We're running short on time, Mr. McCloy. We've got to conclude our business.
mccloy		Yes, start the transfer.
ambrose		 Follow it.  Let me know.
ethan		You broke our deal.
stamp		You're too trusting.  Raise your hands slowly.
ambrose		 Keep it going.
stamp's voice		Sean, this rat's reached the end of the maze.
ambrose		 Is he alive?
stamp's voice		More or less.
ambrose		Bring him to me.
billy		 We're due to take off.
luther		Not for seven more minutes.
wallis		Sean.  Transfer complete.
mccloy		 What exactly do you intend to do with him?
luther		Ethan?  Ethan?  Do you copy?
ethan		Well, mate, maybe this is one of those times we shouldn't follow orders.
ambrose		 What have you got to say for yourself. Hunt?  Any last words?
stamp		Afraid he's got no choice.  I believe I broke his jaw.
ambrose		Hugh, I'm impressed..
mccloy		 What do you intend to do?
ambrose		You needn't watch.
ambrose		- right.  We don't have a lot of time, Hunt.  whatever you've got to say, say it now.
billy		Man at your six.
ethan		 The field of fire is too heavy.  Back off and pinpoint their positions.
ambrose		 Hunt's heading for the bridge.  Coming in at twelve o'clock high.
ethan		Clear that bridge for me.
luther' voice		Roger that.
billy's voice		They're tracking you on the left, Ethan. Prepare for some fire.
gps computer		The target is located.
luther		Ethan, the computer's up.  I've got Nyah. She's moved out of the city.
ethan		Luther, say again.
luther		She's on the North Head Bluff - approaching the cliffs.  One klick away.
ethan		 Copy.  She's only got twenty-eight minutes left.  Track ahead and pick her up.
luther		We won't be able to cover you.
ethan		You're breaking up.  Track ahead and pick her up.  You've got me on GPS.  Bring her to me.
luther		Billy, North Head.  Haul ass.
wallis		Get him.
ulrich		I can't get a good shot.
wallis		Shut up.  I know what I'm doing.
luther		 Range is two kay.
billy		I hope there's a place to land.
billy		There she is.  I got visual.
luther		We're down to seven minutes 23 seconds..
luther's voice		Ethan, we've got her.  Tracking to you now. We're reading 5 minutes 19 seconds.
luther		 Ethan, we're moments away..
ambrose		Go ahead.  Use it Hunt.  It's not a bad way to go.  A lot better than the way that bitch is going to die.
ambrose		Hunt.  You should have killed me.
swanbeck		Sorry, Ethan.  I don't quite know where to begin.  Any suggestions?
ethan		You'd like me to conduct my own debriefing.
swanbeck		Why not?  You've done just about everything else on this operation.
ethan		I'd thank you -- but I'm not sure that was a compliment.
swanbeck		Of course it was.  Anyone whose operations requires the level of disinformation that yours do, is bound to get a little flak here and there.  You try flogging the stories on CNN I've had to come up with about what's been going on around here the last few days.  At any rate, it's been most instructive -- what they'll swallow, or what they'll broadcast with a straight face.  Miss Hall's blood, it appears, has absolutely no elements of the Chimera virus.  Not even antibodies.
ethan		Yes, I gathered as much.
swanbeck		And the only other remaining sample was in the canister you recover from Ambrose.
ethan		Yes.
swanbeck		And that appears to have been destroyed. It also contained the anti-virus, Bellerophon.
ethan		Well, Bellerophon, it turns out, was only really effective against Chimera.
swanbeck		But you were under specific instructions to bring back a living sample of the Chimera virus.  I'd be very interested to know how, after you'd managed its recovery intact, it subsequently got destroyed.
ethan		By fire.  That's the best way, really.
swanbeck		So you didn't fail mission, you simply changed it.
ethan		No, I don't.  But in this case -
swanbeck		In this case, it wasn't a bad idea.  In face, it was a pretty damn good idea. Just don't make a habit of it.  And, as for Ms. Hall, in light of her efforts, her criminal records will certainly be expunged.  I'm assuming you approve.
ethan		I do.
swanbeck		Where is she now, by the way?  Do you know?
ethan		I don't.  No exactly.
swanbeck		Well, Hunt, what are your plans?
ethan		Not sure.  Some sort of vacation.  I'll let you know where I'm going.
swanbeck		Oh, you don't have to do that. Wouldn't be a vacation if you did.
sky newscaster		This incident in the wake of rumors suddenly surfacing about Mr. McCloy and Biocyte's financial difficulties -- including criminal allegations of insider trading, embezzlement, conspiracy to commit fraud, and stock parking -- have, understandably, sent stock prices of the pharmaceutical company plummeting.
luther		 So what did he say?
ethan		Good job.  And thanks.
billy		 That's it?  That's it? That's it?
luther		 And the check's in the mall.
billy		Right.  Just remember, mates.  Billy Baird's the name.  Anything you need to get, move or watch, I'm your man.
luther		Always nice hearing from you man.  Stay in touch..
nyah		 Do you know me?
ethan		No.  Should I?
nyah		No.  You just looked as if you did.
ethan		No...
nyah		Oh.  Well..
ethan		Let's get lost.
****Dialogues from script :Mission_to_Mars.txt****

phil		T minus ten, nine, eight, start ignition sequence, five, four, three, two, one, ignition... Liftoff!
children		 My turn! My turn! No, I was next! No, me! Uncle Phil, Uncle Phil, can I do one? I want to do one!
phil		Guys, guys, please! This is risky stuff here. And I'm a highly trained professional.
phil		Okay, okay! Uncle Phil will launch another booster...
phil		...just as soon as he completes his fuel intake.
willis		It'll take us six months just to get to Mars. Another year on the surface, then six months back. That's two years...
willis		I guess what I'm trying to say is, since this is my last night on Earth, it's gonna be a very precious memory to me. Y'know?
pretty girl		Nice try, Nick.
kirov		Hey, Woody, our Mars One crew won't be heading back to Earth till ten days after you guys land at our base camp with Mars Two. That's a pretty good long rendezvous.
woody		What are you suggesting, Sergei?
kirov		Maybe you should bring a baseball bat. Yes? American baseball? Our two crews could have ourselves a little Solar System Series.
woody		Please. Half you guys are foreigners. We'd crush you.
kirov		No, no, we have equal crews. Three men, one woman. Same handicap.
woody		Easy now, you're talking about my wife.  And Terri just happens to be one helluva shortstop.
terri		Fast pitch, no steals, batter calls his own strikes. Thousand bucks make it interesting?
cote		Eh bien. Winner take all.
terri		Good.  Bring some balls.
woody		You wanna know the sad part? Technically I outrank her. But if we want any peace at all on Mars Two, I'm gonna be saying a lot of "Yes, dears."
terri		 All the research shows that marriage will provide stability on these long duration trips.
debra		He's not coming, Luke.
luke		Jim deserves this, too. All his friends are here. And it's my last night.
debra		 Your last night with us, too.
luke		I love you, Deb.
debra		I love you too, baby. But maybe you should spend some time with Bobby.
luke		Yeah. I will. Where is he?
debra		Up in his fort.
willis		Deep space is so lonesome. So cold. But I guess I'll have my memories to keep me warm...
bobby		Who's gonna read to me now, at bedtime?
luke		Mommy will.
bobby		I like when you do it. Now we're never gonna finish our book.
luke		Well, I'll tell you what. I've been thinking about that. And what I thought was -- how 'bout if I bring along my own copy?  Then every night, wherever I am, I'll read a little bit more of it. And I'll know that you and Mommy, wherever you are, you're reading it too. That way, it'll feel like we're still reading it together. 'Cause I don't know about you, but I'm pretty anxious to find out how 'ol Ben Gunn got marooned on that island. What d'you say?
luke		Good deal. Can I have a hug?
debra		We were afraid you wouldn't come.
mcconnell		I caught a whiff of your barbecue. After that I was helpless.
debra		All the way out in Galveston?
mcconnell		Something like that.  It's his night, Deb. I didn't want to spoil it.
debra		Spoil it? He's been going crazy looking for you.
luke		C'mon. A whole lot of folks here are gonna be mighty glad to see you.
woody		 I wish we were all going. Together.
luke		Then you've got a short memory. Think back to how we were by the second week of lunar training.
woody		Oh, you're not gonna bring that up again --
luke		 I'm trying to remember, let's see, which one of us scored the lowest ranking up there?
woody		You just can't let that go --
luke		Oh, man, three commanders, on the same ship? If they sent us off to Mars together, there wouldn't be enough fuel to lift all those egos.
woody		 Bullshit, we would've made a great crew.
mcconnell		That was never gonna happen. I was always teamed with Maggie, and we were mostly chalkboard jockies. You know? Systems. Payloads...
luke		Listen to him. Mr. Cover-of-Time Magazine!
woody		Yeah, who landed the crippled Block II Shuttle?
luke		Yeah, and who scored highest on the lunar rankings?
woody		Let it go, Luke.
mcconnell		 ...read too much science fiction as a kid and still wear little Flash Gordon rocketships around their necks.
woody		You read the same damn science fiction books that I did! You're just not man enough to wear jewelry!
woody		You want Flash. You know you want him. Well you'll have to come through me!
mcconnell		God, she would've loved to see you two clowns. Just one more time.
luke		Hey, Woodrow, isn't it about time you donated this thing to a museum?
woody		Internal combustion, boys. Accept no substitutes.
woody		Jim, if there's ever... if there's anything Terri and I can do --
mcconnell		I'm okay. Really. Thanks.
woody		See you when I get to Mars, Luke. Don't solve all the mysteries of the universe, okay? Leave a little something for the next guys.
luke		I'll see what I can do. Just make sure you bring some fresh beer.
woody		You got it.
luke		Should've been your mission, Jim. Yours and Maggie's.
luke		None of us ever wanted Mars the way you two did. Not even Woody. Twelve years of hoping for this assignment, training for it --
mcconnell		That's all over now.
luke		If Maggie hadn't gotten sick -- if you hadn't pulled yourself out of the rotation to take care of her --
luke		No, I'm gonna say this. I have to say it...  I wanted Mars One. Hell, I battled you for it every step of the way. Never wanted to beat anybody so bad in my life. But not like this... Jim, I'd give this all up in a second, if it would bring Maggie back to us.
mcconnell		I know that, Luke. You don't have to say it... Mars is yours now. Go get it.
luke		 Take care of yourself.
mcconnell		Yeah. You too.
cote		Luke, you read me?
luke		Yeah, Renee.
cote		Luke, I just got ARES-8 on line and... Well, we think you're gonna wanna see this for yourself.
luke		Copy that.
luke		What the hell is that?
cote		No idea, boss.
luke		Where is it?
willis		You don't wanna know.
luke		C'mon, what's so funny? Gimme the coordinates.
cote		Latitude 41 degrees north, longitude 9 degrees west.
luke		The Plains of Cydonia. So?  Oh no. You're not telling me --
cote		Oui. Exactement! It's Kirov's fault, he picked today's sector.
kirov		Hey, c'mon! We've got a scientific duty to check that thing out.
luke		Great. That's great. The first anomaly we hit, and it's gotta be in the one place guaranteed to make NASA look ridiculous... You know how many books have been written about that damned mountain?
cote		The Egyptians put it there.
kirov		No, the Amazons.
willis		No, it was little green men!
luke		And all because a couple of lousy impact craters happen to look like eye sockets. If this gets out, we'll have every UFO kook on Earth spouting off on the six o'clock news... C'mon, people, gimme a read here. Is that a cinder cone?
kirov		Nah, too smooth. Too angular. Volcanic upwelling?
cote		No fissures. No caldera.
luke		It's an upwelling, for sure. But maybe not volcanic...
luke		Look at the color. And see how shiny it is? I could swear that's ice...
cote		This far south?
willis		Impossible. You can't have ice at this latitude. Not unless...
willis		Oh my God.
luke		How far away is it?
kirov		Sixteen kilometers northeast. Take us twenty minutes to get there.
luke		 Let's send a packet to Micker. Then we'll go check it out.
luke		This is a truly anomalous formation. Looks like nothing we've seen so far. The structure appears to be crystalline, at least from the angle displayed by ARES-8 ...
luke		 We're all trying not to go too nuts up here, but -- we think there's a good chance this could be an extrusion from some subsurface, geothermal column of water. And if we're right...
luke		...then we've found the key to permanent human colonization.
mcconnell		Tell geology and hydrology we need to scramble on this. Full-court press.
luke		Anyway, we'are going out to take a closer look at it, try to get an idea of its composition.  By the time you receive this, we should be just about on-site.
kirov		Jesus Christ...
luke		Anyone else hear that?
cote		Yeah. What is it?
willis		Sounds like our antenna's out of phase.
luke		Can you fix it?
willis		Hey, skip, I can fix anything.
luke		Big talker. Renee, Sergei, let's break out the radar, see what this thing's made of.
beck		...and this is the Mars Mission Control Room, nicknamed "Micker." I understand a comm packet is incoming from Mars One Base Camp, so you may find this interesting.
ambassador		That man over there. He's in charge?
beck		No, actually, that's Jim McConnell, the CAPCOM. Our voice link to the astronauts? Jim's been with the manned Mars program since its inception. One of our real pioneers.
ambassador		Will he be going to Mars, too?
beck		Ah, no. This is as close as he gets.
luke		...anyway, that's about it. We'll send another packet when we get back.
luke		Oh, right. One more thing. Today is a very special day for a good friend of ours, and I know he's there right now.
luke		Now, he hates it when any fuss is made, so I won't mention his name...
luke		...because the last thing in the world I'd ever want to do is embarrass someone like Jim McConnell.
luke		C'mon, you Micker weasels, sing!
luke		 Hey, Ray! Take a look at him! Is he all red with one of those fake "I'm- a-good-sport" grins?
luke		And hey, you guys, check out Ray! Does he have on one of his "This- wasn't-in-my-mission-plan" faces?
luke		Nothing you can do about it, Ray! We're a hundred million miles away!
luke		Happy Birthday, Jimbo! Make a wish!
luke		Catch you again soon. Take care, buddy. End of transmission.
luke		Well? What's under there?
cote		 Je ne sais pas. I... I think there's something wrong with the equipment.
luke		What?
cote		I mean, it can't be right. It says... it says there's metal under there.
cote		 There's ten, twelve meters of rubble and sand, and then... solid metal.
luke		That doesn't make any sense. You're reading a vein of ore.
cote		 No. It's under the whole mountain.
luke		Nick, could the problem with the antenna be interfering?
willis		Could be.
luke		 Try it closer and up the power. I'll watch the screen.
mcconnell		Ah, we're all pretty stoked about that formation you spotted, Mars One. The folks in the geology and hydrology back rooms are going over your images and comparing them to every photomap they've got.
luke		Nick, how we coming on that antenna?
willis		Goin' as fast as I can, boss.
kirov		Hey, Nick. Come show me how stupid I am. I can't get this to work.
mcconnell		Medical wants me to remind you that you're three days late on your blood tests. I know they're a bore, but you've got to get them done, or else... or else I don't know what. Just do them, okay?
kirov		All set here, chief.
luke		Okay. Crank up the juice and let's see what's in this sucker.
mcconnell		I think that's about it for business. But on a personal note, be advised that, ah, none of you can sing worth a damn.
luke		Why did that stop?
mcconnell		Honestly, Luke, if you guys don't have anything better to do with your time, I can make some suggestions to mission medical. There are worse things than blood tests.
mcconnell		Oh, and I talked to Debra. She and Bobby are doing fine. Said to tell you, they're, ah, they're on their "third time through the book, page --  -- page 125." They send their love and say take care of yourself. Same from us here, buddy. Till next time, then. End of transmission.
woody		 "Problem: Hatch door malfunction, backup power fail, manual override fail. Solution: Replace circuit breaker 907B."
woody		Okay... Piece of cake.
woody		God, who dreams up these nightmares?
terri		Don't try to change the subject.
woody		I'm not! We're talking about your sister's wedding, right?
terri		Very funny. We're talking about dancing lessons. Before my sister's wedding.
woody		Honey, do you mind? I've got a catastrophic power failure here.
terri		Woody, we're a married couple. Would it kill you to invite me out on the floor once in awhile?
woody		I danced with you at our wedding.
terri		I'm not talking about shuffling your feet around while you grab my butt. I mean real dancing. Cha-cha, rhumba, jitterbug --
woody		Face it, honey, some couples dance, some go to Mars. That's life.
terri		I'm serious. We've got two more months in this training rotation, but just as soon as we get home, we're starting lessons. If we never dance, people will think there's something wrong.
woody		If they see me dance, they'll know there's something wrong.
terri		You are such a lug.
phil's voice		Cockpit, this is Control.
terri		Control, this is Cockpit.
phil's voice		Uh, Terri, they want us all back in the Station. Report to Micker.
terri		Who says report to Micker?
phil's voice		The little men who live in my head.
woody		Phil, c'mon! We just started this drill.
phil		Woody, it was Ray Beck. He told me to round up the team. Now.
beck		Then, at 1417, the X-band continuous data stream from Mars went silent. All data -- med, environmental, everything -- suddenly stopped. While we were trying to figure out what the hell went wrong, we got a signal from the folks at the Large Array at Soccoro.
mcconnell		At the same moment we lost the data stream, they picked up an intense burst of energy from Mars.
woody		What do you mean, "intense"?
mcconnell		 Catastrophic.
terri		What about the crew?
beck		The level of energy in the pulse... didn't seem survivable.
woody		What about the REMO? It went into Mars orbit last week. Maybe that could give us some clue.
mcconnell		Good thinking, Woody. That's just what we tried next.
mcconnell		The Resupply Module checked out fine. No instrument failures, no change in status. Orbit holding steady. But there was something else. The REMO'S computer contained an uplink message -- a very faint, highly distorted transmission from Mars One Base Camp.
terri		Someone's alive.
mcconnell		Yes.
phil		How?
beck		The message is almost indecipherable. Two teams are still working on it. You better see for yourselves.
technician		Still concentrating on the audio. We managed to bring out a couple more words, but we've got a long way to go.
woody		Show us whatever you've got.
luke		...make this quick... may be only ch--  ...to the site, when we... hit us just as we... --thers are all dead...
luke		 ...--stems are holding up for now, but I don't know how long I can...
technician		That's it.
terri		What did Luke mean by a "low sound?"
beck		If this was a earthquake, as we're now assuming, there's usually an auditory component.
woody		But that energy pulse they picked up in New Mexico...
phil		Electromagnetic emission. Not uncommon with large-scale geophysical phenomena.
woody		 Causing this kind of damage? I don't buy it. We're missing something here.
terri		Luke must be in pretty bad shape if he hasn't blasted out of there in the Earth Return Vehicle. That thing's designed so even one crew member could fly it back to Earth.
mcconnell		Even if Luke was in great shape, he couldn't get home. That energy pulse would've fried the ERV'S computers.
woody		Other than the computers, how do we think the ERV fared?
beck		Well, so far our modelling says it should be in pretty good shape.
woody		Which means it's gonna be up to us to get new motherboards, drives, and software to Mars. As fast as we can.
beck		Whoa, slow down. It's gonna take us weeks just to analyze this data.
mcconnell		Right, but meanwhile, we've gotta be working up a mission plan.
woody		Luke needs us now.
beck		Luke may already be dead. And even if he's not, it's doubtful he's going to be able to transmit again. So we wouldn't know whether it's safe to land until you were almost there.
phil		What about SIMA?
phil		The Saturn Imaging Probe. It's going to slingshot around Mars on its way through the solar system. It could be retasked to take pictures, read radiation levels at Mars One Base Camp.
woody		Good idea Phil. If SIMA tells us Luke hasn't survived and it's not safe to land, we swing around Mars and come right back home.
mcconnell		Yes. We can design the mission to have a free return capability. It's a long trip, but if you don't land it's the best option.
beck		We're getting ahead of ourselves. You're forgetting the bigger problem.  The orbits are all wrong. Our first decent launch window is almost eight months from now.
mcconnell		But we can go earlier and get there faster if we reconfigure the payload for extra fuel. We've modelled that, Ray. I've modelled it.
beck		On paper, yeah. But those stresses have never been tested in space.
mcconnell		The ship can take it.
beck		I wasn't thinking of just the ship.
mcconnell		I know the protocols for a Mars Recovery Mission better than anybody, because I helped design them. And I'm saying these guys can do it.
woody		He's right, Ray. We've got a real shot.
beck		Give me an updated mission plan by 0800 tomorrow. Then I'll put it in the works.
mcconnell		Let's get to work.
woody		Chief, could I have a word?
woody		I've no longer got the right crew.
beck		 What do you mean? Bjornstrom can be up here on the next shuttle.
woody		Bjornstrom is a geologist. He's good, but not for this. My people just lost eight months of training. This is a different mission, with a different objective.
beck		I haven't been given authorization for a mission yet.
woody		But when you are, it ought to be given the best chance for success. I want McConnell to fly right seat.
beck		He's no longer on mission status.
woody		Yeah. Because you washed him out.
beck		He washed himself out. He only had to pass a few more psych evaluations, but he refused to take them.
woody		Ray, he's the best pilot I ever saw, and you've got him benched at a desk.
beck		Everybody has to pass the psych prelims. No exceptions. Jim knew that.
woody		Maggie was his wife. He didn't want to lie on a couch and share her with strangers.
beck		That was his call. But I had to make one too. It was tough as hell, but I'd do it again.
woody		His wife wasted away in front of his eyes. What was he supposed to do? Suck it up? Get with the program? What was his crime? That he was upset? That he cried...?
beck		I couldn't trust him!
beck		 Not in a crisis... I'm sorry Woody, but Jim lost his edge. Are you gonna stand there and tell me Jim McConnell is the same man he was two years ago? You want me to bet four more lives on that?
woody		When Maggie died, yeah, it knocked the shit out of him. It knocked the hell out of all of us. But you know and I know that he's still the best we've got. He and Maggie wrote the book on Mars. He's got more hours in the sims than the rest of us put together. Ray, we can do this. Give me McConnell as co-pilot, and we will bring Luke home. And that's a promise.
mcconnell		What's that?
phil		That... is the exact chemical composition of my ideal woman.
mcconnell		Used to be.
phil		Hey!
mcconnell		Now what is it?
phil		A frog.
terri		I guess now we have our answer to the effects of long-term interplanetary travel on the human mind. The answer is Phil.
mcconnell		 I'm gonna get an update on SIMA. It should be just about close enough to start capturing some surface images.
mcconnell		Hey, Skip.
woody		Take a look.
woody		What do you make of that?
mcconnell		Dust storm. Southern hemisphere, coming from the east... Big fella, too.
woody		Headed for Chryse Planitia.
mcconnell		Yup. Could get a little hairy just about landing time...
woody		We'll have to be ready to move fast. Maybe even advance our ETA. Those things can cover the whole planet, and last up to a year.
mcconnell		When does SIMA do her fly-by?
woody		Tomorrow morning, about 0600. That's when we find out whether we came all this way for nothing.
mcconnell		 My money's on Luke.
phil		What brought this on?
woody		Zero-G. My last chance to be graceful. Once we're in Mars gravity, it's back to shuffling my feet and grabbing her butt.
terri		I'll take what I can get.
computer		Attention. Incoming packet.
mcconnell		It's SIMA.
woody		Looks deserted.
phil		It's still standing, though. So is the ERV. And look, there's the greenhouse.
mcconnell		We know Luke survived for at least a few hours. Question is, are there any signs of recent activity?
phil		There.
phil		What the hell are those?
mcconnell		Graves.
phil		Hold on. There's only three. That means --
terri		Phil --
phil		It means Luke must still be --
terri		No. It just means there was nobody left to bury him.
woody		Check the radiation levels.
phil		Normal.
woody		Go to the disaster site.
mcconnell		What's wrong?
phil		I don't know. Magnetic interference?
woody		Go to infrared.
phil		Must be a problem with SIMA. I don't see how an earthquake, six months ago, could give us this kind of distortion.
mcconnell		That was no quake.
woody		Then what the hell was it?
beck		We're going to continue analyzing this data and try to determine what the problem is with those images. Frankly, we're just as stumped as you guys, but we'll keep on it.  We agree that the evidence of the graves is inconclusive and that a ground search is advisable. Be aware there are little sand storms kicking up near Mars One Base, but the big one you spotted is turning south. It shouldn't be a factor.
beck		We're all pretty excited here and we're sure you must be feeling the same. Enjoy your meal and get a good night's sleep. We anticipate that tomorrow morning you will be Go for Mars Orbital Insertion.
beck		God bless you and goodnight. End of transmission.
terri		What if you opened up your meal packs and found that, instead of putting in everything but red ones, they'd made a mistake and put in only red ones?
phil		Hey, that's a funny notion. And what if in your meal packs, instead of brown rice, there were spring-loaded spikes that shot into your eyes?
terri		 How did you ever pass the psych evaluation?
phil		When you're schizophrenic, they take the higher score.
luke		Jim's first ship was seriously underpowered...
woody		Maggie was always starstruck...
maggie		I'll get you guys for this.
luke		When they met at the Air Force Academy, it was "love at first flight."
woody		After that, NASA training was tough. All Jim could think about was exploring a heavenly body. More ribald LAUGHTER, as
luke		But Maggie, as you can see, kept him on a short leash. Until...
woody		Mission accomplished!
luke		Today we celebrate a new chapter in their story. And guys, it's a pretty historic one.
woody		Let's hear it for the newly-announced Captain and Co-Captain of Mars One. To Jim and Maggie!
luke		When you guys land, it'll prove once and for all there's no intelligent life on Mars.
maggie		Hey, c'mon, what if I'm right?
assorted voices		Oh no, here we go! Don't get her started! Somebody put on some music!
maggie		It's our sister planet!
phil		Oh brother!
terri		Maggie, why does this have to be about us? Mars is a great opportunity for pure science.
maggie		We'll do the science. And we'll do it very well. That's what we've trained for. But what if there's more...? In all our myths, in every human culture, Mars has always held a special attraction. What if that means something? Only we don't understand it yet...
maggie		The universe is not chaos. It's connection. Life reaches out for life...
maggie		This is what we were born for, isn't it? To stand on a new world, and look beyond it to the next one. It's who we are.
woody		You okay?
mcconnell		Yeah. I'm good to go.
mcconnell		After all these years... Can you believe it? Tomorrow we'll be standing on Mars.
woody		You know what? She may have been right.
woody		If that wasn't a quake down there, then something else caused it. Or planned it... You're thinking the same thing.
mcconnell		It's never been out of my mind.
woody		Jesus. You realize what this means?
mcconnell		She knew, Woody. She was the only one of us that ever thought there might be something down there.
woody		Yeah, and we're not leaving until we find out... Deal?
woody		Maggie was the best of us.
mcconnell		Range 6783 and closing. 35 minutes till Mars Orbital Capture.
woody		Okay, people let's look sharp. If we overshoot, there's no coming back.
woody		Charge primary APU.
woody		Select HPU fuel cells for run.
mcconnell		Tie main bus to systems.
mcconnell		Select H2/O2 HPU and fuel cells for open.
terri		Charged and on-line
terri		Set
mcconnell		Transfer protocol data from EVA station.
phil		Transferred. Awaiting track confirmation.
phil		Uhhh!
terri		What in God's --
woody		Micrometeoroids
mcconnell		 Breach hits in the hull!
phil		Outgassing! Losing pressure!
terri		Woody, seal the breech!
woody		Kill those alarms!
mcconnell		Still outgassing in the lower Hab! There must be another hole down there, even bigger.
phil		Losing pressure fast! We're gonna decompress!
woody		Computer, how long until zero atmosphere?
computer		 Four minutes, nine seconds.
phil		If we get below 20% atmosphere, the power will shut down!
terri		Are you sure?
phil		Positive! A vacuum inside the ship would cause a total electrical failure. The nav computers will fry!
mcconnell		 We'll lose all control. We won't be able to fire the engines to capture Mars orbit.
phil		It's already starting. The primary L- 1 hub has been smashed. The systems are crashing.
woody		Everybody switch to suit oxygen. We beat this in the simulator, we can do it here. Jim, you've got the ship. I'm going EVA.
woody		C'mon, people, let's go! Let's work the problem!
phil		Jesus, it's still bleeding.
terri		Keep the pressure on!
computer		Eighty percent atmosphere...
terri		Jim, you've gotta get your spare helmet from storage.
mcconnell		No time. Phil, can you keep the nav computers on-line?
phil		I can't get this damn machine to re- initialize! And the automated systems just went down. We can't shut down the hab rotation from here.
mcconnell		I'll do it from below.
terri		We're losing pressure. You could embolize.
computer		Seventy percent atmosphere...
phil		Jim, I've got an idea. If you guys can save enough atmosphere, I'll disconnect the power in the main computer bay, then jump start the systems. I'll do a hard boot.
mcconnell		Has that ever been tested?
phil		Are you kidding? These machines are much too valuable.
mcconnell		Do it.
woody		 Jim, how we doin' on the AG?
mcconnell		Just one goddamn second. Come on, c'mon...
computer		Voice print identification.
mcconnell		McConnell!
computer		 Accepted. Shutting down artificial gravitational rotation.
mcconnell		Hang on!
computer		Sixty per cent atmosphere...
mcconnell		I've got a better idea.  Stay there!
woody		Jesus, uh, OK, this is gonna be like searching for a needle in a haystack.
mcconnell		Shake out the liquid.
terri		Jim, I don't --
mcconnell		Shake it out near the hull!
woody		C'mon, c'mon, where are you...?
mcconnell		 Woody, the breech is in sector four! Sector four, copy that?
woody		 Sonofabitch. You never did that in the simulator.
phil		Where are you, you little bastard, where are you...?
computer		Forty percent atmosphere...
woody		 Whoa.
phil		Gotcha!
computer		Thirty percent atmosphere...
computer		Twenty percent atmosphere...
phil		OK... OK now...
phil		Come on. Come on...!
computer		Twenty percent atmosphere...
computer		Pressure stabilizing... Atmosphere level increasing.
phil		Yes! Awriiiight! Had it all the way. Yes!
phil		Shit!
phil		Get back in here, guys!
woody		Jim, there's a lot of scarring... I'd better check for other punctures while I'm out here.
woody		 Copy, I'm heading there now.
woody		Hey, Beautiful...
woody		 Know what? You've got enough left.
terri		Piece of cake?
woody		Well. Easier than the cha-cha.
phil		I don't know what you're getting so cocky about. We scored better times in the sim at least twice.
mcconnell		 How's his hand?
terri		Seems OK. Couple of the tendons are going to be a little tight for awhile. Try to close your fingers, Phil, nice and slowly.
phil		Well, at least I'll still be able to drive.
woody		OK, we're ready to light this candle. Go/No Go for braking burn and MOI. Engines?
mcconnell		Go.
woody		Systems.
terri		Go.
woody		Nav.
phil		Go.
woody		We are Go for the burn. I'm fueling the engines.
phil		Four... Three...
woody		Jim?
mcconnell		Let's go to Mars.
woody		What the --
mcconnell		Shut down engines!
woody		Engines negative! No response! I've got no attitude control!
mcconnell		Manual separation! Blow the bolts!
woody		Negative! The CM doesn't have enough thrust to correct this rotation!
phil		We're too steep! Falling into the atmosphere...!
phil		Christ, at this angle we'll burn up!
woody		How much time've we got?
phil		I don't know! Three minutes? I don't know!
mcconnell		Where's the REMO?
phil		The Resupply Module? Why? That's not --
mcconnell		Where is it?!
phil		Uh, it's close...
mcconnell		Damn it, how close?!
phil		 I-I don't know. It'll take time...
mcconnell		We don't have time! Figure it out! Now!
woody		Jim, we're dead stick, there's no way to maneuver this ship into a link-up!
mcconnell		Not the ship. Just us. We have to go EVA.
phil		You want us to transfer in suits?
terri		Jesus, Jim -- if we don't make it -- if we miss the REMO...
mcconnell		There's no other choice! Phil, how close?!
phil		One kilometer, that's the best I can do!
woody		Prepare to abandon ship.
woody		On my mark, seven percent left thruster. Three, two, one, fire.
woody		Okay. Let's go.
terri		What're you looking for?
phil		 Earth.
terri		 Hey. When we get back? We really will have to try this in the sim.
mcconnell		How we doin' on fuel, Woody?
woody		I'm at fifty percent.  But I don't see the REMO.
terri		There she is!
woody		Jesus. She's not where I thought she'd be.
phil		We're going to miss her.
mcconnell		What do you think?
woody		We can't catch it. Not like this.
mcconnell		 Use the tether.
mcconnell		We'll only have one, maybe two shots before she's out of reach.
woody		It'll be better if I leave you the gun while I run out to the REMO. I've got enough fuel left for that.
mcconnell		You'll be going too fast.
woody		I'll aim to overshoot, then brake like hell; arc it in.
woody		Seeya in a few.
woody		Okay. I'm on path to overshoot. I'm gonna take the edge off.
woody		I'm out. Coming in hot. Still long.  Abandoning the unit. I'll brake with suit jets.
terri		Oh Jesus. Jesus...
woody		Suit jets gone. But I'm gonna make contact...
mcconnell		At what velocity?
woody		Impact's gonna be a little rough.
mcconnell		At what velocity?
woody		 Thirty-two.
mcconnell		I'm gonna use the gun to slow you.
woody		No! You slow me and I'll fall short.
mcconnell		It's too fast, Woody.
woody		No choice. I'll be okay. Here we go...
terri		Woody!!
mcconnell		Woody, what's your status?
woody		 Uh, well, no suit jets and I'm still carrying a good deal of velocity.
mcconnell		As soon as we get hooked up, I'll come get you.
woody		 Uh, I'd have to say negative on that, Jim.
mcconnell		Negative on the transmission?
woody		No, I heard you. Negative on the maneuver. I am not retrievable.
terri		Woody, that's not possible. You're not going that fast.
woody		It comes down to the amount of fuel, honey. The suit jets were designed for attitude control, not travel. Retrieval just won't work.
phil		It has to work!
woody		Hey, believe me, I don't like it any more than you do.
terri		Woody --
woody		Run the numbers, Jim.
mcconnell		I am.
mcconnell		Woody, you hang tight. We'll get into the REMO, fire her up, drop her into a lower orbit and come scoop you up.
woody		Sounds good, Jim.
terri		It's gonna take half an hour to get the REMO reoriented! Woody'll be... He'll be in the atmosphere by then!
mcconnell		Then we'll have to get her moving faster.
terri		We don't have time!
woody		You listen to Jim, honey. It's a good plan.
terri		No! We are going to --
phil		Oh Jesus, look! The ship!
mcconnell		Look out!
mcconnell		Brakes!
mcconnell		Okay, let's get inside! Phil, start dumping the cargo, or there won't be room for us.
phil		But we need those supplies for --
mcconnell		Dump the cargo. Hang on, Woody!
woody		Will do, Jim.
woody		 Hey, Beautiful...
mcconnell		Terri, no!
mcconnell		Goddammit, Terri, it won't work!
woody		Terri, what are you doing?
terri		I'll tell you what I'm not doing, Woody. I'm not going to watch you die.
woody		Terri --
terri		You'd do the same for me.
mcconnell		Get inside. Dump the cargo, then start the systems.  Now.
woody		No. I wouldn't come for you. Not if it just wasn't possible.
terri		I can do it!
woody		No, Terri, you can't! You don't have enough fuel to get me, stop us both, and get us back. Hell, you come any farther and you won't have enough to get back yourself.
woody		Listen to me, goddammit! You have to stop! You have to stop now!
mcconnell		He's right, Terri... It's no use.
woody		Okay, honey...? You gotta go back now.
terri		The hell I do.
woody		What are you doing?
terri		I'm gonna jet a little closer and try again.
woody		Terri, you spend any fuel getting closer, you won't get back, and if anyone tries to get you, they'll die too.
woody		Honey, please go back. Go back and help everyone get down to the surface.
terri		I am not losing you.
woody		I can't let you do it. I can't. I'm sorry.
terri		Woody...?
woody		I love you, Terri. God how I love you.
terri		Woody, nooooooo...!!!
terri		Woody, oh Woody, please God, no!
mcconnell		Come back, Terri.
mcconnell		 He's gone.
mcconnell		Please, Terri...  We need you.
new capcom		Okay, they're Go for the burn and MOI. Should be initiating the burn just about... now.
mcconnell		Phil?  Hey, Phil...?
mcconnell		We're going in blind. We'll deploy the chutes by laptop. I need to get on the data bus, put in a software patch, and try to soften this tin can's landing. I could use your help with the patch.
mcconnell		That's great. Good job.  Hey, Terri, I was wondering. Think maybe we could rig some kind of seatbelts out of those cargo straps?
new capcom		Ray...? We've got some new data, just coming in.
new capcom		We just -- it doesn't make any sense. We're not sure how to read this.
beck		Data?
new capcom		Yes sir. Telemetry reports the REMO has left its orbit and reached the Martian surface.
beck		 Crashed?
new capcom		No sir. Under power.
beck		When?
new capcom		Sixty-three minutes after Mars Recovery went off-line. Sir, the graph reads like a controlled descent. But that doesn't make any --
beck		They used the REMO as a lander.
beck		It's McConnell, it's got to be! Nobody else could have pulled this off. Son of a bitch! They're alive.
mcconnell		Better?
phil		 Damn right.
mcconnell		Terri, let's see if that oxygen still is operational. Phil, you better check out the ERV. I'll take the Hab. If you find Luke's --
mcconnell		Just keep in touch.
mcconnell		 I'm at the main airlock door.
mcconnell		Entering Hab.
phil		I've got ERV access. I'm going in. Terri, you okay?
terri		Yeah. This is gonna take awhile to get back to 100% capacity.
phil		ERV appears structurally intact. Computers are fried, just as we thought.
terri		Copy that. I've got busted filters here, clogged intakes. Helluva cleanup job, but so far no major damage.
mcconnell		I'm in the greenhouse. You better... you better come see this for yourselves.
phil		What is it?
terri		Jim...?
mcconnell		Luke, it's me! Jim McConnell!
luke		You're not here!
mcconnell		Luke, it's Jim!
luke		No, no, you're not... you can't be here.
mcconnell		Your wife is Debra! Your son is Bobby! You were reading Treasure Island with him...!
mcconnell		Don't hurt him!
luke		Phil... Terri...
luke		Jim... I don't understand. You're not supposed to be here... Why are you here? Where's Woody?
mcconnell		He didn't make it Luke.
luke		Oh no.
mcconnell		Luke, what happened here?
luke		 We fired the radar. It came. They all died.
mcconnell		What came?
luke		They all died, but I was spared. Why? Had to be for a reason. Then, all of a sudden, I knew why I was spared.
luke		So somebody would be left to figure out the secret.
mcconnell		Luke, we still don't understand.
luke		Come. Comecomecome.
phil		Is it just me? Or is he about two mealpacks short of a picnic?
terri		Long term exposure to low gravity can have an adverse impact on the brain. He could be suffering from a form of asphyxia.
mcconnell		Or maybe his whole crew died and he's been marooned alone on Mars. Let's give him time to adjust.
phil		Greatgreatgreat.
luke		So... let me be sure I understand this. Your ship blew up, with all its supplies. Then you emptied the cargo out of the REMO, and it was totalled on landing. You've got no food, no water, no spare oxygen, nothing but what I see here...?
luke		What kinda rescue mission is this?
mcconnell		That kind.
phil		Check it out. New nav boards for the ERV. I got four round-trip tickets, baby, right in here.
luke		 Four.
luke		Terri... I'm so sorry. He was a good man.
terri		Thanks, Luke.
luke		When there's time, we'll talk.
luke		This way.
luke		...When I came to and dug myself out of the sand, my faceplate was cracked. Leaking badly. I barely made it back to Base. It was weeks before I could work up the nerve to go back out there and look for their...
luke		Renee was the only one I could find. But it didn't seem right, somehow, to dig just one grave.
mcconnell		Has it been blowing like this for a while?  We saw a big storm from space. But Micker said it was turning south.
luke		If it holds course.
mcconnell		This -- whatever it was -- this force. You say it came directly out of the top of the mountain?
luke		You don't believe me. That's okay. But I'm not crazy, Jim.
mcconnell		What did you mean by its "secret?" What secret?
luke		 You better see for yourselves.
luke		See, where they made their mistake was, they must've planned for it to be visible from Earth...
mcconnell		Who's "they"?
luke		Don't you understand? Hundreds of millions of years have gone by. You've got erosion, sand storms, lava flows, meteor impacts -- hell, in that much time, the whole surface would've changed. So no wonder we never saw it before. Well, I mean, we saw it, but not like they meant us too. Too much dirt on it.
terri		Saw what?
luke		This.
phil		Jesus...
terri		What is that...?
luke		I don't know. But whatever it is, somebody built it. And not us.
mcconnell		What about the sound? That signal you heard before the explosion?
luke		Good, Jim, good. That's the key.
luke		Hear the pauses? That's what made me realize it's a pattern -- a repeating pattern.
mcconnell		Mathematical?
luke		That's what I thought. There are distinct blocks in the pattern, and within each block the tones come in groups of three. Threethreethree. For months I struggled to analyze it, trying different constructs... Then I thought about dimensions.
mcconnell		X-Y-Z coordinates...
luke		Right! Three groups equals three dimensions... So I tried assigning different graphic values to each block, group and tone. And finally I got... this.
phil		My God... Is that what I think it is?
terri		DNA... that's a model of DNA!
luke		You see it, too. Thank God. I was afraid I was just suffering from a form of asphyxia.
phil		So, okay, so -- somebody left this thing here, somebody -- other than human. But what the hell is it?
luke		My guess is, it's a signature. A self-portrait of whatever species created the Face.
mcconnell		But that DNA looks human.
terri		No way. It's missing the last pair of chromosomes. See?
mcconnell		Yeah, but it's close. Damn close.
terri		The difference between a man and an ape is less than three percent of genetic material. But that three percent gives you Mozart. Einstein.
phil		Or Jack the Ripper.
mcconnell		It's been a long day. Let's get a couple hours sleep, then tackle this thing when we're fresher. Phil, your first priority will be to get the motherboards over to the ERV. Concentrate on getting communications up first.  Soon as we've got the juice, we'll send a packet to Micker, tell them Luke's OK, and that... everything else that's happened. The rest of us will take an inventory of supplies, see where we stand. Okay?
terri		C'mon. There's a pair of scissors in my medkit.
mcconnell		How do you feel?
luke		Like I just got back my other three percent.
terri		The backup generator is salvageable, and two of the solar panels. I'm pretty sure I can get the oxygen still back into production, too. So we're not in such bad shape, considering.
luke		Good work, Terri.
mcconnell		Look at that. Phil's idea of absolute essentials.
mcconnell		It's not a signature.
luke		 What?
mcconnell		That noise from the Face... It's not a signature. It's a test.
mcconnell		It's asking us for the right answer. It wants us to put in the missing pair of chromosomes.
luke		But why?
mcconnell		To prove that we're human.
luke		We fired radar into that thing. Concentrated sound waves...
mcconnell		Which it interpreted as a wrong answer... Yes! It's like a, a security alarm. When it gets an incorrect response, it defends itself.
phil		So what happens when it gets the right answer?
mcconnell		 Can you work this the other way? Figure out which tones would be equivalent to the missing chromosomes? Then dub them into your recording of the signal?
luke		I think so, yes.
mcconnell		What about the radar gun? Will it accept that input? Can we transmit a completed signal back to the Face?
phil		Whoa, whoa, hold on, Jim. What if you're wrong? Whoever goes out there... I mean, what if you're wrong? Three people have already died over that thing.
terri		Four.
mcconnell		Terri, if we leave here without getting some answers, they all died in vain.
terri		We just don't know enough about that -- that thing out there to take any more chances.
mcconnell		What are we here for, if not to take chances...?
mcconnell		This means we're not alone. It means we're on the brink of the greatest discovery in mankind's history. But we've still got to prove it. Who knows when someone else will get back here? Or if they ever will? You know what Congress is like. They'll say it's too dangerous, too much loss of life, let's go back to unmanned flights. We could be the last explorers to come here for decades. We're it, guys.  We're it.
luke		 We don't have to go out there. There's a better way.
luke		Checking video feed...
luke		There!
mcconnell		How close do we need to get?
luke		I'm not sure. Maybe we better stop by that boulder.
phil		Oh my God...
luke		It worked... It worked!
mcconnell		Check for radiation.
luke		Normal. Seismic... normal. Anemometer steady. No sign of the vortex.
phil		I don't know what we did, but guys -- does that look to you like a hostile gesture?
terri		No. More like an invitation.
luke		Or another test...
mcconnell		Luke, the four-man rover. Does it still work?
mcconnell		How long before it hits?
luke		An hour? Maybe less.
mcconnell		How bad?
luke		A storm like that? It could go planetary. And last a year.
luke		It'll sock us in, Jim. We won't be able to take off. If that happens, with what few supplies we've got left...? We'll starve to death.
mcconnell		Phil, how much longer to prep the ERV?
phil		Maybe forty-five minutes. It'll be tight, but we can make it.
mcconnell		Then there's still time for us to get out there and back.
mcconnell		Stay here. Continue the repair. If something goes wrong, you get out of here before that storm hits.
phil		Go back... alone?
mcconnell		If we're not back in forty-five minutes, I want you to prep and launch.  That's 1950 hours.
phil		Jim --
mcconnell		It's not a suggestion, it's an order. You understand?
phil		 I understand. But --
mcconnell		You understand what?
phil		If you're not back by 1950, I prep and launch.
mcconnell		Let's go.
mcconnell		Phil, do you read me?
phil		Yeah, Jim. Your signal's breaking up a little in the storm, but I read you.
mcconnell		We're at the Face. We're gonna need a few minutes here. Same deadline, launch at 1950. With or without us. Do you copy?
phil		 Copy that.
terri		Jim, are you sure you want to do this?
mcconnell		I'm not sure of anything anymore. But I didn't come a hundred million miles just to turn back in the last ten feet.
mcconnell		Surface seems firm and level.
luke		Roger that. Texture is smooth.
terri		I've got good footing and no obstructions. Let's check our --
terri		It's solid again! We're trapped.
mcconnell		Don't move! Keep this orientation.
mcconnell		 Phil? Phil, can you still hear me?
phil		Computers are online! Ready to load software. But guys -- we're losing visibility here.
phil		Guys...? Jim? Luke? Terri? Is anyone there...?
phil		Don't leave me.
terri		 Jim, what're you doing? You'll depressurize!
mcconnell		I don't think so.
luke		Jim, seal it!
mcconnell		No. That was air going into my suit, not out. Look at your own suits -- they're not rigid anymore. We've got pressure in here.
terri		Above Mars atmospheric? That's impossible.
mcconnell		We're millions of miles from Earth and we're inside a gigantic white face. What's impossible?
terri		There's six psi in here...  Nitrogen and oxygen.
luke		Otherwise known as air?
terri		Hey, there may be some lethal trace gasses I haven't picked up yet, or... or... oh, the hell with it.
mcconnell		 Is that what I think it is?
luke		Yeah. It's Mars.
terri		Oh my God.
terri		Earth, when it was still Pangaea. Before the continents separated.
mcconnell		They're us. We're them...
luke		We're Martians...?
mcconnell		That's what she means.
terri		Oh my God. The Cambrian explosion.
terri		Almost six hundred million years ago, there was a sudden expansion of life on Earth. The first multi-celled plants and animals appeared. No one has ever understood why...
luke		They seeded Earth.
phil		 ...in, please. Can you... me?
terri		Phil, we're here! We read you.
phil		Thank God! Listen, this storm is really --  You've gotta get back to the ship!
terri		Phil? Phil...?
mcconnell		We are in a ship. This is a ship. And the countdown has already started.
luke		He's right.
terri		Then let's get the hell out of here!
luke		Jim...
luke		Jim, we gotta go.
mcconnell		I'm not coming with you.
terri		 What?
terri		What are you talking about? We've got to get home.
mcconnell		That's where I'm going. Don't you see? That's what all this is for.  You were right Terri. This is an invitation. To follow them. To follow them home.
mcconnell		I have to go. This is the mission now. To find out who we are. Isn't that why we came here? Like Maggie said, "To stand on a new world and look beyond it to the next one."
mcconnell		You know, when you think about it -- I wasn't even supposed to be here -- all the accidents, everything that got us to this point, it's just... it's just... I just know it's right.
mcconnell		I'm okay. I know what I'm doing. But you're running out of time. You've gotta get back to the ERV and get off this planet. Now please go.
luke		I once felt like I was taking your turn. But now I think maybe you're taking mine. Guess I'm a little jealous.
luke		Thanks for saving my life.
mcconnell		My pleasure.
terri		I wish Woody were here to see this. He would've wanted to go too, Jim.
mcconnell		He's here, Terri. We wouldn't have made it without him.
terri		Take care, Jim.
luke		Hey, Jim...?
mcconnell		Yeah?
luke		Have a great ride.
mcconnell		Always do.
luke		Phil? Phil, do you read?  He's not reading.
terri		I can barely read you. Let's get the hell out of here!
phil		Is anyone there? Can anyone read me?
terri		I've lost the Base Camp beacon!
terri		No good! We're driving blind.
luke		I'll try to keep on a straight line! It's our only chance.
terri		Don't worry! I've worked with Phil for four years! I know Jim gave him a direct order, but he won't leave without us.
phil		This is ERV, do you read? ERV to Rover, do you read...?
phil		This is ERV, do you read?
luke		 Save the fuel, Phil. We're coming in.
phil		Uh, Phil's not here right now. He left for Earth five minutes ago. Please leave your message at the beep.
phil		Where's Jim?
terri		He got another ride.
luke		Tell you on the way. Let's go!
terri		Dear God. Look at that.
phil		Is that him?
luke		Godspeed Jim McConnell.
****Dialogues from script :Moneyball.txt****

billy		It's okay, Joe, you can leave it on. It's no big deal.
security guard		No, it's okay, I don't need to watch it.
billy		How's Meg?
security guard		She's good, thanks.
billy		And the boys?
security guard		They're good. Everybody's good.
billy		That's good. The security guard waits for the baseball to sail through the glass, but it doesn't happen.
billy		Night.
security guard		Night, Billy. It was a great season.
billy		Yeah...  TARA V/O You're not watching them celebrate, right? Car's off. Billy sits in the dark on his phone.
billy		No. That would be, uh--
billy		Are you asking me to pick one?
billy		I'll be honest, right this minute I'm not thinking about either of those things.  4. 
billy		They were down two-love and then beat us three in a row. Trust me, the better team won.
billy		That sounds good.
billy		How about Oakland?
billy		Yeah.  TARA V/O They had three times your payroll, Billy. From the radio we've been hearing shards of "--an unprecedented choke--", "--get rid of Billy Beane--", "-- Billy Beane knows nothing about baseball--".  5. 
billy		Yeah.
billy		Great. I'm on my way.
billy		Is it Boston? You're talking to Boston? What are they offering?
billy		What?!
billy		You don't know that.
ticket clerk		You need to hurry.
billy		I don't know that -- since I don't know what they're offering.
tara		She said we had to hurry up.  6. 
billy		Scott? Scott?
billy		What did they offer?
billy		Just to be clear -- they offered seven and a quarter.  BORAS V/O Yes.
billy		As opposed to you said seven and a quarter and they're thinking about it.
billy		I'm thinking I don't want to lose Damon, but I don't pay my whole infield seven million dollars.
tara		We're losing Damon?
billy		Wait, don't hang up. Don't hang up --
billy		What's the difference?  7. 
billy		It's already through. Billy grabs his phone from the other side.
billy		Seven point five?
billy		I'll talk to Steve.
tara		Try to relax.
billy		 A small emergency is starting to develop.
tara		Try. Try to relax.
billy		You look fantastic today.
billy		Arn. Billy. We gotta talk about Giambi.
tara		Wait, we're losing Giambi, too?
billy		We can talk now. We're talking now.  8. 
billy		Who are you talking to -- the Yankees?
billy		Don't hang up.
tara		You found Giambi. Billy dials another number --
tara		A thousand dollars says you don't get on the plane.
billy		Denise. Billy.   These guys are auctioning off my team one player at a time.
billy		I know, I just want to send him flowers.  SECRETARY V/O Flowers?
tara		Flowers?
billy		Where would I send them?
billy		To Arn.  9. 
tara		  You're not going to be anywhere near Hawaii.
billy		To where he is now, yes.
tara		The airport is as close as you got.
billy		  Thank you, Tara.
tara		I'm Tara.
billy		I know. I need a day.
tara		 BILLY --
billy		One day. I'll fly out tomorrow.
tara		It's gonna be more than one day.   We're losing Isringhausen too?
billy		Only if my luck stays exactly the same.
tara		It's like the bell rang but you're still getting hit in the head.  Just in case.
billy		I'm sorry. Have fun out there.  10. 
tara		I'm picking up a guy at the breakfast buffet.
billy		A left-handed reliever if you can.
billy		How much longer you think?
guest		What?
billy		Nah, it's okay.
billy		Arn, I don't wanna lose him.
billy		I don't wanna lose him.
arn		This is my nephew's Bar Mitzvah.
billy		He did well with his Torah portion I thought.
arn		Thank you.  11. 
billy		What did they offer?
arn		He's not staying in Oakland, Billy.
billy		What did the Yankees offer him?
arn		It's New York; you've got to give a player a reason not to play there.
billy		What did they offer?
arn		17 million.
billy		No way.
arn		Yeah.
billy		I don't pay my whole infield 17 million dollars.
arn		I know, I know...
billy		For how long?
arn		17 a year for seven years.
billy		A hundred and twenty million dollars?
arn		Hundred and nineteen.   You gotta get Steve to let you spend some money.
billy		That's pretty good advice, I should do that.  12. 
arn		Steve doesn't get it. This isn't a charity raffle.
billy		Arn. I get it, he gets it, Jason gets it and you certainly get it. I'll talk to him.
arn		And you're losing Isringhausen, too.
billy		Ya think?
arn		I've gotta get back.
billy		Hey mazel tov, Arn.
arn		Thank you. Good luck.
kid		Are you Billy Beane?
billy		Yes.
kid		That was a pretty serious choke.
billy		Are you from around here?
kid		Yeah.
billy		You a Dodger fan?
kid		Yeah.
billy		Here, drink a lot of this.
billy		We're losing Damon and Giambi. We can't survive losing Damon and Giambi.
schott		Isringhausen's gone, too, don't you think?
billy		I can win without a closer. I can't without power.
schott		So negotiate with them.
billy		I have. They want more.
schott		So offer them a little more.
billy		I have. They want more than a little more.
schott		Like what. What'll it cost - say - to keep Giambi?
schott		17 for how many  -
billy		One.
schott		For one year? Billy nods. Steve smiles. And Billy knows what it means. It means, That makes it easy - there's nothing more to discuss on the matter.
schott		I have confidence you'll find a way to make it work without them.  14. 
billy		I can't.
schott		Sure you can.
schott		Billy. What are we? The Taj Mahal? We're a small-market team. Obviously, we can't afford Giambi at such a  -
billy		Fine. He's gone. But I might - for a bit more than last year - be able to keep Damon in  - (Steve is shaking his
schott		Billy...
billy		I can't compete against a hundred and twenty million dollar payroll with a forty million dollar payroll.
schott		We just won 102 games with a forty million dollar payroll.
billy		With Giambi and Damon. We wouldn't have without them. Silence. Then -
billy		You can't ask me to be okay with losing. That's too much to ask a professional athlete.
billy		It's too much, Steve!
schott		You're not a professional athlete!    15. 
billy		Scott. Billy.
billy		It's just my phone, it's about to die, but this'll be quick - listen - I'm losing my favorite prospects, but I got you the seven point five.
billy		No. No, you won't. I got it for you and we're done. Damon stays in Oakland.
billy		Whose number is that - seven point five. Mine?
billy		It's yours. So make your call, but don't play me, Scott. We have a deal. I won't be a stalking horse. The word stays in the - dictionary.  16. 
billy		Sorry, hon. I'm gonna need another day.
billy		You've got my suitcase?
billy		 Okay.
billy		I gotta take this.
billy		Yeah.
billy		No, you didn't.  17. 
billy		No, I have Johnny for seven-point-five or he's not playing anywhere, because that's the deal --  BORAS  Boston just upped it to seven-seven-five.
billy		We had a deal.
billy		Why am I the ugliest girl at the dance, Scott? Why do I get the feeling I'm always gonna be a quarter million short?
billy		No, you played me. And you're playing me now. Congratulations, asshole. You win. Billy hangs up on him.
grady		Alright, guys... we had a great year. We won 102 games and we only came a buck short in New York. Now the bad news... we've got three big holes to fill.
keough		I like Geronimo. (approval from the
george		Six foot four.
pittaro		Top of my list.
pote		Clean cut, good face.
artie		Good jaw. He's the real deal.
george		Five tools, good lookin'.
billy		Can he hit?
keough		He's a tools guy.
billy		Can he hit?
keough		He's got a great swing. Natural swing.
billy		So you're saying he can't hit.
keough		He can hit.
barry		The ball explodes off his bat.
artie		It's exciting. When he hits it sounds like he's droppin' a firecracker at his feet.
pittaro		Down in the pisser you can hear that sound.
barry		Sounds like Mays, Mantle, Aaron...
billy		That's not what I asked. I asked can he hit.
keough		He's a good hitter.
billy		If he's a good hitter, why doesn't he hit good?
keough		He needs a little work. He'll be able to hit. He could be a great hitter.
billy		Right... we put him up against big league competition and suddenly he'll be able to hit.
grady		Artie, who do we like?
artie		I like Perez. He swings like a man.
keough		He swings like a man who swings at too much.  20. 
artie		There's some work needs to be done. I admit it. He needs to be reworked a little. But he's noticeable.
grady		He's notable?
artie		No, he's noticeable. You notice him.
keogh		He's got an ugly girlfriend.
barry		What's that mean?
keogh		Ugly girlfriend means no confidence.
barry		Alright. That's true.
pittaro		I agree with Art. I like the way he walks into a room. Kid's so confident his dick gets there two minutes before he does.
george		Passes the eye candy test. He's got the looks, he's ready to play the part. He just needs some playing time.
barry		Billy, if you want to talk about another Giambi, this guy could be it. Enough. Billy raises a book above the table, drops it with a dull THUD... STOPPING TRAFFIC.
grady		Is that a suggestion, Billy?
billy		Guys, stop. You're talking like this is business as usual. It's not.
grady		We're trying to solve the problem.  21. 
billy		Not like this. You're not even looking at the problem.
grady		We not only have a very clear understanding of the problem we now face, but everyone in this room has faced similar problems countless times before.
billy		Good. What's the problem?
grady		The problem is that we've lost 3 key players that we now have to replace.
billy		Uh-uh. What's the problem?
pittaro		The problem is the same as it always is; we've got to put a team together with what we've got.
billy		Uh-uh. What's the problem?
barry		We've got 38 home runs to replace, 120 rbi's, 47 doubles...
billy		Okay, stop. The problem we're trying to solve is that this is an unfair game. There are rich teams, poor teams, 50 feet of crap and then there's us. And now we've been gutted. We're organ donors to the rich. The Red Sox took our kidneys and the Yankees took our heart. And now I'm listening to the same old shit about having a good body and being a tools guy like you're looking for Fabio. Is there another first baseman like Giambi?
billy		Then stop looking for one because what we'll surely wind up with is the McNuggets version of Giambi.
grady		Look, we're gonna find 25 guys, put `em through player development, teach `em how to play Oakland A baseball. This is no time to push the panic button. This is the way we've been doing it for 150 years. Let us do our job.
billy		If we try to play like the Yankees in here, we're not going to be able to play with them out there.
grady		That's fortune cookie wisdom.
billy		No, it's just regular wisdom.
pote		Who's Fabio?
grady		Okay, Billy. Clearly you have something on your mind.
billy		Bill James.
artie		You're not serious?
pittaro		We're not playing fantasy baseball, Billy.
barry		Those aren't new ideas, they disproved that years ago.
grady		Bill James was a night security guard at the Stokely Van Camp Pork and Beans Factory.
billy		He thinks differently than anyone in baseball.
grady		He's not in baseball. He's in pork and beans.
billy		Don't attack the man, attack the argument.
pittaro		 I think he just won the argument.
billy		What if we've been wrong this whole time about what ingredients manufacture a win? What if this whole time we thought it was the chicken that made the chicken soup taste good when really it was the onions that made the chicken soup taste good? Onions are a lot cheaper than chicken, you see what I'm saying?
pote		I don't have the first idea what you're saying.
billy		We gotta start over. We gotta rethink this thing. We gotta look where others aren't looking.
grady		With all due respect, we've been doing this for a long time.
billy		That doesn't mean you're doing it right. Do you watch nature docs? You know what happens to the runt of the litter? He dies. I'm open to any solution, as long as it's not what the other guys are doing.   Now, I'm going to Cleveland to poach an outfielder named Brandon Garcia --
tbd scout		Hold on -- You're going to Cleveland for a double-A guy?
grady		Billy, I've seen Garcia. He's got a bad body. It's not a pretty sight.
pittaro		Kid wears a large pair of underwear.  24. 
keogh		That is a big boy.
grady		He's not just big, but kind of doughy. A fleshy kind of body.
billy		Oh, you mean like Babe Ruth.
pittaro		When he walks, Billy, his thighs stick together. There's enough friction there to start a bonfire.
keogh		If you saw him, I'm telling you, you wouldn't want to go to Cleveland.
barry		Billy, can I make a suggestion? If you could get Ricardo Rincon... he'd be worth the trip to Cleveland.
george		That would solve our left handed reliever problem.
billy		Really?
billy		I should get Rincon?
billy		Okay. I'll also come back with Joe DiMaggio and Ty Cobb. And who would like a Faberg egg? Guys, you aren't hearing me -- in what universe can we afford Rincon?    25. 
billy		And Grady? Nobody cares about a 102 win season.
keough		What's a Faberg egg?  A16 EXT. HIGH SCHOOL BASEBALL FIELD - DAY - FLASHBACK - 1980 A16
sabatini		This is the guy.
martinez		He's got a great path. I love the extension in his swing and the backspin he creates.
sabatini		That's some amazing power right there, huh?
martinez		Good approach, great balance. How's he compare to the others around the country?
sabatini		He's number one. Let's just hope he's still there when we pick.
martinez		This guy'll go in the first round.  CUT TO:
sabatini		Billy. I'm Sabatini, Area Scout, New York Mets. Can we get a couple minutes of your time, find out more about you?
billy		Of course.
sabatini		I'd like to introduce you to Tom Martinez.
martinez		Very impressive performance today. In my job as the national cross-checker for the New York Mets, I see the top 200 players in the United States. It's been a while since I've seen a five tools guy, the complete package. Your throwing ability, your fielding skills... Ed told me you had power but I had no idea it was of the light tower variety. I hope you're as interested in professional baseball as we are in acquiring you in the upcoming draft.  27. 
billy		Well, sir, I'd need to talk it out with my parents, decide if baseball is something I want to do full time. I have a scholarship to play football at Stanford.
martinez		Well, Billy, we're certainly looking forward to meeting your folks and talking to them as well. And we believe in college, but that's something you can do in the winter months. You need to know the sky's the limit with your ability. You could be a superstar before you've even graduated. But to get to that level, you need to work with our people. Pro-ball is where you need to be to develop the skills God gave you.  CUT TO:
assistant		Mr. Beane? Mark's ready to see you now.
shapiro		So Billy, what are you looking for?
billy		50 million in additional payroll.
shapiro		Try Giambi.
billy		Ouch.  28. 
shapiro		120 million.
billy		I should've been a hitter.
shapiro		Where's Steve in all this?
billy		Supportive. Excited about rebuilding the team.
shapiro		Bonds is available.
billy		Yeah, how do I afford the rest of the field?
shapiro		So what are you looking for? I want to help out.
billy		I guess you've touched the bottom of the sports industry when your opponent is  OFFERING YOU--
shapiro		 BILLY--
billy		I need a lefty reliever and I want Ricardo Rincon.
shapiro		Not going to happen.
billy		Not even a discussion?
shapiro		Come on Billy, even if you could afford him we're not about to let him go.
billy		Why's that? You've got the Venezuelan kid in North Carolina you're bringing up.
shapiro		We dished him to Detroit. Keep up.
billy		Well there goes my other idea.  29. 
shapiro		What else you thinking Billy?
billy		You have any outfielders I should be looking at?
shapiro		To replace Damon?
billy		Yeah.
shapiro		That's a tough one Billy.
billy		Yeah. Who do you got?
shapiro		The guys you might be able to afford? Hollins, Garcia... Coste.
billy		Tell me about Garcia.
shapiro		To replace Damon?!
billy		Is he healthy?
shapiro		He had a back thing, some minor surgery, but he's okay. Petey?
petey		He'll be good by Spring Training.
billy		He'll do. I can give you Guthrie for him if you kick in some cash.
shapiro		Mark Guthrie?
shapiro		How much are you thinking?  30. 
billy		 200 K.
shapiro		Sorry about that. So... Garcia is going to be a no. What else are you thinking about?
billy		Let's make it work, I'll go straight up with you, Garcia for Guthrie, no kicker.
shapiro		Sorry Billy, who else you interested in?
billy		Hey.
peter		Hi.
billy		Who are you?
peter		My name is Peter Brand.
billy		What do you do?
peter		I'm special assistant to Mark Shapiro.
billy		So what do you do? (pointing at co-
peter		Mostly player evaluation right now.  31. 
billy		Why does Mark listen to you?
peter		Actually he rarely does.
billy		He just did.
peter		I don't think he was really listening to me in there per se.
billy		Really?
peter		Yeah, I think he was listening to Bruce.
billy		Who are you?
peter		Peter Brand.
billy		I don't give a rat's ass about your name.
billy		What happened in there?
peter		I'm not sure what you're asking me.
billy		What did you tell Butch?
peter		Huh? Oh Bruce? I told him I like Garcia.
billy		Meaning what?  32. 
peter		He's undervalued. You were smart to go after him.
billy		  What makes him undervalued?
billy		Come on.
billy		Where you from Peter?
peter		Maryland.
billy		Where did you go to school?
peter		Yale.
billy		I hate Yale.
peter		Why?
billy		Kid from Yale once blocked a trade I was trying to make. What'd you study?
peter		Economics.
billy		What are you doing in baseball?
peter		I love baseball.
billy		I'm just curious. Why were you so cagey in there?  33. 
peter		I work for a different team.
billy		I know, but I'm the first person in baseball who's ever talked to you this long. Right? Why is Garcia undervalued?
peter		Okay, truthfully, it might not be so easy to explain.
billy		Really? Why's that Peter?
peter		We might not see the game the same way.
billy		Oh really? What do you mean by that?
peter		You've spent your life in baseball and I don't have a very traditional view of the game.
billy		Hey Pete, just say it. I'm not about to beat you up. Say what you've always wanted to say to a GM.
peter		Baseball thinking is medieval. It's stuck in the Dark Ages. I have a more scientific view of the game.
billy		Keep going, Peter.
peter		There is an epidemic failure within the game to understand what's really happening. And it leads people who run major league teams to misjudge their players and mismanage their teams. They're still asking the wrong questions. People who run baseball teams still think in terms of buying players. Sorry to say that.
billy		Peter, don't apologize for what you believe.
peter		The goal shouldn't be to buy players, what you want to buy is wins. To buy wins, you buy runs. You're trying to replace Johnny Damon. The Red Sox look at Johnny Damon and they see a star worth seven point five million a year. When I look at Johnny Damon, I see an imperfect understanding of where runs come from.  SUDDEN CUT TO:
peter		He's got a good glove. He's a decent leadoff hitter. He steals bases. But he's not worth the seven point five million Boston is paying him. You're lucky to have him off your payroll, it opens all kinds of interesting possibilities.
billy		You read Bill James, Pete?
peter		Yes. These ideas and this approach to the game aren't all new. In fact, some of them have been around for two decades.  35. 
billy		If this approach has been around for so long, why isn't anybody in baseball doing them?
peter		That's a much more difficult question than how to win baseball games. Once you begin to pull at that string, your understanding of the world might begin to unravel.
mother		Billy? They're here.
jongewaard		Billy... Good to see you again. Obviously you're a very special player. We'd like to compliment you on your high school career, and we're looking forward to you being a part of the Mets family. Jongewaard sits at the kitchen table, speaking more to Billy's parents than Billy himself --
jongewaard		There's good -- and there's premium. Your son is premium. He has it all -- power, speed, the arm. The Look -- and I'm never wrong about that. Which is why this is a premium number. He sets a contract on the table. Clipped to its top- sheet is a check. On its left-hand corner is the Mets insignia; on the right, the amount: $125,000. They all
mother		Billy's been offered a scholarship to Stanford.  36. 
jongewaard		I know. And that's a great accomplishment. I'm sure you're very proud of him.
mother		So he can accept that, go there, and then -
jongewaard		I understand how important college is. I do. But what I can't do is burn a second first-round draft pick on someone who can't play for four years -- no matter how good he is. Four years is ample time for someone to get hurt. It happens all the time. So, no. I'm sorry. It has to be one or the other. To postpone four years is four years he could be in big leagues. The sooner he gets there the sooner he can reap the benefits.
jongewaard		We're going to give him a different kind of education. This won't be his life's career, it'll be his first career. He's going to be a young guy in the business world when his baseball career is done. He'll still have his whole life ahead of him.
father		It's your decision, Billy. Whatever you decide is fine with us.
peter		Hello?
billy		It's Billy Beane.
peter		What time is it?
billy		I don't care. Would you have drafted me in the first round?
peter		What?
billy		After I left you ran me through your computer, right? Would you have drafted me in the first round?
peter		You were a good baseball player.
billy		Would you have drafted me in the first round?
peter		  I'd have drafted you in the ninth round. No signing bonus. You'd have passed and gone to Stanford.
billy		Pack your suitcases.
peter		Why?
billy		I just bought you from the Cleveland Indians.
billy		Good evening.
peter		Good evening.
billy		I asked you to do three.
peter		Yes.
billy		To evaluate three available players.
peter		Yeah.
billy		And how many did you do?
peter		51, I don't know why I lied just then.
billy		Talk me through the wall. PETER gets up and gives BILLY a tour of the dry erase boards.
peter		This is the American League West. This year we're going to need to win between 97 and 101 games to make the post season. Here's the number of runs we'll need to score in order to win those games and here's the number of runs we can allow.  39. 
billy		Let's make sure we're on the same page.
peter		Okay.
billy		We're going to re-think baseball.
peter		Yes.
billy		Look for an inefficiencies in statistics.
peter		Examine the ways that runs are scored and prevented.
billy		Exploit the fact that unspectacular runs are just as valuable as 450-foot bombs.
peter		Unspectacular runs are more valuable.
billy		Why?
billy		We believe there's a river that hasn't been fished.
peter		We know it for sure.
billy		And because players have been overlooked because they don't rise to the standards of traditional baseball thinking, we believe that in this river, there are fish...fish who--  Help me with--
peter		Forget the fish. In this room is every available player at every level of professional baseball, and somewhere in that group are 25 players that everyone has else has thrown out.    40. 
billy		Yes. But let me ask you this. If our theory is right--
peter		Math isn't a theory.
billy		If it's right--
peter		It's right.
billy		It sounds right.
peter		It is right.
billy		If math isn't a theory--
peter		It isn't.
billy		I'm gonna punch you in the kidneys if you don't let me finish a sentence.
peter		Sorry.
billy		If this is right, why isn't everybody doing it? In fact, why isn't anybody doing it?
peter		Somebody once said, "It's not what you don't know that worries me it's what you know for sure that's got me scared." In the mid-19th Century in Budapest there was an incredibly high instance of mothers dying shortly after childbirth from a disease called puerperal fever.
billy		Make this story less boring as soon as you can.
peter		A doctor named Semmelweiss showed that if the attending physicians and nurses sterilized their hands before delivery, the mortality rate dropped to 1%.
billy		And he was vilified?
peter		He was institutionalized. For suggesting that washing your hands before putting them inside someone else's body was a good idea. High functioning people can live under the spell of an inexplicable mental lapse when they think as a group. Why isn't anybody else doing it? Because they don't think guys who look like you are what win baseball games. They know it for sure.
billy		  Alright, let's find our team.  CUT TO:
billy		Nervous?
peter		No??
billy		Huh. Interesting.
billy		Hey, Art.
art		Can I talk to you a second before you get started.
billy		I got a lot to do.
art		I know. Whatever it is, Billy knows it can't be as dire as his other problems, but also knows that to ignore Art would be to insult him.
art		Who's the kid?
billy		That's Peter.
art		I can't manage this team under a one-year contract.
billy		Sure you can.  43. 
art		No I can't.
billy		I've got to put a team on the field, then I'll deal with your contract.
art		How about you deal with the manager's contract and then put a team on the field?
billy		At the moment, if a ground ball is hit to first base, nobody's going to be there to stop it from rolling.
art		I have to tell you it's not easy doing what I do under the cloud of a one-year contract.
billy		I know. I been there.
art		I know you have. And a 1-year contract says the same thing to a manager as it does to a player: There's not a lot of faith there. Which is strange after a 102-win season.
billy		If you lose the last one of the season nobody gives a shit about the others.
art		It's on me now?
billy		It's on me, Art!   And the kid's the new assistant general manager.
art		  What the fuck are you about to do? BILLY doesn't answer the question, just walks into the-  44. 
grady		How did it go in Cleveland?
billy		It was cold.
grady		Let's get after our relief pitching problem.
billy		We got Chad Bradford. Right-hander.
grady		Submariner?
billy		That's the one. Technically an underhander.
grady		What's his velocity?
billy		Unimpressive.
grady		Does he have a good breaking ball?
billy		Doesn't have one.
grady		Why do you like this guy?
billy		Well, he gets people out.
artie		The left-hander hitters get a really good look at him.
grady		He's down there. He's down there real low, too.
billy		Let's move on.
grady		Well, we, I think, have fared better. We have some ideas for what to do about Giambi.
billy		Knock me down.
grady		We trade power for speed. A rabbit for a gorilla - We go for an overachiever. A big heart in the last year his contract. Tend to play hard. We usually get a pretty good year out of them. Make up for some of the offense we lost.  Or the other option. Just a thought. We go for a high-maintenance guy. A guy that's a little difficult but talented. A guy like Milton Bradley. Well, not like Milton. Milton himself. Which do you want to talk about first?
billy		None of them. Grady looks like a man who can't take much more.
billy		You're still looking to replace him; you're just saying it another way.
barry		We got some trades here.
billy		We can't do it. What we can do is recreate his value to us in the aggregate.
grady		The  -
billy		Giambi's on-base percentage was .477. Damon's was .324. And Olmeda's - bless his heart - was .291. Add that up and you get - He points to Peter.
peter		You want me to speak?
billy		When I point at you, yes.
peter		Ten-ninety-two.
billy		Divided by three -
peter		Three-sixty-four.
billy		That's what we're looking for. And that's what we'll find. Three players whose average OBP is -
peter		Three-sixty-four.
artie		That doesn't come out right.
billy		You gotta carry the one.
artie		Still don't look right.
billy		It's right. The others aren't sure what confuses them more - the logic, or the guy who shouldn't be in this room.
grady		Billy?
billy		Yes.  47. 
grady		Who's that?
billy		That's Peter. And that's all he's going to tell them about Peter.
grady		I don't know how to say this delicately - but does - Peter - need to be here?
billy		Yes.
poloni		What's with this on base percentage obsession? Is that Bill James bullshit?
billy		You can call it Billy Beane bullshit for all I care.
billy		So here's who we want. One.
billy		Jason's little brother Jeremy.
barry		He never comes home from the games.
poloni		Billy, if I may, he's had his problems on the field -- not to mention his problems off the field -- not to mention he's getting a little thick around the middle -- there's the stuff with the weed. He's at strip joints...
grady		This guy could start the year with an agent and end up with a parole officer for Christ's sake.
billy		His on-base percentage is all we're looking at now and he gets on base an awful lot for someone who only costs $285,000 a year.
george		He can't catch a ball in the outfield. I've seen him lose a ball in the moonlight. Billy puts up another name: DAVID JUSTICE.
billy		David Justice.
grady		Ten years ago he was a big name. He's going to really help our season tickets at the beginning of the year. But by June he's not going to be hitting his weight.
pittaro		He's 36!
artie		His legs are gone. He's a defensive liability. I question whether the bat speed is still there.
barry		Steinbrenner is so pissed at his decline he's willing to eat up half his contract to get rid of him.
billy		That's good.
hopkins		He's a fossil. With all due respect, bringing these three guys aboard is like putting bubble gum on a flat tire.
grady		And why do we want to be the ones to bail Justice out of his contract?
peter		He gets on base.
grady		I got 37 free agents who are better than those guys.
billy		Scott Hatteberg.  49. 
pote		Who?
billy		Exactly. Sounds like an Oakland A already. Yes, he's got a little damage in his elbow.
grady		Some damage? He can't throw.
billy		We're not interested in him for his arm anymore than we wanted Giambi for his.
grady		Wait, you're talkin' about Hatteberg at first?
billy		Yes.
hopkins		He's a career .260 hitter and the good part of his career is over.
billy		I say it's just starting.
pittaro		Well, Billy, you'll like the sound of this... I hear Boston wants to cut him and no one wants to pick him up.
billy		That's good news for us. He's cheap.
grady		Let me understand this. At first base you want a guy who's been cut from half of the minor league teams in the country due to irreparable nerve damage?
billy		He can't hit and he can't field, but what can he do?
scouts		  He can get--
billy		He can get on base.
poloni		Alright, so he walks a lot.
billy		He gets on base a lot, Rocco. Do I care if it's a walk or a hit?
peter		You do not.
poloni		These three players, by your own admission, are defective in one way or another.
billy		Yeah.
grady		You want to replace Jason Giambi with not one but three defective players?
billy		You got it.
grady		Billy, we've all been busting our asses the last six and a half weeks to make this a better ball--
billy		 Grady, it's not a discussion.
pote		I think we're all losing sight of the fact that you're the general manager. You only have to answer to ownership and God.
billy		I didn't know God followed baseball.
pote		I hope he does.  51. 
washington		Billy, I just don't see it.
billy		That's okay, Wash. We won't be victimized by what we see anymore.
washington		I understand what you're saying about their averages, but there's something you're forgetting. None of them plays first base.
billy		I haven't forgotten that, Wash. One of them is going to have to learn.
washington		Learn.
billy		You're going to have to teach him.
washington		Teach.
billy		Instruct.
washington		Which one?
scott		Hello?
scott		Yes?
scott		Yes?
scott		Yes.
scott		What?  BILLY  I'm outside. I can see you in the window. SCOTT goes to the window and cups his hands against the glass to see outside.
elizabeth		Honey?
billy		Thank you, ma'am.
washington		Thank you, ma'am.
billy		You've played catcher your whole life?
scott		Since I was 8. BILLY produces a baseball from his windbreaker and hands it to SCOTT. SCOTT can only manage to grip the baseball like a claw. Washington looks to heaven.
billy		How's the elbow?  53. 
scott		Good. Real good. It's great.
billy		Yeah, don't worry about it. You've thrown your last baseball from behind the plate. I want you at first. SCOTT is so thrown by this that all he can do is stare at BILLY. Then at WASHINGTON, who's shrug tells SCOTT "This wasn't my idea."
scott		I've only ever played catcher.
billy		You're not a catcher anymore. If you were, then mine wouldn't have been the only call you got when your contract expired at midnight.
scott		I appreciate it but--
billy		You're welcome.
billy		You don't know how to play first base.
scott		That's right.
billy		It's not that hard. Tell him, Wash.
washington		It's incredibly hard!
billy		Anything worth doing is. Wash is gonna teach you.
scott		Wait a minute, what about--
billy		Jason's gone, Scott.  54. 
scott		I'm taking Giambi's spot at first? What about the fans?
washington		Yeah, maybe I can teach one of them.
billy		The fans don't run--
scott		They're gonna hate me.
washington		 No, they're gonna hate him.
billy		The fans love me.
washington		Okay.
billy		Hello.
hatteberg's daughter		Hi.
scott		That's our youngest daughter.
billy		Great.
scott		Do you have kids?
billy		--yeah, I have a daughter.
billy		This is a contract for you to play baseball with the Oakland A's. A copy's on its way to your agent. Discuss it with your wife and let us know.  Thanks for the cookies, ma'am. We see ELIZABETH with tears running down her face...then go back to the living room--
billy		 Merry Christmas.
billy		Hi.
sharon		Hi, Billy.
billy		She home?
sharon		She's out, but she'll be home soon.
billy		Hey Alan.
alan		Come on in have a seat. Want some coconut water? It's really refreshing.  56. 
billy		I'm all set, thanks.
alan		What are you benching now?
billy		I don't keep count.
alan		Well, whatever it is, it's working. You look good.
alan		I haven't got to see you since the playoffs in New York. That was heartbreaking, Billy. We were rooting for you.
billy		  Yep.
alan		You know what I say?
billy		Fuck `em.   I'm sorry Alan, what do you say?
alan		No, I just wanted to say that a lot of teams don't get that far, and to make it that far is a really big accomplishment.
sharon		She's great. Be here in a minute. How's the team shaping up?
billy		New beginnings. Blue horizons.
alan		I read that you lost two players. Damon  AND -    57. 
sharon		Giambi. Wow, that's tough. That's really tough.
billy		And Isringhausen.
alan		Sounds tough.
billy		So where is she?
alan		I just talked to her on her cell. She's just coming up the hill, she's two minutes away.
billy		You bought her a cell phone?
sharon		Yeah.
billy		At 12?
alan		Just for emergencies. I'm sorry, we should have consulted you for that
billy		It's probably a good idea.
sharon		But actually I called you - The front door opens. It's Billy's daughter Casey - a pre- teen indie-rock girl - and not a moment too soon. He's up quickly to give her a hug and to get out of here.
billy		Let's go shopping.
billy		You want one with nylon strings, right?  58. 
casey		I like the red ones.
billy		How about this?
casey		Yeah, that's cool.
billy		Let's try it out over here.
casey		Yeah.
billy		You got good.
casey		I've just been playing a lot.
billy		That's... that's not the way most 12 year olds play.
casey		Alan thinks I should have a better teacher.
billy		Who's Alan?
billy		Oh, yeah. Mom's Alan. What's wrong with the teacher you have now?
casey		Alan thinks I should be working more on technique so I don't learn bad habits.
billy		Well, you seem to be doing just fine to me. Do you like playing?
casey		I love it.  59. 
billy		That's so great. I'm so happy for you. The most important thing in life is to find something you love and do it well. Do you like your teacher?
casey		Yeah.
billy		Okay, I'll talk to Mom and Alan. Do you like that guitar?
casey		Yes!
billy		That the one?
casey		Yeah, I think so.
billy		Let's get it. Let's get it now.
casey		Really?
billy		Merry Christmas.  CUT TO:
umpire		Striiike!
umpire		Striiike!
umpire		Strike!
umpire		Hey Billy, clean up after yourself.
peter		How'd it go?
billy		How'd what go?
peter		Hatteberg.
billy		He can barely hold a baseball. But he's our guy now. Billy sits.
billy		Who's that?
peter		That is Kevin Youkilis. This is the guy we want more than anyone else in the world.
peter		He can't run, throw or field. But he walks more than anyone in baseball except Barry Bonds. Take out intentional walks and it's more than Bonds. He's the Greek God of Walks.
peter		I tried to get Shapiro to draft him last June. He said he waddled like a duck. Boston took him. Boston won't let him go yet. They're going to wait and see.
peter		You all right, Billy?
grady		Can we talk a minute?
billy		Yeah.   Yeah.
grady		Your boy and I had a talk while you were in Tacoma. I didn't like much of what I heard.
billy		No?
grady		No. You got a kid in there with a Yale economics degree and a scout out here with 29 years baseball experience and you're listening to the wrong one.
billy		I don't listen to anyone, you know that.
grady		This isn't a joke.
billy		I'm not joking.  64. 
grady		This isn't how you run a ball club, with a computer. You know that. You're a baseball man. There are intangibles that only a scout can see in a player that you're not going to pick up with just numbers, with someone who doesn't play the game, who knows nothing about the game but how to feed numbers into a computer.
billy		That's what we're doing. That's exactly what we're doing.
grady		If this is what baseball is, if it's not Kirk Gibson going up to the plate on two bad legs because the manager felt in his heart that he had one swing left in that body... a computer wouldn't do that. They would have had him sitting up in the stands.
billy		A computer doesn't romanticize the sport. Leave that for the fans.
grady		Well, romance and the fans, it's called a love affair with the game and it's been going on for one hundred and fifty years.
billy		I don't want to hurt you love affair with the game. Just because we've been doing it one way for a hundred and fifty years doesn't mean we've been doing it right. You have any idea how long people thought the sun revolved around the earth? To your eyes it looks like that's what's happening.
grady		You're saying everybody's been wrong? Everybody? Beat.
grady		Are you saying everybody's been wrong?
billy		Yes. Maybe.    65. 
grady		--we're gonna see if you're right?! This is about you and your shit? Some scouts from 20 years ago called it wrong, okay? They thought you were a ballplayer and you weren't. As you know, it happens. Don't take it out on--
billy		I'm not--taking it out on--
grady		I'm trying to help, okay, I'm saying--
billy		No, you're not saying anything to me right now.   Grady, you don't have special powers. You don't have the ability to look at a guy and "just know" because you're a scout with special powers. I've watched you sit at kitchen tables for years and tell the parents of a 17 year old kid, "Trust me, when I know, I know, and when it comes to your son, I know" and you don't. We're shopping in a new store--full of complicated statistical analysis and equations and I get that it turns your world upside down but on base percentage-- our best chance to score on our budget isn't getting a 6'4" Adonis to the plate, it's getting a 5'10" washout who's already at first base.
grady		  May I speak?
billy		Yes.
grady		Major League Baseball and its fans will be happy to hand you and Google Boy your heads if you keep doing what you're doing here, I don't give a shit about friendship this situation or the past. Major League Baseball thinks the way I think. You're not gonna win. And I'll give you a nickel's worth of free advice.    66. 
billy		I'm not gonna fire you, Grady.
grady		Go fuck yourself, Billy.
billy		Well now maybe.
billy		Eric. You never even played high school ball, right?
billy		Grady's gone. You're the new Head Scout.
billy		Don't try to explain things to scouts. They're not programmed to get it. It's just us.
sports reporter		Billy, will the fans still come out now that you've lost Giambi?
billy		I don't know, Graham. Will they listen to your insipid radio show?
billy		Well, we didn't pay him for his defense.
billy		That's the way, Hatte. Pickin' Machine.
billy		None of those broke 85.  68. 
billy		Chad I have high hopes for. Bradford overthrows his first submarine hand-scraping- the-ground pitch, and the ball sails wide of the catcher. Somebody ducks. Art Howe glances with a long-suffering look to Billy.
billy		It just got away from him.
billy		He's still got it.
billy		It's the first day of week one. There's nothing to judge yet.
art		I can judge it and so can you. First base is the moon to him.
billy		It wasn't to Giambi? He's the worst first baseman in baseball. What do you think of him, Wash?
washington		The nicest way I can put it is, he lacks confidence.
billy		Work with him Wash.
washington		I'll do that, Billy, but we've got Pena who can play first. And he's looking pretty good out there.
billy		I want to make it work with Hatte, Wash.  69. 
art		Not to mention we already have a first baseman.
billy		A rookie first baseman. It's not the same.
art		Number 11 on the Top 100 Prospects list.
billy		Lists aren't baseball.
art		Catchers at first base aren't baseball. Who's idea was this? Peter's?
billy		Hatteberg will be fine, Art.
art		He will be fine, you're right. Pinch hitting while Pena plays first base.
magnante		Yeah... been doing it for way too long.  70. 
hatteberg		How long does it take?
magnante		When I first started these things? It was like a half hour process. Now I can knock these suckers out in 30 seconds, no problem.  52 INT. A'S LOCKER ROOM - SAME TIME - DAY 52
tejada		Is a dollar, mang.
justice		What?
tejada		Always been like that here.
justice		You're kidding me, right?
tejada		Welcome to Oakland.
chad		Excuse me, Mr. Beane.
billy		Hey Chad.
chad		I hope I'm not disturbing you.
billy		You're not, what's up?
chad		I wanted to say thanks for the opportunity.
billy		It's gonna work out well for both of us.  71. 
chad		Nobody in the major league ever took me seriously.
billy		  Nobody?
chad		Just you, sir.
billy		Okay.
chad		I'm going to pray for you and your family.
billy		Hey, great to see you. Thanks for coming out. Got a good box? You want a picture? Sure, let me step in there. Great, big smiles now. Big smiles. Know what I like about opening day? Everyone's even. Thank you. You all enjoy the game.
billy		Hey, how you guys doing. So you won? That's great. What position are you? How's your fastball? 92? Alright, should we get a pic?
elizabeth		Hi, I'm Elizabeth.
tara		Hi. Tara. Which is yours?
elizabeth		Scott Hatteberg. Catcher - actually first base - actually we don't know. Yours?
elizabeth		  Mr. Beane? Tara nods.
elizabeth		He's a saint.
tara		Really?
journalist		Are they picking up your option for next year?
art		I brought it up to them during the off- season, and I still do not have my option.
journalist		Are you frustrated?
art		I think it's fair to say that.
billy		Okay, good.
peter		Why?
billy		I don't watch the games.
peter		Is this a joke?
billy		I don't know what you're miming.
peter		I'm miming "You don't watch the games?!"
billy		This is my team. And they've taken the field. They're world class athletes who are fighting for their lives and I stand with them. Except not literally so I need you to text me what Art does.
billy		Yeah. I should have made you a bigger part of the conversation, I should have had you in the scout meetings from the first day, that way you would have understood this better and that was another mistake, I take full responsibility.
art		What are you trying to say?
billy		It doesn't matter what moves I make if you don't play the team the way I need them played.
billy		Why wasn't Hatteberg at first?
art		Because he can't play first.
billy		How do you know?
art		Not my first baseball game.
art		Scott Hatteberg can't hit.
billy		He gets on--  76. 
art		And his defense--
billy		Still keeps us in the plus column and we
art		Anything else?
billy		Yeah, I would have rather seen Chad Bradford in there at the end than Magnante.
billy		I don't care about righty/lefty.
art		I do.
billy		This is about your contract?
art		No, you've made it clear what you think about that. This is about you doing your job and me doing mine. Mine's being left alone to manage the beer league team you assembled for me.
billy		I didn't assemble them for you, I assembled them for me.
art		No shit.  66 INT. BILLY'S OFFICE - DAY 66
billy		I want you to go on the road with the team.
peter		You don't go on the road with the team.
billy		That's why I want you to do it.
peter		Why don't you?  77. 
billy		I don't want to develop personal relationships. I need to trade them, send them down and sometimes cut them. You should learn how to do that by the way.
peter		The only way I'd have to cut a player is if you oh come on!
billy		Yeah, let's practice.
peter		No.
billy		I'm a player, cut me from the roster.
peter		No.
billy		Do it.
peter		This is stupid.
billy		Man-up, Yale.
peter		Fine. Billy, would you have a seat for a moment, I need to talk to you.
billy		I'm already sitting.
peter		I was pretending you weren't sitting.
billy		But I am. Keep going.
peter		This is the hardest thing there is to do in baseball.
billy		You got that from Bull Durham?
peter		Yeah.  78. 
billy		Hitting a curve ball is the hardest thing there is to do in baseball but go ahead.
peter		You've been a huge part of this team but decisions have to be made that are best for the team, I'm sure you can understand that.
billy		You're cutting me?
peter		I'm really sorry.
billy		I just bought a house here.
billy		Well? That's all you have to say? My kids just started at a new school, they made friends.
peter		That's--I'd leave them in school, you don't want to take them out in the middle  OF THE--
billy		What the hell are you doing?
peter		Are you you or the player?
billy		I'm me. You're talking about kids and schools and you should've been out of the room three minutes ago.
peter		Shouldn't I tell them that they'll always be a part of the A's family?
billy		That makes me feel so good I'm thinking of burning your house down with you in it. These are professional baseball players. You just do it. "Peter, I need to let you go. Jack's office'll handle the paperwork."  79. 
peter		That's it?
billy		Would you rather get one bullet in the head or five in the chest and bleed to death?
peter		Those are my only choices?
billy		Go on the road with the team.  CUT TO:
david		How come your boss doesn't travel with the team?
peter		He doesn't like to mingle with the players.
david		Makes us easier to cut?
david		He's gonna make some moves if we keep losing. PETER gives a small "Yeah" shrug...
david		How come soda costs a dollar in the clubhouse?
peter		Billy likes to keep the money on the field.
david		Soda money?  80. 
david		Where on the field is the dollar I pay for soda?
david		 Alright.  68 INT. WEIGHT ROOM - NIGHT 68
passenger		Hey, aren't you Billy Beane?
billy		Yeah.
passenger		Shouldn't you be at the game?  81. 
billy		Nope.
casey		Hey, Dad.
billy		Hey, honey... I'm glad to see you.
peter		It's not a big enough sample yet. I want to wait until we play more games.
tv announcer		And Justice hits into the 6-4-3 double play to end the game... The INDIANS trot on the field to high-five each other.
billy		Do you want strawberry or vanilla?
casey		Both.
billy		Don't tell your mother.   If you could only have one ice cream for the rest of your life, which would you choose?  82. 
casey		Vanilla. Definitely vanilla.
billy		Interesting. Chocolate sauce?
casey		Yup. A beat. Then --
casey		Dad... if you could choose between the power of invisibility or flight, which would you choose?
billy		Flight. Yeah, I'd wanna fly. You?
casey		I think I'd want invisibility.
billy		Really? Why?
casey		I don't know. People wouldn't notice me as much.
billy		Why wouldn't you want people to notice you?
casey		I don't know.
billy		Well, I guess you could sneak up on people. Or eavesdrop on their conversations. You could be a spy.
casey		My teacher's kinda mean. She doesn't like us to ask questions.
billy		What kind of teacher doesn't let you ask questions?
casey		I know, right? Mom was mad, too. She thinks maybe I should be home schooled.  83. 
billy		Wouldn't you miss your friends?
casey		Yeah. But the other kids are mean.
billy		There are always going to be bullies. Try not to let them get to you. But let me know if it's becoming a problem.
casey		Can I ask you a question? Are you still chewing tobacco?
billy		Yeah...
casey		Please stop.
billy		I know, it's terrible. Look, I promise I'll quit in November if you promise not to worry about it.
casey		Pinkie swear?
billy		Pinkie swear.
peter		Theoretically, when we've played more games the numbers will become more  REPRESENTATIVE OF--
billy		Theoretically?
billy		Alright. Be good.
casey		Okay. Billy's Blackberry chimes. He ignores it.
billy		  I feel like--
casey		About what?
billy		Anything. Did we talk about the things you want to talk about, did we have fun?
casey		  Yeah!?
billy		Okay.
casey		I love you, Dad.
billy		You're doing it right now.
casey		What?
billy		You're worrying about me.
casey		Sorry.
billy		Do I look like I'm worried?
casey		Yeah.  85. 
billy		`Cause you're getting on an airplane and those things crash all the time. Will you please stop worrying about your father? You're a kid, I can't have it.
casey		Okay. Can I worry about the airplane now though?
billy		Absolutely.
flight attendant		We're all set.
billy		Great.
billy		I love you. BILLY watches her go off with the attendant, feeling like it was an unsatisfying visit.
billy		  No! WHY IS HE IN THERE?!
billy		 No no. I'm alright.
announcer		Art Howe is the only manager in baseball who has to think about pinch running his leadoff hitter. Down in the Visitors' pen, Chad sits with Mike Magnante.
magnante		Why do you do it?
chad		I can't not do it.
magnante		How do you do it? Every ball park's different.
chad		I take that into account and adjust the distance of my steps.
magnante		Exactly seventy-four, from the pen to the mound.
billy		Steve.
schott		Billy.
billy		You remember Peter.
schott		Peter. Guys, give me some idea of what's going on out there.
billy		Listen, it's a team of probabilities, and we're gonna need 162 games to tell that tale in a nascent form. It's phase one, we're evolving and we feel confident where we're heading.
schott		 BILLY -
billy		We're not scared.
schott		3 out of 17 games. 3. We're getting crucified in the press. What makes you think this is gonna turn around?
billy		Because I believe in what we're doing. I believe the numbers. I believe the record doesn't accurately reflect the team and where we're going to be at the end of the season. Peter and I feel very strongly that we need to stick to the game plan, and you can tell your partners to start booking their tickets to the playoffs.
schott		Billy, look, you've got guys who are nearly crippled, who couldn't get hired as an usher in a ballpark now playing on the team. Give me something I can go back to these guys with and feel like I have the confidence that you're gonna turn these things around.
billy		With all due respect you asked me to build a team with shoelaces and gum wrappers and we've done it.
schott		You haven't done it yet billy.
billy		And it will pay off. Stick with us. Suffer the blows. Listen, life with no money means we're gonna have to suffer a few embarrassments along the way, but we are okay in the end.
schott		Billy, there's a lot of money at stake here.    89. 
schott		Give me a date, give me a time frame.
peter		Our goal and our expectation by the All Star break is to be within seven games of first place.
billy		That'll keep us in the hunt.
peter		And that would be this working exceptionally well.
schott		7 within 500. By July. And what's going to keep us from getting there?
billy		Nothing Steve.
schott		Nothing. We're 3 for 17 right now. You've got to be able to give me a little bit more to go back to my partners with.
billy		Listen, you hired me to do this job and that's where we're going to be.
schott		That's not good enough.
billy		Well, let's go buy Barry Bonds, then. This is the team we've got and this is the team we'll win with.
schott		Billy, put yourself in my shoes. What do you imagine is going to happen if things don't turn around?
billy		It's very clear, Steve. If I put myself in your shoes, I'd spend another 20 million on the team.
schott		We don't have another 20 million
billy		I'm just kidding, Steve, I'm just kidding. We've got the team.
schott		I gotta be honest with you, Billy, I wish you had a little more worry and a little more fear. Because things aren't going in our direction right now.
billy		162 games Steve.
schott		Let's hope the next 30 are better than
billy		I don't need to hope.
schott		All right fellas. Let's go try and win one. We're in May, we've got til July.
billy		We're not gonna lose three at home to the Orioles.
art		You want Pena on the bench?
billy		That's right. So that you can play Hatteberg.
art		Hatte - as opposed to the guy who's going to win Rookie of the Year.
billy		No, Hatte - as opposed to the guy who gets on base less. Pena getting voted Rookie of the Year and the A's making the playoffs are two entirely different--
art		Pena's not just the best first baseman on the roster, he's the only first baseman on the roster and the most valuable member on this team.
billy		Not according to, what do you call `em, facts.
billy		Listen to me--gets on base more than Pena. 25% more.
billy		His fielding doesn't matter.
art		It does matter and Pena only has one error in 70 games.
billy		Not only is that number statistically insignificant but it's also subjective. It measures what someone did against what someone else thought they were supposed to do.  92. 
art		Part of the conversation? I've heard enough of the conversation and I disagree with you, plain and simple. Moreover, I strongly believe that you're in the middle of experiencing some sort of personal crisis and you seem indifferent to the fact that you're taking a whole organization down with you. I'm playing my team in a way I can explain in job interviews this winter.
billy		Hatte, not Pena.
art		It's just one game.
billy		That's the point, you think?
art		The point is always tomorrow's game.
billy		No, the point - as you said - is to win. I don't like sharing the cellar with Texas, do you?
art		I'm doing the best I can with what I've got. I'm playing the players I've got.
billy		I'm through talking.
jeremy		Yeah!
billy		Getting swept by the Red Sox at home. Having Long lead off the ninth with a triple in a one-run game and not being able to score a runner from first with nobody out, is that fun?
jeremy		No.
billy		Then what the fuck are you having fun for?!
billy		Yeah?  CUT TO:
peter		Cruz -- .283, .347, .476. Stevens -- .244, .349, .560. Miner -- .272, .349, .499. Hanson -- .280, .363, .450. Baretta -- .273, .354, .497. Durazo -- .292, .395, .621. What do you think?   Billy?
peter		You okay?
sharon		Have you thought about what you might do if baseball doesn't work out?
billy		  What?
sharon		That was too abrupt.  95. 
billy		No.
sharon		Sure.
billy		I'll be honest, if I don't make it in baseball I don't think I'm going to be able to afford much real estate.
billy		I know what you meant.
sharon		You're saying every scout was wrong?
billy		You're kind of saying it too.
billy		Honey...don't you think you should divorce me now while you're young?
billy		Get me Wade.
peter		Why.
billy		Get him.
peter		Why.
billy		Get him.
billy		Ed. Billy. I need some help on defense and I'm willing to trade Jeremy Giambi for it.
peter		No, you  -
billy		 Who you got?  97. 
peter		What are you doing? Jeremy's doing   -
billy		Cleaning house.
billy		Maybe what?
billy		Hang on. (put the call on
peter		I don't know.
billy		Yes, you do.
peter		Runs hot and cold, Billy. Impossible to know what we're going to get. He's a crap shoot. He's exactly the kind of player we're not looking for.
billy		 He'll be fine, Ed.  WADE V/O Why do I get the feeling you're picking my pocket?
billy		I'm not picking your pocket, you're picking mine. Giambi's name alone is worth more than Mabry.  WADE V/O You realize -  98. 
billy		Great.
peter		I think he was going to say something else.
billy		Peter. Rule Number 3: When you get the answer you're looking for - hang up. That's done, and in a minute Pena's going to Detroit.
peter		I don't think you want to do that.
billy		Art can't put him at first if he's playing for the Tigers and I want Hatte in the lineup tonight.
peter		Maybe you should think about this. You're upset and this is - this -
billy		What am I missing?
peter		It's just a very hard move to explain. People are going to think you've lost your mind.
billy		Why's that a problem Peter? Beat.
peter		Don't make an emotional decision Billy.
suzanne		David Dombrowski's on 3.  99. 
billy		  David, Pea's going on the blocks, you're my first call... because he's making the rest of the team look bad... He's going to be rookie of the year...
peter		 Probably an all star.
billy		He's an all star Dave... (winks at Peter,
peter		(trying to slow it
billy		Why you worrying about my job?
billy		Well you should be worrying about yours because if this thing we're doing don't work... neither of us have jobs.
peter		That's probably true.
billy		In which case I'm a 44 year old guy with a high-school diploma and a daughter who I'd like to be able to put through college one day.  It's a problem that you think we need to explain ourselves. Don't... to anyone. I'm going to see this through, for better or for worse. Just tell me, do you project we'll win more games with Pea or Hatteberg on first?
peter		It's close Billy but theoretically Hatteberg.
billy		What are we talking about then?
billy		Dave.
peter		That was thoughtful.
billy		Yeah. Okay. You gotta tell Pena to pack.
peter		You want me to tell Pena he's been traded?
billy		Be a man.  101. 
peter		What about Jeremy? Am I telling him, too.
billy		No. I'll do that.
peter		Hey, Carlos.
pena		Yeah.
peter		Can I get a moment with you?
pena		Sure.
peter		Okay, maybe we can talk over here.
peter		Have a seat. They sit.
peter		So, um, Carlos, you've been traded to the Tigers. This is the number of Jay Palmer, their travel secretary. He's expecting your call. He'll help you arrange travel to Detroit.
pena		Is that all?
peter		Yeah.
pena		Cool.
billy		Mind if I have a seat.
art		Please.
billy		You can't start Pena at first tonight, you'll have to start Hatteberg.
art		I don't want to go 15 rounds, Billy, the line-up card is mine and that's all.
billy		The line-up card is definitely yours, I'm just saying you can't start Pena at first.
art		I am starting Pena at first.
billy		I don't think so, he plays for the Detroit Tigers now.
art		  You traded Pena?!
billy		Along with German, Hiljus and Jeremy Giambi.
art		You are outside your fucking mind.
billy		Jeremy, come on in.
billy		This is Ed Wade's number. You know him?
jeremy		No.
billy		Phillies General Manager. Real nice guy. Give him a call - he's expecting it - say hello - then talk to Futterman about arranging a flight for you.
jeremy		The what?
billy		The flight. To Philadelphia. Billy gets up and shakes his hand.
billy		It's been a real pleasure, Jeremy. I mean that. You're a great ballplayer and great guy.
billy		We're going to miss you.
billy		Adkins is gone, too.
art		You're killing this team.
billy		Art? I can do this all day long.
art		What are you looking at?
peter		I'm not looking at anything.
art		You went along with this? You agree with this bullshit?
peter		  A hundred percent.  104. 
tejada		Keep your head up, okay? It's part of the business. You're gonna be a great player, okay?
pena		Thank you, man.
tejada		Don't let this bother you at all.
chad		Nice to meet you, brother. Take care and... God bless you, man.
pena		Thank you.
hatteberg		You're the best first baseman here. It's not right, Carlos.
pena		Thank you, Hattie.
hatteberg		Yeah.  100 INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY 100
scott		Yes sir.
billy		Go out and field some grounders.  105. 
billy		Everybody, listen up. You may not look like a winning ball team. In fact, you look nothing like a winning ball team. But you are one. So play like one tonight. You'll get further instructions tomorrow.  CUT TO:
billy		Okay.
billy		No more bunts.
chavez		No more bunts?
billy		A bunt is an out. You're paid to avoid outs, not make them.
chavez		A bunt isn't an out. It's a sacrifice.
billy		A bunt is for pitchers and weak hitters. You're not a pitcher, Chavvie, so what are you saying?
ellis		You want us to walk more. How much more?
billy		Pete?
peter		At least once every ten at bats.
ellis		Or...?
billy		Triple-A Sacramento's only 80 miles away. And there's no flights. (as they look to
peter		Every at bat is like a hand of blackjack. Every card that's dealt, your odds completely change. For instance, every first pitch strike, your batting average goes down about 75 points.
billy		75 points.
peter		75 points. Every first pitch ball, it goes up about the same amount. So you gotta lay off the first pitch.
byrnes		First pitch curveball or first pitch fastball?
peter		First pitch period. When you swing at
billy		We want to see more pitches.
dye		How many pitches?
peter		Every starter, we want to see 100 pitches by the 5th inning.
dye		So... 5, 6 pitches per at bat?
peter		Yeah. I mean, Hatteberg drained 38 pitches.
billy		And Byrnsie, you're hackin' at everything. You're all squirrely out there. Wait for your pitch, man. This is a war of attrition. There's no clock on this thing. Wait `em out. Let them make the mistakes. And when your enemy's making mistakes -- don't interrupt them.  C103 INT. WEIGHT ROOM - DAY C103
peter		Basically, these are all your at bats. This is you versus righties, you versus lefties... and then, of course, all your count knowledge, okay? In an 0-0 count you're batting .290. In an 0-1 you average .238. In a 0-2, .159. When you're 1-0, you're batting .324. Understand what I'm saying?
durham		Not really.
peter		I know, it's a lot of math. When your first pitch is a strike, your batting average goes down about 70 points.    108. 
durham		But I'm a first pitch hitter. I like to swing at fastballs.
peter		And that's the way you've been trained. But it's a habit we'd like to break you from. We're trying to design the game to your strengths. This has nothing to do with you being a great hitter -- you're a great hitter. We just want to get you on base.
durham		But if I get my pitch, I'm gonna swing at it, no matter what the count is.
peter		I'm not worried about you crushing the ball out of the park. I just want you to lay off anything that will result in a strike.
durham		I guess I'll have to watch some film and take a look at it.
peter		Absolutely. The video room is open to you any time, I'm always available.
peter		-- But seriously. Make him use up all his bullets.
billy		Yeah, make him work.
hatteberg		So... Mr. Beane?
billy		Billy's fine.  109. 
hatteberg		 BILLY --
billy		Nah, make it Mr. Beane.
hatteberg		Mr. Beane --
billy		I'm screwin' with you, Haddie.
hatteberg		So we just don't steal?
billy		That's right.
long		That's what I do. That's what you pay me to do.
billy		No, I pay you to get on first, not get thrown out at second.
long		I don't get thrown out much.
billy		I don't hit on 17 at the blackjack table, but if I did, the odds would be the same.
peter		You've actually gotten caught 6 out of 17 tries this season.
billy		You just handed them an out. Protect your outs like they're your children. There's no clock on this game. Until the third out, anything can happen. Get on base and let the next guy move you up. Pass the torch, pass the torch. We're like a machine. A run making machine.
justice		What's your biggest fear?  110. 
scott		A baseball being hit in my general direction.
justice		That's funny.
scott		Seriously.
billy		Hey, Dave. I've been thinking... I want you to --
justice		You gonna teach me something?
billy		Excuse me?
justice		I've never seen a GM talk to players.
billy		You've never seen a GM who was a player.
justice		Huh.
billy		Is there a problem?
justice		It's okay, man. I know your routine. It's a patter, it's rap, it's for effect. That's okay. But it's for them, it's not for me.
billy		You're special?
justice		You're paying me 7 million bucks so I guess I am a little.
billy		As a matter of fact I'm not paying you 7 million bucks, David. The Yankees are paying half your salary. That's what the New York Yankees think of you.    111. 
justice		Where are you going with this, Billy?
billy		You're almost 37, Dave. Almost as old as me. Let's be honest with each other about what we each want. I want to milk the last ounce of baseball you have left in you, and you want to stay in the show. So let's do that. I'm not paying you to be the player you used to be, I'm paying you to be the player you are now. You're smart, you know what's going on here. I need you to set an example for the younger guys. Take a leadership role.
billy		We're cool?
justice		We're cool.
billy		All right. Billy starts to leave, but has one last thought for him --
billy		You know -- the Yankees are coming to town. If it were me -- I'd want to take that three point five and shove it up their ass. But I'm a competitor.
justice		You know, I got a couple World Series rings. I think I'm a pretty good competitor, too.
billy		Don't do it, Migs.
billy		Thank you.
peter		Did you hear that?
billy		I heard 7 in a row. Billy clicks off the TV and it's very quiet. Billy is scrolling down numbers that show trends and comparisons of all of the A's relief pitching.
billy		Can you show me righty-lefty matchups for the division and overall versus Mariners?
billy		Okay.
billy		Voos.
voos		Billy.
billy		(pointing back down
voos		I'm on it, Billy.
hernandez		Splitting the plate in half.
billy		Both sides. (to Hudson, playing
hudson		Yes sir.
billy		 Chavvie -- you couldn't hit that shit with a boat paddle last night. You gotta see more pitches. Patience.
chavez		You got it, Billy.
justice		Hey, man.
billy		Great at bats. Really. Quality.
justice		Thank you.
art		Come in. BILLY does. He's going to try to do this nicely.
billy		How are ya?
art		Good. You knocked.
billy		I did, and I hope you take it as a show of respect.
art		We'll see.  115. 
billy		You look good.
art		We've won 7 in a row, what am I doing wrong now?
billy		Absolutely nothing.
art		Good.
billy		But.
art		Yeah.
billy		Magnante's having some head problems.
art		Head problems.
billy		Yeah.
art		Okay.
billy		He's 37 and he's got three blown saves in two weeks. Everytime he winds up he's thinking he's about to throw the last pitch of his life. So he grips it a little hard.
art		I appreciate this.
billy		Sure.
art		But I know my bullpen.
billy		Yes you do. Yes you absolutely do. No question about it. Except not really.
art		Yeah?  116. 
billy		If we have a lead late in the game and they have runners on base, I'd rather not see Magnante out of the bullpen.
art		I'll make that decision when the time comes.
billy		That's what you should do. Baseball's a game of situations and you should make the decision when the time comes. Except you should make it now.
billy		Don't bring Magnante out if we've gotta hold a late lead with runners on. He's 37, he's scared shitless of being the guy who blows this winning streak.
art		You think a lot of yourself, don't you?
billy		I......think the regular amount of myself. Magnante on the other hand, he doesn't think very much of himself at all, and when he tightens up we've got ourselves an adventure. So I'd like to see Chad Bradford out of the pen tonight when we're in, let's say, just to make it easier for you, any situation. Righty/lefty, two outs, no outs, the umpires have decided we're going to finish the game by playing darts, whatever. Bradford's the first guy out of the pen.
art		I could've coached you up, you know.
billy		I don't think so.
art		You think you went as far as you could have?  117. 
billy		  Yeah, that's what I meant. Play Bradford.
umpire		You can't be in there, Billy.
umpire		Billy?
billy		Just nod a little bit--not too much--like I'm assuring you you didn't just make a calamitous vocational decision.
umpire		Players and coaches only, Billy.
billy		(ignoring the umpire-- still quietly to
billy		--yeah there it is. We're the lead story on Sports Center now so let me be brief. First of all, that was an awfully costly fuck-you, wouldn't you say?
art		 LOOK--
billy		Second of all, genius, those boos? They're for you. Drink up.
umpire		Come on, Billy.
billy		Get me this game back.
voos		You want one, Billy?
billy		I'm good, Voos. Thanks.
billy		Suzanne, get Shapiro on the phone.
peter		Are you thinking Rincon?
billy		Yeah, he's lost faith for the season. I think he's gonna dump him.
peter		Hardcore.
suzanne		Shapiro on two.
billy		Mark. Billy. Let's be honest. A premiere setup man is not going to get you any closer to the playoffs.
billy		He's a luxury you can't afford.
billy		By at least one, you mean one? Who is it?
peter		  San Francisco.
billy		I'll call you back.
peter		What do you think we can get for Magnante?
billy		Nothing. (continues to stare
peter		Two-seventy-five.
billy		Suzanne -- get me Sabean.   If we can get San Francisco interested in Venafro, Shapiro's only got one buyer for Rincon.
peter		Us.
suzanne		On three.
billy		Sabes. Billy. You like Venafro. I can let you have him for almost nothing.  SABEAN V/O  Why would you do that, Billy?
billy		Because I'm amazing.
billy		All I want is a couple of bucks and a sweetener. Throw in, say...  122. 
peter		Anderson.
billy		Anderson.
billy		No, you don't. I don't even like him. I don't know why I'm doing this -- but let's do it anyway. Venafro for Michaelson?
peter		Anderson.
billy		Anderson. See, I don't even know his name.
billy		Think about it and call me back.
billy		Get Shapiro back on.
suzanne		Two!
billy		 MARK --
billy		You sure about that? I get the impression the market for Rincon is softening. I could be wrong. Call whoever's interested and make sure they're still interested. And call me back.
billy		What about the Mets for Venafro?
peter		You just offered him to the Giants.
billy		Suzanne -- Steve Phillips! Get me Steve Phillips.
billy		Between Bonds, Nen, Kent and Snow, they're never gonna do it.
peter		Totally agree.
billy		We just need them to cool on Rincon.
suzanne		Phillips on two.
billy		Steve-O. Billy. I hear you're looking for a left-handed reliever. What do you think of Venafro? I can make it quick and easy for you.  PHILLIPS V/O What's the angle?
billy		No angle.
billy		Hang on a second.
peter		Bennett maybe?
billy		How old?
peter		Twenty-six.  124. 
billy		Twenty-six and in Double-A? Forget it.
peter		Duncan? No. Cerda? No. Furbush?
billy		Furbush?
peter		Eckerton? Eckerton. Eckerton, that's the guy. Billy punches the phone off hold.
billy		Eckerton.
billy		You don't even know who Eckerton is. The phone on Pete's desk rings. Peter answers a second blinking line.
peter		Hello?  PHILLIPS V/O Is Venafro hurt?
peter		Oh, hi.
billy		No, he's not hurt. He's fine. This is just a situation for us.
peter		It's Steve.
billy		  Not his fault. We misused him.  125. 
peter		Steve Schott.
billy		Tell him to hold.  Look. Steve. Here's the deal. I'm being straight with you. I'm getting Rincon. It's a done deal. It's done.
billy		No, the Giants want Venafro. And I told them they can have him for Michaelson...
billy		-- but I'd rather deal with you. Because you can give me Eckerton and two hundred and twenty-five thousand cash and the Giants can't. Billy's look to Peter says, Doesn't hurt to ask. As they listen to silence on Phillips' side of the call --
peter		Yes, I understand it's impolite to keep you holding.
billy		Of course. Think. But whoever calls me back first gets Venafro. He hangs up. Looks for the blinking light that belongs to his owner.
peter		He hung up.
billy		If you could have the power of flight or invisibility, which would you choose?
peter		What?  126. 
billy		Invisibility or flight?
peter		  Invisibility.
billy		That's what Casey said. Why?
peter		You'd have total access. Besides, everyone else would choose flight.
billy		Why isn't anybody calling? The phone rings.
suzanne		Shapiro's on two.
billy		Great. Lemme talk to my owner. Call you right back.
peter		Phillips or Schott?
billy		Why would I call Phillips back? Schott. Tell him I'm on the other line.
peter		Right.
peter		Mr. Schott, it's Peter Brand. Sorry I left you on hold. Billy asked me to call you back. He's on another line.
billy		Tell him we need two hundred and twenty- five grand for Rincon.
peter		Billy says he needs two hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars for Ricardo Rincon. Please?   No. Billy thinks intensely. Finally --
billy		Tell him I'll pay it, but when I sell him next year for twice that, I keep the money.
peter		Billy says he'll pay for Rincon himself, sell him next year, and keep the profit.
peter		Okay. Thank you.   He says he'll pay for Rincon. High five.
billy		Great! Shit. What are we forgetting?   Get me Shapiro!
billy		Wait, never mind! (beat, then into
billy		We gotta let someone go. It's Mags. It's gotta be Mags.
peter		I call not it.  128. 
billy		Art. Billy. The good news is Ricardo Rincon's heading over to the clubhouse. The bad news is you got to tell Mags he threw his last pitch for the Oakland A's last night.  ART V/O No.
billy		What do you mean, no.  ART V/O No, as in no. I'm not doing it. You do it. You did it, so you do it. Art hangs up. Billy slams the speakerphone.
peter		It's not the phone's fault. Suzanne, we're gonna need a new speakerphone.
billy		We gotta catch Mags before Rincon comes over.
magnante		Hey, Billy. I know I've been struggling lately. But we're coming into the home stretch, and I promise I'm gonna turn it
billy		-- I need you to stop getting dressed. Magnante isn't sure he heard right, but the silence tells him he did. Eventually -
magnante		Traded?  129. 
billy		I'm sorry for the crap news. I know it hurts.   Mike. I can't have 26 guys in the clubhouse. Magnante nods.
magnante		Alright.
billy		Thanks. Billy gets up to leave. As he exits, he sees Peter enter with Rincon, standing with his new uniform in his arms, looking like a prison inmate. Oops. Billy joins them.
billy		Hey, Ricardo.
rincon		Hola, senor.
billy		Hola. Hey, I know this must seem a bit sudden, but the Oakland A's have been trying to get you for a long time. You're gonna love it here. The guys are fun.
peter		Muy divertido.
rincon		I pitch tonight?
billy		I don't know if you're gonna pitch tonight. But you're on our team tonight.
rincon		I no wanna pitch tonight.
billy		Right. So... where you from?
rincon		Veracruz, Mexico.  130. 
billy		Well, you're a lot closer to home. Why don't you hang out there for five menudos and we'll get you a uniform and everything.  Hey guys, clear the room, huh? Say hi to Ricardo Rincon. As the other players file out and say hello...  CUT TO:
billy		Tara and me were thinking --
casey		Dad... Tara and I --
tara		She is correct.
billy		Tara and I were thinking about going to Point Reyes to the beach.
casey		That'd be fun.
tara		Me go, too?
billy		And I'll work on my grammar.
casey		 Dad... are you going to lose your job?
billy		What? Where did you hear that, honey?
casey		The internet.
billy		No, I'm not going to lose my job. Don't go on the internet or watch TV or read the papers or talk to people.
casey		I'm not talking to people, I'm just reading stuff.
billy		Don't worry. You don't believe me? Ask Tara.
tara		He's not . Your dad is a brilliant man. He's the best GM in baseball.
casey		But say that you did -- just saying -- would you have to move away?
billy		No, honey. Absolutely not. And even if I did, I'm not going anywhere. I told you not to worry about me. People say a lot of crazy things and they don't always know what they're talking about. It's just gossip. Like gossipers at school.
tara		You can't always believe what you read. Sometimes you need to scratch underneath the surface and find who the authority is.
billy		And once you do find out who the authorities are, ignore them at all costs.
tara		You can always ask your dad.
billy		Everything's fine, honey. I'm not going anywhere. The only way I would lose my job is if someone was to give me a better one. Don't worry about me, okay? Dad knows what he's doing.
casey		Pinkie swear?
billy		Pinkie swear.
peter		This is a chart of what you should and shouldn't be swinging at. These circles represent different pitches. Red is hit, blue is out, yellow's missed or foul, green is chased, white taken. This is you versus Conway. What do you see?
hatteberg		I'm chasing a lot of high and outside.
peter		The red is where most hits happen. That's where you want to be swinging. You don't want to be swinging at the junk at the top of the strike zone. We'd rather take those strikes, `cause you're not going to hit `em out of the park. And you're good about that, patient.    133. 
hatteberg		4 per bat?
peter		Yeah, and that's great. One of the reasons why we love you. You're draining a pitcher's pitches. Now, guys like Bonds and Jason Giambi average a little over 5. That's top tier. Does this chart make sense to you?
hatteberg		Yeah. I'll get on base more if I lay off anything high. This is awesome. So you have a breakdown of this from every game?
peter		Every game. Your instincts are in the right place. This isn't something they teach you in little league. This is something fundamental we're looking for -- how to wear out a pitcher's arm. If you're about to face Conway and wondering what you should and shouldn't swing at, come in here and watch how you're tending. You can click on any one of these pitches and watch it happen. Pretty great, right?
hatteberg		Show me some of the stuff I'm chasing up high... TIME LAPSE of hundreds of at bats registering and changing modalities to produce graphs and numbers. PULL OUT to reveal we're now in  C121 INT. VIDEO ROOM - LATER C121
peter		Everybody thinks the first pitch is what's most important, but it's not. It's the first two out of three pitches that matter the most.
billy		So you're saying if we can get our guys to lay off the first pitch it'll put us in the driver's seat?
peter		Any sort of extra discipline in the first three pitches will help us.
billy		That's a problem right there. Terrance jogging to first.
peter		Hatteberg once had 18 walks in 30 at bats.
billy		My whole career I only had eighteen walks.
billy		Shut up.
billy		Migs, let's make a deal. I'll pay you fifty bucks for every away fastball you hit to opposite field, but you've gotta pay me fifty for every one of those you pull.
billy		Hey, T. Did your car get egged?
long		Yeah.
billy		I think I just got an e-mail from the culprit. He said he was tired of paying good money just to watch you jogging around the bases.
long		What the hell does that have to do with anything?
billy		I don't know, man. Don't worry about it.
long		Who brings eggs to the ballpark anyway?!  A124 INT. CLUBHOUSE HALLWAY - DAY A124
billy		Man, you're not fooling anyone but yourself out there. You're falling further and further behind. In your mind, what's the problem? Mecir mumbles something.
billy		I can't understand you with your hand over your mouth.
mecir		Sorry, Billy. It's just, the smell...
billy		Right?
mecir		I'm gonna grab a shower.
billy		Yup.
billy		Hey, Scottie. What's on your mind?
hatteberg		I feel like I'm hurting the team. At first base I'm making a lot of errors. I'm gonna cost us a hundred runs.
billy		16.5 actually. But as a hitter, you will create 70 runs. 70 runs wins us an awful lot of ball games. I can live with that. Can you live with that?
hatteberg		I appreciate that, but I know you're just pulling those numbers out of your ass.
billy		I'm pulling them out of Pete's, actually.
hatteberg		Social?
billy		Like a greeter at the Gap. A guy steps into your office, chat him up. You're well read, you went to college. Have some fun out there. Relax.
hatteberg		Yes sir.
billy		Scottie, you deserve to be here.
billy		More information. TIME LAPSE PHOTOGRAPHY of all of the changes to the board over the following two weeks.
hatteberg		What are you guys getting up to tonight?
hatteberg		I don't buy it.
hatteberg		Where d'you guys go next?
hatteberg		Houston?   You ever get up to Boundary Waters up there in Minnesota? It's beautiful. I went on a trip up there. Fishing trip. Caught some walleye.
hatteberg		"Mankevich" is polish?  TWINS PLAYER #2 Yes, sir.  138. 
hatteberg		Where'd you go to school?
hatteberg		What are you guys getting up to tonight?
hatteberg		I don't know. Depends on if we beat you today. Probably celebrating.
hatteberg		I'm Scott.
hatteberg		Pretty good. You got kids?
reporter		Oakland's offense has exploded, scoring 40 runs in their last four games and extending their streak to 17 in a row which is an American League record going back to 1954 and just three shy of the  ALL-TIME--
reporter		Who would have thought in April I'd be saying this: The A's won their 18th game in a row, that's two-shy of tying, three- shy of beating the American League record-
justice		Hey, listen up fellas... bring it up real quick.
billy		Don't tell me the score, Peter.
billy		How you doin', leggy.
billy		Sharon?
billy		Yeah.
billy		Hello?   "Go into real estate". What a stupid thing to say. BILLY didn't even realize until that moment how much he wanted to hear her say that...He's not sure what to say back.
billy		I appreciate that, thanks.
billy		No, I'm on my way to Visalia to see our minor league team.  142. 
casey		Dad - turn around. You have to see the game.
billy		No, I don't.
casey		Turn around.
billy		I'll talk to you later, sweetheart. I love you.
chad		One, two, three, four -
chad		I know what it is to be in need and to have plenty. I am content. I can do all things through Christ who gives me  STRENGTH--
billy		 Okay Chad, let's see it.  148 EXT. OAKLAND COLISEUM FIELD - NIGHT - TOP OF THE 8TH 148
art		Hattie. Grab a bat.
art		Let's go.
umpire		Ball!
elizabeth		Mr. Beane? I'm Elizabeth Hatteberg. We met at my house last Christmas.
billy		Sure.
elizabeth		Thank you.
billy		Thank me? Thank you. Whatever you put in those Christmas cookies, keep-- ELIZABETH starts to cry--
billy		Whoa. It's okay.
elizabeth		I'm sorry.
billy		It's alright.
elizabeth		You don't know what it's like to have everyone think you're a failure.
billy		Well...You never thought that, and that's
elizabeth		 And he knows I did.
billy		Yeah he does know you did.
elizabeth		He's talked to you?
billy		No. I just know.
billy		No it's okay now, just go.
billy		Gilligan.
peter		Congratulations.
billy		Aw, man. I spend the season trying to reduce it to numbers and we won on romance. Suddenly it's the Natural with Hatteberg. Scott Hatteberg.
tara		To twenty.
billy		She showed up afterwards.
tara		What did she say?
billy		I was a big moment for them. You know everyone wrote him off?
tara		You didn't. You found him and you put that together.  150. 
billy		I know. It was beautiful. But you know... it's not gonna mean a thing.
billy		Here's the thing -- we changed the game. We got this year, maybe next, then they're gonna catch on. This is our moment. I want to go the distance. I wanna shove it up the Yankees' ass. Not just the Yankees, but... these guys deserve it.
tara		You deserve it. Honey, 20 games. It's a record.
billy		That's right, it's just a record. It gets buried in some book. Come on, tell me who won 19? I don't even know. It's 4th place at the Olympics. Any other team wins the World Series this year... great. We're still in the record books. But if we win, we've changed the game. We've put it on its head and shoved it up their ass. If we don't, they're gonna erase us.
alderson		It's like a politician quitting a campaign to become a staffer. Do you even know what a scout does?
billy		I've been scouted since I was 15.  153. 
alderson		And you're ready to say, "I'm not a baseball player"?
billy		I'm not a baseball player.
billy		Ready to do this? Pete nods. Billy calls out --
billy		Suzanne? Get Schott on.   You ever been to Boston? The speakerphone rings. Billy answers.
billy		We need to talk about the Red Sox.
billy		Yes. But I haven't spoken with him yet.
billy		I want your blessing before I do.
billy		I know that, Steve, but I'd like to talk to them. I want to see what they have to say.
billy		Yes. With your permission.  154. 
billy		Pete?
billy		Well, I think you'll agree this is a great opportunity for him. I can't believe he's not going to make a deal. Peter is frozen. Neither Steve nor Billy are acting like he's even in the room.
billy		I haven't asked to get out of my contract, Steve, I just asked if I could talk to them.
billy		Then talk to Peter.  SCHOTT  I will. Silence.
peter		Well, I didn't see that coming.
billy		I think you should think about staying. You're one of the architects of this thing, it belongs as much to you as it does to me.
peter		Okay... okay...
billy		How you doing Pete?
peter		I'm a little overwhelmed right now. I think I need to process what's happening.
billy		Why don't you take the day off.  CUT TO:
henry		Due respect to the Coliseum, but this is a ball park.
billy		Yes it is. It is.
henry		  You ever play here?  156. 
billy		No.
john		That's a shame. Let's walk the field.
john		Hey, I'm sorry I kept you waiting but believe it or not there was snow on 84. The second week in October. The car turns on to Yawkee Way and it's 53 degrees and this. How can there be an entirely different weather system here than there is three miles from here? Is that global warming or a sign that there's no such thing?
billy		I don't know.
john		What's that Billy Joel song? Oh the snow it was falling from Stockbridge to Boston. And the hilltops seemed something because of that frosting.
billy		I think that's James Taylor and I'm certain those aren't the words.
john		Well whatever, it was snowing from Stockbridge to Boston so I'm sorry I'm late. We'll have lunch in a little bit but why don't I have some coffee sent up.  We've got espresso, cappuccino, latte, we've got a machine that makes whatever you want.
billy		We've got free soda.
john		I heard about that.   Thank you.
john		It's her birthday and I need to get her a present but she's usually the one who does that for me so do you have any ideas?
john		You mean like wool?
billy		No I meant something that women wear with, you know, a decorative --
john		Sure! Excellent.
billy		John, no disrespect, I just lost in five for the second year in a row -- give her a bowling ball for all I care.
john		Steve Schott told me he's offering you a new contract.
billy		Yes he is.
john		So why'd you return my call?
billy		You're the Red Sox, and I think I can help you.    158. 
henry		Why it took someone so long to hire that guy is beyond me.
billy		Because baseball hates him.
henry		Money buys a lot of things. One is the luxury to disregard what baseball thinks.
billy		That must be nice.  I was grateful to get your call.
john		You were grateful.
billy		Yeah.
john		For 41 million you built a playoff team. You lost Damon, Giambi, Isringhausen and Pena and you won two more games without them than you did with them. And we begin a slow push-in on BILLY... this is the first person in baseball other than his assistant who doesn't think he's crazy.
john		You won the exact same number of games as the Yankees but the Yankees paid 1.4 million dollars per win and you paid two- hundred and sixty thousand. Yes, I want you to be my General Manager.
billy		What's this?
john		My first offer. BILLY opens it, looks at it for less than a second, and looks back up at JOHN...  171 INT. LIMO - DAY 171
peter		Heads up!
billy		Jesus. What the hell --
peter		Sorry.
billy		What the hell was that?
peter		I don't know. Sorry.
billy		Impressive.
peter		You're giving me Youkilis, Billy.  160. 
billy		Why would I ever do that?
peter		Come on Billy, Schott's going to want something in exchange for letting you out of your contract and I want Youkilis.
billy		Oh, what is that, your GM voice? You can't have him.
peter		And Cash. And a player to be named later.
billy		You already have my job. What else do you want from me?
peter		I don't want your job.
billy		Why did you take it?
peter		You didn't leave me much choice.
billy		It doesn't matter.
peter		Did he make you a good offer?
billy		It was fine.
peter		What was it?
billy		It doesn't matter.
peter		He offered to make you the highest paid GM in pro sports.  161. 
peter		I don't know. I've never heard you say you did.
billy		So why am I doing this?
peter		You're not doing it for the money.
billy		I'm not?
peter		You're doing it for what the money says. It says what it says to any player who gets big money: that they're worth it.
billy		The offer says that. The money itself is redundant.
peter		So you're not going to Boston?
billy		I haven't decided.
peter		It's all over the news that it's a done deal.
billy		Look at this place. What a dump.
peter		I think you've already won, Billy.
billy		No Pete, we lost.
peter		You haven't given yourself time to get over it, it's only been three days.  162. 
billy		I'm not even over last year yet. I don't get over it.
billy		I really can't look at video right now.
peter		No, come with me.  A177 OMITTED  A177
paul		It's not much more than a home movie but you'll get the idea.
billy		Who is it?
paul		The Visalia Oaks and their 240 pound catcher, Jeremy Brown, who's scared of running to second. This was in a game six weeks ago.
paul		This guy's gonna start him off with a fastball low and in because he hasn't read the book on our guy and doesn't know that low and in is where he eats. Jeremy takes him to deep center -- We see JEREMY BROWN connect and the ball fly off the bat but the camera stays on JEREMY running to first. PAUL slows down the picture with the remote
paul		-- and he knows that if he runs it's a stand-up double and he's running.
paul		And now he's gonna do something he never does. He's gonna round first base, he's gonna take the turn.
billy		Please tell me he's safe at second.
paul		No. Because right here --
paul		-- is what he's always been afraid of. It's all he can do to get himself back to first. JEREMY has been scrambling in the dirt to get safely back to first base.
billy		What is that?
paul		That's the first base coach.
billy		Why's he laughing? I'm gonna fire that guy, why the hell is he --
paul		Everybody's laughing.
paul		And now Jeremy finds out why. Watch his face because this is art. He's just found out the ball went 60 feet over the fence. He'd hit a home run but he didn't know it.
billy		How can anybody not be romantic about baseball?  164. 
paul		  It was a metaph--
billy		I know it was a metaphor.
paul		That was a hell of a baseball season, boss.
billy		The Island of Misfit Toys. Okay.
****Dialogues from script :Monkeybone.txt****

seventh draft		3 FEBRUARY 1999
miss hudlapp		CLASS!  How many times have I told you? In this class we do not pound tenpenny nails into Stanley's head!
miss hudlapp		Young man. What's that in your lap?
monkeybone		Oooo-oo-ooh, baby. I love your way.
stanley		How about it, Doc? Can you help me?
shrink		Not overnight. These imaginary monkey cases take time. I vould estimate...roughly...
shrink		Twelve years and three months ought to do it.
stanley		One question, doc - what did you mean when you said "imaginary"?
shrink		All in good time, my boy. All in good time.
shrink		Vot a crackpot! Monkey on ze back - HAH!! ROLL OUT ZE WACKY WAGON!!
stanley		Aw, Monkeybone! At this rate I'll never find a good shrink.
monkeybone		Those guys are a waste of money! I'll show you how to stop sucking your thumb...
herb		Thank you...that's our pilot...the good news is, Comedy Channel has just picked us up with an order for six new episodes!
herb		Now, let's give it up for the guy who started it all. Creator of America's most disturbed comic strip...the man behind the monkey...Mister Stu Miley!
stu		I don't actually draw all the animation, no. We have sweatshop workers who couldn't get jobs at Nike doing that.
beautiful fan		Mr. Miley, would you draw Monkeybone on my belly? As a guide?
stu		Guide...?
beautiful fan		For my tattoo artist?
beautiful fan		Wait! You have to draw the rest of him -
stu		I - I have to, uh, check in with my doctor. DO- OCCCC!!
stu		Hey, Doc. Come here. There's something really cool I want to show you.
stu		See these doors? The cool thing is, you go out ...they close...you can't get back in!
julie		You want to leave? But Stu - you're a big hit! Everyone loves you!
stu		They don't love me. They love Monkeybone.
julie		It was you who got the standing O. It was you drawing on the belly over there...
stu		That was especially Monkeybone. Come on, Doc, I don't want to be stuck here with this bunch of media creeps. I just want to be us. Home. Alone!  I have something I have to give you.
julie		Can't you give it to me later?
stu		Yeah, I could, but the thing is, if later got here sooner, it would be...better.
herb		Sorry, Julie - won't be a minute. Now Stu - I know you don't like the idea, but you really ought to talk to these guys -
stu		Julie and I - we were just gonna go...
herb		Go? There's a potload of money here, pal. You got three major toy companies...you got the guys from Burger God over here...
stu		Burger God. The ones that found the pig hair in the french fries?
herb		Never proven. They're ready to pop for a pre- emptive endorsement. Kids love Burger God -
stu		Herb, it's too much. It's all out of hand.
herb		Do you know what kind of opportunity you have here? You gotta strike. I'm talking mansions. Lamborghinis. Champagne for mouthwash when you brush your teeth!
stu		I don't want to be rich. It's just a trap!
herb		Being rich is not a trap. That is a dirty lie perpetuated by rich people to keep the failures from killing them.
stu		Herb. I have to go.
herb		Why?
stu		I got the ring.  Tonight's the night, Herb. Tonight's the night.
herb		Oh my God...you're proposing?
stu		My life was totally crappy, Herb, and she... fixed it. She made me happy. Which I'd never been. She loves me the way I am - right now. 
herb		...In some weird way I respect that.
herb		Okay then. If I get you out of here - you pop the question - tonight. Or else. Get me?
herb		They're just prototypes...take 'em home and look at 'em before you say no...  If you could just hold on a minute or two, we're expecting a couple more trucks.
herb		Okay, okay! You're a beautiful couple. Go.
stu		Look at this! He won't let us leave!
julie		Who?
stu		The monkey!! He's everywhere! He'll take over both our lives if we let him.
julie		Stu - stop it. That monkey is good luck. You thought him up, and everybody loves him, and he's probably going to make you rich. So relax! Enjoy it!
stu		I'm trying. It's weird, that's all. I never had any good luck, until I met you...what if it's all just another bad dream?
julie		What's the "bad" part?
stu		I might wake up.
stu		I am happy. It just so happens this is the happiest night of my life.
stu		That damn monkey is everywh--
stu		Did we just - hit something?
julie		I don't think so.
stu		Are you okay??
stu		Hey! Are you guys all right in there?
teenage girl		We're fine.
stu		That stupid monkey banner! It fell on my windshield - it practically killed us all!  God, Julie, if anything had happened to you -
julie		I'm fine, baby. We're all okay. We were lucky.
stu		I'd better go report this...
julie		Dad's car?
teenage girl		What was that? Did you hear that?
julie		STU!!
stu		Operator? I want to report an accident.
julie		Stu? I'm here, baby. It's me. It's Julie. I love you. You're gonna be okay, baby, I promise -
stu		Hello? Anybody? - Am I dead?  PLEASE. I'D LIKE TO KNOW IF I'M DEAD.
snake		Cigars, mister? Genuine Coobans!
rabbit		Wanna meet my sister?
singing sphinxes		Weeee...welcome you to Dark Town And while you're in your coma This odd amusement park-town Will be your Home Sweet Homa -
stu		Help me. Please. There's animals. They -
voice		Pony ride, Mister?
joe camel		Hey, Mister. Mister! Got a smoke?
stu		Chasing me - animals - horrible -
bull		Animals? What kind of animals?
bull		Yeah, I know - Picasso. Guernica, right? That's what everybody says - although personally, I don't see the resemblance. What are you drinking?
stu		Uhh - martini?
bull		Olive or eyeball?
stu		Olive. - Where exactly am I?
bull		Dark Town. Land of nightmares. I'm Bull.
stu		Stu Miley.
bull		Yeah, I've seen a few of your dreams. You're quite a celebrity down here.
bull		I told you, it's the land of nightmares. Same on every channel...all the stuff people dream, after they have the extra anchovies.
stu		Jeez, it all looks like bad late-night cable.
bull		Sad commentary, huh?
bull		 I beg your pardon?
stu		I didn't say anything.
stu		I was, uh, just getting ready to leave...
bull		Yo, Jumbo. We got us some kind of ventriloquist here.
monkeybone		Just kiddin', folks! Drinks for everybody - 
nurse		Just a spike, ma'am. It happens. It's perfectly natural with coma patients.
julie		I'm a doctor too. I know this man's brain -
doctor		Go home, Doctor. Rest. Come back when you can do us some good.
woman's voice		Julie?
alice		Now don't pick a fight. I'm staying over.
julie		Oh, poor Buster. He hasn't been fed in a day and a half. Let me get some food...
alice		Special occasion?
julie		I don't know. I guess it was...
alice		Don't get all poignant. We're keeping this bottle on ice. When he comes around you're going to need it.
alice		Who did this?
julie		Stu. That was right about the time we met.
alice		When he first came in to the sleep lab?
julie		Yeah...before your time.
alice		Jesus, honey...he always joked about you curing him, but I never realized what you cured him from.
julie		He hadn't gotten a good night's sleep in years. The nightmares would wake him up, and he'd start right in painting... 
alice		How do you get from here - to there?
julie		Switch hands.
alice		What?
julie		I'm serious. It was bicameral disjunction - right brain and left brain out of balance. He was a rightie, so I made him switch the pencil to his left hand. Just to see what'd come out.
alice		Monkeybone?
julie		Left-handed, he was funny. He'd been doing all this scary, intense work...then he found out he could draw this stuff, and make me laugh, and he liked that.  And then the nightmares just...stopped.
alice		Wow - two guys in the same brain. - Which one did you fall in love with?
julie		I've put a ton of work into that boy, Alice. I am not going to let him get away from me.
julie		Kimmy...?
kimmy		Oh, Julie...my poor Stu...my poor baby brother...
julie		When'd you get in?
kimmy		An hour ago.  I tried to prepare myself, but I didn't know he would be like, like this. I can't even bear to look at him... How about you? You're okay?
julie		I'm fine, Kimmy. Fine.
kimmy		I had so much I always wanted to say to him. At least he had a chance to give you the ring.
julie		The ring...
kimmy		Grandmama's ring. The engagement ring. He asked me to send it to him -
kimmy		Can you give us a realistic sense of my brother's chances?
kimmy		But these...machines are what's keeping him alive, is that right?
kimmy		Can you give me a realistic idea...of how long this is going to last?
kimmy		Honey, I have to clarify this. The thing is, Dr. Edelstein, my brother has an absolute horror of doctors - hospitals - needles - all of it -
julie		Kimmy, he doesn't know what's going on. He doesn't even know he's in a -
kimmy		Please, Julie. This is not easy for me. Our father took a long time to die. A long time. It just about killed us all. And Stu and I made a pact that when our time came - we wouldn't let it drag out.
julie		It's too soon even to - talk about that!
kimmy		Give me a date, Doctor.
kimmy		I want him to have every chance, Doctor. We can certainly give it...three months.
emcee		And now the last of our five finalists...Miss Michigan...GEORGE T. WILLOUGHBY!
emcee		And now George will give us his analysis of Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle as it pertains to third-world economics!!
george		I'm gonna wash that man right outta my hair!
bull		Hey, Stu, why so glum? Everybody loves a good humiliation nightmare.
stu		Three months, Bull. Three months tonight. Three months since the accident - and I'm no closer to going home than I was then.
bull		Aw, buck up. Have another 'tini.
stu		I'm sick of martinis. I'm sick of the waiting, and the carnival rides, and watching people's nightmares. And of course, I need not add -
monkeybone		Thank you, thank you for that very modest
monkeybone		We've got a special dedication tonight. This one's from my ever-lovin' boss, Mr. Stu Mopey - I mean Miley - and we're sendin' it up to a very special lady in the land of the living. Yes, I do mean Julie - the beautiful Miss Julie - who, if she has a brain in her head, is shacked up right now with some good-lookin' doc she met in the E.R.!  JUST KIDDING, BUDDY! Because if we know anything about Miss Julie, we know she is faithful, loyal, and true. Even if her boyfriend is an eggplant. Which is why we're dedicating...this very special tune...to her. Jumbo?
monkeybone		MAH baby does the Hanky-Panky! UNHH! MAH baby does the Hanky-Panky! UNHH!
stu		You have humiliated me in public for the last
monkeybone		I doubt that. Besides, I can't help myself. I'm just a figment of your imagination.
stu		Then you can learn to act normally. I had to!
monkeybone		Aw, come on. You know you love me. You're a masochistic pain freak. You gotta love me.
stu		I am not. And I don't gotta.
monkeybone		You are too! Mooning over Julie when we could both be gettin' some o' this fine local action. It's not like she's gonna know. Out of town, under five minutes, and in a coma don't count.
stu		Sorry. The women here aren't my type. Most of them aren't even my species.
monkeybone		Hellooooooooo, Kitty.
kitty		Hiya, Stu. Refill on that martini?
monkeybone		I'd like something with an umbrella in it and a really smutty name. Like a...Sex Behind the Sofa with Your Parents in the Same Room Watching "The Brady Bunch."
stu		Nothing for him! He's being repressed.
kitty		Is something wrong, Stu? You seem so tense.
monkeybone		Aaah, it's the same as always...poor mope's just wishin' he was me.
stu		I've been trying to get through to the head guy - the nightmare god - what's his name?
kitty		Hypnos?
stu		Yeah. To see if he could expedite my case. But I wait, and I wait, and...I'm starting to think I'll never see her again.
stu		I shoulda proposed, Kitty. That way at least she'd know how I feel. That way she'd...wait for me.
kitty		She is waiting for you, Stu. I know she is. Guys like you don't come along that often. Believe me, I know.
monkeybone		My Fellow Americans. I have a dream. Let us boldly go where no man has gone before.
kitty		I mean it, Stu. You're one in a million.
stu		I'm not so special. I'm just - kind of -
monkeybone		Come on, pal! It was a compliment! You'da done the same if you had the equipment!
stu		THAT DOES IT! BACK IN THE PACK!
monkeybone		FORGET IT! NO WAY! I'M NOT GETTING -
monkeybone		I'm reportin' this to my union!!
stu		What union?
monkeybone		The sidekicks' union! Me, Tonto, and Robin the Boy Wonder. You top bananas better watch your ass!
monkeybone		DIVE! DIVE!!
monkeybone		I left my phone number in your undies. Try not to lose it in traffic.
stu		Sorry, Kitty! I'll be right back after I choke my monkey.
monkeybone		Him. Whew. About time!
reaper		EARL BIEGLER. I'VE COME -
earl		Can't hear you, young fellow. Speak up!
reaper		EARL BIEGLER, I'VE COME TO GIVE YOU - aw, hell. Here.
bull		An E-Ticket!
patron		He got a reprieve.
kitty		Good for him! He's gonna wake up!
stu		No. No. Not him.
earl		So long, suckers! See you in the funny papers!
stu		He's ninety. He's practically dead already. How come he goes back and I stay here?
monkeybone		Maybe he wanted to pick out his own casket?
stu		 HEY!! HEY, YOU!!
stu		He got an E-ticket. Where's mine? When do I get
monkeybone		Stu? Stu? Let's not disturb the nice Reaper.
stu		I've been stuck down here for months. Somebody had better start paying attention, or I'm gonna - I'm gonna kick ass!
monkeybone		Let's not kick the nice Reaper's ass.
reaper		SORRY, BUD. OFF-DUTY.
monkeybone		Stu? Stu? Let's calm down, talk things over. How about some comedy relief? Okay. Brontosaurus walks into a gay bar...
monkeybone		Stu? Stu? I think weve got this backwards. Your behavior...is disturbing me.
stu		That's right. Run! And don't come back unless you've got my e-ticket!!
stu		Who am I kidding? I'm never gonna get out of here. I'll never see her again.
messenger boy		Miley? Stu Miley?
stu		Hypnos! The god of nightmares! Do you know what this means, Monkeybone? He's finally going to hear my case. I'm going home!
julie		I think we can go another day without shaving. Long as you don't look like you're growing one of those stupid little goatees.
julie		Hey, there's an article about the Monkeybone show. They've run that one episode about eight times now. Herb says it gets higher ratings every time...they're hoping you'll give 'em some new material soon...  Wanna hear another joke?
julie		Okay...let me see...here we go. A plane full of explorers crashlands in New Guinea; they are captured by a cannibal tribe and taken to the chief's hut, where...wait a minute. I know this one... 
julie		Okay. Let's try again. Why did the pervert cross the road?
julie		Kimmy! What's the matter?
kimmy		This is hard for me, Julie...very hard...but it's been three months now, and...  I gave the order.
monkeybone		Now this...is livin'.
monkeybone		Y'call that art? Why, my three-year-old can paint better than that.
stu		Like you'd know. You started out on the back of a napkin, you little...doodle.
monkeybone		Hey! Like the do. So tell me, are you a, uhh... natural snakehead?
gorgon		Only fifty dollars to find out.
monkeybone		Fifty dollars?! Bite me!
gorgon		You got it, big boy.
stu		Say, have you seen Mr. Hypnos?
hand woman		Hyp? He was here a while ago. Aren't you Stu Miley? The nightmare guy?
hand woman		I heard you were going to be here tonight. This is so cool!
hand woman		You fat slob! Watch what you're doing!
jumbo		Why don't you slap me? Go on, slap me!
hand woman		Come on, Stu. Let's go where the real fun is.
stu		Wow. Live feed, huh?
hand woman		You bet. Hyp gets all the best stuff before it goes out to the theatres.
stu		Sorry.
hand woman		Shh! There's a new one just starting.
stu		That - that's me.
cyclops		Nice shirt, dude!
stu		What is this? Who's dreaming this??  Julie??
yeti		Hey, keep it down!
stu		JULIE!!
hand woman		Stu!! What are you doing? Chill out!!
julie		No. No. STU!
stu		JULIE! I'M HERE, DOC! DON'T LET THEM PULL THE PLUG! I'M HERE!!!
cyclops		HEY! Watch it, you stinkin' gringo -
stu		JULIE! I'M HERE! I LOVE YOU!
julie		Stu? STU...?
julie		STU!!!!
jumbo		Who invited this schmuck, anyway?
hand woman		Oh, it's my fault. I thought he was cooler than that.
stu		Listen. Please. It's my girlfriend. I've gotta get a message to her...
woman's voice		HYP!!!
monkeybone		I knew I left it in there somewhere.
hypnos		Haw! I like a monkey with vision!
monkeybone		You said it, partner!
stu		How'd you get in there?
monkeybone		Stu... It's a party.
stu		Mr. Hypnos - sir - I needed to talk to you -
hypnos		Wait a minute. Stu Miley, right? Boys and girls ...Mr. Stu Miley, in the house! 
stu		Mr. Hypnos, I saw a dream. My girlfriend was having it. She dreamed they were pulling the plug on me. She was watching me die.
hypnos		Uh huh. And?
stu		Well, I have to get a message to her. I have to let her know I'm okay. Until I can get out of here...
stu		...which is actually what I wanted to talk to you about. See, I've been here three months -
hypnos		Kid - didn't they tell you about this party?
stu		Tell me what?
hypnos		It's a special kind of party. A farewell party. Do you...get what I'm saying?
stu		Farewell? You mean - you mean I'm -
stu		I'M GOING HOME! I'M WAKING UP! HEY, EVERYBODY! I'M OUTTA HERE. I...
stu		I think I...I'm about to... Am I mistaken, or don't I get to... Is there some...
hypnos		Y'see, Stu, as I understand it, you made this pact with your sister...no life support?
monkeybone		Pact? Pact? NO LIFE SUPPORT??
stu		Well - yeah - but that doesn't...apply. It was different then. I was depressed. My life is great now. I'm in love!
monkeybone		Pull the plug! Pull the plug! Take my organs! I don't need 'em! I don't need no! Life support! I'm an idiot! Pull the pl--
stu		Besides, Julie wouldn't...she'd never...
hypnos		Actually, Stu, Julie doesn't get to decide. That's why she was having the nightmare. 
stu		Nine AM! But that's - twelve hours.
monkeybone		I'm so dumb! I deserve to die -
stu		Mr. Hypnos, you run this place. I'm begging you. There's gotta be something I can do.
hypnos		Stu, I like you personally, I admire your work, but I'm just the God of Sleep. This is Death's bailiwick.
stu		Maybe you could talk to Death!
hypnos		Me? Me, go crawling to Death? My friend, it will be a cold, cold day in Las Vegas, Nevada, before I go crawling to that piece of -
hypnos		Now Death is not what you would call a people person, like me. Death is a putz - and I should know. I'm his little brother.
stu		You're Death's brother?
hypnos		Oh yeah. Mr. By-the-book, Stick-Up-the-Ass, My- Way-or-the-Highway Death. Believe me - over the course of eternity, you get pretty damned tired of that schtick. 
monkeybone		The penthouse is pretty swank, though.
hypnos		Thank you. I decorated it myself.
stu		Guys, I don't mean to be rude, but I only have eleven hours and fifty-three minutes to...
hypnos		Oh, right. Cheating Death. There's one thing you might try. Only one guy in history ever pulled it off. Well, actually two. Actually, no, there was that other guy who...well, very few people have done it.
stu		Hyp, I'll do anything.
monkeybone		Me too. And I mean anything. Ask the chicks in the back room.
hypnos		You've seen those E-tickets, right? Well, what you gotta do...is go into the Land of Death... and steal an E-ticket right out from under Death's nose.
stu		Land of Death. How do I get there?
hypnos		Kid, listen: that's all I'm saying. And you didn't hear it from me.
hypnos		You've heard of a fate worse than Death? That's what's waiting for you if you screw up.
monkeybone		Fate worse than death! Well, it's been real, boss, but I gotta go buff up my resum. ANYBODY HERE NEED A FIGMENT?
stu		Fine! Don't put yourself out. I'll go to the land of Death alone.
monkeybone		Stu, you have my absolute confidence. - DEAD MAN! DEAD MAN WALKING!!
stu		 I've got one chance to get back to Julie, and I'm gonna take it - with or without you.
monkeybone		Hey. Aren't you gonna talk me into it?
stu		No. Goodbye. Thanks for nothing.
monkeybone		You gotta talk me into it. You'll screw up on your own. I mean, a guy's gotta have a sidekick. For moral support! Wisecracks - snappy banter -  It's the land of Death, Stu, the Land of Death! Don't go in there without your comedy relief!!
stu		All right. You can come.
monkeybone		OH, THANK YOU! THANK YOU! TH--  Something went very, very wrong here.
stu		Now we just gotta figure out how to get there.
reaper		LULU LA RUE. I HAVE COME FOR YOU.
reaper		LULU LA RUE, I HAVE COME FOR -
lulu		Shay, you're kinda cute.
fred		Say there. How 'bout one for the road?
fred		Hold this for me, pally.
fred		Ooopsy daisy.
monkeybone		Is that what they call "death with dignity"?
monkeybone		Two words for you, my friend: club soda.
stu		He's taking her to the land of Death, right? So all we've gotta do is...hitch a ride!  Stop shaking! I'll protect you.
monkeybone		Oh, sure. Mr. Action Hero! Why couldn't I be Arnold Schwarzenegger's figment?
stu		Where'd he go??
monkeybone		I don't know.
julie		Six hours. That's when they pull the plug. That's how long we've got to wake him up. 
julie		...they show incredibly intense nightmare activity. The chart below is his new chart...
hutch		Holy shit.
julie		He's stuck in a loop - a nightmare loop.  Anybody here know what Oneirix is?
clarissa		Sure - it's an enzyme. The brain secretes it during violent dream activity...
hutch		It's nightmare juice. Julie and I were on the team that learned to synthesize it. If those charts are right, Stu's swimming in the stuff.  Are you thinking we can decrease the levels?
julie		No. I want to give him more. I want to give him a massive dose.
hutch		That's not going to stop his nightmare -
julie		I don't want to stop the nightmare, Hutch. I want to crank it up. I want to take it right off the charts. I want to scare him awake.
julie		All right! We have a plan. Let's move!
hutch		You know, Julie, even if this works - which it probably won't - that stuff is tricky. You don't know what it'll do to his brain.
julie		What'll it do if they pull the plug?
reaper		Batch of souls - just back from Processing.
death's assistant		Put them over there with the others.
death's assistant		Your Grimness? We have a new shipment -
death		Last Days of Pompeii...now there was a Great Moment in Death.
death		I can't believe - oh, man, I - SINATRA!! Do you know how long I've been waiting for this?
death's assistant		Make that 12:07, your bleakness...the dispatch team is waiting...
death		Okay, okay, send 'em in. Jeez.
assistant		Chakasandra Singh, New Delhi. Snakebite.
assistant		Mulrooney, Lavinia P., Dearborn, Michigan. Head crushed in a pants press.
death		YOU!!!
death		You're the customer, okay? You're about to die. It's a big occasion. A formal occasion. And as you shuffle off this mortal coil, the last thing your eyes behold is a Grim Reaper covered with...  What the hell is that??
death		...What??
death		Well - whatever it is - you get that shroud to the dry cleaner ASAP! Now where were we?
assistant		Clarke P. Devereaux, San Francisco. Complications resulting from coma...
death		Oh, wait. Says here he's supposed to recover.
death		Take this to Dark Town. Sad to say, he's gonna live another forty years.  Sorry. Nobody said this job would be easy.
monkeybone		Say, Death, just out of curiosity, could we maybe swap jobs with that other guy? See, we've been meaning to drop in on Dark Town - I mean I've been meaning to...
death		...I beg your pardon?
monkeybone		I got relatives there. I...EEP!!
death		Now what were you saying?
death		I'd like to have a word with you in private.
death		IMPOSTORS!! GET 'EM!!
death		HYPNOS! That little twerp! He's the one who put you up to this!
monkeybone		Yowie.
death		Head. HEAD!!
monkeybone		Stu...Stu...
stu		IT'S NOT WORKING.
monkeybone		There's a thing here! There's a switch!
monkeybone		Stu...LOOK!
stu		What?
monkeybone		Isn't that Lulu?
death		Now we've got 'em.
monkeybone		Weren't we just here?
monkeybone		What'd I tell you? You go to the Land of Death, wear a jockstrap!
julie		What's the maximum safe dose?
alice		Most we've ever used is half a CC.
julie		Five CC's.
monkeybone		This ain't my nightmare!
stu		You saved my life, Monkeybone. I never would've made it without you.
monkeybone		Move it. We got exactly five minutes left.
stu		It's just...now that I'm leaving, I feel like there's lots of things I haven't said. Who's gonna look out for you? Are you gonna be okay when I'm gone?
monkeybone		Oh, don't you worry. I'll be fine.
stu		You've been a hell of a figment, pal. I sure wish I could take you home with me.
monkeybone		Awwww. Worried about my feelings, are you? Well, there's a new twist.
stu		Don't joke around, little buddy. I mean it. I really do love y--
monkeybone		Love you too. Boss.
stu		Stop! Monkeybone! Please!!
stu		NO! DON'T YOU UNDERSTAND?? HE'S GOT MY E-TICKET! HE'S GOT MY -
hypnos		Sorry, Stu. It's all part of the deal. We've got big plans for that body of yours!
stu		NO! JULIE! NO-O-O-O!
stu		EEEEEEPP!!
stu		Oooie! That smarts!!!
julie		Stu?
stu		Julie?... Hey, you are a looker.
nurse		It's a miracle. It's a miracle.
doctor		Two more ticks of the clock...
julie		Thank you. Thank you for coming back to me.
stu		Who are y-- WHAT DO YOU WANT??
genghis khan		Dinner.
stu		Alfred Hitchcock??
typhoid mary		That's how he keeps his girlish figure.
stephen king		Gotta move fast in this crowd, or you'll starve. Here you go, pal. Have some popcorn.
stu		What is this stuff?
stephen king		They feed us the slops from the Morpheum Theatre. You hope for Jujubes, settle for goobers. - I'm Steve. Steve King.
stu		Stephen King? What are you doing in here?
typhoid mary		Typhoid Mary.
stu		Atilla the - ! What in hell is this place?
rat guard		All hail the most glorious! Most eminent! Most esteemed all-powerful God of Sleep...his Royal Lassitude -
hypnos		Enough, enough, I'm hung over.
typhoid mary		Hyp! Did you bring me the cough medicine?
stephen king		Did you remember the night light I asked for?
stephen king		Bite me, Poe! I hate waking up in the dark.
hypnos		Sorry, Steve, maybe next time. And how's our new guest settling in - ?
stu		YOU SET ME UP!!
hypnos		Easy, pal! I was coming to congratulate you. It ain't easy snatching one of those E-tickets. Steve here was the last guy to pull it off, and that musta been, what, 25 years ago...?
stu		Why'd you do it? What'd I ever do to you?!?
hypnos		It's simple, Stu. We need nightmares - lots of 'em. So whenever we can swing it, we send a guy up to stimulate the flow...a nightmare maker! Like Steve here. Poe. Rasputin...we've been doing this all the way back to Atilla and Genghis Khan!
stu		But why me? Why'd you pick on me??
hypnos		The monkey, of course. It was his idea.
stu		Monkeybone...!?
hypnos		Nobody wants to be a sidekick, Stu. So one day he comes to us - he's got a proposition. We help him get your body...in return he gives us all the nightmares we want.
stu		You're nuts! I'm a comic strip artist! What's he gonna do - draw really scary cartoons??
hypnos		Oh, no, no, no. Y'see, Stu, as it happens, that girlfriend of yours figured out the chemical basis of bad dreams. And she just whipped up a big old batch of nightmare juice!
hypnos		Oh, we're predicting a record box-office. It's like I always say...nightmares are your best entertainment!
kimmy		I just couldn't stand the thought of you suffering. I love you so, I would never have... forgive me, Stu. Please forgive me.
julie		Welcome home.
julie		Oh, baby, I can't believe you're back.
julie		Baby? Why don't you just...rest on the sofa for a minute. I'll be right back.
julie		Here's to a bottle...we should have opened... three months ago.
julie		Stu, are you...feeling okay?
julie		You're acting kind of...odd.
julie		Buster! Look who's here!
julie		What are you watching?
julie		You sure this is...medically advisable?
julie		Well. As long as it's okay with Monkeybone -
julie		Oh, God!! Baby! Are you -
stu		How was it? I don't recall.
julie		It was great, baby. Let's get you to the ER.
stu		I'm not like the rest of you. I'm just a regular guy! I'm not a "nightmare maker."
rasputin		Neither are we. We got our bodies hijacked just like you. The guys who replaced us are the nightmare makers!
attila		Like me. I was a mess sergeant in the Mongol Horde. I never wanted to be the Scourge of Asia. I just wanted a new recipe for yak!
stu		But how? Did you all have sidekicks? Figments? ...Monkeys??
stephen king		Hey, I got screwed over by my own dog. Go through hell to get that E-ticket, and who winds up in my body? That darn Cujo.
rasputin		He's sure got a thing for those icy blondes.
rat guard		Miley. You got a visitor.
stu		...Kitty?!?
kitty		I'm so sorry, Stu. I wanted to tell you what was going on. I really, really liked you.
stu		Kitty...my situation is really not important. The thing is, my girlfriend is now living with, and possibly engaged to, a demented monkey.
kitty		You're such a beautiful man. Look at you - stuck in this place, and only thinking of her.
stu		Listen to me! Is there any way I can warn her what Monkeybone is up to??
rat guard		Time's up! Break it up, you two.
kitty		No! Give me a moment. Just to look at him. Oh, Stu. Oh, my sweet, sweet Stu.
rat guard		Feeding time!
julie		I'm heading in to work, baby. Are you sure you'll be okay?
julie		They only made the one episode. They've shown it about nineteen times.
julie		I had to park two blocks away. Is something -
stu		I took the liberty of calling a little press conference. We're on TV, so don't say "shit."  Shit! I said it. Shit! I said it again!
reporter		Stu, what is it about Monkeybone that makes him so popular?
herb		I tell you, he's ready to merchandise. We've gotta move quickly. Get the toy guys, the burger guys, the lunchbox guys -
julie		Herb...what in God's name -
julie		What's this about merchandising? You always hated merchandising!
hypnos		You two-bit simian stooge. WHAT THE HELL IS THIS? We didn't send you up here to shake your booty and chase broads. We sent you up to make nightmares!!
hypnos		Now find that nightmare juice and get to work. 'Cause you may be a free man during the day... but when you dream, your monkey ass is mine!
female baboon		Hey, handsome.
female baboon		Yeah, you. Come here, good-looking.  Why don't you let me out of this cage?
female baboon		 I know how to be very, very grateful.
janitor		Gettin' jiggy wit' it - gettin' jiggy wit' it...
julie		Stu? Is that you? Where did you go?
julie		Baby, don't lie. I know you went out.
julie		You're wearing a topcoat, Stu. - Where are your pants?
herb		What's the matter?
herb		Less.
herb		Oh, here's something. The city zoo is kicking off a fund-raising campaign. They wonder if you'd be willing to appear at a benefit.
herb		Well, nothing. It's a benefit. But we could probably get People and Entertainment Tonight to cover it.
herb		And last...you remember Bill here, from the Bazoom Toy Company? He's got a little something I think you'll like.
bazoom exec		Well - I guess...
stu		So here's my idea. We do a giveaway at the zoo benefit. We get a big piata. We fill it with Monkeybone dolls - hundreds of 'em.
herb		A piata. That's a great idea!
herb		Head trauma.
announcer		It's his world - we just live in it. Monkeybone! Back with six all-new episodes, starting -
julie		The thing is, I'm responsible for the way he's acting. It's the nightmare juice. It's got to be.
alice		Julie, that stuff probably saved his life.
julie		I can't explain this, Alice, but I'm not so sure it did. It's as if...he's not Stu any more. The Stu I love is gone! 
alice		Listen. Let's bring him in for some tests. I guarantee you're overreacting.
julie		Actually, no, I don't think I'm overreacting.
hypnos		Dog dreams!! That stinkin' monkey. I can't believe it. We give him a body, and he sends us ...dogs.
kitty		Let's not think about dogs. Let's think about pussycats. Meeowwwwwwrrrr....
kitty		Shh! You'll need it when you're traveling.
kitty		Don't ask where I got it.
stu		You can't do this! You'll get in trouble!
kitty		You're the only true-hearted man I ever met. You find a way back to that girl of yours and make her happy.
stu		How am I gonna get past the guards?
kitty		I'll worry about the guards. 
kitty		Go. Just go.
stu		Thanks, Kitty, I'll never forget you for th--
stu		I'll really...never...forget you.
julie		"4/17: Subject, when unaware of observation, prefers to hold eating utensils...with feet. Successfully carves turkey roll holding eating utensils...with feet."
alice		They had a case like that at Johns Hopkins. Wires got crossed between hands and feet.
clarissa		Great lead. I'll try and find it on the net.
julie		"4/18: Subject climbs backyard tree...to perform elimination. When confronted with product... blames it on family dog."
hutch		Seems perfectly obvious. He's been possessed by a monkey!
herb		You're really gonna pop the question?
herb		I can't believe you. You used to hate being the center of attention. Now you're proposing, in public, at a benefit.
julie		Hello? Oh, Hutch - what?
hutch		The Nightmare Juice! It's gone! Somebody switched it for a beaker of grape Kool-Aid!!
julie		Kool-Aid!? But who'd would want to -
julie		Okay. Call the police. I'll be right over.
julie		The technical name is Oneirix. It's an enzyme. It's present in the brains of -
detective		 Yeah, yeah...Nightmare juice.
detective ii		And there's been no sign of a break-in?
hutch		Holy shit...the pants.  The janitor found a pair of torn-up pants. It was the same night the monkey tipped her cage over. Remember that, Julie?
julie		 Yeah...I remember it vividly.
death		Now, if I may ask - what kind of idiot sneaks into the Land of Death twice?
stu		You're mad at me. Great. You have every right to be. But we're both mad at Dark Town. We're both mad at Hypnos.
death		Oh, sure. Now you're gonna tell me it was all his idea. You were completely innocent -
stu		I'm not going to tell you that. I wanted that E- ticket. I wanted it so bad I'd stare you right in the face to get it - and I'd do the same again.
death		Why??
stu		I have a girl up there. And I never - I should've - I just want to tell her I love her.
death		I'm a simple man. I'm just doing my job. I enjoy
stu		Death, I'm trying to make things right. Take my soul. Turn me into a paper doll. But give me just one lousy hour.
death		Well - you'd need a body.
death		If it wasn't for that comic strip of yours, I wouldn't be doing this. But a good chuckle is darned hard to come by.  That one where Monkeybone stole the soap cake out of the urinal - I thought I would die.
stu		Coming from you, that's quite a compliment.
death		De nada. Now, come here...bend over...before I change my mind.
stu		Bend over?
surgeon		Okay...detaching the left kidney...
organ donor		What the - who the hell am I??
surgeon		You're an organ donor!
organ donor		Am I dead?!?
surgeon		The chute didn't open. We kind of assumed -
organ donor		I need this body. Just for a few minutes. I'll bring it back, okay?
doctor		 Might have someone take a look at that.
lead surgeon		I think it can still be saved. Put it on ice.
julie		Whatever he's done, I'm responsible for it.
clarissa		That's not true, Julie. It's not true.
alice		This is not about your guilt, Julie. There could be innocent people in danger.
clarissa		He's not the same guy. He's not your Stu.  I didn't want to tell you this, but the other day he pinched me on the butt.
alice		I didn't want to tell you this, but the other day he tried to mount me from behind! Look, you have to tell the police.
julie		Tell them what? I don't know anything concrete. All I have is a feeling.
clarissa		Oh my God, we've got a flasher.
julie		That...that's Herb!
herb		CLOTHES! Beware of clothes. They're working together. All of them. Shirts...pants... ENSEMBLES...!
surgeon		IT'S HIM! HE'S GETTING OFF!
surgeon		Did you see a corpse running this way?
julie		It looks so...new.
julie		But the heirloom ring. Your grandmother's ring...
julie		He called me "Doc."
guest		HEY MONKEYBONE!!
julie		Please. Where did you take that man...?
julie		Who are you? Why did you say those things?
julie		BUSTER?!?
julie		Stu...how?
julie		What's wrong?
alice		Detective, please let this man out of the van.
organizer		I don't understand, officer. This is a benefit. Surely this can wait until -
cop		Sorry, ma'am...we need to question Mr. Miley on a most urgent matter.
julie		Stop this. Now. Those dolls have been tampered with. They're toxic!
cop		Ma'am, can you give me some idea of what's going on here?
cop		HE'S GETTING AWAY!
julie		STU!!
head surgeon		LOOK! IT'S HIM!
head surgeon		Put it on ice. I think it can still be saved!
head surgeon		Put it on ice. I think it can still be saved.
head surgeon		Put him on ice. I think he can still be saved!
hypnos		Not again. THAT STINKING MONKEY!!!
cop		I think I can bring 'em down.
stu		DEATH!!
death		I dress up when I want to make an impression. - So how'd it go?
stu		Fine, thanks. Saw my girl, said goodbye, everything's gonna be okay.  I guess I'm yours now.
monkeybone		Death, I'd like to point out that none of this was my fault. The roots of this tragedy go back to a callous, uncaring society that -
stu		Hey. Where's Monkeybone?
death		Back in your head, where he belongs.  No offense, Stu, but on your own you're kinda vanilla. I didn't want to send you back without him.
stu		Back? You're sending me back?
death		It's irregular, but...I just love that strip of yours. I figure I'll take the "Family Circus" guy instead.
stu		Death! Thank you!
death		Thank me next time you see me.
death		Ohhhh, Hypnos??
hypnos		Death! So nice to see you. I can explain -
julie		I don't know what happened. All I know is...he was in a coma...and then he came back...and now he's gone again.
surgeon		Excuse me. We lost a corpse - we saw him heading this way...
driver		I got a couple of fresh ones in the back. Help yourself.
surgeon		I'll be. It's him all right. Still dead...
julie		Is it you? Is it really you this time?
julie		Oh, Stu. Tell me I'm not dreaming.
stu		Baby...you're asking the wrong guy.
julie		What's the matter?
stu		My tail itches.
****Dialogues from script :Monte_Carlo.txt****

third draft		November 4, 2007
alice		"By tomorrow, we will have flown to France." She turns to face her TENTH GRADE FRENCH CLASS. Though Alice's make up, earrings and practical flats are simple, there is an inherent elegance to their combination that hints at a more complex, if uncharted, interior.
paul		"I will have completed the assigned translation by the end of vacation."
alice		C'est bon! Amber?
amber		I will have failed French again by the end of the year. Alice pauses, regarding Amber with a pained sympathy.
alice		En francais si'l vows plait?
emma		So, the definition of the derivative of the function "f" at point "x" is..?
kyle		Um... I guess I'm a little lost. If optimists see a glass as half full, Emma's is in a constant state of cheerful, blonde overflow, even when a level of wilfulness is required.
emma		Try to follow along. I really want you guys to get this! David? DAVID gazes back dumbly, stuck in an erotic fog.
meg		Do me a favor, and let's just try to get to vacation. The class bell RINGS!
richard		Got practice until five thirty, then I'll be by.
alice		I'll see you then. Thanks. They kiss again and Richard takes off for the athletic fields, passing Meg as she comes from the school, waves.
richard		Hey, Meg! Bon voyage! Alice offers a binder to Meg as she arrives at Alice's car.
alice		I finished our travel binders! Meg takes the binder, looks it over.
meg		Remind me again why we're taking phonebooks to France? Alice gives her a look.
alice		Where's Emma? She knows we're meeting, right?
meg		Forgot her purse. 
alice		Oh, that's right. I keep forgetting your life is completely over. So sad. I'm really going to miss you.
meg		Funny.
emma		Well, that was a close call! They turn to see Emma. crossing the parking lot holding a quality knock-off designer handbag over her head.
meg		Look at her. The only teacher in Racine County that wears four inch heels in six feet of snow.
meg		Where'd you find it?
emma		Second floor girl's bathroom. Right where I left it. This
alice		Emma, we're a team.
emma		I'd just be sitting around the condo, trolling e-Harmony...
meg		The fact that you have trouble finding a date--
emma		I'm telling you, it's this town!
meg		Gives me less than no hope.
emma		You know what we should do, Meg? When we're over there? we should all treat ourselves. Find a real salon. Total spa treatment. And I'm gonna get my hair done. Just like this! She holds up a European tabloid she's pulled from her purse,
alice		Look at us. Meg and Emma turn to Alice, smiling.
alice		Come on... Please... please...
finn		She wants to see Paris, too!
meg		Finn, if Edith goes to Paris with me, she can't go to Daddy's with you. Finn's brows come together as she considers this, then reaches for the dog.
finn		Daddy!
glenn		Seam, why don't you take your sister to the car while your mom and I talk.
finn		Can we get on the radio?
meg glenn		No. No. Meg watches her kids run to the squad car parked at the curb, just as KARYN  emerges on the passenger side to meet them.
glenn		And no lights!
karyn		Hey, Meg! Meg lifts her chin in greeting, but that's it.
glenn		I uh... I heard from my lawyer. She said you'd signed your papers. Meg watches her kids climb in the car with Karyn.
meg		You and me?  Or...
glenn		You and me, Meg. A beat as they look at one another, hold.
seamus		Mom! Seamus reappears, charging up the walk to pull Meg down to his level, hugging her.
emma		Hello. You've reached the home of Emma Lindgard. I'm afraid I won't be able to return your call right away, as I'm currently traveling. In Europe. But, please, do leave a message.
tv announcer		". .She was known as 'The People's Princess'... Emma turns at the counter to see Princes Diana touring an African encampment with children on the television.
emma		Ooh! She hangs up the phone and sits herself down at the coffee table where a game of solitaire is laid next to a microwaved Lean Cuisine dinner. She turns up the volume with the remote and gathers the cards, shuffling. Eyes glued to Princess Diana on television, Emma suddenly shoots her hands three feet wide, rifling the cards in perfect vertical formation like a seasoned cardsharp.
richard		Special delivery.
alice		That's it! I am good to go!
richard		I'm proud of you, you know. Alice takes her glass and presses Richard down onto the bed, climbing on top of him.
alice		Like Christmas when I was a kid. There's no way I'm going to be able to sleep tonight--
richard		Good for me. They kiss.
alice		I mean, how long have I been talking about this?
richard		Mmm... You were reading Colette. In the teacher's lounge. First time we met. Long time. Alice pauses as this lands somewhere deep inside.
richard		Let's try it on.
alice		But, we can't even celebrate--
richard		What are you talking about? We're
alice		But, I'm leaving. I'm--. I'm getting on a plane in the morning.
alice		Let's do this when I get back. In a week.
richard		Can you hear yourself?
alice		Honey, listen, it's just the timing. I wasn't planning on this
richard		Whoa. I planned tonight. Tonight was my plan--
alice		And it's great. This is great. You're great. But, Richard, I feel like I just need to do this one thing first. Then I can do the next. Then I can do this.  Can you understand? There's a world I haven't even seen yet... Alice, hopeful, searches Richard's inscrutable expression a beat, then he turns away and gets up, ring in hand.
richard		I thought we'd be seeing it together.  Have a great trip, Alice. He heads for the door.
richard		 Maybe I'll see you in a week. Alice listens to his footfalls and the slam of the front door, then falls back on the bed, striking her head on the open suitcase, wincing.
emma		Are we there?!
customs agent		Bien venue. Alice looks up from her imprinted passport, smiles hugely.
alice		Merci .
emma		There it is! Esprit de Corps! Alice looks to where Emma points, seeing a small sky-blue flag at the end of a long staff held by MADAME VALERY  their harried tour guide in a suit of the same blue.
alice		Excuse me, are you Madame Valery?
alice		I'm traveling with my friends, Meg Kelly and Emma Lindgard--
emma		Well, that's great!
alice		We're so excited! Madame Valery eyes Alice unfolding a map from her binder.
madame valery		 Was the Arc de Triomphe.
alice		This is ridiculous...
emma		Hey, Alice! Meg! Alice and Meg turn to Emma across the aisle, who hooks a thumb at CARL and DEEDEE  beside her.
carl		Waited a long time for this! But, we finally made it!
emma		Alice, that's like you!  We're here celebrating my friend Meg's divorce!
alice		Try to remember that! We'll double back for the Chagalls!
deedee		Well, that saved us a climb.
emma		 I got it! I got it!
emma		Alice, I'll e-mail it to you. Meg looks up, catching Alice eyeing their surroundings.
meg		 At least she's smiling.
alice		 What? No. I'm--. I'm just a little tired.
meg		To jet lag. Emma and Alice raise their glasses to toast as WAITERS plunk down identical plates of steak frites before them.
emma		To Alice! They clink glasses and Alice is suddenly jostled, just as she's about to sip, by Carl as he turns from the table behind her, spilling her wine.
deedee		Oh, Carl!
deedee		He was just looking for the catsup-
carl		If you're not using it. As Emma passes the bottle of catsup, Meg offers Alice her napkin, and waiters sweep their plates away, replacing them with creme brulees.
alice		Oh! No. Wait. Pardon, Monsieur--
alice		Pardon, Madame, but... Madam Valery slowly raises her eyes from Alice's hand.
meg		Are you apologizing?
alice		They've taken our dinners away-- Madame Valery taps her watch and then her clipboard.
madame valery		There were stragglers at the. museum. Now, I am behind schedule.
emma		Toujour le suck-ez vous.
alice		I researched at least a million
meg		Well. This is the one we could afford. A beat as they consider the room and their lot in life.
emma		Five nights? Here?!
meg		And, Alice, you said yourself, we'll hardly ever be in our room.
emma		Here's your outhouse, Meg. Go nuts. Alice joins Emma at the bathroom door.
meg		Okay, Emma. Let's just unpack-- she turns for the luggage, nearly falling over at the weight of Emma's suitcase as she reaches to lift it.
alice		Emma, what have you got in here?
emma		Just the stuff you put on my list--  And a couple options. The bag slips from Meg's grasp, crashing onto the foot of the bed which collapses, catapulting Alice onto the cot which flips up over her, knocking Emma into the tiny bathroom.
madame valery		The Pont des Arts has it's name for the vast number of art students that come here to paint this famous city view... Meg and Emma, the worse for wear, trail Madame Valery at a distance with Alice who now leads her own handful of tour members, Carl and Deedee among them.
alice		It's called the Pont des Arts because the Louvre was formally known as the Palais des Arts... Madame Valery stops ahead, turning back to take in Alice and her cluster of appreciative followers.
madame valery		People! We must keep together!
deedee		"Point zero. Dez roots dee France."
alice		It's from right here that all the highway miles in all of France are measured. They also say that if you stand on this exact spot, you are be destined to return to France in the future.
meg		Oh, I'm in! Come on. Everyone! Together, they all step forward, arms entwined, laughing.
emma		I want a picture! Of all of us! Alice looks up as Emma breaks away, to see Madam Valery leading her dwindling group from the great church. Madame Valery sends her charges to the bus, then heads straight for Alice as Emma tries to enlist a JAPANESE COUPLE to take a group photo with her camera.
madame valery		My head count was short in the cathedral.
alice		I'm sorry. I was explaining about
madame valery		This flag? I do not carry it for my pleasure.
alice		We were just on our way inside--
madame valery		Well, now you may head to the bus.
alice		But, we haven't been--
madame valery		Which is why you must follow my flag!
alice		okay. We will. I promise. But, these people haven't seen the
madame valery		There are many churches on the tour.
alice		But, this is Notre Dame! They need to see this--
madame valery		I assure you, they will see everything they need to see--
madame valery		You seem quite the Paris expert, for someone who has never been.
emma		Ill bet she knows more about it than you! The Japanese wife frames the action with Emma's camera.
alice		I might not have ever been here before, but...
carl		We've waited thirty years--
meg		You tell her, Carl.
alice		You keep rushing us through, like this is some kind of race--
madame valery		Perhaps, if Madame is not satisfied with my tour she could conduct her own.
emma		What'd she say? Alice's eyes narrow in regarding Madame Valery and all fall silent a beat; a crowd anticipating fireworks. CLICK! The Japanese wife snaps a picture of the standoff, the sound of the shutter triggering Alice to action.
crowd		Whoa! Madame Valery, nonplussed, reaches out to reclaim her flag, but Alice jerks it further away, while the Japanese woman snaps picture after picture.
deedee		Carl, we're getting on the bus! Madame Valery lunges for the stick.
emma		That was fantastic!
meg		"A" plus! Alice, cheeks flushed, watches Carl waving goodbye from the
alice		Now, the real tour can begin!
meg		Let's kick this town's ass! Alice marches forward as a few drops of rain fall.
emma		I think it's starting to rain--
alice		Who cares? We're in Paris! What's a little rain?
photographer 1		Cordelia! They glance over at a few PAPARAZZI sharing the protection of the overhang on the far side of the entrance, as a camera flashes in taking Emma's picture. Emma smiles, blinks, confused as another photographer admonishes the first.
photographer 2		You're wasting your film. That's not her.
emma		What're they saying?
alice		Oh. Meg and Emma turn to gape as well at the DINERS and elegant tables inside as the rain hammers down.
emma		You think they'd let me use the bathroom?
emma		Wow.
emma		Meet you in there. Emma heads for the ladies room, gaping at the lobby.
meg		Get us a table? Alice, we can't afford to eat here--
alice		My treat.
alice		 unleashes her ire on the CONCIERGE.
cordelia		And, just how do you propose I am to travel tomorrow, then?
concierge		I am sorry, but, there is nothing-- A MANAGER enters from the back.
manager		Mademoiselle Scott, I have checked and there is no sign of a package--
cordelia		Marvelous. I'd like to see someone who speaks English, please. If there is such a person in France. The concierge and manager look to one another and back.
manager		This is not English we are speaking?
emma		These are cloth! She takes the towel into one of the stalls, closing the door behind her just as Cordelia strides in, stops at the counter.
emma		Did you see those are cloth?
meg		No, Emma, I mean, exactly like you.
emma		Well, she sounded awful. And kind of mean. Alice, Meg and Emma, punchy and a little drunk, enjoy wine from enormous glasses as they finish their meals.
alice		 She should be ashamed. Can you imagine having a room here and then not staying in it? An ANXIOUS WAITER races in, refilling Alice's glass.
meg		We should just take it. Her room.
emma		And her trip to Monte Carlo!
meg		Alice, how fast can you get a binder going on a trip like that?
meg		What's so funny about that? We got in here.
waiter		 She is a monster!
meg		Emma, you could be her!
manager		Pardon, Mademoiselle Scott? The three look up at the manager in surprise.
alice		I'm so sorry. Were we being too loud?
manager		No, no, we are all very happy to see Mademoiselle Scott smile... A WINE STEWARD hustles up to the table with an ice bucket stand and a bottle of Champagne.
emma		Our misunder--?
manager		Your dinners as well. With our compliments... The three women exchange glances as the steward begins to open the bottle and the manager bows, backing away.
emma		Excuse me, Monsieur?
manager		Oui, Mademoiselle? Emma smiles, broadly, batting her eyelashes as the steward pops the Champagne cork.
emma		Scheize. Alice sees but one the thing: The Eiffel tower illuminated on the other side of a bank of French doors.
alice		A view! There's a view. Alice races to push back the window sheers, revealing a staggering panorama of the city, the Seine, and the Eiffel tower in the pouring rain. The entire city of light is reflected in her eyes.
alice		Wait. What are you guys doing? Emma launches herself onto the enormous bed.
emma		This is the room we were supposed to have!
alice		On what planet? Come on. We were only going to take a look!
meg		So, we're looking.  And we like what we see.
alice		Meg! Meg takes the bottle and crawls up with Emma.
emma		Alice, take a break, would you? We
meg		 Alice, how many do chances do we get? For something like this? Alice considers, looks out the window at the streaming rain.
alice		Okay. But, just until it stops raining. Then we go.
meg		 Agreed. Alice climbs up and together, the three pass the bottle of Champagne as they study the ceiling's ornate plasterwork.
emma		I'm glad I got pictures!
alice		I did surprise her--
meg		Surprised me!
emma		Really loved that flag, didn't she?
alice		Poor Carl and Deedee...
emma		Do you think that if you sleep in a bed like this every night your dreams are different? Alice rolls to her side and the view of the Eiffel tower.
meg		Well... We'll never know. Seen from the bed, the light atop the Eiffel tower breaks through the dissipating clouds to swing a searching arc through the night sky...
match dissolve		The Eiffel tower gleams gold and orange in the morning sun.
emma		What time is it? Alice's eyes fly open as she snaps awake.
alice		Oh, yes. Yes...
alice		We'll be right down. Merci. She hangs up.
emma		We were only joking! We didn't mean to--!
meg		We'll tell them it was a mistake!
emma		Alice?
alice		Cordelia, your car is here.
manager		Mademoiselle Scott!
alice		Just keep moving. The three women increase their pace, but the manager catches up to them with an express envelope.
manager		Mademoiselle Scott, this came for you this morning. The package you were seeking? Emma merely blinks at the offered envelope.
meg		Take it. Just take it.
manager		I'm afraid there may still be some
emma		What?
alice		Thank you so much but I think we'll
alice		It's fine. It's fine. We'll just have him drop us off... Alice and Meg look out the back window at the manager who waves them farewell, the doorman shooing photographers.
meg		They really do think she's her... RIP! Alice and Meg spin to Emma as she spills the envelope 's contents.
emma		What? I want to know where we're going.
alice		We're going back to our hotel-- Emma holds up an itinerary with a big mischievous grin.
emma		No. We're going to Monte Carlo!
alice		No. We're not.
emma		Alice, what's "prive?" Is that like an airline?
alice		Emma, for crying out loud. Meg, you want to help me out here?
meg		Hold on... I'm reading...
emma		See? Meg wants to go. Don't you, Meg?
alice		No, Meg, doesn't. Meg looks up from the itinerary, shrugs.
meg		Trip's paid for, whether that girl takes it or not.
alice		Oh! And somehow that magically makes taking it right?
emma		What's the worst that could happen?
alice		I can think of a lot of things--
meg		You're in charge. You want to go back to that hotel, okay by me. A beat while Alice looks between Meg and Emma, trapped.
alice		Okay. We go. We take a look around. We get on a train and come right back...
emma		Now, I like that idea, because it's true! They fall silent as the steward appears with glasses of Champagne, wait for him to retreat.
alice		Go, look, come right back. It's a good plan. Alice, Meg and Emma clink glasses.
alice		Okay! What do we want to do first? Check out the palace, or the beach?
meg emma		Beach! Palace?!
emma		Well, bon jour me.
emma		Oh, I'm sorry! This is Alice Perry and Meg Kelly. Two of my dearest friends. Visiting from America!
meg		We won't keep you--
emma		Invitations for the week--?
emma		His Highness?
alice		You are very generous, and we'd love to, but, I'm afraid Cordelia has other plans this evening-- Jean-Pierre turns, charmed by Alice's perfect French, and alarmed by this news.
alice		We're very sorry--
emma		What's he saying? Which prince? Jean-Pierre looks imploringly between the three.
meg		No, I can't. I can't stand it. Emma reads to Alice and Meg from the brochure in the seating area of their luxurious suite, enjoying none of it, nor the incredible balcony view of Monte Carlo's marina and bay.
emma		"With your help The Michand Foundation is able to sow the seeds of education, transforming lives, families, and villages, one child at a time..." She didn't say anything about a school!
meg		Schools, with an "s." More than one.
meg		That horrible, irresponsible girl! I've never stolen a thing in my life, now I've taken a trip from school children.
alice		In Africa. Meg hangs her head.
emma		Reykjavik! That takes some nerve! They're counting on her for a charity auction and she doesn't even show up!
alice		Only she did. Emma reaches for a gigantic wrapped fruit basket.
emma		She did?
meg		Do not touch that!
alice		You, Emma. If you're Cordelia. They've seen you. You're here.
emma		Well, I can't go to that thing tonight.
alice		Okay. But, just for tonight. And, that's it. CLICK! Alice and Meg look to Emma, holding the now open briefcase, eyes wide.
emma		Lucky guess?
meg		Dry-cleaned.
emma		Don't you feel like we've won something already? Jean-Pierre comes to greet them with PRINCE DOMENICO DA SILVANO , both in tuxedos, offering a hand to escort Emma down the few steps.
emma		Enchante. Jean-Pierre assists Meg and Alice, Meg clutching the top of her dress, Alice anxiously keeping the skirt of hers in place with a hand as she steps down.
emma		Please, call me "Cordelia."
domenico		If you will call me "Domenico."
emma		I shall certainly try. Domenico escorts Emma out onto the casino floor as Jean- Pierre touches Alice's elbow.
meg		 I may as well be topless.
alice		Please. I'm mooning everyone behind us.
emma		Oh, but, I really wasn't planning on playing this evening. I so much prefer to watch-- Emma looks to Alice and Meg for help as Jean-Pierre leads them to the far side of a low railing to view the game.
alice		They're playing for money? 
is		They're playing for money. Together they turn to see Emma happily arranging the cards she is dealt in her hands.
domenico		Cordelia, why don't you do us the honor of setting this evening's stakes? Emma glances over to Alice and Meg who look back at her, ashen, and turns to the players who smile expectantly.
emma		Oh. Um. Okay... She takes her handbag into her lap, opens it, looks.
domenico		Marvelous! He signals an ATTENDANT over as Emma's shoulders relax.
meg		A riot. Domenico casts a glossy chip into the pot.
domenico		Mademoiselle Scott starts us at ten thousand a hand. Alice and Meg freeze, their champagne glasses sliding from their hands, while Emma's eyes grow as large as all the zeroes on Domenico's chip.
dealer		Mademoiselle Scott? It is your call.
meg		 I should probably keep this.
emma		Well... She moves her hands to the stacks and stacks of chips beside her, and pushes them to the center of the table.
alice		Great. I'm just--. Excuse me. Alice slips around the railing and heads for Emma as two players fold in near tears, leaving just Emma, Domenico and a DOWAGER  in the game.
alice		Emma! That isn't Monopoly money!
emma		Relax. I've got it under control--
alice		And this isn't the mathletes finals in Kenosha!
emma		Jean-Pierre, would you be a dear and get Alice some water?
alice		What?!
domenico		I will see you, Cordelia. Domenico pushes his own mountain of chips to the pot in the center of the table and Alice buries her face in her hands when the dowager folds her cards.
emma		 Now, go sit down and try to be cool, would you? Jeeze! Let me handle this. Alice moves back to her stool, tries to smile as she takes the water Jean-Pierre offers.
meg		What'd she say? What'd she say?
dealer		Mademoiselle. Your Highness. Your 0 cards, please.
domenico		Ladies first.
emma		After you. Please. Domenico can hardly contain his gloating as he reveals his three aces.
domenico		I am very sorry, Cordelia. A beat, then Emma shrugs.
emma		Well. It is just a game after all. She turns her cards over and fans them on the table felt: A royal flush in the suit of hearts, ace high.
dowager		You must play often, Miss Scott.
emma		Oh, a little, online. But, this is so much more fun!
domenico		Not even a last drink in the bar?
emma		It's been such a splendid evening, I am reluctant to press my luck any further.
meg		Yeah. Good call, Cordelia. DING! The elevator arrives and the doors open as Domenico leans in towards Emma.
domenico		Then you must promise to dance with me at my party tomorrow. Emma evades Domenico by stepping onto the elevator.
emma		Oh, Delmonico--
domenico		"Domenico."
emma		I would not miss it for the world.
meg		Great meeting you, your Highness. Good times. Really. Jean-Pierre places his buckets in Alice's hands, a certain frisson to the simple exchange.
emma		Wait! Before Alice can respond to Jean-Pierre, Emma takes one of the buckets from Alice and hands it back to him.
domenico		And, welcome to Monte Carlo. The doors close, leaving Jean-Pierre and Domenico to gaze fondly where the three women had just been. They both sigh and turn for the bar, when they hear shrieking from the elevator as it rises above them.
shop girl		Would you like these put on your account, Mademoiselle Scott?
alice		No. Thank you, we'll be paying
emma		But, it would be darling if you could have them sent round our hotel.
meg		Wait. You know what, on second thought, I'm not getting these-- She pulls the pair of jeans from her pile of clothes.
emma		But, they looked amazing on you!
meg		Where was I ever going to wear them? Seriously?
emma		You wear them here! Anywhere! Alice, you tell her-- Alice opens her mouth, but stops herself as the three wander the crowded market stalls heaped with fountains of flowers in every color, breads, fresh produce, trinkets and souvenirs.
alice		No. I'm not going to tell you what to do.
meg		Thank you. It's silly, anyway. They're just jeans. I want to find something for the kids--
emma		Oh, Meg! Look! For Finn!
alice		Even better! Alice holds up a pair of pink satin toe shoes, swinging them from their ribbon laces.
glenn		Hey, Richard! Richard glances up to see Glenn crossing the parking lot with Seamus and Finn, pushing a cart piled high with groceries.
richard		And that's two with sausage, extra sauce, no onions--
seamus		Thin crust.
richard		Got it. Richard picks up Alice's suitcase.
finn		Are you going to France, too?
richard		No. I just-- Glenn turns, noticing the suitcase for the first time.
glenn		Whoa! Hold on! You're going to surprise Alice--?
finn		I love surprises!
richard		What? No, I---
glenn		Oh, man, I win! Richard blinks as Glenn claps him on the shoulder.
richard		Glenn, listen--
glenn		Don't worry! I won't blow it for you! I won't call anyone, ruin the
glenn		Sure! That's why Alice loves you. You get how much this trip's meant to her; now, you're just putting the icing on the cake. The big gesture, you know? Not too dominating: Supportive. Loving!  You're the man, Richard. Big props. Glenn pulls Richard into a big happy bear hug.
richard		Glenn. She said, no.
meg		Oh, no. No. I'm sorry. I'd like to. But... The woman is confused, vaguely insulted.
bernard		She is only a visitor. Without a kitchen. But, it is a beautiful fish. Maybe next time. Meg turns to find Bernard beside her.
meg		Well, thank you... She smiles at the woman and starts to walk away, only to find
bernard		You are American. Meg glances at Bernard and away, uncomfortable, but curious, drawn by his warmth and the familiar greetings he exchanges with various vendors as they walk.
meg		From Wisconsin. Yes. Bernard reaches a handkerchief from his jacket for Meg.
bernard		You cook in Wisconsin? Meg uses the handkerchief to blot the remaining tomato juice.
meg		I try. But... We don't have even half of this at home. She points to a tray of miniature lobsters.
bernard		Ah, langoustines. Many ways to
meg		I'd go for a saute, being a Midwestern gal.
bernard		Court-bouillon.
bernard		With sea water. Amazing.
meg		So, you cook. Bernard dips his head modestly.
bernard		As you say, "I try."  Bernard. Rochand. Meg shakes his hand and returns the handkerchief.
meg		Meg. Kelly. Thank you again for
bernard		And, how long are you in Monte Carlo, Meg? Meg's brow furrows slightly and she turns to head back.
meg		I need to find my--. . My friends are around here somewhere...
bernard		I will help you find them. We can
bernard		"Bernard."
meg		Yeah. But, I'm gonna walk myself. Thanks, though. She slips into the moving crowd, leaving Bernard to watch as she meets Alice and Emma further up the street. He holds a beat, then turns when called to by a vendor.
richard		It's been two days and it didn't occur to you to call anyone?
madame valery		She refused to follow my instructions. She sabotaged my tour. Ruined it for everyone!
richard		Wait. Alice did? Alice Perry?
madame valery		She took my flag!
richard		But, if their luggage is still there, then they're missing--
glenn		Missing? What the--?
glenn		Hey, I'm the police!
richard		Are you the police in France?
madame valery		The police? Monsieur. Nothing could keep her from seeing Paris her way. Believe me. She was very determined.
glenn		What's she saying?
madame valery		You are the husband, yes? Richard hesitates, looks to Glenn.
meg		Alice, she's fine...
alice		Actually, sometimes Richard and I go to Madison's on Saturdays--
meg		 The gay bar?
alice		 They've got the best music.
meg		I am so butting in on that. Alice laughs and spins, crashing directly into Jean-Pierre.
emma		Ooh! Thank you! I'm so thirsty! Nikolai remains planted, holding his tray with a smile, watching with bright eyes as Emma drinks. She lowers her glass and her full attention snags on Nikolai, really registering his presence now as she searches his warm, gentle eyes.
meg		No, thanks. She moves off only to be met by GIORGIO  who smoothly steps in.
emma		Don't you need to, like, circulate?
nikolai		Ya znal, chto naydu tebya. Emma blushes as though showered in compliments.
emma		Really?
emma		Yes?
penelope		Do you not know who I am? Emma's smile falters as she glances furtively about.
emma		Um. 'Course I do... Hi.
penelope		Penelope. Penelope Penrose. Penelope's chin quivers as she reads Emma's blank look.
emma		Hospital? What happened?!
penelope		You did! You happened! Alice swivels around at the raised voices, spots Penelope facing Emma.
penelope		Don't pretend you don't remember! Third year at Le Rosey! You threw my luggage in the pool. Set fire to my mattress. You cut off all my
meg		What? That's awful!
penelope		While I was sleeping
emma		She did that to you?
alice		Say you're sorry, Cordelia.
emma		Alice, no--. Wait a minute--
penelope		 she turned all my friends against me... They had to send me away... To live with the nuns-- Emma grabs Penelope by the shoulders.
emma		Now, you listen to me, Penelope Penrose. You have no idea how long I've waited for this moment. Penelope flinches, preparing for a beating.
emma		You were so smart. So clever and
penelope		I was ugly--
emma		No, Penny. I was ugly. I was a monster.
penelope		Penny Pignose. That's what you called me--
emma		Because, I knew I could never compete! Not with anyone as special as you.
penelope		You thought I was special? Emma looks at Penelope, nods emphatically.
emma		You want to know what I've waited for all these years, Penelope Penrose? Penelope shakes her head almost imperceptibly.
domenico		 To friends! old and new! Emma seizes Penelope's hand from across the table, placing it in Domenico's as she drunkenly sings the old Girl Scout song.
emma		"Make new friends and keep the old, one is silver and the other's gold!" Alice and Jean-Pierre lean toward each other intimately' across the packed, lively table of PARTY-GOERS.
alice		People like me?
alice		And that works? Jean-Pierre blinks, then bursts out laughing.
alice		No. I'm sorry, I didn't mean--. I've seen the pictures of the schools. The work you do is
meg		Okay, wait. You're a man, right?
giorgio		You heart feels betrayed.
meg		 I feel like I failed.
giorgio		I tell you this: A man...he will always love the mother of his children. Meg blinks, taking this in.
giorgio		To break the spell. You must! Then you will be free. A plate of beautifully arranged langoustine is placed on the table in front of Meg.
bernard		 Madame Kelly. He heads toward for the kitchen before she can say anything. Emma pours sloppy glasses of Champagne for her companions as though playing a game of tag, spilling wine.
emma		And you're my friend...and you're my friend. . .and you're my-- She turns with the bottle to find Nikolai who has materialized beside her on the long banquette.
nikolai		Ti takaya vaskhititel'naya. Emma sets the bottle down to concentrate on Nikolai.
emma		You're not from here, are you?
nikolai		 Nikolai.
alice		The stars are still out. Ahead, Emma breaks away from Penelope and Domenico, leaving the two to walk on together as she comes back toward Alice.
alice		I thought she was right behind us--
bernard		Papa, sit down. Rest.
bernard		You enjoyed your meal?
meg		Adding the fresh orange; nice. Bernards nods, accepting the compliment.
bernard		Next time, you cook.
emma		Meg! What are you doing? Come on! We're going to watch--
alice		We were--. We're going to watch the sunrise. Meg hesitates, turning between her friends and Bernard.
alice		The guy from the market?
emma		He is so cute! And a cook--!
emma		And you're single now! Meg slows to a stop, stands a beat.
alice		You know, Julia Child didn't take her first cooking class until she was thirty seven.
penelope		It's coming, Cordelia! The sun!
meg		We'd be getting up now.
alice		If we were home.
emma		But, we're not.
photographer		Cordelia! The spell is broken by a TRIO OF PAPARAZZI who spring to life by the hotel's entrance.
paparazzi		Cordelia! Cordelia!
emma		Oh, good! I want a picture! Of the three of us! All of us! The paparazzi swarm from the steps towards Emma.
richard		Excuse me. Pardon me. Richard skirts around a man with a newspaper to retrieve the bag and heads for customs. As Richard exits, the man folds his newspaper to its bold headline: SCOTT MAKES A SPLASH!, and a huge photograph of Emma, Alice and Meg laughing together in the fountain.
emma		Alice, have you seen my sandals?
alice		Okay, there's a two o'clock and a four o'clock train to--
emma		Train? Where are you going? Alice looks up and takes in Emma's costume.
alice		Where are you going?
emma		I'm going to the beach. With Penelope. Meg enters through the suite's door carrying a bakery bag.
meg		Breakfast is here! There's this fantastic bakery around the corner. I've already had three brioche. And I saw the greatest little shop for the kids, but they weren't open
emma		I don't know. She's talking about train schedules... Emma trails off as she and Meg and Alice look between each
alice		We need to start packing, right? If we're going back to Paris--
emma		Back to Paris?
alice		That was the plan--
meg		What plan?
emma		We're not staying for the auction?
alice		We were just going to come down, take a look around and--
meg		That was before we knew it was for a charity. Remember the kids?
alice		The ones we stole a trip from? The kids who are paying for this room?
meg		Alice, what's with you? We'll pay for the room--
emma		We're rich!
alice		So, I'm the only one worried about the fact that we're lying to everyone we've met?
meg		Lying? To who? Jean-Pierre?
emma		You're the one who said we had to go to the casino--
alice		And now I'm apparently the only who's worried we might get caught.
meg		She's in Iceland.
alice		One of her friends is bound to find out, or her family--
meg		What friends?
emma		I've got friends. The doorbell rings and they turn their heads in unison, then look to each other with sudden alarm. A beat. Emma goes to the door, finding Penelope, also dressed for the beach, who holds up the newspaper with it's fountain photo.
penelope		Have you seen?
emma		Oh, my god! We look great!  Alice, look! Alice takes the paper, Meg reading over her shoulder.
penelope		Yearbook?
alice		Penelope, could you excuse us?
penelope		Oh. of course. Where--? Alice shows Penelope to the bedroom, closes the door and spins to face Emma and Meg.
emma		Doesn't it mean we have to stay?
meg		Oh, this is so typical. Just because it's not on your map, 'cause you didn't plan it--. We all agree to take this adventure and then you won't jump.
alice		I won't--? Jump? Meg drops into a chair, mumbling an aside to herself.
meg		Now I know how Richard must feel. Alice comes to a full stop and gapes at Meg, stung.
alice		Well, you're sure one to talk. Meg's eyes flick up to Alice.
emma		Okay, you know what? Let's just pack. It's not fun anymore. Alice, if you think we should go, then that's what we're gonna do. You're in charge. Meg scoffs, an exasperated exhale.
emma		What does that mean? Alice snatches up her purse and heads for the door.
alice		It means everyone should do exactly what they want.
meg		Exactly.
emma		Alice, wait! Where are you--? You're not going back to Paris--?
meg		 Don't look at me like that. The door opens, and Alice re-enters, striding across the room for the desk, not looking at either Emma or Meg.
alice		I just--. My guide book. She picks up her book and crosses back to the door.
carl		Alice? She glances up to find Carl and Deedee from the tour.
deedee		We thought that was you!
alice		Oh! Carl! Deedee! Alice is surprisingly overcome and impulsively throws her arms around both of them.
deedee		Well, we're sure surprised to see you, too!
carl		Well, when we saw how you stood up to that Madame Valery--! If Alice can do that, we thought, what the heck's holdin' us back? This is our honeymoon!
deedee		I was scared, but then, well, you only live once! And as long as we've got each other--
carl		We've got everything, right? Alice blinks, unaccountably teary eyed.
alice		Yes. That's right.
carl		Sometimes you've just gotta follow
carl		Tell the girls we would have loved to see them, but--
deedee		Italy calls! And Greece! We're even thinking of hitting Turkey! Imagine! We'll send you postcards.
alice		Enjoy every second of it!
deedee		You, too, honey!
carl		Bon voyage! The car pulls away, Carl and Deedee turning in their seats to wave at Alice through the rear window. Alice waves until they are out of sight and slowly lowers her hand, standing alone in the street. A beat. Alice sighs and pulls out her guide book, unfolding a map as she looks up to gather her bearings. She takes in the quiet street, the view of the ocean, then looks back at the map in her hands.
alice		is Go. Go home.
emile		Madame?
meg		Just one. He leads her to a table along the wall and holds out a chair. Seated, Meg follows him with her eyes to the kitchen where Bernard works furiously at the stove, tossing the contents of a sauce pan with an expert flick of his wrist. Bernard glances out to the dining room, seeming to sense Meg before knowing he'll find her there.
giorgio		Where is Meg? I do not see her.
emma		No. I... I don't think she's 0 coming. I'm sorry.
photographer		Cordelia! There she is! Cordelia! The trio of paparazzi putter alongside in a small boat, peppering the yacht with their camera flashes. Emma looks out at them, without her usual animation.
nikolai		Ty v poryadke? Emma turns to find Nikolai standing beside her in white tie, a piece of cake extended in one hand, a fork in the other. Emma's eyes light up as if a switch has been thrown and the flash of a camera records her huge, dazzling smile.
emma		Niki. He bows slightly, offering the cake.
nikolai		Ya sa-meey shas-li-veey che-lo-vek na zem-le, pa-ta-mu chto u me-nya yest' tee. Emma hangs on every incomprehensible word.
emma		Oh, Niki... I'm so glad you found me.
meg		Seamus. He's ten. Built a website for his fourth grade class. Now he's got actual clients. And that's Finn, the prima ballerina. She'll be six in June-- Emile examines photographs of Seamus and Charlotte from Meg's wallet while she refills their glasses at the kitchen table and Bernard works at the stove.
emile		Elle est coquin, oui?
meg		Oh, she's no chicken. She's not scared of anything--
alice		I'm open! I'm open! Alice sails down the makeshift soccer field as one of the kids passes the ball to her, chased by the others. She dodges and kicks the ball through the goal to score. Her "team" jumps and cheers, as do a collection of spectators who have gathered to watch this tall red headed woman in a summer dress racing around the dusty lot with a band of kids.  ALICE  Go! Go!
bernard		But, she is perfectly safe.
meg		Yeah. No. No way. Bernard straddles a beat up moped, motor running, as Meg shakes her head emphatically.
bernard		I can not take you, if you will not get on.
meg		What do you want me to tell you? I'm not getting on that thing. Bernard fixes her with a level look, which Meg mimics.
meg		Hold on.
meg		How do you say "faster?"
bernard		The best chefs of Monte Carlo. They come here to drink and show off. The end of every night. HENRI  lumbers towards them.
henri		No! No! No! We are only cooks allowed here!
bernard		Ah, but, this is why we've come! I have finally found someone who can teach you how to cook!
henri		 A chef from America! Come to flip hamburgers!
alice		I'm up! I'm up! Let's go! She sets off down the field with the kids.
emma		It doesn't seem fair. Leaving you to clean up all alone.
nikolai		Ya ryadom.
emma		It must get kind of lonely sometimes... Not being understood.
alice		That seems a shame...
alice		What?
alice		Before this, I'd never even been to France. Jean-Pierre blinks and Alice laughs, as much at herself.
alice		But, thank you. She turns and opens the door with her key as Jean-Pierre smiles ruefully.
richard		Excusez-moi...I'm looking for the train. To Monte Carlo. Behind him, Cordelia strides through a set of doors to stop directly at Richard's back as she searches the terminal and hisses into her cellphone.
cordelia		Yes, Daddy, I'm here. No, I do not see a driver. Yes, I am looking! The attendant points over Richard's shoulder to an exit. Richard begins to turn in Cordelia's direction, but the attendant corrects him, pointing the other way.
richard		Merci. He picks up Alice's suitcase and heads off just as a UNIFORMED DRIVER approaches Cordelia.
driver		Mademoiselle Scott?
cordelia		Where have you been? The driver leads her away, neither she nor Richard having taken note of the nearby newsstand and its display of today's front page: Emma on the yacht wearing Cordelia's necklace.
meg		Thank your father for me?
bernard		I will, Meg.
meg		Thank you. Meg hugs him briefly, awkwardly, then turns for the steps.
bernard		Goodbye, Meg. Meg stops, holds a beat with her back to Bernard. Then she turns and marches to him with purpose, seizing his face in both her hands and kisses him passionately. She releases Bernard, who staggers against the moped, catching himself just before going over, as she turns again for the steps, an enormous smile on her face.
alice		 Well, I wish you were there. Or here. I wish you were here, Richard. I do... Because I keep thinking, no matter what I see, I'm only seeing half of it. Because we're not seeing it together... Meg lets herself in the front door and heads for the bedroom, stopping when she overhears Alice on the phone.
alice		Oh. Hey--  Hey! You bought the jeans! They look great--!
meg		 Alice, I am so sorry! For what I said. About you. And Richard. I didn't mean any of it! I love you. I don't know how I would've gotten through the past six months if it weren't for you--
alice		No. It's okay. You were right--  Oh, Meg! I made a huge mistake!
meg		Wha--?
alice		Richard asked me to marry him--
meg		Wait. What? When?
alice		I told him we should wait a week!
meg		No. You didn't--
alice		I did! He surprised me!
meg		Alice...
alice		I'd imagined him asking me a million times, but then when he did, I just panicked. suddenly all I could think about was the trip.
meg		But, Alice. You were going. We were on our way.
alice		I thought he was asking me to make a choice. But, he wasn't. He wasn't doing that at all. It was me. Because I couldn't believe he loved me just for who I was. France or no.
meg		Honey, Richard knows you... It might feel like it's over. But,
emma		 But, what does it matter, really? When I already have everything I'll ever need... Alice exchanges a look with Meg as Emma swans across the suite to tear open on the fruit basket, pluck out an apple, and drape herself across a chaise.
meg		I'm trying to follow you--
emma		I'm in love! I am! Oh, you guys, I'm in love with Niki... Nikolai... Nikolai. And, I don't care if he is just a busboy. Or waiter. Whatever he is... Alice unfolds the paper, taking in the image of Emma wearing Cordelia's necklace.
alice		I thought we said no jewelry--
emma		No--? What jewelry?
meg		What? Alice holds up the newspaper.
emma		Ooh, that's a good one!
alice		The necklace, Emma! Emma's face clouds as she distractedly reaches a hand to her bare collar bone, then flicks her eyes up to Alice.
emma		The yacht! There! I left it on--!
meg		Are you kidding me?!
emma		Oh, hey. What's she doing here?
desk clerk		Mademoiselle Scott! Cordelia looks at him with typical, withering disdain.
cordelia		The driver was late. The clerk's smile falters, fades.
cordelia		Beijing? Oh, I want to come! Will you wait for me?
cordelia		I can be there in, say, a day--
cordelia		Yes? He nods, not quite with his hand out, but waiting.
meg		They're locked!
alice		Emma, help.
alice		You're first. There's a door on
emma		The roof?!
meg		Why'd they have to park so far out, anyway?!
alice		One point five million Euros, Emma!
meg		What am I going to tell my kids?! How am I'm going to explain to Glenn that we're in a French jail?
alice		For the auction, Emma!
meg		My kids'll be in college when we get out! They won't even know me.
emma		None of us knew that, Alice--
meg		Trespassing. Burglary. Oh, god. Grand larceny, by trick and
alice		For the children--!
emma		In Africa. I know!
meg		I'm standing in a stolen boat!
emma		Well, sit down then! Nikolai's wake hits the dinghy, rocking them hard.
emma		It was right here!
meg		Oh, I can't believe this... Meg doubles over, hands on her knees as Emma stands over the empty spot on the landing.
alice		Are you even sure you took it off?
emma		Definite "yes."
alice		Well... Were you this close to the edge? I mean, it could've fallen--
meg		Do not even say it!
emma		0 You know, I'm getting a little tired of this. Just because I
alice		Emma, we're not talking about a pair of sunglasses!
meg		We don't have time for this! Let's just split up! Alice you go fore, Emma take the aft, and I'll check the cabin. Emma glares at Alice with steely, narrowed eyes.
emma		Alright. Fine.
clerk		Yes?
clerk		Excusez moi, monsieur?
meg		Nice boat. No necklace.
alice		Where is he, anyway?
emma		He just works here. I don't--  You don't think he could have taken it, do you?
meg		Who knows?! I mean, is there anyone who understands a word he says?!
alice		Emma, it's your fault because you wore it in the first place!
emma		He works like fifteen jobs already! You don't know what it's like being around rich people all the time--
meg		Actually, we do.
cordelia		 
alice		Well, we're just going to have to talk to her.
meg		Oh, yeah, that was the first thing that struck me about her. How reasonable she seemed--
emma		 Yeah, we'll just explain.
meg		We should have sailed that yacht right back to Wisconsin--
meg		You think she'd fit in one of those trunks of hers--?
alice		Meg?
meg		Just thinking out loud.
emma		You never know. She might understand.
richard		I need to find this woman-- The clerk puts up a finger as he lifts the receiver.
clerk		Une moment, Monsieur. Pardon. Behind Richard, Nikolai crosses from the bank of house phones for the elevator, stopping to pluck a flower from the lobby's arrangement.
cordelia		 Send security! Immediately! This is Cordelia Winthrop Scott. I've been robbed!
clerk		Pardon.
richard		Alice?
meg alice		Richard! Richard--?
emma		Wow! Richard! Richard drops down to help Alice as she struggles up, dizzily finding her feet to stand.
richard		Honey, are you alright--?
alice		You got my message.
richard		I had no idea where you were. I looked all over Paris, but, I
alice		You went all the way to Paris?
richard		A week's an awfully long time.
meg		Longer in France.
clerk		Excusez moi, Mademoiselle Scott?
emma		Hey, Francois! How are you--?
alice		No!  A misunderstanding. We're fine. She's fine.
emma		Super fine.
alice		Richard, we've got to--  I can't believe you're here--!
emma		 It'll just take a minute! We'll have her right back!
meg		Don't worry about a thing!
richard		 Like this?
emma		Boy! Does he love you.
nikolai		Lechu k tebe na krylyah lyubvi.
cordelia		Security? They look at each other in confusion, Nikolai's smile fading, Cordelia with mounting alarm. She slams the door in his face. At the end of the hall, the elevator doors open for Alice,
emma		Niki!
alice		The necklace!
meg		Don't touch that bell! They race down the hall towards Nikolai, who gapes, perplexed by the sight of Emma.
emma		Oh, Niki! I knew it! I knew it! I believed in you the whole time!
cordelia		Yes! Police! This is Cordelia Winthrop Scott.
emma		Wait for me in the lobby, sweetie. Down in half a second--
nikolai		Ya tebya lyublyu.
emma		I know. Me, too. The doors close and Emma sprints back down the hall to Alice and Meg at the door.
cordelia		Yes? Who is it?
meg		 Security, Madame.
cordelia		Finally--! She opens the door. A beat where Cordelia focuses on Alice and Meg first, possibly remembering them, then she registers Emma. She blinks, completely nonplussed.
alice		We can explain.
clerk		Pardon? Is there a problem--?
police captain		We received a report of an attempted murder in the Grimaldi Suite. Cordelia Scott-- Richard, sitting nearby, looks up at the mention of Cordelia's name, at the same time that Nikolai takes a seat at the far end of the same sofa.
clerk		No. No. It is robbery. But, Mademoiselle Scott said it wasn't. Jean-Pierre, checking lists at the ballroom's entrance, notes the commotion and Cordelia's name, joins the group.
clerk		No. She said, not.
police captain		She said someone was trying to kill her! We are going up! Richard seems to debate getting involved as the police, the clerk and Jean-Pierre head for the elevators. Looking over, he notices Nikolai, who smiles and nods.
cordelia		You can save your "sorrys" for the
emma		The police--?
cordelia		You robbed me!
alice		But, the necklace is right here--!
cordelia		You stole from me--!
meg		We haven't taken anything--
emma		And, we dry-cleaned the dresses-- Meg and Alice wince, look daggers at Emma.
emma		Well... For the children.
cordelia		Wha--? What children?
meg		In Africa.
cordelia		Well, there will certainly be no
emma		But, that's not fair! It's not the
alice		Look, you weren't here. Everyone thought she was you--
alice		They all did. Cordelia looks at Alice a beat as this lands with her.
meg		 Every one of them.
cordelia		But, look at you! Emma takes a step towards her doppelganger, facing off.
emma		Well, look at you!
emma		You mean miserable? Cordelia blinks.
emma		Bitch! Cordelia slaps Emma across the face. Alice and Meg gasp and they all stand a beat in shock.
alice		You apologize to her right now!
cordelia		Apologize--?!
alice		You know, I feel sorry for you--
meg		I don't.
alice		Because no matter where you go, no matter where you jet to in this world, you are still going to be you.  And, let me tell you; she is who you want to be! The all freeze when a BANGING erupts at the door.
emma		 The police?
police captain		Mademoiselle? Open this door!
emma		Oh, no! This is going to be so embarrassing. Please tell me you didn't run all the way over here just for me.
police captain		You said there was someone trying to kill you--
clerk		It was a robbery, but, no.
alice		A terrible misunderstanding. You see, she couldn't find her necklace.
emma		Yes, but, Jean-Pierre, would you be a dear and help me? I can't seem to manage the clasp. Jean-Pierre senses something amiss, but steps to assist Emma.
police captain		We heard a scream--
alice		When she found it--
alice		She was so happy--
emma		Relieved! I screamed with delight.
police captain		And there is no one that wants to
police captain		You said on the phone--
alice		She said she would die. If she didn't find it--
emma		The necklace!
alice		Yes! Alice turns her brightest smile to the captain.
police captain		And this is the necklace? For the auction?
emma		Extremely! Think of all the schools we'll build!  Do you like it?
police captain		 Allow me to escort you, Mademoiselle. As a precaution. Emma, spots one officer poking his way toward the bedroom.
emma		 Oh, but, yes! Would you? What an entrance I'll make! So dramatic!
alice		Let me just grab my purse.
alice		You okay in here? Meg sits on top of Cordelia who is tied to a chair with a scarf, the fruit-basket apple jammed in her mouth.
meg		We're great. But, now you can add
nikolai		Moy angelochek? Richard jumps up when he sees Jean-Pierre escorting an anxious Alice from the rear of the battalion.
richard		Alice? Alice winces as she sees Richard approaching, at the same time Nikolai rushes to Emma.
emma		Niki, I'm sorry. It's just going to another minute.
nikolai		Ya sdelayu vsyo, chto smogoo--
emma		Perfect! That sounds good. Emma is led to the ballroom by the captain as Richard meets Alice and Jean-Pierre in the center of the lobby.
alice		 Richard, this is Jean-Pierre, Jean- Pierre this is Richard, my fiance--
alice		Yes! He came all this way! Richard tightens his grip on Jean-Pierre's hand.
alice		I told you, that's Jean-Pierre!
richard		Is there something I need to know? Alice looks at Richard, reading his face, and smiles.
alice		No. There's isn't. She leads Richard through the ballroom entrance only to be stopped by an ATTENDANT.
attendant		Pardon, Monsieur, invitation--?
alice		He's with me! As Alice pulls Richard through to the ballroom, Nikolai steps to the reception table behind them, producing an elaborate invitation from inside his jacket.
attendant		Oh! Monsieur Ludovic! Welcome! As Nikolai is ushered into the auction with great fanfare, the lobby's revolving doors turn and Bernard enters, carrying Meg's bottle of wine.
cordelia		You will never get away with this.
meg		Believe me, nothing would make me happier than having a little talk with your father-- Both their heads swing toward the door when the bell RINGS! Meg jumps to Cordelia, stuffing the apple in her mouth just as she opens it to scream.
meg		Bernard...? He holds out the bottle of wine.
bernard		We forgot your prize.
meg		Oh, I... She glances back into the room behind her, carefully obscuring Bernard's view through the half open door.
bernard		I have come at a bad time?
meg		No. No, Bernard, that's not it.
meg		I'd invite you in, but--
bernard		I think--. You are busy. I think now I go-- Meg reaches out to stay him with a hand on his arm.
meg		No. Bernard, wait-- CLICK! Meg and Bernard both turn their heads to look down the corridor when Cordelia sticks her head out the bedroom door into the hall. A beat as Cordelia and Meg lock eyes. DING! The elevator doors open at the end of the hall, closer to Cordelia. She looks back at Meg for an instant then bolts as Meg leaps past Bernard into the hall.
domenico		The bid is three hundred thousand! Alice stands just off to the side on the floor below, between Richard and Jean-Pierre, with Penelope.
richard		so, they all think she's this Cordelia Scott because...
alice		It's for a school, Richard--
richard		In Africa.
domenico		Five hundred thousand!
alice		Oh,no...
domenico		Five hundred, five hundred fifty thousand!
bernard		But, Meg! Why do we run? Meg stops on a landing, turns.
meg		Bernard, you should stop. You really don't need this. I may be going away for a long time--
bernard		To America?
meg		Something like that. Look, this is where we should say "au revoir." Bernard smiles and pulls Meg to him, kisses her.
bernard		But, I must see how this ends! 0 He grabs her hand and they plunge down the stairs together.
nikolai		Eight hundred! The crowd applauds happily.
emma		Niki. What are you doing?
nikolai		Vsyo, chto ya de-la-yu, lish dlya.
emma		Well, don't. Just stop, okay?
alice		He means no harm--
alice		Yes?
domenico		The bid stands at eight hundred
emma		No! No. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm terribly sorry, but, there's..
alice		Emma! Jean-Pierre reacts to Alice's "Emma!" as she breaks away.
richard		Alice--! She climbs the stage to Emma before the baffled audience.
emma		Alice, he doesn't understand. It's like a foreign language to him--
alice		Actually, it's not. Let him bid.
emma		But, he'll get in trouble--
nikolai		One million!
emma		Nikolai! You cannot bid against yourself!
domenico		One million Euros!
emma		No! Stop! Stop! I'm sorry. I can't... I cannot allow this sweet, wonderful man to buy this necklace, because...  It is not mine to sell.
cordelia		No. It is mine..
meg		Oh, shhhh--
emma		Merde. Richard, Jean-Pierre, Penelope, and Domenico all swing between the two "Cordelias," as Meg makes her way forward with Bernard.
cordelia		Arrest those women! They are imposters! A wave of comment sweeps the confused crowd.
penelope		Wait! Penelope steps up onto the platform, shielding Emma and Alice as the police come forward and Meg climbs up.
cordelia		Penelope Pignose?!
penelope		And, you were never anyone's friend. Alice takes in the escalating situation, steps bravely forward to the front of the stage.
alice		It's true! A ripple of exclamation sweeps the dumbfounded crowd.
corbel ia		 There! You see?
alice		We'd never been anywhere. And we took a trip, that didn't belong to us... Because, well, because you thought we were... important. And that she was Cordelia... Richard smiles at Alice, supporting her with his gaze.
alice		We're very sorry. And, we're willing to face the consequences, whatever they are... But... She turns to Meg and Emma as a smile blossoms.
meg		And it was an excellent one.
alice		We wouldn't change a minute of it.
emma		Not for anything in the world. Richard takes the pulse of the frighteningly still crowd, the, hesitating police, the charged air in the room.
richard		one million five hundred thousand! The crowd gasps and Alice gapes at Richard.
penelope		One million six hundred thousand!
emma		Penny, you don't have to...
penelope		Friends. Right?
domenico		Excellent! We have a bid for one million six hundred thousand! Cordelia whirls to the police captain amidst applause.
cordelia		Why are you just standing there?! Arrest them!
police captain		Arrest them? For what? They seem very nice.
domenico		One million six hundred thousand! Do I have another bid?
cordelia		They confessed! They're imposters! They stole my necklace!
police captain		That necklace? But, it is here, no?
cordelia		They kidnapped me!
police captain		And yet you are here. I see no problem. Everyone is very happy--
cordelia		Excuse me, but, I'm not happy!
police captain		Ah, but, this...
nikolai		Three million! The crowd erupts, giddy, their applause escalating.
domenico		Three million Euros!
emma		Nikolai! No...
alice		Emma. It's okay.
emma		How? How can it be okay?
alice		He's rich.
alice		Richard...
alice		Take me home?
richard		Anywhere you want, Alice. We'll go anywhere you want. They kiss as Meg finds Bernard who shakes his head with a broad smile, holding out the bottle of wine.
meg		Oh, good. I could use a drink.
bernard		First prize. To the champion.
emma		 Niki? What's going on?
nikolai		Ya das-ta-nu to-be zvyoz-dee. Emma nods, without any real understanding, as he indicates the necklace.
alice		This is for our room. And the trip down.
meg		The rest is for the schools. Jean-Pierre hesitates in accepting the envelope, but Alice presses it on him.
alice		Please.
meg		You come to Wisconsin, we'll drink this in my kitchen.
bernard		Yes. They embrace and Meg turns with Alice to Emma who stands arm in arm with Nikolai.
alice		Now, Emma, you're sure about this?
emma		I'll call you both as soon as I know. They may have to get a sub at school for a couple of weeks, but, oh, you guys, I swear it sounded like a proposal! Alice and Meg turn to Nikolai who grins and nods away.
nikolai		Yes! Yes!
cordelia		Yes, Daddy! It was a huge success-- She stops suddenly, as if struck, and her expression of perpetual anger melts away as she listens, blinks.
paparazzi		That's not her. That's the other one.
alice		"Yes, my heart - dark, cowed, set apart,/Alone - bewailed its dire distress./Sweet love, with its all- conquering art." The entire classroom hangs on her every word.
alice		Everyone should go. At least once in their life.
****Dialogues from script :Moon.txt****

in the black:		 We hear something -- a machine -- CHURNING and POUNDING. Constant. Rhythmic. Though the sound is slightly familiar, we're not sure what it is yet. Hold for a few seconds and then  CUT TO:
sam		Tess. Hi. It's me. How are you, sweetheart? It's the morning here. In a few minutes Gerty and I will sit down for breakfast, go over the day's itinerary.
photograph		 Of a slightly younger and clean-shaven Sam with his arms wrapped around his wife of four years, TESS BELL.  SAM  And I have Eve. I don't take you guys for granted. You know that now. 
sam		Please kiss Eve for me. And tell her daddy will only be away a little longer -- seventeen days longer, approximately. I love you both dearly. Bye.
sam		Morning, Gerty.
gerty		Morning, Sam. How are you today?
sam		Fine. Fine. You?
gerty		I'm very well. How's your headache?
sam		Much better, thanks, pal.  Sam treats Gerty more like a person than a robot. Whether this is down to Gerty's intelligence or Sam's desperation for company isn't clear just yet.  Note: Gerty talks like a well-educated older man. His language doesn't have a great deal of inflection  but he is friendly enough.  Sam switches a dial on a radio but gets nothing but static - - he sticks in a mini cd and skips the first few tracks. We hear brief clips of talk radio and shuttle through it before he allows it to play on, on some random American station -- an old weather report:  VOICE ON RADIO ...it's a hot one on the East Coast, temperatures soaring to a high of ninety three degrees in New York City --  They zip around the tiny kitchen, together preparing Sam's breakfast, working as a team.  CUT TO:
sam		8:32 Pacific Time. Lunar Day 1. All Harvesters running smoothly this morning. Readouts are as follows: Matthew, 14.6 miles;
sam		Gerty, we've got a live one on Mark. I'm going out now to rope her in.
gerty's voice		Okay, Sam.
sam		Sam Bell reporting to Central. 10:14 Pacific Time. Lunar Day 1.  Otherwise, everything running smoothly. There was a discrepancy between a couple of the N3000 modulators a couple of days ago, but Gerty and I caught it in time, no big deal. Uh...how are things down there?
gerty		Sam, is everything okay?
sam		Everything's fine, Gerty.
gerty		You don't seem like yourself today.
sam		It's Tess.
gerty		Has something happened?
sam		No, not exactly.
gerty		Sam, what is it?
sam		Something doesn't feel right, that's all.
gerty		Sam, it might help to talk about it.
sam		Tess isn't responding to things.
gerty		Tess isn't responding to things?
sam		Right.
gerty		What kind of things?
gerty		Im sure she can't wait, Sam.
sam		That's not the point. This is someone who lives for vacations and travelling. I thought she'd jump at the chance for us to go away -- with Eve, of course -- we'd take Eve.
gerty		Perhaps Tess didn't receive the message?
sam		 But this isn't the only time it's happened, Gerty. When I asked her how her dad was doing on his new heart medicine she didn't respond to that -- I asked her when Eve was going to start nursery -- nothing. Had her brother got the position at the University? Nothing. Nothing.
gerty		I think her brother did get the position at the University. His name is Christopher, correct?
sam		He did?
gerty		Yes, I seem to recall he got the position. Professor of Biochemistry, I think. At Syracuse University in New York?
sam		How do you know that?
gerty		You told me. Some time ago now. Towards the beginning of your time on Selene. When we were starting to get to know each other.  You were very happy for your brother-in-law. You danced around the Rec Room, if I remember correctly.
sam		Gerty, have you heard anything new about anyone fixing lunar sat?
gerty		No Sam. From what I understand it's fairly low on the companies priority list with the Jupiter mission active. I would imagine it would be very expensive to fix.
sam		They need to sort that out. Seriously. I've only got two weeks left. It's not fair on whoever's up here next. Gerty, you tell them to sort it out. It's not healthy.
gerty		I will Sam. Do you want me to finish cutting your hair later?
sam		Nah. Come on.   Let's finish this.
gerty		Of course. Now?
sam		No not now, afterwards.
on sam		 He carefully puts down the wooden figure and the exacto blade -- stands and leaves the Rec Room. 
overmeyers		Delighted to hear about the latest shipment, Sam.
thompson		According to Albatross 90 it should be landing off the California Coast within the next three days.
overmeyers		Now in response to your question about the communications equipment, the news is not good.
thompson		Sam, those solar storms did a lot more damage than initially thought --
overmeyers		Fixing the lunar sat is going to take some time. It's a significant operation.
thompson		And what with the Jupiter Program hemorrhaging money --
overmeyers		Lunar doesn't have the budget it once did, Sam, you know that.
thompson		Even the coffee machine down in the Hub has been broken since I don't know when --
overmeyers		We have to go to Genesis 3 just to get a decent cup of coffee, Sam. Genesis 3. That's three buildings over.
thompson		We're hoping to get the live feed up and running by the Fall. The good news is you'll be home by then, Sam.
overmeyers		You only have two weeks to go! Congrat--
gerty's voice		Sam, a transmission has arrived from your wife.
sam		Be right there.
tess		Hi Sam. It's me. How are you?  Hey, someone's got something to say.
eve		Asstraut.
tess		Who's an astronaut?  Go on!
eve		Daddy asstraut!
tess		That's right, daddy's an astronaut. Clever girl!
sam		What's on the menu tonight, Gerty?
gerty		Baby back ribs with french fries and spinach.
sam		Ribs! Good choice, pal. Fine choice.
sam		 And then we CUT to Sam standing in the kitchen. Over by the model there is no sign of the Girl. The chair is empty. She's gone. Her sitting there, Sam's walk across the room -- apparently he imagined it all.  Sam looks down. The tea kettle is dangling at an angle and BOILING WATER is DRIBBLING onto his left hand.  Simultaneously: Sam SNAPS his hand AWAY, Sam SCREAMS. The tea kettle CLATTERS to the floor.  Sam HURRIES to the sink and jerks his hand under a stream of cold water. Cursing under his breath the whole time: "Shit, piss, fuck..."  CUT TO:
sam		I'm going to feel that for a while, aren't I, Gerty?  Damn it.
gerty		Sam, can I ask how it happened?
sam		I told you, I saw something on the TV and spilled boiling water on my hand.
gerty		You saw something on the TV?
sam		 Yeah, something on the TV distracted me, Gerty, what's wrong with that?
gerty		Sam, you said it was the TV that distracted you, but when I came in the TV wasn't on.
sam		Morning, Gerty.
gerty		Morning, Sam. How are you today?
sam		Fine. Fine.
gerty		How's the hand?
sam		It's a little sore.
sam		8:19 Pacific Time. Lunar Day 2. Readouts are as follows: Matthew,
sam		Gerty, looks like we've got a live one out on Matthew. I wondered what was taking him so long, the old fart. I'm heading out in a few minutes, just going to finish my coffee.
gerty's voice		Okay, Sam.
sam		 His face unfolding with panic, alarm, curiosity. An intense, yearning, curiosity. 
sam		Where am I?
gerty		Sam, you're in the Infirmary. You had an accident.
sam		No.  I don't remember a thing.
gerty		Do you remember me?
sam		Yes, of course I remember you, Gerty.
gerty		That's good. That's very good. It's nice to see you awake again.  I'd like to keep you under observation here in the Infirmary for a few days and run some tests.
sam		How long have I been out?
gerty		Not long. Sam, go back to sleep. You're still very tired. We can talk later.
sam		Gerty?
sam		Gerty?
on sam		 As he walks up the corridor in the direction of the Comms Room. Sam is close enough now that he can actually hear the conversation.  Sam arrives at the door of the Comms Room and peers in.  GERTY  These were extraordinary circumstances, as you know -- 
gerty		Sam, you're out of bed.
sam		I wanted to stretch my legs.  What was that?
gerty		Not talking. No. We've been having some problems with the lunar sat and our live feed seems to be down. I was recording a video message for Central updating them on your progress.  Sam, you need to stay in bed. You're not ready to walk around yet.
gerty		Excellent, Sam.
sam		How much longer do I have to be in here, Gerty?
gerty		Sam, you suffered minor brain damage in the crash. This has resulted in memory loss and slight logic impairment.
sam		When can I get back to work?
gerty		Central has asked me to slow down the Harvesters to ensure you have time to recuperate and get your strength back --
sam		 Terrific.
gerty		The good news is you can return to the sleeping quarters tomorrow. But it will still be a few more days before you can resume anything like a normal work schedule.
sam		There's no way to tell from here if a track's been thrown, or if it's just something jammed in an axle, or what... I can shoot out there, check it out, get some video and maybe save you guys the expense of floating in a whole crew! I know how tight money is right now....
thompson		Sam, we appreciate the offer, but you concentrate on feeling better.
sam		 Oh for Christ's sake...
overmeyers		We don't want you to take any unnecessary risks. You're too important to us.
thompson		You're to stay put, understand?
overmeyers		It's an order.
thompson		It's an order, Sam. From Lunar. Stay put.
overmeyers		We're going to send a Rescue Unit to tend to the stalled harvester and get the base back on its feet.
sam		 Why?
gerty		I'm sorry Sam.
tess		He's kicking...or she's kicking. I'm certain he's a boy. I wish you could feel it.  Well listen, I love you lots -- and we'll talk soon, okay? Bye Sam.
sam		Fuck it.
sam		Gerty! Get over here! Quickly!
gerty		What happened?
sam		Don't know -- Micro meteorites, maybe? Either way there might be damage to the exterior shell. I'd better go outside and take a look.
gerty		There is no damage to the exterior shell.
sam		It's not that I don't believe you, Gerty, but the inner skin is springing leaks like an ACME fire hose. Maybe you better let me take a look, just in case, huh?
gerty		Sam, I'm not supposed to let you go outside.
sam		Then let's keep it between you and me then. Ok?
gerty		Okay, Sam.
sam		Gerty! Gerty! Help!
sam		Gerty!
gerty		We need to get him to the Infirmary.
sam		Not until you tell me who he is!
gerty		Sam, we need to get him to the Infirmary immediately.
sam		Who is he! Who is he!
gerty		Hello Sam.  How are you feeling?
sam 1		Where am I?
gerty		The Infirmary. You had an accident out by one of the harvesters. Do you remember?
sam 1		I saw someone out there, Gerty.
gerty		Who did you see, Sam?
sam 1		I saw a girl.
gerty		You saw a girl out by the harvester? How is that possible?
sam 1		Gerty?
gerty		Yes, Sam?
sam 1		Is there someone in the room with us?
gerty		Yes.
sam 1		Who is he?
gerty		Sam, get some sleep. You're very tired.
sam 1		Hi.
sam 1		Gerty, what the hell is going on? Who is that guy in the Rec Room? Where did he come from? Why does he look like me?
gerty		Sam, you're out of bed.
sam 1		Yes, Gerty, I'm out of bed.   Who is the guy in the rec room?
gerty		Sam Bell.
sam 1		Who the fuck is in the rec room, Gerty!?
gerty		You are Sam Bell.
sam 1		I don't understand what's happening, Gerty. I think I may be losing my mind.
gerty		We could run some tests.  I haven't reported anything to central, Sam. They don't know you were recovered alive from the accident.
sam 1		Recovered alive? What do you mean? Why haven't you reported to central?
gerty		I'm here to keep you safe, Sam. I want to help you. Are you hungry?
sam 1		You're Sam Bell.
sam 2		Yeah.
sam 1		This is fucked up.
sam 2		Completely.
sam 1		Why... What are you?
sam 2		I'm a clone, Sam.    Im a fucking clone.
sam 1		How long have you been here?
sam 2		About a week.
sam 1		How are you getting on?
sam 2		 The company ordered Gerty to lock all the exits. I haven't been able to do anything for seven days but sit on my ass.
sam 1		They locked all the exits? What about the harvesters?
sam 2		Slowed them down to half speed, apparently. 
sam 1		I'm not a clone.
sam 2		Ok, Sam.   You're not a clone.
sam 1		You're the clone.
sam 2		How long have you been here?
sam 1		Almost three years.
sam 2		Hence the Captain's beard.
sam 1		 Right.
sam 2		I didn't know it could get so thick. Does it itch?
sam 1		No, not really.
sam 2		 What?
sam 1		You look just like me. It's incredible.
sam 2		Why do I look like you? Why don't you look like me?
sam 1		We look like each other, I guess.
sam 1		Your serve.
sam 2		Score?
sam 1		Two points to eighteen.
sam 2		How long did it take you to do this?
sam 1		I don't remember doing all of it. I remember when I did the church and the Salvation Army. And a few of the people. My mind's been acting kind of weird lately, though.
sam 2		It's Fairfield, right?  There's Town Hall.
sam 1		Uh-huh. You know Fairfield?  That's the Baskin&Robbins. And there's Tess and Eve. Do you know Tess?
sam 2		Yes.   I know Tess.
sam 1		You know about Eve, right?
sam 2		We did?  Eve?
sam 1		She's beautiful. She's really beautiful.
sam 2		How much did she weigh? Isn't that what you're supposed to ask, how much did she weigh?
sam 1		Nine pounds, eleven ounces.
gerty's voice		Sam, a message has arrived from Central.
overmeyers		Greetings, Sam!
thompson		How's our Man? Feeling better?
overmeyers		You getting lots of rest?
thompson		Yeah, you resting up, Sam? You'd better be you bastard.
overmeyers		Enjoy it while it lasts! We've got good news.
thompson		The Jupiter Program had to be put on hiatus, so we've got a few free pairs of hands --
overmeyers		We've managed to secure you a Rescue Unit ahead of schedule.
thompson		Rescue Unit Eliza.
overmeyers		They've been stationed on Goliath 19 for the last couple of months.
overmeyers		Eliza is bringing you something special, Sam. Compliments of the company.
thompson		A hooker!
overmeyers		No not a hooker. What's wrong with you? It's a little something to drink, Sam, that's all, our way of patting you on the back for all that you've been through.
thompson		In the meantime, keep resting up, and hang in there.
overmeyers		Yeah you hang in there, Sam. Over and out.
sam 1		They're sending a Rescue Unit? Why?
sam 2		To fix the stalled harvester. They didn't think I was up to it.
sam 1		Then I'm going back.
sam 2		Is that what you really think?
sam 1		I've got a contract --
sam 2		You're a fucking clone! You don't have shit!
sam 1		I'm going home!
sam 2		You're not going anywhere!
sam 2		What, you think Tess is back home waiting for you? What about the original Sam?
sam 1		I'm the original! I'm Sam fucking Bell! Me! Me!
gerty		Yes, Sam.
sam 2		What about the other clones?
sam 1		That's ridiculous. Impossible. Why would hey do that?
sam 2		I bet there's some kind of secret room --
sam 1		 Secret room?
sam 2		Yeah, secret room, why not?
sam 1		I told you.
sam 2		Shut-up!
sam 1		Why?
sam 2		I want to check underneath there.
sam 1		You're not moving the model.
sam 2		Get the fuck out of my way!
sam 1		No.
sam 2		You okay?
sam 1		Get off me!
sam 1		Who are you?
gerty		Hello Sam.
sam 1		Hi Gerty.
gerty		Sam, is everything okay?
sam 1		We had a fight. Me and the other guy, the other Sam. We had a fight, Gerty. He's a maniac. You know what he did? He flipped the entire model over. Do you know how much work I've put into that thing?
gerty		938 hours.
sam 1		938 hours, exactly.  Really? 938 hours.
gerty		Approximately.
sam 1		 He scares me, Gerty.
gerty		What is it about Sam that scares you?
sam 1		He flies off the handle. I see it now...I see what Tess was talking about.  I've never told you this, Gerty, but she left me. Tess left me. For six months. She moved back in with her parents.
gerty		I know.
sam 1		Oh...  It was the year before I came in here. She gave me a second chance. I promised her I'd change.
gerty		You have changed, Sam.
sam 1		Yeah, I guess I have.
gerty		Sam, I can only account for what occurs on the base.
sam 1		What about the messages she sent to me?
gerty		Sam, I can only account for what occurs on the base.
sam 1		Gerty, am I really a clone?
gerty		Sam, when you first arrived at Selene, there was a small crash. You woke up in the infirmary. You suffered minor brain damage and memory loss. I kept you under observation and ran some tests.
sam 1		I remember.
gerty		Sam, there was no crash. You were being awakened.  It is standard procedure for all new clones to be given tests to establish mental stability and general physical health. Genetic abnormalities and minor duplication errors in the DNA can have considerable impact--
sam 1		And Tess?    Eve?
gerty		They are memory implants, Sam. I'm very sorry.
sam 1		No thanks, Gerty.
sam 1		You okay?
sam 2		I'm staring into space.  Get it?
sam 1		Better.
sam 2		Listen, I went haywire before. I lost it. I'm sorry.
sam 1		It's okay.
sam 2		No it's not okay. I fucked up Fairfield -- your model -- that's unacceptable. I don't know what's wrong with me.  I've got a temper. I need to do something about it.
sam 1		Yes you do.
sam 2		I've been thinking. That Rescue Unit -- Eliza -- they'll be here in less than fourteen hours. I don't know about you but I'd like to figure out where we stand before they get here.
sam 1		Absolutely.
sam 2		Ostensibly they're coming to deal with the stalled harvester. We both know that isn't true.  They're coming to dig your body out of that rover. They think you're in there.
sam 1		Right.
sam 2		What'll their reaction be when they find out you survived the crash? I wasn't supposed to find you. Lunar instructed Gerty to lock me inside the base for Christ's sake.
sam 1		A live conversation?
sam 2		Yeah.
sam 1		That's not possible.
sam 2		No no no, it is possible. It's possible because I saw it, that's my point.
sam 1		How do you know the conversation was live?
sam 2		It was a back and forth exchange. And I saw Thompson and Overmeyers up on the monitor. I was supposed to be asleep in the Infirmary. The moment I walked into the comms room Gerty terminated the transmission. Now I was a little drugged up, granted, but I didn't imagine it.
sam 1		The communications equipment is damaged -- there was a solar storm --
sam 2		Tabitha.
sam 1		Tabitha, right.
sam 2		Lunar made it up. Maybe. I don't know. Bottom line is they don't want us to be able to contact Earth. Otherwise why would they have lied to us?
sam 1		How are they blocking the live feed? The base's communications equipment works fine --
sam 2		Maybe they're not blocking the signal from inside the base.
sam 1		From where then?
sam 1		Just passing the last of the Harvesters -- looks like John --
sam 2		How long until you're out of the base's range?
sam 1		If I maintain this speed...a minute. Ninety seconds tops.
sam 2		You ever been this far out?
sam 1		No, never.
sam 1		You see anything yet?
sam 2		Nothing. You?
sam 1		There isn't shit out here...I feel like I'm about to drive off the end of the world.  It would help if I knew what I was looking for.
sam 2		What is it?
sam 1		Don't know yet.
sam 2		Antenna? Really?  Hang on, looks like there's one on this side too.  Sam 2 is indeed approaching something similar.  Sam 1 stops his Rover about twenty feet from the Jammer. He opens the Rover's door and steps out to take a closer look.
sam 1		Whoever built these things meant business. They weren't fucking around.
sam 2		Its not an antennae, dude. Its a jammer.  No wonder we can't get a live feed. These things must be blocking our signal.
sam 1		Yeah, I hear you.  I'm going to head back to base. I'm not feeling too good.
sam 2		I'll stay out here a little longer. I want to see if there are any more of these things.
sam 1		Fuck!
the mirror		 Sam 1 stands, moves to the mirror, opening his mouth wide to look for the missing teeth -- he uses his thumbs, shows his gums -- revealing: yes, he's lost at least a couple of teeth.  He flushes the toilet.  CUT TO:
sam 1		 January 12th, Lunar hour 8:32. All Harvesters running smoothly today. Readouts are as follows: Matthew, 12.7 miles; Mark 11.9 miles...
sam		 ...John, 15.1 miles...sorry, I'm not feeling too hot today -- I'm going to have to continue this later --
sam 4		...I've got blood coming out of my nose...
sam 5		I don't feel too well, Old Man.
sam 6		My hair's falling out...look it.
technician		...relax and breathe deeply. The cryo pod is designed to put you into a deep sleep for the duration of your three day return journey back to Earth. As you begin to get sleepy, think about the magnificent job you've done, and how proud your family are of what you've accomplished.
cubby		 Sam 1 opens a cubby, swipes something similar to a CROW BAR, heads out of the frame --
return vehicle		 Back in the Return Vehicle, Sam 1 stands over the panel in the floor. He uses the CROW BAR to prize the panel open -- this takes an extraordinary effort -- the panel eventually LIFTING like a manhole cover.  Sam 1 can't believe his eyes. At the top of the OPEN PANEL, leading down into darkness...there's A LADDER.
sam 2		I saw three more of those jammers. The base is surrounded. I printed out their coordinates --
sam 1		I found your secret room.
sam 2		Who goes first?
sam 2		Is there a light?
sam 1		The cryo pod in the Return Vehicle is an incinerator.
sam 2		What?
sam 1		We don't go home. We're burned to death up there. Then the company wakes up a new one. Every three years. Like clock work.
sam 2		How do you know all this?
sam 2		How many?
sam 1		Enough.
sam 2		If that Rescue Unit finds the two of us awake at the same time, they'll kill us both for sure.  Sam 1 doesn't respond, he's in his own world.  SAM 2  Where are you going?
gerty		Sam, can I help you with something?
sam 1		Not now, Gerty, okay?
sam 2		What's going on?
sam 1		There's something I've got to do.
sam 1		Come on...come on...
girl		Hello?
sam 1		Uh, Bell residence?
girl		This is the Bell Residence.
sam 1		I'm trying to reach Tess Bell.
girl		I'm sorry, she passed away some years ago.
sam 1		No...no way.
girl		Uh, yeah, I think so. I'm her daughter.  Can I help you?
sam 1		Eve?
eve bell		Yes?
sam 1		 Hi... Hi. Eve. How old are you now?
eve bell		I'm fifteen.  Do I know you?
sam 1		How did mom die, sweetheart?
eve bell		Uh...
eve bell		Dad, there's someone asking about mom...
sam's voice		Who's asking about mom?
sam 1		Want me to help?
sam 2		Barbara Streisand?
sam 1		 He looked like Barbara Streisand. We used to hide his Bible when he passed out. Drove the guy nuts.
sam 2		How do you carve these things?
sam 1		Want me to show you?
sam 2		You're shaking.
sam 1		Watch what I'm doing.  You watching?
sam 2		Yeah.
sam 1		Now you try.
sam 2		I suck.
sam 1		You'll get the hang of it.  You see, that's a little better already.
sam 2		What's happening to you?
sam 1		I think I'm dying.
sam 2		What do you think it is?
sam 1		Maybe we don't live that long. Maybe we start to decompose or something.
sam 2		Jesus.
sam 1		 No tranqs. I don't think I would ever wake up again.
eve		This is the Bell residence.
sam 2		 No you didn't...
eve		I'm sorry, she passed away some years ago.
eve		Uh, yeah, I think so, I'm her daughter.  Can I help you?
sam 2		Gerty, I need to talk to you.
gerty		Of course, Sam, how can I help?
sam 2		We found the hidden room. We know about the other clones.
gerty		I don't know of a hidden room.
sam 2		The hidden room under the Return Vehicle, Gerty. You know what I'm talking about. We found it on our own. Lunar doesn't know anything about it.
gerty		The lower deck is out of bounds to awakened clones --
sam 2		Ordinarily, Gerty, but what with there being two of us awake at the same time, and what with the situation being unprecedented, the rules have had to change. Do you understand?
gerty		I understand the situation is unprecedented.
sam 2		Good.  Gerty, how long does it take for a clone to wake up?
gerty		A clone is awake the moment his pod is opened. But he is not fully conscious for several hours.
sam 2		Gerty, we need to wake up a new clone.
gerty		I am not permitted to do that, Sam.
sam 2		If we don't wake up another clone me and the other Sam will die. We'll die, Gerty. Do you understand?
gerty		Yes.
sam 2		Do you want me and the other Sam to die?
gerty		That is the last thing I want.
sam 2		Then you have to wake up a new clone. Okay, pal?
sam 2		Don't touch him.
sam 1		Why?
sam 2		Come to the Rec Room.
sam 2		When the Rescue Unit arrives they'll expect to find a body in the crashed Rover, right?  We've got our body.
sam 1		 That guy?
sam 2		I know.
sam 1		 You're going to kill him?
sam 2		Someone's got to pull the short straw here, better someone who's unconscious than you or me.
sam 1		What about us? Eliza arrives, finds you and me as the welcome party --
sam 2		They're not going to find you and me as the welcome party, they're going to find me. You're going to blast back to Earth before they get here in one of the Helium 3 containers.  You're going home.
sam 1		How do you think she died?
sam 2		I don't know.  Jane died of cancer. I mean, it was in the family. Who knows? Or maybe it was an accident? Could have been a million things.
sam 1		I wish I'd been there.
sam 2		Yeah. Me too.  The two Sams sitting together, UNITED by their grief.
sam 2		Go for it.
sam 1		No.
sam 2		But you fit. That's good. You fit.
sam 2		Sam Bell reporting to Central. 19:14 Pacific Time. Lunar Day 14.  Evening Overmeyers, evening Thompson! According to the Old Man Rescue Unit Eliza will be here in just over three hours. Not a moment too soon! I never thought I'd say this, but I want to get out there, I want to work. I feel like a kid who's been grounded. Looking forward to Eliza straightening everything out and things getting back to normal around here. Well...that's it. I'll let you know how it goes. Over and out, gentlemen.
tess		Come on!
sam 2		We need to do it. We need to do it now. He'll be conscious any minute.  We've been putting it off for long enough.
sam 1		We don't have to do anything. I changed my mind.
sam 2		What are you talking about? She's your daughter, man! She's not going to care what you...
sam 1		 She's not! She's not... my daughter. At least, I'm not her father. Not to her.
sam 2		This is wrong. What are we supposed to do? Sit around here and wait to die? Fuck that!
sam 1		I don't know.  It's what we were designed to do.
sam 2		Screw that! I'll go! ...And I'm going to find this asshole, Sam Bell, and ask him why the hell he put us through this shit!
sam 1		You're a good guy, Sam.
sam 2		I might stop shaving; It suits us.  If all our memories are implants, no disrespect, but I think its about time I got some of my own, as well.
sam 1		Yeah. You should travel.     I've always wanted to do that.
sam 2		I'd like that.
matthew		 Where all the trouble really started. Matthew, the stalled Harvester, with the crashed Rover still trapped beneath it. The crash site is beginning to resemble some old underwater shipwreck.  The Rover enters the frame, beginning to slow down as it approaches the crash site. Sam 2 rolls the Rover to a standstill about ten feet from the front of the Harvester.
sam 1		Tess came in for the interview, remember?
sam 2		She was going back to San Francisco. 
sam 2		How long before he's conscious, Gerty?
gerty		The new clone will be conscious within one hour.
sam 2		That's good. That's very good.
gerty		Sam?   Where is Sam?
sam 2		He's gone home, Gerty.
gerty		Sam, this is not going to work.
sam 2		What? Why not?
gerty		If the Rescue Unit examine my memory banks they will discover what has taken place over the last week. As you know I record everything. If they are suspicious, the first thing they will do is search my memory banks, and this would put you in considerable danger.
gerty		I'll require your assistance, Sam.
sam 2		Sure, just let me finish this.
tess		Come on, Sam! Sam Bell! Come on!
sam 2		I've set your computer to reboot the second I've blasted off.
gerty		Okay, Sam.
sam 2		Thanks for all your help, Gerty. I wish I could say I was going to miss you, buddy, but to be honest, I can't wait to get away from here.
gerty		I understand, Sam. I hope life is everything you remember it to be.
sam 2		Thanks. Are you sure you're going to be ok?
gerty		Of course. The new Sam and I will be back to our programming as soon as I have finished rebooting.
sam 2		Gerty, I'm not programmed.
sam 2		Fuck!
tess		What took you so long?
****Dialogues from script :Moonrise_Kingdom.txt****

narrator		This is the island of New Penzance. Sixteen miles long. Forested with old- growth pine and maple. Criss-crossed by shallow tidal creeks. An important seabird habitat. There are no paved roads but instead many miles of intersecting foot paths and dirt trails and a ferry that runs twice daily from Stone Cove. The year is 1965. We are on the far edge of Black Beacon Sound, famous for the ferocious and well-documented storm which will strike from the east on the fifth of September -- in three day's time.
gadge		Morning, sir.
roosevelt		 I don't know. I think I skipped a stitch.
skotak		 We're building a tree house.
skotak		Well, where would you've built it?
panagle		Sixteen and a half.
redford		Safety-test, sir.
redford		The vehicle appears to be in good working order. I'm just checking if --
captain sharp		Watch my line, Edgar.
captain sharp		Hello? This is Captain Sharp. Over.
captain sharp		Morning, Randy. What can I do for you? Over.
captain sharp		What does that mean? Over.
captain sharp		Any idea why? Over.
captain sharp		I guess we better notify his folks. Over.
becky		Hello, Diane.
becky		Hold the line, please.
becky		Go ahead, Chesterfield.
captain sharp		Hello, sir. This is Captain Sharp.
captain sharp		There's no cause for alarm, sir. We'll find him. We're just notifying you as a matter of protocol and so on.
captain sharp		I'm confused by that statement. You can't invite him back?
captain sharp		Am I speaking to Sam's father?
captain sharp		Mr. Billingsley, I've got an escaped Khaki Scout. We're notifying you as a matter of protocol. You say you can't invite him back? You say he's an orphan? Well, I don't understand how that works.  What am I supposed to do with him?
redford		What if he resists?
redford		Shakusky. Are we allowed to use force on him?
skotak		Right here.
gadge		I heard he never had any family in the first place.
deluca		That's probably why he's crazy.
redford		I'll tell you one thing: if we find him, I'm not going to be the one who forgot to bring a weapon.
nickleby		Me, neither.
captain sharp		Most likely not.
captain sharp		Be that as it may, will you let me know if you see anything unusual?
sam		What kind of bird are you?
bossy girl		I'm a sparrow, she's a dove, and --
sam		No, I said, "What kind of bird are you?"
suzy		I'm a raven.
bossy girl		Boy's aren't allowed in here.
sam		I'll be leaving soon.
sam		What happened to your hand?
suzy		 I got hit in the mirror.
sam		 Really. How'd that happen?
suzy		 I lost my temper at myself.
suzy		What's your name?
sam		Sam. What's yours?
suzy		I'm Suzy.
bossy girl		It's not polite to stare.
skinny girl		He likes you.
sam		Were you followed?
suzy		 I doubt it.
sam		Good.
sam		Did you bring a cat?
sam		Can you read a map?
suzy		Uh-huh.
sam		I do cartography.
sam		I feel we should go halfway today and halfway tomorrow, since you're a less experienced hiker, and you're wearing Sunday-school shoes.
suzy		OK.
sam		. How does that sound?
suzy		Fine.
sam		You want some beef jerky?
suzy		OK.
sam		Let's go.
sam		Are you thirsty?
suzy		No.
sam		Well, if your throat gets parched, stick a pebble in your mouth and suck on it. You can quench your thirst with the spit, supposedly.
sam		Sometimes I stick leaves under my hat. It cools your head down.
suzy		That's a good idea. It might help also if you didn't wear fur.
sam		 True, but this adds camouflage.
sam		Here's a trick. Throw grass in the air, and you can see which direction the wind's blowing.
suzy		Which way?
sam		Unknown. I guess it doesn't really matter, as long as we cover our tracks.
sam		These might be poisonous.
suzy		 No, they're huckleberries, in fact. Try one.
sam		Not bad. Anyway, they're good for survival.
suzy		He knows someone's watching him.
sam		I agree. Why do you say that?
suzy		 I don't know. I just think he can feel us.
sam		You smell like perfume.
suzy		It's my mother's.
sam		I brought water, too.
sam		Should we catch him?
suzy		 What for?
sam		Trout bait. We need worms.
suzy		 No.
sam		You're right. We'll let him live. Maybe I've got a licorice whip.
sam		How strong of a swimmer are you?
suzy		Pretty good. I broke our school record for the back-stroke.
sam		 OK. Well, I'm not that strong of a swimmer, so I wear a life-preserver. I think it's a good policy to get in the habit, anyway.
suzy		OK.
sam		Watch out for turtles. They'll bite you, if you put your fingers in their mouths. Let me see if I can catch this one.
sam		Somebody wrote on him.
suzy		The stick's moving!
sam		 You got one!
sam		Fish on hook!  Reel him in! Slowly.
suzy		Sit down!
sam		You're doing good.
sam		This is for fishing.
suzy		Very good. You know a lot about camping, don't you?
sam		 I'm a Khaki Scout. It's what I'm trained for.
sam		Anyway, I used to be.
sam		We can feed your cat the guts and eyeballs.
suzy		That's OK. He only eats cat food.
sam		What else did you bring? We should make an inventory.
suzy		OK.
sam		Go ahead.
suzy		This is my record player. It works with batteries. Actually, it belongs to my little brother Lionel. I left him a note. Do you like music?
suzy		This is my favorite record album. My godmother gave it to me for my birthday. She lives in France.
suzy		These are my books. I like stories with magic powers in them. Either in kingdoms on earth or on foreign planets. Also, time-travel, if they make it realistic. Usually, I prefer a girl hero, but not always. I couldn't bring all of them because it got too heavy. You can borrow any you want.
suzy		I also brought my lefty scissors because I'm left-handed, my toothbrush, some rubber bands, extra batteries, and my binoculars, as you know. I forgot my comb.
sam		That's it? No mess-kit? No flashlight? No canteen? No waterproof matches? Didn't you get the packing list I sent you in my last letter?
suzy		 I thought that's what you're supposed to bring. I don't own a canteen.
sam		That's OK. We can share.
sam		These are all library books. In my school you're only allowed to check-out one at a time. Some of these are going to be overdue.
sam		Do you steal?
sam		Why? You're not poor.
suzy		I might turn some of them back in one day. I haven't decided yet. I know it's bad. I think I just took them to have a secret to keep. Anyway, for some reason, it makes me feel in a better mood sometimes.
sam		Are you depressed?
sam		How come?
suzy		Well, I can show you an example, if you want -- but it doesn't make me feel very good. I found this on top of our refrigerator.
sam		Does that mean you?
suzy		It's not funny.
sam		To me, it is.
suzy		You really know how to make friends.
sam		I'm sorry.
suzy		That's OK.
sam		I'm on your side.
suzy		I know.
sam		Which one's the best?
suzy		His eyes downcast, his kingdom in ruins, Mynar pressed his heavy paw through the rippling surface of the cool shallows and down to its stone floor. "My people once were lead by a great and noble beast -- and I no longer see his face in this reflection."
suzy		Meanwhile, on the Plains of Tabitha, Francine rested. There would be another time for war.
lionel		I don't know, but she borrowed my record player for ten days without asking.
captain sharp		Good evening. Sorry to startle you. I was JUST --
captain sharp		I know, that's what I'm saying. The search party's not over yet. In other WORDS --
captain sharp		 OK. Where'd she --
captain sharp		 I don't know, but just for the record: ninety-five percent of all runaways return home within six hours. That doesn't do you any good right now. It's just a statistic -- but in all likelihood Suzy's probably hiding in the closet at her best friend's house playing Chinese Checkers at this very moment, as we speak.
captain sharp		 How's Laura?
captain sharp		Mrs. Bishop, I mean.
captain sharp		Is she upset?
captain sharp		I got to get this spot-light fixed.
captain sharp		Sam Shakusky. That's my escaped Khaki Scout. His family died.
captain sharp		What does he say?
becky		I'm not sure. I think he went searching in the dark.
captain sharp		I think he's onto us.
captain sharp		Of course, he is?
captain sharp		 Why aren't we worried about that, then?
captain sharp		 Well, I didn't know. Or, anyway, I thought I was wrong. Did you hit him?
nickleby		Cat food! I think it's a clue.
captain sharp		All right. We know they're together. We know they're within a certain radius of this spot. I'm declaring the case with the county right now. Until help arrives:
captain sharp		I'm deputizing the little guy, the skinny one, and the kid with the curly hair to come with me in the station wagon. Randy, you drop-in and head up-river with the rest of your troop, then split-up on foot. Becky, call Jed and tell him to circle over this end of the island and fly low.
suzy		They found the canoe.
sam		 Rats! I should've put more pine needles on it. Let's go. We're almost there.
sam		What do you creeps want?
redford		We're looking for you.
sam		Why?
redford		Because you're a fugitive.
sam		No, I'm not. Didn't you get my letter of resignation? I quit the Khaki Scouts.
redford		You're still in uniform.
redford		Well, it doesn't matter, anyway. You don't have that authority. We've been deputized. Now are you going to come along peacefully or not?
sam		Listen to some reason: I don't like you. You don't like me. Why don't you stupid idiots just let us disappear?
redford		 It's tempting, but I can't allow it.
deluca		You shouldn't be friends with him.
suzy		 Why not?
deluca		Because he's crazy.
suzy		 Maybe you just don't know him.
redford		We know him a lot better than you. He's emotionally disturbed because his family died. Nickleby, tie him up.
sam		Do not cross this stick.
redford		You're doomed, Shakusky.
sam		It was him or us.
suzy		Oh, no.
sam		They got Snoopy through the neck.
suzy		He needs a doctor.
sam		No, he doesn't. He needs a morgue.
suzy		 He's losing blood. Hurry. Where do we go?
sam		Suzy. Look at me. Snoopy's not going to make it.
suzy		 Don't say that.
sam		They're after us. We got to move.
suzy		 He's dying! We can't just leave him!
sam		 It's too late! He's already gone!
suzy		 Stop yelling at me!
sam		I'm sorry I had to do that, but you're panicking. The first rule in any emergency is you never --
suzy		Don't ever do that again. No one's allowed to slap me.
suzy		You're right. He's dead.
suzy		Was he a good dog?
sam		Who's to say -- but he didn't deserve to die.
captain sharp		Puncture wound. Lower lumbar. Make room for a stretcher in the cockpit!
nickleby		I tried to chop him, but he dodged my tomahawk.
panagle		Who else got hit?
izod		Not me. I ran away when the girl went berserk.
skotak		He's got great marksmanship. He shot Deluca in both arms.
gadge		Where's Snoopy?
captain sharp		Clear the dock, Edgar!
gadge		No, she's in the woods with Shakusky.
jed		Where'm I going?
captain sharp		The infirmary at Fort Lebanon. We'll be right behind you.
captain sharp		Warm up the motor. I'll be right back.
captain sharp		Walt, it's very clear: the two of them conspired in this together.
captain sharp		Stop.
captain sharp		I do blame him --  -- but I also blame myself and both of you. With all due respect: you can't let your children stab people.
captain sharp		Easy does it. Calm down, Laura.
narrator		As some of you know, I taught Sam for the cartography Accomplishment Patch. He's a smart boy, and he expressed a keen interest in the history of the island's indigenous peoples. In particular, I recall his fascination with the idea of retracing the original path of the old Chickchaw harvest migration.
narrator		What I'm getting at is this: I think I know where they're going.
suzy		This is weird.
sam		I know!
sam		On three!
suzy		I like it here, but I don't like the name.
sam		Me, neither.
suzy		Mile 3.25 Tidal Inlet. It's got no ring to it.
sam		Let's change it. What should it be?
suzy		Let me think for a minute.
sam		I made you some jewelry.
sam		Are your ears pierced?
suzy		It's pretty. Do the other one.
suzy		It feels hard.
sam		 Do you mind?
suzy		I like it.
sam		 Tilt your head sideways.
suzy		You can touch my chest.
suzy		They're going to grow more.
sam		Why do you always use binoculars?
suzy		It helps me see things closer. Even if they're not very far away. I pretend it's my magic power.
sam		 That sounds like poetry. Poems don't always have to rhyme, you know. They're just supposed to be creative.
sam		What do you want to be? When you grow up.
suzy		I don't know. I want to go on adventures, I think. Not get stuck in one place. How about you?
sam		 Go on adventures, too. Not get stuck, too. I guess that sounds almost like I'm just repeating what you just said, but I couldn't think of anything as good as it. On the other hand, maybe we'll get blown up by an atom bomb. You can't predict the exact future.
suzy		That's true.
sam		It's possible I may wet the bed, by the way. Later, I mean.
suzy		 OK.
sam		 I wish I didn't have to mention it, but just in case. I don't want to make you be offended.
suzy		 Of course, I won't.
sam		Some people frown on these problems.
suzy		What's that one for?
sam		It's not an accomplishment. I inherited it from my mother. It's actually not meant for a male to wear -- but I don't give a damn.
suzy		Are your foster parents still mad at you? For getting in trouble so much.
sam		I don't think so. We're getting to know each other better. I feel like I'm in a family now. Not like yours, but similar to one.
suzy		I always wished I was an orphan. Most of my favorite characters are. I think your lives are more special.
sam		I love you, but you don't know what you're talking about.
suzy		I love you, too.
suzy		The flashlight's beam drew a moon through the black across the attic and settled on a gap in the base-board. A mouse-hole, no bigger than a pocket-watch. Eric crouched on his flat feet and placed his hand in front of the tiny opening. "It's windy," he said. "Like someone in there's blowing on my fingers." Christy rolled her eyes and sighed a sigh. He's right again, she thought. Little brothers drive people crazy.
suzy		Part Two.
skotak		How long were you planning to stay there?
sam		I don't know.
murray		You said ten days or less.
suzy		That was a lie.
gadge		Didn't you ever think about what would happen next?
sam		Not to my recollection.
lionel		You're a traitor to our family.
suzy		Good. I want to be.
captain sharp		Give him his mail.
suzy		What does it say?
sam		 They can't invite me back.
suzy		 Why not?
sam		 I gave them too much aggravation.
suzy		Let me read it.
suzy		That's child abuse.
suzy		 I'd be careful if I were you. One of these days somebody's going to be pushed too far, and who knows what they're capable of.
suzy		 It's a warning.
suzy		I wish I knew what makes you tick.
becky		Judy, I have your person-to-person from New Penzance.
captain sharp		Hello? This is Captain Sharp.
social services		Hello, Captain Sharp. This is Social Services. I'm calling in reference to Sam Shakusky, Ward of the State. I understand he's in your custody.
captain sharp		That's correct.
social services		What's his condition? Has he suffered any injury or trauma of any kind?
captain sharp		He's OK.
social services		Very good. How do I get to you?
captain sharp		The fastest way is by seaplane. Jed can bring you in with the mail.
social services		I'll come tomorrow morning, if that's acceptable to you. Is someone able to 
captain sharp		Uh-huh.
social services		Is that a yes?
captain sharp		Uh-huh.
social services		Very good. I'll contact you again before the end of the day.
captain sharp		Wait a second.
social services		 Yes?
captain sharp		Social Services?
social services		 Captain Sharp.
captain sharp		 What's going to happen to him?
social services		Well, normally, we'd try to place him in another foster home, but that option is no longer available to us, in my opinion, with his case history -- which means he'll go to Juvenile Refuge.
social services		Who's speaking?
social services		Right. An orphanage -- but the first step is the admissions panel requires a psychological evaluation to determine whether or not the boy's a candidate for institutional treatment or electroshock therapy. Beyond that --
captain sharp		 Excuse me. Shock therapy? Why would that be necessary? He's not violent.
social services		The report describes an assault with scissors.
captain sharp		 That was the girl! Who did that.
social services		 Well, maybe she needs help, too -- but that's not our job. OK?
captain sharp		 OK.
suzy		I hate you.
suzy		Why not? I mean it.
suzy		Exactly.  I know what you do with that sad, dumb police man. You go to bed with him.
suzy		We're in love. We just want to be together. What's wrong with that?
sam		I admit we knew we'd get in trouble. That part's true. We knew people would be worried, and we still ran away, anyway -- but something also happened which we didn't do on purpose. When we first met each other. Something happened to us.
captain sharp		I agree with you. That's eloquent. I can't argue against anything you're saying -- but I don't have to, because you're twelve years old.
captain sharp		Look, let's face it, you're probably a much more intelligent person than I am. In fact, I guarantee it -- but even smart kids sometimes stick their fingers in electrical sockets, if you see what I mean. It takes time to figure things out. It's been proven by history: all mankind makes mistakes. It's our job to try to protect you from the dangerous ones. If we can.
captain sharp		You want a slug?
captain sharp		What's the rush? You've got your whole life in front of yourself. Ahead of you, I mean.
sam		 Maybe so. Anyway, you're a bachelor.
captain sharp		 What does that have to do with it? So are you.
sam		 That's true. Did you love someone ever?
captain sharp		 Yes, I did.
sam		What happened?
captain sharp		She didn't love me back.
sam		Ah.
captain sharp		I'm sorry for your loss. Anyway, that's what people say.
sam		Thanks.
captain sharp		What happened?
sam		A drunk truck driver smashed into them.
captain sharp		 Good grief.
gadge		I heard he's going to reform school.
deluca		I heard they're going to take out a piece of his brain and send him to an insane asylum.
roosevelt		I like his girl.
panagle		She's too scruffy for me.
nickleby		Supposedly, they got to third base.
roosevelt		 Over-shirt or under-shirt?
skotak		Damn us.
skotak		This troop has been very shabby to Field Mate Sam Shakusky. In fact, we've been a bunch of mean jerks. Why's he so unpopular? I admit, supposedly, he's 
skotak		Nickleby? Deluca? Lazy-Eye?  Gadge?
skotak		He's a fellow Khaki Scout, and he needs our help. Are we man enough to give that? So part of his brain doesn't get removed out of him.
skotak		They were prepared to die for each other out there.
deluca		What do you need?
skotak		 For starters? Three yards of chicken wire, some ripped-up newspapers, and a bucket of wheatpaste.
captain sharp		In other words, it's over.
captain sharp		Until further notice.
captain sharp		I understand.
captain sharp		Except me.
captain sharp		 Well, I hope you can. I think you will. You're doing the right thing.
captain sharp		 No, you won't.
captain sharp		I admire them, you know? There's a purity to it. I only feel bad because they both seem like such unhappy, lonely, miserable people -- but maybe that's romantic.
sam		Get out of my chimney.
skotak		Listen to me. We're here for friendship. We're going to get you off this island.
sam		 No, thanks.
skotak		Yes, thanks. This is an emergency rescue.
sam		It's worthless to me. There's no point. Not without Suzy.
sam		How'd you get here?
suzy		They snuck me down the laundry chute and left a paper-mach dummy in my bed.
sam		 Diversion tactics. Good thinking.
sam		Did you leave another note for Lionel?
suzy		Not this time. He can't keep his trap shut. Besides, I'll probably never see him again.
sam		That's true.
narrator		This is the island of St. Jack Wood, extending far north from Land's End along the deep-water channel that leads to Broken Rock. A low flood-plain separates the beach from the town-ship above. A small but prosperous community.
narrator		The barometer reads twenty-seven inches and dropping. Strong winds, as you can see, already at twenty-two knots.  The time is now four thirty-five A.M.
suzy		"-- but I'm not going," said Barnaby Jack. "I'm running away tonight for good, and this time I won't get caught." Annabelle whispered: "I'm coming with you." Her yellow hair, now brown at the roots, caught up in the wind and danced. Barnaby Jack took Annabelle's hand and pressed something into it the size of a jellybean. "Hide this in your socks, and be ready at midnight."
suzy		He leapt out the window and landed in the fresh-fallen snow.
secretary mcintire		You're not going to believe this one, sir. That Scout Master on New Penzance? Has now lost his entire troop.
commander pierce		Well, I'll be damned. Who is this bimbo?
secretary mcintire		 I couldn't say.
guard scout		Who's your unit leader?
nickleby		That guy.
skotak		There's a broken gum-ball machine behind the snack tent.
cousin ben		I don't care how they do it where you come from. You want pop? You want candy? You want a snake-bite kit? Get some money.
cousin ben		Come back in five minutes.
cousin ben		Is this him?
sam		Field Mate Sam Shakusky, Troop 55, resigned.
cousin ben		He's hot. Almost too hot. What's in the can?
skotak		Seventy-six dollars -- but it's mostly in nickels.
cousin ben		Give it to me.
cousin ben		You badge in seamanship?
sam		Yes, sir.
cousin ben		Good. There's cold-water crabber moored off Broken Rock. The skipper owes me an I.O.U. We'll see if he can take you on as a claw cracker. It won't be an easy life, but it's better than shock therapy.
sam		Thank you, sir. By the way, where's the chapel tent?
cousin ben		Back there, but the padre's home with the mumps. Why do you ask?
sam		I want to bring my wife.
suzy		But we're not married yet.
cousin ben		You his girl?
cousin ben		Technically, I'm a civil-law scrivener. I'm authorized to declare births, deaths, and marriages. You're kind of young. You got a license?
cousin ben		I can't offer you a legally binding union. It won't hold up in the state, the county, or, frankly, any courtroom in the world due to your age, lack of a license, and failure to get parental consent -- but the ritual does carry a very important moral weight within yourselves. You can't enter into this lightly. Do you love each other?
cousin ben		Are you sure you're ready for this?
cousin ben		Let me rephrase it.
suzy		 We're in a hurry.
cousin ben		 Spit out the gum, sister. In fact, everybody.
cousin ben		I don't like the snappy attitude. This is the most important decision you've made in your lives. Now go over by that trampoline and talk it through before you give me another quick answer.
sam		I guess we better try to pretend we're struggling over our decision for a minute before we go back over there and tell him --
suzy		Maybe he's right. It could be a mistake.
sam		What? Why? How?
suzy		Being married. Sometimes it seems sad to me. It might be better to just go steady permanently.
sam		I don't know what to say.
cousin ben		I guess they're probably just trying to pretend they're struggling over their decision, but at least --
skotak		Woah!
suzy		We're sure.
cousin ben		OK. Let's do a blood test.
cousin ben		-- which we hereby consecrate on this day, the fifth of September, 1965.  That's the end of the short-form. Do any of the witnesses have objections or remarks? Usually, they don't.
cousin ben		Skotak.
skotak		Can we loan them the nickels? I'm worried about their future.
cousin ben		 That's my fee.
nickleby		What's going to happen to them?
gadge		Nobody knows.
deluca		Let's take a vote.
skotak		All in favor --
cousin ben		 That's my fee.
cousin ben		You're just like your brothers. OK, give them the tennis ball can.
cousin ben		Sign here -- and initial here and here.
cousin ben		Take the carbon. Leave the Bible. Let's go.
nickleby		Where they going again?
gadge		He's going to work on a shrimper, if I understand correctly.
skotak		 I wish them well.
roosevelt		I think they're coming back.
cousin ben		Be quick, sailor!
skotak		 What happened?
sam		 She left her binoculars on a hook in the chapel tent.
deluca		 Just leave them.
sam		We can't. It's her magic power!
sam		You killed your dog, by the way.
redford		 Well, it couldn't be helped.
sam		Why do you consider me your enemy?
redford		Because your girlfriend stabbed me in the back with lefty scissors.
sam		She's my wife now.
redford		Congratulations.
sam		I'm saying before that. Six weeks ago. From day one. What'd I do wrong? I'm trying to understand.  Why don't you like me?
redford		 Why should I? Nobody else does.
redford		He's here! The fugitive! Stop him!
sam		I'm OK.
sam		Follow me!
commander pierce		Captain Sharp, we've located the missing troop. They just fled camp. We're in 
captain sharp		Stand by, Commander Pierce.
captain sharp		Jed, re-route to St. Jack Wood. Tell Social Services the boy's been spotted at Fort Lebanon.
captain sharp		Becky, notify the Bishops: Suzy's there.
captain sharp		Randy? You monitoring?
becky		Hello! Mr. Bishop?
jed		Tower control, this is Jed. Confirm co- ordinates for new destination: alpha-two- two-seven-one-fiver. Looking pretty soupy up here. Wouldn't mind setting down before the pot boils over.  Hang on, Social Services.
secretary mcintire		That's coming our way.
commander pierce		You find them?
team captain		No, sir.
commander pierce		 Prepare to mobilize to higher ground.
commander pierce		St. Jack Church is the designated storm shelter.  Notify all scouts to muster outside my tent on the double.
commander pierce		Attention, company! Prepare for --
commander pierce		Who's that?
commander pierce		You call yourself a Khaki Scout?
commander pierce		 Where's your goddamn troop? They could get killed out there!
commander pierce		 You're a liability to us.
secretary mcintire		 The incident may affect our insurance premiums.
commander pierce		I'm field-stripping you of your command.
commander pierce		Attention, company! Prepare for emergency evacuation!
secretary mcintire		Sir, do you have your medicine?
commander pierce		I'll be right back.
secretary mcintire		All accounted for, Scout Master!
cousin ben		Affirmative, sir!
captain sharp		Who's in charge here?
captain sharp		Randy! What happened?
becky		Are you all right?
social services		Where's the boy?
captain sharp		We don't know yet.
social services		That's not acceptable.
captain sharp		 Somebody get Jed a cup of coffee.
social services		You're Captain Sharp?
captain sharp		That's right.
social services		I'm Social Services. I remanded the boy to your personal custody. You're responsible for his safety. I'm told he was just struck by lightning.
captain sharp		That's the first I heard of it.
social services		Scout Master Ward, I presume?
social services		 Your reputation precedes you.
social services		You two are the most appallingly incompetent custodial guardians Social Services has ever had the misfortune to ENCOUNTER --  -- in a twenty-seven year career!
social services		What do you have to say for yourselves?
captain sharp		You can't do this. They'll eat him alive in there.
social services		 Where?
captain sharp		 What's the name of the place again?
captain sharp		 Juvenile refuge. That sounds like jail.
social services		Just find the boy -- and deliver him --  -- to Social Services. Nothing else is in your power.
social services		 Who are you?
social services		The parents of the stabber?
commander pierce		I want the details. Where's the scout she knifed?
secretary mcintire		Right here.
redford		Field Mate Redford, sir.
commander pierce		 What's his condition?
secretary mcintire		He may suffer some limited chronic kidney insufficiency. Here's the report.
social services		Let's go!
captain sharp		Nobody's going anywhere.
captain sharp		He's not getting shock therapy.
social services		That's it! I'm citing you for gross misconduct! You are hereby summoned to appear before the board of --
captain sharp		I'm writing you up back! Be notified that you stand accused of the mistreatment and IMPROPER --
social services		 What are you talking about?
captain sharp		 I won't let you do it!
redford		 Look!
captain sharp		They're gone.
captain sharp		 Sam?
social services		 They're here?
captain sharp		Where'd they go? Answer me!
captain sharp		Halt! Stop!
captain sharp		Stay there!
captain sharp		Where you going? What are you doing? Come down!
captain sharp		Social Services? Do you read me? Over!
suzy		We might have to swim for it.
sam		How deep is it? I didn't bring my life jacket.
suzy		I don't know, but if it's too shallow, we'll break our necks, anyway. Hang onto me.
sam		OK.
captain sharp		 Counsellors? What's the legal perspective? Over!
suzy		On three again.
suzy		I think you've still got lightning in you.
sam		Let's jump.
captain sharp		Goddammit!
captain sharp		Tell him! Over!
social services		Is this acceptable to you, Mr. Shakusky?
captain sharp		What do you think, pal?
captain sharp		We're coming down! Over and out.
captain sharp		Don't let go.
narrator		The Black Beacon storm was considered by the U.S. Department of Inclement Weather to be the region's most destructive 
narrator		It lingered through six high-tides and inundated the islands with punishing winds and extreme high waters.
narrator		On St. Jack Wood, powerful surges broke the arcade boardwalk and demolished the village bandstand and casino.
skotak		Yes, sir.
skotak		He doesn't have one.
narrator		The coastal areas of New Penzance were battered and changed forever.
narrator		But harvest yields the following autumn far exceeded any previously recorded, and the quality of the crops was said to be extraordinary.
sam		See you tomorrow.
****Dialogues from script :Moonstruck.txt****

zito's voice		 Three times they cancel the order with me, and three times they come back. Who they kidding? They cheap, cheap, cheap. The other bread they get is no good. They save pennies. Everybody complain and they come back. "Zito, your bread is the best." They're like children stupid in school who cannot learn. The water. It's the water. You buy bread in Hoboken, you get Hoboken water. Hoboken water is dry. Ask anybody who knows. Ask your father. He knows.
zito		You want me to make you some coffee?
loretta		What d'you know about coffee? Gimme a loaf of bread.
old woman		He looks great.
ruby		That Al Conti is a genius.
conti's voice		I am a genius.
loretta's voice		If you're such an artistic genius, why can't you keep track of your receipts? How am I going to do your income tax?
conti's voice		I am an artistic genius.
loretta		If you're an artistic genius, how come you got butter on your tie?
loretta		Give it here. I'll give you this, Al, you make good coffee.
florist's voice		Red roses. Very romantic. The man who sends these knows what he's doing.
loretta		The man who sends those spends a lot of money on something that ends up in the garbage can.
florist		I'm glad everybody ain't like you, Loretta. I'd be outta business.
loretta		Without me, you'd be out of business. I like flowers.
bobo		Are you ready?
bobo		Very good, Mr. Johnny.
bobo		Uh-huh
loretta		You don't want the fish.
loretta		It's the oily fish tonight. Not before the plane ride.
loretta		Give him the manicotta, Bobo. Me, too.
bobo		Yes, Miss Loretta.
loretta		 That will give you a base. For your stomach. You eat that oily fish, you go up in the air, halfway to Sicily you'll be green and your hands will be sweating.
perry		Patricia, please don't go!
patricia		What do you think I am, a talking dog?
perry		I was just making a point about the way you said... the way you stated your aspirations.
patricia		You can kiss my aspirations! Professor!
perry		Kiss my aspirations. Oh, very clever. The height of cleverness. Waiter!
shy waiter		Yes?
perry		Could you do away with her dinner, and any evidence of her, and bring me an big glass of vodka?
shy waiter		But absolutely!
loretta		She was too young for him.
eddie		What'samatter, Uncle Bobo?
bobo		Tonight Mr. Johnny's gonna propose marriage.
eddie		How you know that?
bobo		He arranged it with me. When he asks her, then he'll wave to me and I'll bring champagne. Good bachelor customer for twenty years. But who knows? Maybe he'll lose courage.
eddie		Heavy duty stuff.
perry		Can I get another one of these?
shy waiter		Definitely!
perry		May I presume to ask you a question?
shy waiter		Sure!
perry		Do you have a girlfriend?
shy waiter		I am alone in the world.
perry		That's very sad.
bobo		How's things?
loretta		Fine, Bobo. We'll take the check.
bobo		Very good.
loretta		You never have dessert.
loretta		What's the matter?
loretta		I shouldn't.
loretta		What?
loretta		Bobo, take the cart away.
loretta		 Are you proposing marriage to me?
loretta		You know I was married and that my husband died. But what you don't know is I think he and I had Bad Luck.
loretta		We got married at the City Hall and I think it gave bad luck the whole marriage.
loretta		Right from the start we didn't do it right. Could you kneel down?
loretta		Yes, on the floor.
loretta		I helped you buy it. It came with two pairs of pants. It's for luck, Johnny. When you propose marriage to a woman, you should kneel down.
perry		Is that man praying?
johnny		So. Will you ma...
loretta		 Where's the ring?
bob		 A ring. That's right.
mook		I woulda sprung for a ring if it was me.
bobo		She's got him on his knees. He's ruining his suit.
loretta		You could use your pinky ring.
loretta		You propose to a woman you should offer her a ring of engagement.
loretta		Yes, Johnny. Yes, John Anthony Cammareri. I will marry you. I will be your wife.
perry		I feel like I have just witnessed a car accident.
shy waiter		When I was twenty-seven years old, in Jersey City, I asked a woman to marry me. She had red hair. She smelled a jasmine. She wore black shoes with pointy white tips.
perry		What happened?
shy waiter		She didn't hear me. She asked me to repeat, so she could understand what I said. But I wouldn't repeat it. Outta shyness. So I'm a bachelor.
loretta		What time is it?
loretta		So we'll pick up the car, we'll make the plane in plenty of time.
bobo		I forgot to bring the champagne, Mr. Johnny.
loretta		What about the wedding?
loretta		How near is she to death?
loretta		Then let's set the date.
loretta		How about a month from today?
loretta		Where? At the City Hall? No! I want the whole wedding or we will have Bad Luck. For a whole wedding to be planned, a date must be set.
loretta		A month from today?
loretta		I'll take care of it, Johnny. I'll take care of the whole thing. All you have to do is show up.
ava		Oh, you're not going. You're staying.
gregory		No, I'm going.
ava		The Shawfish?
gregory		Just across the bay, at the fuel depot. The men wanted to try to get home. I can't explain.
ava		Then, I suppose the time has come say it's been nice Dwight Lionel. It's been everything. Oh, Dwight, I'm frightened.
gregory		I know, I am so sorry for so many things. I love you, Moira. I love you. I love you.
voice		 International Flight Number Six-ohfour boarding for Rome and Palermo at Gate Twenty-six.
loretta		Call me when you get in.
loretta		You've made me very happy, Johnny.
loretta		Who is he?
loretta		You have a brother?
loretta		Sure.
voice		This is the last call for International Flight Number Six-ohfour boarding at Gate Twenty-six for Rome and Palermo.
crone		Do you have someone on that plane?
loretta		Yeah.  My fianc.
crone		I have put a curse on that plane. My sister is on that plane. I have put a curse on that plane that it should explode. Burn on fire and fall into the sea. Fifty years ago she stole a man from me. Today she told me that she didn't even love him. She took him to feel strong with me. Now she goes back to Sicily. I have cursed her that the green Atlantic water should swallow her up.
loretta		I don't believe in curses.
crone		 Neither do I.
attendant		Mr. Johnny's, right?
loretta		Right. The key's in it.
attendant		Good night.
loretta		Night.
lotte		I've seen how you look at her and it isn't right.
irv		How do I look at her?  Can I help you?
loretta		A split of Moet.
lotte		 Like a wolf.
irv		 Like a wolf, huh? You never seen a wolf in your life.
irv		 That's seven-fifty-seven.
lotte		I seen a wolf in everybody I ever met and I see a wolf in you.
irv		 That makes ten. Thanks. Have a nice night.
loretta		You, too.
irv		You know what I see in you, Lotte?
lotte		What?
irv		The girl I married.
loretta		Hello, boys and girls. Guess what happened to me?
cosmo		Hi.
loretta		Where's Ma?
cosmo		Bed.
loretta		You're not sleepy?
cosmo		I can't sleep anymore. It's too much like death.
loretta		Pop, I got news.
cosmo		Alright. Let's go in the kitchen.
loretta		Here. 
cosmo		Ti amo.
loretta		You look tired.
cosmo		What's your news?
loretta		I'm getting married.
cosmo		Again?
loretta		Yeah.
cosmo		You did this once it didn't work out.
loretta		The guy died.
cosmo		What killed him?
loretta		He got hit by a bus.
cosmo		No! Bad luck! Your Ma and I been married fifty-two years an nobody died. You were married, what, two years, and somebody is dead. Don't get married again, Loretta. It don't work out for you. Who's the man?
loretta		Johnny Cammareri.
cosmo		Him? He's a big baby. Why isn't he here with you telling me?
loretta		He's flying to Sicily. His mother's dying.
cosmo		More Bad Luck! I don't like his face, Loretta. I don't like his lips. When he smiles I can't see his teeth. When will you do it?
loretta		In a month.
cosmo		I won't come.
loretta		You've got to come. You've got to give me away.
cosmo		I didn't give you away the first time.
loretta		And maybe that's why I had the Bad Luck. Maybe if you gave me away, and I got married in a church, in a wedding dress, instead of at the City Hall with strangers standing outside the door, maybe then I wouldn't had the Bad Luck I had.
cosmo		Maybe.
loretta		I didn't have no wedding cake, no reception or nothing. Johnny got down on his knees and proposed to me at The Grand Ticino.
cosmo		He did?
loretta		Yeah.
cosmo		That don't sound like Johnny. Where's the ring?
loretta		Here.
cosmo		It looks stupid. It's a pinky ring. It's a man's ring.
loretta		It's temporary.
cosmo		Everything is temporary. That don't excuse nothing.
loretta		So you'll come to the wedding, right?
cosmo		Let's go tell your Mother.
cosmo		Rose. Rose. Rose. Rose.
rose		Who's dead?
cosmo		Nobody. Loretta is getting married.
rose		Again? Johnny Cammareri.
cosmo		I don't like him.
rose		You're not gonna marry him, Cosmo. Do you love him, Loretta?
loretta		No.
rose		Good. When you love them they drive you crazy cause they know they can. But you like him?
loretta		Oh yeah. He's a sweet man. I wanna have a big church wedding, Ma. And a reception.
rose		And who's gonna pay for that?
loretta		Pop.
cosmo		WHAT?
loretta		Father of the bride pays.
cosmo		I have no money!
rose		You're rich as Roosevelt. You're just cheap, Cosmo.
cosmo		I won't pay for nothing.
rose		He didn't used to be cheap. He thinks if he holds on to his money, he will never die.
loretta		It's his duty as a father to pay for my wedding, Ma ...
rose		Now he's gonna play that damn Vicki Carr record. And then when he comes to bed, he won't touch me.
felix		It's wrong to just let them go.
old man		 Good morning, Lucy.
lucy		Good morning.
felix		They run around, they mess up the whole park.
old man		What do you want me to do? Pick up after five dogs? I'm eighty-three years old. God in his heaven understands that I cannot pick up after five dogs.
felix		You have too many dogs.
old man		 Lucy. There are big things going on in my house. My granddaughter Loretta, the only daughter of my son Cosmo, has engaged herself to be married a second time.
lucy		I have heard that Johnny Cammareri got down on his knees in The Grand Ticino and proposed to her.
old man		My son does not like this Johnny Cammareri. He says he is a big baby.
felix		You should have one dog. Like Lucy. Like me. I wish I hadda gun. If I hadda gun, I would shoot four of your dogs.
lucy		Don't fight.
old man		My granddaughter wants my son to pay for the wedding. But he does not want to pay.
lucy		He should pay.
old man		I don't know.
lucy		He owes her a wedding from the first time when there was none.
old man		Maybe. I don't know. He has not asked my advice. If he asks my advice, I don't know what I will say.
felix		I won't have to shoot those dogs. They will kill each other.
old man		You think so, huh, Stupid? Those dogs love each other.
rose		Will you live here?
loretta		No.
rose		Why not?
loretta		Pop don't like Johnny.
rose		So we'll sell the house.
loretta		I got married before, you didn't sell.
rose		Grandma was still alive. Chiro was still home going to school. Now he's married and gone to Florida. If you and Johnny moved in, had a baby...
loretta		I'm thirty-seven years old.
rose		What's thirty-seven? I had Chiro after I was thirty-seven. It ain't over till it's over.
loretta		Johnny has a big apartment. We'll live there.
rose		And we'll sell the house.
loretta		I'd like to stay, Ma. I love the house. But Pop don't like Johnny.
rose		No. He don't.
loretta		Hello? Yea, this is Loretta Castorini - yeah. Is that you Johnny?
loretta		How was your plane ride?
vesta		 How long must I wait?!
loretta		Have you told her we're getting married?
loretta's voice		Just don't wait until she's dead.
loretta's voice		Not yet.
loretta		Alright. I'll call him. Today. Listen, Johnny. Call me after you tell your mother. Alright? Alright. And don't stand directly under the sun. You've got your hat, use your hat. Alright. Bye-bye.
rose		How's the mother?
loretta		She's dying. But I could still hear her big mouth.
rose		Did he tell her?
loretta		Not yet. That old lady makes him sweat.  Where's that card?
rose		Who Are you calling?
chrissy		Cammareri's Bake Shop.
loretta		Is Ronny there?
chrissy		Hold on.  Ronny, the phone!
ronny		Yeah, this is Ronny.
loretta		I'm calling for your brother Johnny. He's getting married and he wants you to come.
ronny		Why didn't he call himself?
loretta		He's in Palermo.
ronny		What's wrong can never be made right. 
loretta		Let me come and talk to you.
loretta		Is Ronny Cammareri here?
chrissy		He down at the ovens. What do you want?
loretta		I would like to speak to him.
chrissy		Hey, RONNY.
rocco		What!
chrissy's voice		Somebody to see Ronny.
rocco		Ronny!
ronny		What!
rocco		Somebody here to see you.
ronny		Have you come from my brother?
loretta		Yes.
ronny		Why?
loretta		I'm going to marry him.
ronny		You are going to marry my brother?
loretta		Yes. Do you want...
ronny		I have no life.
loretta		Excuse me.
ronny		I have no life. My brother Johnny took my life from me.
loretta		I don't understand.
ronny		And now he's getting married. He has his, he's getting his. And he wants me to come? What is life?
loretta		I didn't come here to upset you.
ronny		They say bread is life. So I bake bread, bread, bread.  And the years go by! By! By! And I sweat and shovel this stinking dough in and outta this hot hole in the wall and I should be so happy, huh, sweetheart? You want me to come to the wedding of my brother Johnny?!! Where is my wedding? Chrissy! Over by the wall! Gimme the big knife!
chrissy		No, Ronny!
ronny		Gimme the big knife! I'm gonna cut my throat!
loretta		Maybe I should come back another time.
ronny		No, I want you to see this! I want you to watch me kill myself so you can tell my brother on his wedding day! Chrissy, gimme the big knife!
chrissy		I tell you I won't do it!
ronny		 Do you know about me?
barbara		Oh, Mr. Cammareri!
ronny		Nothing is anybody's fault, but things happen.  Look.
ronny		It's wood. It's fake. Five years ago I was engaged to be married. Johnny came in here, he ordered bread from me. I put it in the slicer and I talked with him and my hand got caught cause I wasn't paying attention. The slicer chewed off my hand. It's funny 'cause - when my fianc saw that I was maimed, she left me for another man.
loretta		That's the bad blood between you and Johnny?
ronny		That's it.
loretta		But that wasn't Johnny's fault.
ronny		I don't care! I ain't no freakin monument to justice! I lost my hand, I lost my bride! Johnny has his hand, Johnny has his bride! You come in here and you want me to put away my heartbreak and forget?
ronny		Is it just a matter of time till a man opens his eyes and gives up his one dream of happiness? Maybe. Maybe. All I have... Have you come here, Stranger, Bride of my Brother, to take these last few loaves from my table? Alright. Alright.
chrissy		This is the most tormented man I have ever known. I am in love with this man. He doesn't know that. I never told him cause he can never love anybody since he lost his hand and his girl.
chrissy		Here. Why don't you just kill him? It would be so much more kind than coming here and inviting him to a wedding like he'll never have.
loretta		Where you live?
ronny		Upstairs.
loretta		Come on.
cosmo		And then there is copper, which is the only pipe I use. It costs money. But it costs money because it saves money.
mona		And what did they say?
cosmo		The man understood me. The woman wanted to be cheap, but the man saw that I was right.
mona		You have such a head for knowing. You know everything.
cosmo		I brought you something.
cosmo		It's a present.
mona		Oh, Cosmo!
cosmo		They are little stars and birds. Birds fly to the stars, I guess.
loretta		You ready for the coffee?
ronny		Loretta. What's that smell?
loretta		I'm making you a steak.
ronny		You don't have to help me.
loretta		I know that. I do what I want.
ronny		I like it well done.
loretta		You'll eat this bloody to feed your blood.
ronny		This is good. Uhh...
loretta		Loretta.
ronny		Where'd Johnny find you?
loretta		He knew my husband who died.
ronny		How'd he die?
loretta		Bus hit him.
ronny		Fast.
loretta		Instantaneous.
ronny		When you get engaged?
loretta		Yesterday.
ronny		Why?
loretta		Why what?
ronny		I don't know.
loretta		 So. Five years ago your hand got cut off and your woman left you for another man. No woman since then?
ronny		No.
loretta		Stupid.
ronny		When your husband get hit by the bus?
loretta		Seven years ago.
ronny		How many men since then?
loretta		Just Johnny.
ronny		Stupid yourself.
loretta		No. Unlucky. I have not been lucky.
ronny		I don't care about Luck, you understand me? It ain't that.
loretta		What? Do you think you're the only one ever shed a tear?
ronny		Why you talking to me?
loretta		You got any whiskey? How 'bout giving me a glass of whiskey?
ronny		She was right to leave me.
loretta		You think so?
ronny		Yes.
loretta		You really are stupid, you know that.
ronny		You don't know nothing about it.
loretta		I was raised that a girl gets married young. I didn't get married until I was twenty-eight. I met a man. I loved him. I married him. He wanted to have a baby right away. I said no. Then he got hit by a bus. No man. No baby. No nothing! I did not know that man was a gift I could not keep. I didn't know... You tell me a story and you think you know what it means, but I see what the true story is, and you can't.  She didn't leave you! You can't see what you are. I can see everything. You are a wolf!
ronny		I'm a wolf?
loretta		The big part of you has no words and it's-a wolf. This woman was a trap for you. She caught you and you could not get away.  Johnny had nothing to do with it. You did what you had to do, between you and you, and I know I'm right, I don't care what you say. And now you're afraid because you found out the big part of you is a wolf that has the courage to bite off its own hand to save itself from the trap of the wrong love. That's why there has been no woman since that wrong woman. You are scared to death what the wolf will do if you make that mistake again!
ronny		What are you doing!
loretta		I'm telling you your life!
ronny		Stop it!
loretta		No!
ronny		Why are you marrying Johnny? He's a fool!
loretta		Because I have no Luck!
ronny		 He made me look the wrong way and I cut off my hand. He could make you look the wrong way and you could cut off your whole head!
loretta		I am looking where I should to become a bride!
ronny		A bride without a head!
loretta		A wolf without a foot!
loretta		Wait a minute! Wait a minute!
ronny		It's like I'm falling! It's like I'm in the ocean!
loretta		I have no Luck!
ronny		Son of a bitch!
loretta		Where are you taking me?
ronny		To the bed.
loretta		Oh. Oh God. I don't care about anything. I don't care about anything! Take me to the bed.
ronny		I can't believe what is happening.
loretta		Me neither.
ronny		I was dead.
loretta		I was dead, too.
ronny		Your blood.
loretta		All my life I have never reached a man. I knew that I would reach my husband, but I took my time and he was dead. Ronny.
ronny		Loretta.
loretta		I want to cut you open and crawl inside of you. I want you to swallow me.
ronny		I've got you.
loretta		Get all of me. Take everything.
ronny		What about Johnny?
loretta		You're mad at him, take it out on me, take your revenge on me! Take everything, leave nothing for him to marry! Hollow me out so there's nothing left but the skin over my bones. Suck me dry!
ronny		Alright. Alright. There will be nothing left.
cosmo		Where's Loretta? We're gonna start without her.
rose's voice		She must be eating out.
raymond's voice		She don't know what she's missing.
rose's voice		It's not like her not to call.
rita's voice		Well, she's got a lot on her mind.
rita		I mean, can we talk about it, Rose? Everybody's heard. She's getting married again.
cosmo		I don't wanna talk about it.
raymond		Johnny Cammareri. I think it's great and about time. What's she gonna do with the rest of her life she don't get married?
cosmo		I don't wanna talk about it.
cosmo		My father needs a plate.
raymond		Cosmo. Many years ago, when they told me you were marrying my sister, I was happy. When I told Rose I was marrying Rita, she was happy.
rita		Marriage is happy news.
cosmo		Rose, pass the wine.
raymond		I never seen anybody so in love like Cosmo back then! He'd stand outside the house all day and look in the windows. I never told you this cause it's not really a story. But one time I woke up in the middle of the night cause this bright light was in my face. Like a flashlight. I couldn't think a what it was. I looked out the window, and it was the moon! Big as a house! I never seen the moon so big before or since. I was almost scared, like it was gonna crush the house. And I looked down, and standing there in the street was Cosmo, looking up at the windows. This is the funny part. I got mad at you, Cosmo! I thought you brought this big moon over to my house cause you were so in love and woke me up with it. I was half asleep I guess and didn't know no better.
cosmo		You were altogether asleep. You were dreaming.
raymond		No. You were there.
cosmo		I don't wanna talk about it.
rose		 Well, what do you wanna talk about!
cosmo		Rita. Pass the wine.
rose		Why you drinking so much?
rose		Old Man, if you give another piece of my food to those dogs, I'm gonna kick you till you're dead!
rose		Cosmo?
rose		You drank too much and now you sleep too hard, and later you'll be up when you should be down.
loretta		What's that?
ronny		What?
loretta		That light.
ronny		I don't know. I think it's the moon.
loretta		Oh.
ronny		It's so bright.
loretta		I've never seen a moon like that.
ronny		It makes you look like an angel.
ronny		Yeah. Looks like a big snowball.
raymond		Rita. Rita.
rita		 What? What?
raymond		Look.
rita		Oh.
raymond		It's Cosmo's moon.
rita		What are you talking about, Raymond? Cosmo can't own the moon.
raymond		I mean it's that moon I was talking about at dinner.  Is he down there? No.
rita		Is who down there?
raymond		Cosmo.
rita		What would he be doing down there?
raymond		I don't know.
rita		You know, in this light, and with that expression on your face, you look about twenty-five years old.
old man		Alright now. Howl. Howl.
old man		How long must I wait? Quanto tempo devo aspettare!
loretta		Oh my God.
ronny		What?
loretta		What? What have we done?
ronny		 Take it easy.
loretta		 This time I was trying to do everything right.
ronny		 Don't just become excited.
loretta		I thought if I stayed away from the City Hall, I won't have that Bad Luck I had again.
ronny		You're trying to make me feel guilty.
loretta		I'm marrying your brother!
ronny		All right, I'm guilty. I confess!
loretta		You're invited to the wedding! It's in a few weeks. Why didn't you do like him and be with your dying mother in Palermo?
ronny		She didn't like me.
loretta		You don't get along with anybody!
ronny		What did you do?
loretta		What did I do?
ronny		You ruined my life.
loretta		That's impossible! It was ruint when I got here! You ruint my life!
ronny		Oh no I didn't!
loretta		Oh yes, oh yes you did! You've got those bad eyes like a gypsy! Why didn't I see it yesterday! Bad Luck! Is that all I'm ever gonna have? Why didn't I just pick up a stone and kill myself years and years ago? I'm gonna marry him!
ronny		What?
loretta		Last night never happened, you hear me? I'm gonna marry him anyway and last night never happened, and you and I are gonna take this to our coffins!
ronny		I can't do that!
loretta		Why not?
ronny		I'm in love with you!
loretta		Snap out of it!
ronny		I can't!
loretta		Alright. Then I must never see you again. The bad blood will have to stay there between you and Johnny for all time. You won't come to the wedding.
ronny		I'll come to the wedding.
loretta		I'm telling you you can't.
ronny		But he wants me to come!
loretta		But that's cause he don't know!
ronny		Alright. I will not come. Provided one thing.
loretta		What?
ronny		That you come with me tonight. Once. To the Opera.
loretta		What are you talking about?
ronny		I love two things. I love you, and I love the Opera. If I can have the two things that I love together for one night, I will be satisfied to give up the rest of my life.
loretta		Alright.
ronny		Alright. Meet me at the Met.
loretta		Alright. Where's the Met?
loretta		Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. It's been two months since my last confession.
priest		What sins have you to confess?
loretta		Twice I took the name of God in vain, once I slept with the brother of my fianc, and once I bounced a check at the liquor store -- but that was really an accident.
priest		Then it was not a sin. But what was that second thing you said, Loretta?
loretta		I... a... slept with my fianc's brother.
priest		That's a pretty big sin.
loretta		I know.
priest		You should think about this.
loretta		I know.
priest		Alright. This is your penance. Say two rosaries and... be careful, Loretta. Reflect on your life.
loretta		Alright.
priest		I absolve you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, Amen.
loretta		Hi.
rose		 Where you been?
loretta		I don't wanna talk about it.
rose		Just like your father. I lied to him. He thinks you came home last night.
loretta		Thanks. What's the matter with you?
rose		Cosmo's cheating on me.
loretta		What! How do you know?
rose		A wife knows.
loretta		Then you don't know. You're just imagining it. He's too old.
loretta		I won't be home for dinner.
harvey		See you tomorrow, Chrissy.
chrissy		Okay, Harvey.
barbara		So what do you think?
chrissy		About what?
barbara		The cake!
chrissy		 Where's Ronny? How come he ain't come down?
barbara		How should I know?
chrissy		Hello, Cammareri's? Hi. Uh-huh. Okay.
chrissy		That was Ronny. He don't feel good. He ain't gonna be down today.
barbara		What, is he still upset?
chrissy		It's that bitch!
raymond		 I feel great I got no sleep but I feel like Orlando Furioso!
rita		 You were a tiger last night.
raymond		And you were a lamb. As soft as milk.
rita		Shut up. They'll hear you in the back.
raymond		So what? The pleasure of marriage is you sleep with the woman and then you don't worry about nothing. Hey, how about a date tonight, Rita. Let's eat pasta and roll around.
rita		 Raymond, Raymond, lower your voice! What's got into you?
raymond		I don't know! That moon! That crazy moon Cosmo sent over!
loretta		Hi.
raymond		Hey there  ...YOU WITH THE STARS IN YOUR EYES...
loretta		 What's the matter with him?
rita		You got me.
raymond		You see that moon last night?
loretta		 What about the moon?
raymond		Did you see it?
loretta		 No.
raymond		Oh.
loretta		Listen, I gotta go. I'll take the deposit to the bank but I'll do the books tomorrow. I gotta go.
raymond		You gotta date?
rita		What are you talking about, you fool? Her fianc's in Palermo.
raymond		Oh. Right.
loretta		I got things to do.
rita		Sure you do. You got all that wedding stuff.
loretta		Right.
raymond		Well, that's romantic, too.  ...ISN'T IT ROMANTIC...
raymond		HEY. Make me a bowl of minestrone.
rita		What's the matter? You look crazy.
loretta		I got a lot on my mind, Aunt Rita.
old man		At dinner, my daughter-in-law threatened to kill me. Things are very bad in my house.
felix		Hurry up.
lucy		Don't fight.
old man		If I hit the stick too hard, the apple will split. If I am too timid, the apple will fall off the stick.
felix		We're supposed to do fifty apples. We only got twelve done.
old man		I don't know what to advise my son. I think he should pay for the wedding, but it is important that he don't look ridiculous.
lucy		Don't make yourself sick.
old man		Cosmo drank five glasses of wine at dinner.
lucy		Talk to him.
old man		I will. But I must find the right moment.
lucy		Did you see the moon last night?
old man		Yes!
felix		 Hurry up, hurry up. We open in five minutes.
loretta		Bye, Aunt Rita.
rita		Bye, bye, honey. See you tomorrow?
loretta		Yeah, I'll be in.
bonnie		So? You want the usual?
loretta		I want you to get rid of the grey.
bonnie		I've been wanting to do this for three years! Let me show you some magazines! You've got to get a manicure! And your eyebrows! Sheila! I'm gonna need help!
loretta		Ma! Grandpa! No? Okay.
ronny		Hi.
loretta		Hi.
ronny		You look beautiful. Your hair...
loretta		I thought I'd try it.  You look good.
ronny		Thank you.
loretta		I said I'd go to the opera with you. Nothing else.
loretta		Who painted that?
ronny		Marc Chagall. A Russian.
loretta		Kinda gaudy.
ronny		He was having some fun. Yeah, well he's dead.  Come on, let's go in.
ronny		Thank you!
loretta		For what?
ronny		I don't know. For your hair. For your beautiful dress. For... you know, I feel like a man again. You know I love the Opera. You know it's been a long time since I've been to the Opera.
loretta		So. Where are we sitting?
ronny		Come on.
ronny		Here we go.
jimmy		Hello, Mrs. Castorini. Who's coming?
rose		It's just me. I want to eat.
jimmy		Okay.
jimmy		I got a table for you right now.
jimmy		This alright?
rose		Fine.
jimmy		Enjoy your meal.
bobo		Good evening Mrs. Castorini. You eating alone tonight?
rose		Hello, Bobo. Yes. Let me have a martini, no ice and two olives.
bobo		Very good.
sheila's voice		I'm trying to explain to you how I feel. Every time I try to explain how I feel, you explain how you feel. I don't think that's really much of a response.
bobo		You wanna see a menu?
rose		Not yet. I'll wave.
sheila's voice		I really do hate it though, when you take that tone with me. Like you're above it all and isn't it amusing.
man's voice		But it is, isn't it?
sheila's voice		Not to me! This is my life, no matter how damned comical it may seem to you. I don't need some man standing above the struggle while I roll around in the mud!
man's voice		I think you like the mud and I don't. That's fair, isn't it? If I don't care to...
perry		Sorry about that, folks. She's a very pretty mental patient.
perry		Don't mind about me. But could you do me a favor and clear her place and take away all evidence of her, and bring me a big glass of vodka?
shy waiter		Absolutely!
perry		I'm sorry if we disturbed you.
rose		I'm not disturbed. By you.
perry		My lady friend has a personality disorder.
rose		She was just too young for you.
perry		 Thanks, comrade.
shy waiter		It's nothing!
perry		 Ouch. Too young! I just got that. You know how to hurt guy. How old are you?
rose		None of your business.
perry		Sorry. That was rude.
rose		Will you join me for dinner?
perry		Are you sure?
perry		Then I'd be delighted. I hate eating alone, and it's amazing how often I end up doing just that.
rose		What do you do?
perry		I'm a professor. I teach communications at N.Y.U.
rose		That woman was a student of yours?
perry		Sheila? Yes she was. Is. Was.
rose		There's old saying my mother told me. Would you like to hear it?
perry		Yes.
rose		Don't shit where you eat.
perry		 I'll remember that. What do you do?
rose		I'm a housewife.
perry		Then why are you eating alone?
rose		I'm not eating alone. Can I ask you a question?
perry		Go ahead.
rose		Why do men chase women?
perry		 Nerves.
rose		I think it's because they fear death.
perry		Maybe. Listen. You wanna know why I chase women? I find women charming.
perry		I teach these classes I've taught for a million years. The spontaneity went out of it for me a long time ago. I started off, I was excited about something and I wanted to share it. Now it's rote, it's the multiplication table. Except sometimes. Sometimes I'm droning along and I look up, and there's this fresh young beautiful face, and it's all new to her and I'm this great guy who's just brilliant and thinks out loud. And when that happens, when I look out among those chairs and look at a young woman's face, and see me there in her eyes, me the way I always wanted to be and maybe once was, then I ask her out on a date. It doesn't last. It can go for a few weeks or a couple of precious months, but then she catches on that I'm just a burnt out old gasbag and that she's as fresh and bright and full of promise as moonlight in a martini. And at that moment, she stands up and throws a glass of water in my face, or some action to that effect.
rose		What you don't know about women is a lot.
loretta		They get some turnout for this stuff.
ronny		It's the best thing there is.
loretta		I like parts of it, but I don't really get it.
mona		You haven't once said you like my dress.
cosmo		I like your dress.  It's very bright.
mona		Why you looking around so much?
cosmo		I don't know. I got a feeling.
mona		I'm wearing your bracelet.
perry		May I walk with you a ways?
rose		Sure.
perry		You knew that man?
rose		Yes.
loretta		That was just so... awful!
ronny		Awful?
loretta		Beautiful. Sad. She died!
ronny		 Yeah.
loretta		I couldn't believe it! I didn't think she was going to die. I knew she was sick...
ronny		She had TB.
loretta		I know. She was coughing her brains out. And still, she had to sing all the time...
loretta		Pop?
cosmo		Wait for me by the doors, Mona.
loretta		Pop? What are you doing here?
cosmo		Excuse me.
loretta		Mona?
cosmo		What'd you do to your hair?
loretta		I got it done.
cosmo		What are you doing here?
loretta		What are you doing here?
cosmo		Who is this man? You're engaged!
loretta		You're married.
cosmo		You're my daughter. I won't have you acting like a tramp!
loretta		You're my father.
cosmo		Alright. I didn't see you here.
loretta		I don't know whether I saw you or not.
ronny		Let's get outta here. I'll buy you a drink.
loretta		That wasn't my mother.
rose's voice		That's my house.
perry's voice		You mean the whole house?
rose's voice		Yes.
perry's voice		My God, it's a mansion!
rose's voice		It's a house.
perry's voice		I live in a one-bedroom apartment. What exactly does your husband do?
rose's voice		He's a plumber.
perry's voice		Well. That explains it.
perry		Temperature's dropping.
rose		Yes.
perry		I guess you can't invite me in?
rose		No.
perry		People home.
rose		No. I think the house is empty. I can't invite you in because I'm married and because I know who I am. You're shaking.
perry		I'm a little cold.
rose		You're a little boy and you like to be bad.
perry		We could go to my apartment. You could see how the other half lives.
rose		I'm too old for you.
perry		I'm too old for me. That's my predicament.
rose		Good night.
perry		Good night. Can I kiss you on the cheek, too?
rose		Sure.
perry		I'm freezing
rose		Good night.
al		Another Old-Fashion?
ronny		Loretta?
loretta		No thanks.
ronny		 I think that's it.
ronny		What do you want to do now?
loretta		I wanna go home.
loretta		It's really cold.
ronny		Yeah. It smells like snow.
loretta		My mother guessed that my father was seeing somebody and I told her she was crazy. She looked like a real piece of cheap goods. But who am I to talk?
ronny		What's the matter?
loretta		How can you ask me that?
ronny		You're making me feel guilty again.
loretta		You are guilty. I'm guilty.
ronny		Of what? Only God can point the finger, Loretta.
loretta		I know what I know.
ronny		And what do you know? You tell me my life? I'll tell you yours. I'm a wolf? You run to the wolf in me, that don't make you no lamb! You're gonna marry my brother? Why you wanna sell your life short? Playing it safe is just about the most dangerous thing a woman like you could do. You waited for the right man the first time, why didn't you wait for the right man again?
loretta		He didn't come!
ronny		I'm here!
loretta		You're late!
ronny		We're here.
loretta		This is your place.
ronny		That's right.
loretta		This is where we're going!
ronny		Yeah.
loretta		The deal was if I came to the Opera with you you'd leave me alone forever.
loretta		I went with you.  Ronny? Are you listening to me?
ronny		Yeah.
loretta		I'm really afraid.
ronny		Why?
loretta		I'm afraid of who I am.
ronny		I was.
loretta		And you're not now?
loretta		Why not?
ronny		I don't know. Everything seems like nothing now against that I want you in my bed. I don't care if I burn in hell. I don't care if you burn in hell. The Past and Future is a joke to me now. I see that they're nothing, I see they ain't here. The only thing that's here is you. And me. I want you to come upstairs. Now. I tried to take everything last night, like you told me, but I couldn't. I couldn't take everything in a hundred years. It's the way we are. We compound each other.
loretta		Let me go home.
ronny		No.
loretta		Let me go home.
ronny		No.
loretta		I'm freezing to death.
ronny		Come upstairs. I don't care why you come. No, that's not what I mean. Loretta, I love you. Not like they told you love is and I didn't know this either. But love don't make things nice, it ruins everything, it breaks your heart, it makes things a mess. We're not here to make things perfect. Snowflakes are perfect. The stars are perfect. Not us. We are here to ruin ourselves and break our hearts and love the wrong people and die! The storybooks are bullshit. Come upstairs with me, baby! Don't try to live your life out to somebody else's idea of sweet happiness. Don't try to live on milk and cookies when what you want is meat! Red meat just like me! It's wolves run with wolves and nothing else! You're a wolf just like me! Come upstairs with me and get in my bed! Come on! Come on! Come on!
rose		Moving in?
rose		Come on in.
rose		She's not home yet. Take off your coat and come in the living room. I'll make you a drink. I wanna talk to you.
rose		So.
rose		Out. I don't know where. I was waiting up for my husband.
rose		Yes.
rose		What are you doing here? You're supposed to be in Palermo.
rose		A miracle. Well, that's news.
rose		You're kidding?
rose		That's incredible.
rose		Hello Pop.
rose		That was my father-in-law, who has a wrong idea in his head. Listen, Johnny, there's a question I want to ask you. And I want you to tell me the truth if you can. Why do men chase women?
rose		But why would a man need more than one woman?
rose		That's it! That's the reason!
rose		No, that's really it. Thank you for answering my question.
cosmo		Hi.  Hi.
rose		Where you been?
cosmo		I don't know, Rose. I don't know where I've been, and I don't know where I'm going.  You should have your eyes opened for you, my friend.
cosmo		You do, huh? Stick around. Don't go on any long trips.
cosmo		I know you don't. That's the point. I'll say no more.
cosmo		And that's how much I'm saying.
rose		Cosmo?
cosmo		What?
rose		I just want you to know. No matter what you do. You are going to die, just like everybody else.
cosmo		Thank you, Rose.
rose		You're welcome.
cosmo		I'm going to bed now.
cosmo's voice		 Good!
rose		 He doesn't like you. Thank you for answering my question.
rose		No idea.
rose		Okay, I'll tell her.
rose		What the hell happened to you?
loretta		Well. I don't really know where to start.
rose		Your hair's different.
loretta		Everything's different.
rose		Are you drunk?
loretta		No. Are you drunk?
rose		No. But I have a hangover.
loretta		Where's pop?
rose		Upstairs. Johnny Cammareri showed up last night.
loretta		What? He's in Sicily!
rose		No more he's not.
loretta		He's with his dying mother!
rose		She recovered.
loretta		WHAT!! She was dying!
rose		It was a miracle.
loretta		A miracle? This is modern times! There ain't supposed to be miracles any more!
rose		I guess it ain't modern times in Sicily. He came right from the airport. He wanted to talk to you. You got a love bite on your neck. He's coming back this morning.
rose		It's not Johnny.
loretta		Ronny!
ronny		Is Johnny here?
loretta		He's coming.
ronny		Good! We can get this out on the table. 
rose		Nice to meet you. You've got a love bite on your neck. Your mother's recovered from death.
ronny		Oh. Good. We're not close. I'm not really moved.
loretta		You've gotta get outta here.
ronny		No. I'm gonna wait.
loretta		 Ronny, please...
rose		Would anyone like some oatmeal?
ronny		 Yes, I would like some oatmeal.
rose		Cosmo, this is Ronny, Johnny's brother.
cosmo		His brother.
cosmo		You're Johnny's brother?
ronny		Yeah.
old man		I am old. The Old are not wanted. And what they say has no weight. But, my son, I must speak. You should pay for the wedding of your only daughter. You are breaking your house through pride. There. I've said it.
cosmo		It's okay, Pop. If she gets married, I'll pay for the whole thing.
rose		Have I been a good wife?
cosmo		Yes.
rose		I want you to stop seeing her.
cosmo		Okay.
rose		And go to confession.
cosmo		 A man... under stands one day... that his life is built on nothing. And that's a bad, crazy day.
rose		Your life is not built on nothing. Ti amo.
cosmo		Ti amo.
loretta		It's Johnny. I'll get it.
ronny		I'll get it.
rose		I'll get it.
ronny		 No, I'll tell him.
loretta		No, I'll tell him.  What am I going to tell him?
cosmo		Tell him the truth, Loretta they find out anyway.
loretta		I love you Pop.
rita		Hi Loretta.
loretta		Hi.
raymond		Hi, Loretta.
loretta		Hi. Why ain't you at the store?
rita		Is there anything you want to tell us, honey?
loretta		You? No.
raymond		We just come from the bank.
loretta		The bank. OH MY GOD, I FORGOT TO MAKE THE DEPOSIT!
rita		 She's got it.
raymond		I knew she had it.
rita		We didn't know what to think. You were so weird yesterday, and then this morning, we go to the bank and no bag.
raymond		 WE NEVER SUSPECTED YOU!
rose		Listen. Who wants coffee?
rita		So what are we doing?
rose		We're waiting for Johnny Cammareri.
ronny		I'm his brother.
ta		 Nice to meet you. I'm Rita Cappomaggi.
raymond		 I'm Raymond Cappomaggi. I'm Rose's brother.
ronny		Nice to meet you.
old man		Somebody tell a joke!
rita		I'll get it.
loretta		I'm getting palpitations!
raymond		I thought he was in Palermo.
rita		It's Johnny Cammareri.
loretta		Johnny.
ronny		Johnny...
ronny		Good.
ronny		Well. Yeah. You may not want to.
loretta		I don't know. But Johnny, how did your mother recover? She was dying.
loretta		I can't. I need my family around me now.
ronny		I'm sure she did.
loretta		Johnny, I have something to tell you.
loretta		I have no secrets from my family.
loretta		WHAT?
loretta		What the hell are you talking about? We're engaged.
ronny		Loretta, what are you talking about?
loretta		I'm talking about a promise. You proposed to me!
ronny		You're forty-two years old, Johnny, and Mama is still running your life.
loretta		And you're a big liar! I've got your ring here!
loretta		Here! Take your stupid pinky ring.  Who needs it? The engagement's off.
loretta		In time, you will drop dead, and I will come to your funeral in a red dress.
ronny		Loretta?
loretta		What!
ronny		Will you marry me.
loretta		Where's the ring?
ronny		Could I a... borrow that ring.
ronny		Thanks.
ronny		Will you marry me, Loretta Castorini Clark?
loretta		Before all these people, yes, I will marry you, Ronny Cammareri!
rose		Do you love him, Loretta?
loretta		Yeah, Ma, I love him awful.
rose		Oh God, that's too bad.
cosmo		What's the matter, Pop?
old man		 I'M CONFUSED !
loretta		Wait a minute! Wait a minute!
cosmo		Everybody take a glass.
old man		 Wait.
old man		 Here.
cosmo		To... the family. Right? Ti amo.
rose		Ti amo.
raymond		That's right.
****Dialogues from script :Mr_Blandings_Builds_His_Dream_House.txt****

written by		 Melvin Frank and Norman Panama
voice		In any discussion of contemporary America and how its people live, we must inevitably start with -- Manhattan -- New York City, U.S.A!
voice		Manhattan -- glistening, modern giant of concrete and steel reaching to the heavens and holding in its arms seven millions!
voice		Seven millions -- happy beneficiaries of the advantages and comforts this gracious metropolis has to offer...
voice		 Its fine broad streets and boulevards facilitate the New Yorker's carefree, orderly existence.
voice		 Kindly, courteous public servants ever on hand to offer a word of friendly advice.
voice		 A transportation system second to none in speed and comfort!
voice		 Modern recreational facilities for its children!
voice		 For its adults, the peace and privacy of a day in the sun!
voice		 It's delightful changes in climate!
voice		 Its great institutions of learning! Open to all. Free of charge.
bill		I suppose you're wondering what all this has to do with Mr. Blandings and his Dream House? Well, I'll tell you. Jim Blandings is part of the fabric of this town. Born and raised right here, he's as typical a New Yorker as anyone you'll ever meet. At least he was.  And if you want to know the real story, I guess I'm your boy. Cole's my name, Bill Cole. I'm Jim's lawyer and quote, best friend, unquote. Jim's one of those bright young men from Yale. Advertising business, lovely wife, two fine kids, makes almost fifteen thousand a year. Want to know why? Just look up there.
bill's voice		"When you've got the whim, say 'Wham!'"... Jim Blandings wrote that slogan. Seven magic words that shine like a beacon light for the American housewife!  "When you've got the whim, say 'Wham!'" Jim Blandings' contribution to the American Scene.
bill's voice		For fourteen years Jim and Muriel had been living in their apartment over on East Seventy-fourth Street. It was just another of those wonderful crisp September mornings and the Blandings were still asleep. Just like millions of other people in good old Manhattan -- New York City -- U.S.A.
betsy's voice		Okay, dad.
jim		Mm.
joan		Okay, dad.
jim		Mm.
gussie		'Morning, Mr. Blandings!
jim		 Mm.
jim		Muriel.
muriel		Mm?
jim		Coffee.
muriel		Thank you, dear.
muriel		Looking for something, dear?
jim		 My socks.
muriel		Why don't you look in your sock drawer?
jim		 That's where I found my underwear.
muriel		Oh.  Well, try your underwear drawer.
jim		I'm in my underwear drawer.
muriel		 Socks just don't get up and walk away by themselves.
jim		 Muriel, I thought the top two-and-a- half drawers were to be mine! I wish you'd tell Gussie --
muriel		The closet! That's where they are. We put them in the closet.
jim		Socks? In the closet?
muriel		Well, there didn't seem to be any room in the drawers...
jim		And there's so much of it in the closet!
muriel		...so Gussie and I decided that from now on we'll keep them in a basket on the shelf.
jim		Well, thanks a lot!
muriel		Jim, I do wish you'd make an effort to be a little less clumsy.
jim		 I'll try, dear.
joan		 Father, just one morning I wish you'd knock!
jim		 'Morning, dear.
muriel		 Excuse...
jim		Excuse...
jim		 If you don't mind, dear.
muriel		 Sorry.
muriel		Moment, dear.
jim		Take your time. I can spare the blood.
muriel		 Oh... cut yourself?
jim		I cut myself every morning. I kind of look forward to it.
muriel		Why don't you get an electric razor?
jim		 Don't like them. No close shave.
muriel		Ridiculous! Bill Cole's been using one for years.
jim		He doesn't have my beard!
muriel		That's silly. Bill's beard is just as tough and coarse and --
jim		 I'm not interested in discussing the grain and texture of Bill Cole's hair follicles before I've had my orange juice.
muriel		You don't have to carry on so. I only said, why don't you get an electric razor?
jim		Because I prefer the cool, clean sweep of the tempered steel as it glides smoothly --
muriel		Stop writing advertising copy! Hurry up, dear, you'll be late for breakfast.
jim		...Who did this?
betsy		 I did.
jim		I have repeatedly told you --  -- don't cut up the morning paper until I've had a chance to look at it!
betsy		I'm sorry, father. It's necessary research.
jim		 I suppose this is another of Miss Stellwagon's so-called Progressive Projects?
muriel		 Now dear, there just isn't any point in sending your children to an expensive school if you're going to undermine the teacher's authority in your own dining room.
jim		I'm not undermining anything. I happen to be in the advertising business and keeping abreast of the times is important to me.
muriel		And so is your children's education.
jim		That's not the point.
muriel		It certainly is.
jim		It certainly is not!
joan		 Bicker, bicker, bicker.
jim		You eat your cornflakes!
muriel		 What is it, dear, another English composition?
betsy		 I found one typical of the disintegration of our present society.
jim		 I wasn't aware of the fact that our society was disintegrating.
betsy		I didn't expect you to be, father. Miss Stellwagon says that middle- class people like us are all too prone to overlook the pressures and tensions which befall the less fortunate members of our community.
jim		 Muriel, I know it's asking a lot, but just one morning I would like to sit down and have breakfast without social significance!
muriel		Jim, you really might take a little more interest in your children's education.
joan		 You can't squeeze blood from a turnip.
jim		All right. All right. I'll listen.
betsy		 It's just twenty-four words. But in simple eloquence it mirrors a minor tragedy of our times.
jim		 Well?...
betsy		 Will sacrifice..."
jim		Go on.
betsy		 That's all.
jim		That's all?!
betsy		You don't see it, do you, father?
jim		No. Fellow wants to sell a house so he puts an ad in the paper. What did you expect him to do, take it to the United Nations!
muriel		There must be more to it than that.  Isn't there, dear?
betsy		Certainly, mother. What some people don't see is the whole sordid picture. A poor, honest farmer, pushed to the wall by hardship, soil erosion, mortgages, everybody gobbling, gobbling, gobbling, until finally, in desperation, he is "forced to sell," and stoops to the crass commercialism of newspaper advertising.
jim		 Oh, indeed... crass commercialism... advertising...
joan		 Miss Stellwagon says advertising is a basically parasitic profession.
jim		 Oh, she does?
joan		Miss Stellwagon says that advertising makes people who can't afford it buy things they don't want with money they haven't got.
jim		 Perhaps your Miss Stellwagon is right. Perhaps I ought to get out of this "basically parasitic profession," which at the moment is paying for her very fancy tuition, those extra French lessons, her progressive summer camp and for that matter, the very braces on your teeth!
muriel		I wish you wouldn't discuss money in front of the children.
jim		Why not, they spend enough of it!
joan		Bicker, bicker, bicker.
gussie		Hello. Who?  Miss Blandings, there's a Mr. Funkhauser wants to see you.
muriel		Funkhauser?  Oh, Mr. Funkhauser!
gussie		That's what he says.
muriel		Uh -- better ask him to come up.
gussie		 Says to come up.
muriel		 Oh -- uh -- darling, Mr. Funkhauser's here.
jim		 ...Who?
muriel		You remember, Bunny Funkhauser, that clever young interior decorator we met at the Collins' cocktail party?
jim		 What's he doing here?
muriel		 Well, I imagine he's brought the -- uh -- estimates.
jim		 ...Estimates?
muriel		 Darling, you know how long we've said we've got to do something about this apartment, and, well, he called last week, and I had him come over, and he's got some simply wonderful ideas!
jim		 There couldn't be two Bunny Funkhausers, could there?
muriel		Why, no, dear.
jim		Then this is the same clever young man who's responsible for that zebra- striped monstrosity in the Collins' living room?
muriel		That couch is terribly functional.
jim		Phil Collins told me what he paid for all that function!  If you think I'm going to --
muriel		Darling, please!  Children, you'll be late to school. Run along and --
joan		Miss Stellwagon says that functionalism in modern furniture --
muriel		Never mind, dear.
funkhauser		Good morning.
the girls		 Hi.
muriel		Good morning, Mr. Funkhauser. You remember Mr. Blandings?
funkhauser		But of course.
funkhauser		You'll have to pardon my bursting in at this dreary hour --  -- but then Muriel and I thought we ought to talk it over with you before we take the plunge...
funkhauser		 After all, it's your home, too, and it should reflect you. You know, Man's Castle, all that sort of thing.
jim		 Muriel!
muriel		 Jim, just wait till you hear. He's got some wonderful ideas for the foyer.
funkhauser		Oh, that's out! All out! Changed the whole thing! I just couldn't live with it! I said to myself, "Bunny, what are the Blandings? How shall we do them?" And the answer was perfectly obvious. Very American, very grass roots, very blueberry pie -- that sort of thing.
jim		 Mm.
funkhauser		Now first, let's dig into this living room of yours, it's really a dreary.
muriel		 We want this room to be very gay, dear. Something in bright reds, yellows and greens.
jim		 Red, yellow and green?!
funkhauser		Oh, come, Mr. Blandings, let's not run away from color.
jim		Not running away --  -- just backing off a little.
funkhauser		Uh -- yes.  Now as I see our room, it's definitely Colonial. You know, cobbler's bench, breakfront, pie cooler, student lamp, hooked rug. But everything in good taste. It must not jump out at you and scream: "Look -- see how antique I am!"
jim		Heaven forbid.
funkhauser		Of course, these things take imagination. You've simply got to be able to visualize.
jim		 If you'll forgive me, Mr. Funkhauser, what I'd like to visualize -- at this dreary hour -- is how much is this all going to cost?
funkhauser		Well, really, I hesitate to say. After all --  -- by the time this wall is out we may find --
jim		 This wall is -- what?
funkhauser		Out. Source of light is from the east. Obviously if our room is to have any function at all --
jim		You're going to tear out the wall?!
muriel		Dear, it's a wonderful notion.
funkhauser		Visualize three feet of leaded panes, the rest --
jim		Can you give me a figure?
funkhauser		Well! Costs aren't what they used to be, you know, and --
jim		Just a figure.
funkhauser		Materials are impossible, labor has just run wild --
jim		Just an overall figure.
funkhauser		Well!... I shouldn't like to be tied down. But I suppose if you must have a figure, I'd say -- mm --  -- somewhere in the neighborhood of seven.
jim		Mm... Seven.
funkhauser		 Mm.
jim		That would be seven... thousand?
funkhauser		Mm.
jim		 Mr. Funkhauser, do you have a card?
muriel		Jim, we haven't even discussed the rest of the house.
jim		We will, dear. 
funkhauser		 Well, really, I --
jim		 We'll talk it all out and then we'll get in touch with Bunny.
funkhauser		Well, really, I mean, I was under the impression we'd come to some decision today.
jim		I'm sure we will.
funkhauser		We-ll!
jim		So nice of you to come.  Good day.
muriel		 Now darling, you -- you just don't go to a man like Funkhauser and ask how much it's going to cost before you even know what he's going to do!
jim		No, that would be too logical! Seven thousand dollars! Blueberry pie! I wouldn't put seventy-five cents into this broken-down rat trap!
muriel		 It's our home, Jim. Betsy was practically born in this apartment.
jim		That does not make it a national shrine!  Seven thousand dollars and not one word about closets.
muriel		Closets! You wouldn't even let him get to the bathroom!
jim		I haven't got that kind of money!
muriel		The way you talk, Jim Blandings, you'd think I was some kind of congenital idiot!
jim		Sometimes I'm beginning to wonder!
muriel		 You can just get out of here!
jim		That's not a bad idea!
jim		 Sorry.
mary		Good morning, Mr. Blandings.
jim		 'Morning.
mary		You wanted to see the color copy from this month's House and Stream.
mary's voice		Will that be all?
jim		 Hm?
mary		Will that be all?
betsy's voice		"Forced to sell. Farm dwelling, oak grove, apple orchard, trout stream, hay fields, four barns, original beams --"
bill's voice		Well, that's the way it all started. The ad was enough to convince Jim --
bill's voice		-- But Muriel was a little tougher. I guess the corsage did it.
bill's voice		There they are, two little fish from New York -- out in the deep deep waters of Connecticut real estate. That's Smith, the real estate salesman. Mighty shrewd cookie in a quiet sort of way. Never thought he'd get a bite this quick.
bill's voice		Now he's sizing up the catch. "Mm. Let's see. Convertible -- orchids -- must be pretty well fixed. Wonder if they're lookers or buyers?"
bill's voice		They're buyers.  Yes, sir, Smith, looks like you're finally going to unload the old Hackett place. Now first thing is get 'em a little anxious.
bill's voice		Th-a-a-t's right!
bill's voice		Uh-uh, not yet.
bill's voice		Take it easy, Smith, give 'em a little more line.
bill's voice		Now we're ready to gaff 'em.
smith		 Well, folks, there she is -- the old Hackett Place.
smith's voice		Fifty mighty pretty little acres...
muriel		 It's simply charming!
muriel		That is, for an old house.
jim		 Of course, you understand, Mr. Smith, we're just window shopping, so to speak. Nothing really definite in mind.
smith		Perfectly all right.
jim		 Mm. Not a bad-looking place, but it's certainly a lot older than anything we had in mind.
smith		She's no spring chicken --  -- but that's just what makes her such a buy.
smith		This isn't just old timber, or a virgin stand oak grove other side of the trout stream, or a couple of fruit orchards... You're buying a piece of American history.
jim		 You don't say! How's that?
smith		First year she was built, General Gates stopped right here to water his horses.
jim		 Oh! Old General Gates -- Civil War.
smith		Revolutionary War.
jim		Oh. Oh, that General Gates. Hear that, honey, General Gates!
muriel		 Wouldn't that make the house over a hundred years old?
smith		 Hundred and seventy come next April.
smith		Now I'm not trying to sell you anything -- all I'm saying is that one of these days someone with a little vision and imagination's goin' to come along, and just steal this place --  and I mean steal it.
smith		Mr. Blandings, I know you can look at that house and just about picture what a couple of coats of paint and a little pointing up here and there can do to it.
jim		Mm.
jim's voice		Hm. Wonder what he meant by "steal?"
smith		And I guess I don't have to tell you, Mrs. Blandings, what a woman's touch could do to a place like this.
muriel		Well --
muriel's voice		It is a nice old house. It just needs someone to love it, that's all.
smith		Yes, sir, you've certainly got to visualize.
smith		 Shall we go up and take a look at her?
muriel		 Well -- I -- suppose as long as we're here...
jim		 I guess it doesn't hurt to take a look.
muriel		 It does have possibilities. Do you think we can get it?
jim		 Like taking candy from a baby.
muriel		 Now don't lose your head.
jim		 Shh. Just keep quiet and let me handle this.
jim		Tell me, Smith, what kind of a price is the owner asking for this old place?
muriel		It's wonderful, Jim! That master bedroom with those two closets!
jim		Shh!
muriel		Funkhauser could do wonders with this --
jim		 Funkhauser will have nothing to do with this house! Shh!
hackett		 Hi, George!
smith		Hi, Eph!  What do you know, it's Eph Hackett, owner of the place!
jim		 Well, you don't say.
smith		Eph, this is Mr. and Mrs. Blandings -- from New York City.
hackett		Howdy.
the blandings		How do you do?
muriel		You certainly have a lovely place here, Mr. Hackett.
hackett		 Ye-ap.
jim		 Mr. Hackett, we've just been talking to Smith here about -- uh -- taking the old place off your hands.
hackett		 Ain't for sale!
smith		 Why don't you folks just go out in back and take a look at the orchard?
hackett		How'm I doin', George?
smith		Nice timin', Eph. Think we got something here.
hackett		They the same people you showed it to in nineteen-thirty-eight?
smith		They were lookers -- this is the real thing.
hackett		If they got five thousand dollars on 'em. don't let 'em get away.
smith		They already offered ten.
hackett		 Y'don't say... What's my asking price?
smith		Fifteen...
hackett		A mite stiff...
smith		I've got 'em measured.  eleven thousand.
hackett		Make it eleven thousand five hundred fifty.
smith		Odd kind of figure.
hackett		Might as well take the commission out of them instead of me.
jim		 "Home, home in Connecticut With a closet to hang up your petticut..."
muriel		 ...Jim?
jim		 "No hustle or fuss No Fifth Avenue bus --"
muriel		Uh -- Jim?
jim		Hm?
muriel		I was just wondering, dear. Ten thousand dollars is such an awful lot to offer --
muriel		That is, for two people who don't know anything at all about real estate, or anything...  I mean, don't you think perhaps we should have asked someone's professional advice?
jim		Like... say... a lawyer?
muriel		Well, Bill knows about these things and --
jim		Muriel, for once in my life I'm going to make one small decision, on my own, without the legalistic machinations of Mr. Bill Cole.
muriel		It seems very peculiar that when your very best friend happens to be one of the very cleverest young lawyers in New York City --
jim		Muriel, I don't want to hear another word about Bill Cole!  Well, did your mother tell you about the house?
betsy		Yes.
jim		Well?
joan		Miss Stellwagon says the current craze for modernizing old farmhouses is a form of totem worship.
jim		 Did it ever occur to you two that there may be some remote, intangible subjects upon which your Miss Irma Stellwagon is not the final authority?
joan		Why don't we buy a Solaxion house?
jim		...You know it's just barely conceivable -- What kind of a house?
joan		Solaxion. It's built on a mast like a tent and it revolves with the sun.
jim		Oh, it... revolves... with the sun?
joan		That's right.
jim		Who lives next door -- Buck Rogers?!
joan		It's the only practical way to live. When a new model comes out you trade the old one in like a used car.
jim		 Muriel --
muriel		Children, you haven't even seen this house yet.
betsy		Personally, I'd like a Crane Mobile home. It comes all folded up and all you do is plug it in for electricity and water and --
jim		Now just a minute!  Do you want to spend the rest of your lives in chromium tents and portable merry-go-rounds? This house was built before our country became a nation. It has dignity. It's -- it's --
gussie		 Special delivery, Mr. Blandings.
jim		 From Smith!
jim		Mm.
muriel		Well?
jim		 "I have conveyed your offer of ten thousand dollars to Mr. Hackett and am sorry to say he is not interested. However, I feel..."
muriel		Oh, dear. Maybe we should have gone a few dollars higher.
jim		 He's bluffing. Simple as that.
joan		For ten thousand dollars we could get a Rockford Trailer and a Zamboni Power Unit. It's kitchen, bathroom and air conditioning all rolled up into --
jim		 Muriel, I'll let him push me to ten thousand, two hundred, but not a penny more!
smith's voice		"Dear Mr. Blandings: While your offer of ten thousand two hundred is still not acceptable to Ephemus Hackett -- "
jim's voice		"Dear Mr. Smith: You may inform Mr. Hackett that the very highest I could possibly go --"
smith's voice		"Dear Friend Blandings --"
jim's voice		"My dear Friend Smith --"
smith's voice		"Dear Blandings --!"
jim's voice		"Dear Smith - !"
mr. cole		PRIVATE
jim		 What do you think, Bill? Steal, huh?
bill		 It certainly is.
bill		Perhaps "steal" is an understatement -- "swindle" might be a little more appropriate.
jim		 What do you mean?
bill		Every time you get a little tight you weep on my shoulder about the advertising business and how it forces a sensitive soul like yourself to make a living by bamboozling the American public.  I would say that a small part of this victimized group has now redressed the balance.
jim		What are you talking about?
bill		You! You've been taken to the cleaners and you don't even know your pants are off!
muriel		Dear, I told you. I said we should call Bill --
jim		Never mind, Muriel!  All right, just what's wrong with this deal?
bill		First time around you offered ten thousand dollars for fifty acres, right?
jim		What of it?
bill		That's two hundred dollars an acre. I know that part of Connecticut and one hundred dollars an acre is standard top-gouge price to city slickers. When the natives sell to each other it's around forty or less.
muriel		Forty dollars an acre!
jim		The man's entitled to a fair profit.
bill		Not two hundred and eighty-four percent.  And besides, you're not getting fifty acres, you're only getting thirty- five, more or less.
jim		Where does it say that?
bill		 I refer to a rather obscure post- script on the back of the second letter from Friend Smith.
muriel		 "Incidentally, Mr. Hackett has been a little over-optimistic about the acreage. It will probably survey somewhere in the neighborhood of thirty-five acres, more or less, but I feel sure..."
jim		 All right, so it's thirty-five! What's the difference? Do you know how many tennis courts you can get on thirty- five acres?
bill		You're not spending eleven thousand five hundred dollars for tennis courts!
jim		That's not the point!
bill		 That's precisely the point. We're going to write this Hackett a strong letter and tell him he can either kick in with those fifteen acres, reduce the price, or find another sucker.
jim		 We'll do no such thing! I'm not going to queer this deal over fifteen broken- down acres!
muriel		 We were just going window shopping and so far it's cost us eleven thousand five hundred dollars and they even made us pay the commission!
jim		You don't understand business.
bill		You mean extortion.
muriel		 I wonder if we could get another two year lease on the apartment?
jim		 Now wait a minute! You can't measure everything on a slide rule. This house has certain intangibles.
bill		Like what, for instance?
jim		Like antique value, for instance! It just so happens that General Gates stopped right there, at that very house, to water his horses.
bill		I don't care if General Grant dropped in for a scotch and soda -- you're still getting rocked!
jim		That was a different war!
muriel		I think Bill's absolutely right.
jim		 Let me explain something. To both of you. For fifteen years I've been cooped up in a four room cracker box! Just getting shaved in the morning entitles a man to the Congressional Medal for bravery.
bill		That doesn't make this a good buy.
jim		Bill -- Muriel and I have found what I am not ashamed to call our Dream House. It's like a fine painting. You buy it with your heart, not your head. You don't ask, how much was the canvas, how much was the paint? You look at it and you say, "It's beautiful... I want it," and if it costs a few pennies more you pay it -- and gladly -- because you love it and you can't measure the things you love in dollars and cents!
jim		 Well -- that's how I feel about this place. And when I sign those papers Saturday, I can look the world in the face and say, "It's mine! My house! My home! My thirty-five acres!"
muriel		 Our house. Our home. Our thirty-five acres...
bill		...more or less...
judge quarles		 "...thence along said stonewall fence forming the East boundary of said Lansdale Road, N 20 27' E, 21.84 feet to the end of said stonewall fence, thence along a wire fence, N 16 31' W, 78.66 feet to a dead twenty- inch chestnut tree, thence westward to said stonewall fence, to a total of thirty-one and a half acres --"
jim		 What was that? How many acres?
bill		 Thirty-one and a half.
jim		 I was under the impression your property was thirty-five acres, Mr. Hackett.
hackett		It is... more or less.
smith		You see, Mr. Blandings, when you signed the purchase agreement it was subject to traced map attached. Surveyed to an even thirty-one and a half acres.
judge quarles		Anything wrong?
bill		It's nothing, Your Honor, just a few less tennis courts.
judge quarles		 "...to have and to hold to him, the said Grantee, his heirs and assigns to his and their own proper use and benefit forever."
judge quarles		 Subject to a six thousand dollar mortgage held by Ephemus Whittaker Hackett...
shrunk mills		2 Mi.
bill		 Congress ought to pass a law. When a man buys a house in Lansdale County there's a prize -- he gets ten percent off if he can find it.
jim		What in the world are "Shrunk Mills?"
bill		They are probably mills that have shrunk.
muriel		Well, you certainly aren't much of a help.
bill		 Look -- you really want to find that house of yours -- it's no problem.
bill		Just pretend you're one of General Gates' horses and you're thirsty... Now where would you go for a drink of water?
bill		 Well, I must admit it's a very beautiful thing.
muriel		 The house and the lilac are just the same age, Bill; if the lilac can live and be so old, so can the house. It just needs someone to love it, that's all.
bill		It's a good thing there are two of you -- one to love it and one to hold it up.
bill		What'd your engineer say when he checked over the foundation and that roof?
jim		Who needs engineers? This isn't a train, you know.
bill		I just saw it move.
jim		This house has been standing since the second year of the Continental Congress. You take one look at it and shingles start to fall off!
bill		 Look -- let me do you a favor. I've got a client, crackerjack structural engineer, Joe Apollonio; he practically built the George Washington Bridge single-handed.
jim		Thanks a lot, but we're not building a bridge.
bill		He's the follow who advised the Government not to raise the Normandie -- they didn't listen to him, cost them five million dollars.
jim		You have my word, if I were raising the Normandie, I wouldn't make a move without Apollonio.  Now would you like to come inside and look around?
bill		 No thanks, I'll just stay out in the car and listen to "Life Can Be Beautiful."
muriel		I think you'd better contact Mr. Apollonio.
muriel		It has charm, hasn't it, Mr. Apollonio?
apollonio		 Uh-huh.
jim		Of course, any small changes would have to conform with the character of the countryside.
apollonio		 Mm-hmm.
muriel		And yet still be functional.
apollonio		 Uh-huh.
jim		Well, uh, what's your professional opinion?
apollonio		Tear it down.
jim		 Tear it down??!
apollonio		If your chimney was shot and your sills was okay, I'd say go ahead, fix her up. If your sills was shot and your chimney was okay, again I'd say go ahead, fix her up. But your sills are shot and your chimney is shot.
apollonio		 Take a look at the way she sags.
apollonio		So I say don't throw good money after bad -- tear it down.
jim		 Thanks a lot.
apollonio		It's okay.
jim		 Bill Cole and his experts!
muriel		 Darling, we'll get our own experts.
bill's voice		And so they got their own experts. Mr. Simpson said --
simpson		Tear it down.
bill's voice		On the other hand, Mr. Murphy said --
murphy		I think you'd better tear it down.
bill's voice		And then just to be a wee bit different, Mr. Jones said --
jones		 Tear it down!
bill's voice		And that's how our friend, Mr. Simms, came into it.
simms		Of course you could fix up that old house. You can fix up any structure that's still standing. The sills and floors couldn't be worse, I grant you, and I guess you'd have to jack up that west corner at least three feet to make it level. Need new chimney. New roof. Complete new plumbing.  Too bad you didn't buy it ten years ago. Could have fixed it up in jig time then, and it would have made some sense.
jim		 Uh-huh... mm-hmmm... uh-huh.
simms		Fact is, before you're through, it would be less expensive to tear the old place down and build a new one, same size.
jim		Mm. New house...  New house.
muriel		 You mean... for the same money... we could build a brand new house?
simms		It certainly wouldn't cost any more.
jim		 Hm... New house...
jim		 Just... what sort of thing do you have in mind?
simms		Well, I imagine the type of house you'd want would be something in quiet good taste, two story, frame and brick veneer construction -- modern, but of course fitting in with the architectural traditions of the countryside.
jim		Well, I -- What do you think, Muriel?
muriel		I think it sounds fine.
simms		Perhaps you'd like to see a basic floor plan --  -- something like this.
simms		First floor. Living room, study, dining room, kitchen, service porch, maid's room -- upstairs three family bedrooms with two adjoining baths.
muriel		It's very nice, I'm sure, but -- uh -- well -- doesn't it seem just a little bit conventional?
jim		Yes, Simms, if we were going to build a house we want it -- well, you know -- just a little bit different.
simms		 Yes, of course.
jim		Now, for instance -- 
jim's voice		-- here in the study if we could just push out this wall a little -- and put in a built-in bar we could --
muriel's voice		Excuse me, dear --
muriel's voice		These bedrooms. They do seem rather small. And, of course we'd have to have a little dressing room -- and --
jim's voice		And closets, Simms, lots of closets.  If there's one thing this family needs, it's closets.
simms' voice		 If I might make a suggestion --
muriel's voice		 And bathrooms, Mr. Simms. Each bedroom must have at least one bathroom.
simms' voice		But that would be four bathrooms, Mrs. Blandings --  I think I'd better point out to you --
jim's voice		Just a minute. Do you think --  we might manage a little playroom in the basement, nothing tremendous, you know, something like this --
simms' voice		 Well, it's always possible, but at the moment our fundamental problem --
muriel's voice		 You know, a little utility room where I can be alone, and sew, or sulk, or on a rainy afternoon...
jim's voice		 Pardon me, dear. On that playroom, Simms, not too small. You know, plenty of room for ping-pong, darts, nice big poker table...
simms' voice		 If you don't mind, I --
muriel's voice		...And off the kitchen, I'd like a little flower sink just to putter around in...
jim's voice		...And a terrace off the study, with an owning and little outdoor fireplace...
simms		 We-ll... let's just see what we have here. In the first place --
simms' voice		-- I'm afraid you've got the upstairs about twice as big as the downstairs.
jim's voice		It's all those bathrooms.
muriel's voice		It is not, it's all those closets.
simms		By extending this breakfast room you've eliminated the possibility of any stairs going to the second floor.
jim		Oh, you can just shove those stairs in anywhere.
simms		 Which, of course, might be very warm in winter, but otherwise of doubtful utility.
muriel		You could always move the chimney somewhere else, couldn't you?
simms		We-ll...  Look, I think I know just about what you two have in mind. Why don't I go ahead with some preliminary plans and --
jim		 You do that, Simms, but remember, we've got to hold it down to ten thousand.
simms		 That, I can tell you right now, is impossible. Even with a considerable trimming of the things you've indicated, I don't see how we can bring it in for less than twelve or twelve-five.
jim		Twelve-five!  Well, I guess we're not going to quibble about a few pennies one way or the other.
muriel		 No, you'll find Mr. Blandings never quibbles about pennies.
simms		And -- uh -- have you any notions about how you'd like the old place taken down?
jim		 Why don't we just blow on it?
simms		 There's a good local house wrecker. I'll have him contact you.
jim		Fine. You just shoot ahead with those plans, and remember, try to keep it down to ten, ten-five.
simms		 Well -- we'll try.
jim		There's one good thing about getting that old relic down. Those original beams and everything -- this time somebody pays us.
hackett		Them beams is worth money. You payin' him, or he payin' you?
wrecker		He's payin' me.
hackett		How much?
wrecker		 A thousand.
hackett		A thousand!
wrecker		He squawked, but he paid.
hackett		 Hmm. I guess maybe I got a little somethin' comin' too.
voice		Okay, boys, let her go!
jim		 Well, so far it's cost us thirteen thousand, three hundred and twenty- nine dollars and forty-five cents.
muriel		But we've got the nicest vacant lot in the state of Connecticut.
simms' voice		 Something will have to give somewhere, that I know.
muriel		It's impossible. I don't see how we can cut another inch.
jim		Honey, you heard Simms. As the house stands now it's over fifteen thousand dollars!
muriel		Well, it just doesn't seem possible --  for a house with such small rooms.
simms		 Mrs. Blandings, I've already explained. It's not only the size of the rooms so much as it is the number. You see, our primary problem is one of cubage --
jim		That's right, dear, cubage.
muriel		What's that?
jim		Oh --  just a figure of speech.
muriel		But what does it mean?
jim		 -- go into a cubic foot. Go on, Simms.
simms		 Now is it absolutely essential for each of your daughters to have her own room with two closets and a separate bath?
jim		 Yes. You see, er, my daughters are, er, approaching womanhood, and, er --
simms		 Perhaps what you need is not so much a house as a series of little bungalows.
jim		Hmmm.  What about that silly flower sink? We could eliminate that.
muriel		I beg your pardon.
jim		Or that sewing room upstairs, that's certainly a waste.
muriel		If we're going to eliminate anything, we'll lose that ridiculous play room in the basement with that great big poker table.
jim		Honey, I've got to have some relaxation.
muriel		We've got thirty-one and a half acres. Go out in the back and do a little gardening.
jim		Sure, and get poison ivy!
simms		 If I may interrupt, I'd like to suggest that none of these are really major eliminations. Now if we could do with one less bathroom on the second floor --
muriel		I'm sorry. We couldn't possibly.
simms		Mrs. Blandings, a simple bathroom, eight by ten by eight with grade A fixtures will cost around thirteen hundred dollars.
muriel		I refuse to endanger the health of my children in a house with less than four bathrooms.
jim		For thirteen hundred dollars they can live in a house with three bathrooms and rough it!
simms		Look, perhaps the most practical thing would be --
betsy		Oh, look, we're in the Lansdale paper!  "Historical Society Blasts Vandalism!"
jim		Muriel, Simms explained to you. We've just got to cut, cut --  What's that?
betsy		 "Censure Vote Passed re Destruction of Famed Hackett Edifice."
jim		Well, isn't that just too bad! Let me see that.
muriel		What's so funny.
jim		 Bildad Prutty! Muriel, I've got to send this to the New Yorker!
betsy		 Read on, father.
betsy		Read on, father.
jim		 "...which Ephemus Hackett testified was the lowest reasonable price he could accept as --"
jim		 ...Twenty-six hundred dollars.
betsy		And what did we pay, father?
joan		Eleven-five, with the commission.
jim		Muriel, isn't it time for those children to be in bed?
muriel		Now girls, I don't want to tell you again.
muriel		Excuse me.
jim's voice		Twenty-six hundred dollars!
simms' voice		 I wouldn't be too concerned about Mrs. Prutty and her committee. After all, it's your property and if you want to tear it down --
muriel		 Why, Bill!
bill		 Well, you've done it again'. Once, just once, why don't you come to me and find out if it's all right, if it's legal, before you go barging off and run yourself smack into another jam!
jim		What's eating you?
bill		 And I must say, Simms, I hold you equally responsible!
jim		 What? What happened?
simms		I'm afraid I don't understand.
bill		 Did you let this idiot tear down that house?
jim		What if he did? What of it?
simms		 Reconstruction was unsound and totally impractical.
bill		I quite agree. But you're dealing with a man who doesn't think before he acts, who goes off half-cocked!
jim		What is it? What did I do?
bill		 You're an architect! You must have been aware of the legality involved.
jim		What? What legality?
bill		 You knew there was a mortgage on that house.
simms		I assumed as much.
jim		What happened? What are you talking about?
bill		 And you know the requirements in regard to a mortgage where there's demolition intended!
simms		Certainly. But since you were his lawyer, I naturally assumed --
bill		With a man like this you can't assume anything!
jim		 Just one minute! I am entitled to know what I did! This is America! A man's guilty until he's proven innocent --
betsy		It's the other way around, father.
jim		You go to bed!
muriel		Girls!
jim		Bill, I've had a very trying day. Would you mind telling me in clear, concise English just what crime I've committed -- and why?!
bill		 In clear, concise English, you tore down a house on which another man holds a mortgage without first getting his written permission.
jim		Well, I -- I did?!
bill		And in such case, the mortgagee can demand the full payment of said mortgage upon demand --  and Mr. Ephemus Hackett so demands! Six thousand clams! And he wants them now!
jim		 Now?!
bill		You've got ten days.
joan		For six thousand dollars we could have had a Solaxion house and a Crane Mobile home.
jim		Muriel!
muriel		 Girls, say your good nights and off to bed without another word.
betsy		 Good night, Mr. Simms. Uncle Bill.
joan		 Miss Stellwagon says the problems of the parents should be the problems of the children.
muriel		 You keep that in mind, dear. It'll help prepare you for motherhood.
simms		Perhaps we'd better let the plans go for the time being and --
jim		 No, Simms, I'll work this out. You go ahead with your final plans and let's see some estimates.
muriel		And we'll just forget about that extra bathroom.
simms		 Very well. You'll hear from me as soon as possible. Good night.
jim		 Six thousand dollars!
bill		What'll you do for collateral on your building loan?
jim		I don't know, turn in my insurance policies or something.
muriel		 Now, Jim, you can't do that.
jim		Why not?
muriel		What if something should happen? You can't leave the children unprotected.
jim		 I'm not dead yet! And if I die, there's plenty left to take care of them.
muriel		Not if you cash in your policies.
bill		I'm sure it won't be necessary. I'll see the boys at the bank. Maybe you can put up your insurance as collateral. If necessary, I'll sign a personal note.
jim		 Thanks, Bill.
bill		 And Jim, do me a little favor. The next time you're going to do anything, or say anything, or buy anything, think it over very carefully, and when you're sure you're right -- forget the whole thing. Good night, Muriel.
muriel		Good night, Bill.
muriel		What a wonderful friend.
jim		 What's with this kissing all of a sudden?
muriel		What's that?
jim		Just because a man is helpful in a business way, it doesn't give him extra-curricular privileges with my wife!
muriel		That's a fine thing to say about a friend of fifteen years!
jim		 Well, I don't like it. Every time he goes out of this house, he shakes my hand and he kisses you.
muriel		 Would you prefer it the other way around?!
jim		 Well, I don't like it, that's all! Why is he always hanging around? Why doesn't he ever get married -- or something?
muriel		 Because he can't find another girl as sweet and pretty and wholesome as I am.
jim		Well -- it -- it doesn't look right. There are limits to friendship and --
muriel		Darling, let's not be silly about this. It's not Bill, it's the house you're upset about.
jim		 I suppose so.
jim		Do you think it's worth all this?
muriel		Of course, darling. We're not just building a house -- it's a home. A home for ourselves -- and our children -- and maybe our children's children.
jim		 It's getting awfully crowded with only three bathrooms.
simms		Well -- here are the estimates. Before you look at them, I think I'd better explain --
jim		Don't bother, Simms.  I'm getting to be an old hand at this sort of --
jim		Jumping H. Mahogany --!!
simms		Now obviously these bids are way out of line, that is, all except John Retch and Son at twenty-one thousand.
muriel		 Twenty-one thousand!
simms		And with some judicious cutting, I think we can pare that down to eighteen.
muriel		We've only asked for the barest necessities --
simms		Frankly, with all the extras you two have --
jim		Never mind.  Now, if you'll excuse us.
muriel		Where are we going?
jim		I am going out to get my head examined! Then, if I don't jump off the Brooklyn Bridge, I'm going to find the owner of our building and sign a twenty-year lease!
jim		 What's the name of that contractor?
jim		 Well, things are certainly humming.
bill		 What's that?
jim		 I said, humming.
bill		Oh.
bill		 What's going on over there?
jim		 That's Mr. Tesander. He's digging our well.
bill		 Well? What happened to the trout stream, with that pure, clear, cold mountain water?
jim		 I decided against it --
jim		The trout stream --  didn't seem practical.
muriel		It wasn't exactly a decision, dear.  We discovered the trout stream dries up in August and the rest of the year it's polluted.
jim		 Well, anyway, I'd rather have artesian water. It's healthier. Calcium -- vitamins -- artesian --
bill		 What's wrong with that steam shovel?
jim		Better take a look.
muriel		Jim!
muriel		 Thank you, dear.
jim		What's the matter, Mr. Zucca? Something wrong?
zucca		How do you lika that? Broka my bucket. Two times this week I broka my bucket?
jim		What did you do, strike a boulder?
zucca		 Atsa no boulder, atsa ledge.
jim		 What does that mean?
zucca		Meansa we gotta blast!
jim		Blast?
zucca		Blast. Witha dynamite.
jim		What do you mean, dynamite?
muriel		 What do you mean, "What do you mean?" Mr. Zucca just explained. He's going to use dynamite and blast until he gets rid of the rock.
zucca		Atsa no rock, atsa ledge.
bill		What Mr. Blandings means is -- what precisely is a ledge?
zucca		Ledge. Lika bigga stone, only a- bigger.
jim		Like a boulder?
zucca		No, like ledge.
bill		...Like a ledge.
zucca		But you don't gotta worry. Only cost twenty-four cents a cubic foot, plussa dynamite an'a fuse.
jim		But how far will you have to blast?
zucca		Harda tell. Might be a lilla baby ledge -- mighta run the whole toppa the mountain.
jim		 At twenty-four cents a foot? Do you realize what that means?!
zucca		 Meansa we gotta blast.
jim		 Well, anyway, our house will never sink.
muriel		 If it does, we can always get Mr. Apollonio. He raised the Normandie.
bill		"Come to peaceful Connecticut --  Trade city soot for sylvan charm."
jim		 How long does that go on?
muriel		I don't know.  Three weeks now at four dollars and fifty cents a foot.
jim		 I think I'd better have a little talk with Mr. Tesander.
jim		Oh -- Mr. Tesander --
jim		 Mr. Tesander!
tesander		Yep?
jim		How's it coming?
tesander		 It's comin'.
jim		No -- no -- I mean --
jim		 Mr. Tesander!
tesander		Yep?
jim		What I meant was -- how far down are you?
tesander		Oh -- 'bout a hundred and ninety feet.
jim		Well -- isn't that pretty deep?
tesander		 Yep.
jim		Do you think maybe you'd better try another spot?
tesander		Up to you.
jim		I mean -- well, have you hit anything yet at all?
tesander		 Hit some limestone yesterday.
jim		Is that good?
tesander		That's bad.
tesander		And right now it looks like we're coming into some shale.
jim		That's bad?
tesander		That's good.
jim		Oh...
tesander		'Course it might turn out to be sandstone.
jim		That's bad?
jim		That's good?
tesander		Can't tell. Might be good. Might be bad. One thing you know -- you got plenty of shale, sandstone and limestone.
jim		...I see.
bill		On a hot day there's nothing like a nice cool limestone shower.
muriel		 Mr. Tesander, just for the record, of course, what ever happened to water?
tesander		Oh, it's there, all right.  Just got to be patient.
bill		If you ask me, this project's getting a little out of hand.
jim		 with a few minor deviations, I know exactly what every penny's going to cost.
muriel		Two pennies.
jim		 And just what does that mean?
bill		 Meansa we gotta blast.
jim		You see, Mary, the average fellow who builds a house doesn't know where he stands from day to day -- but I do things a little differently. With a few minor deviations I know exactly where every penny is going --
bill		Hi.
jim		Bill! Come in, come in.
bill		 Can I talk?
jim		 Sure. What's up?
bill		 While I was in there with Dascomb the conversation kind of got around to you and -- uh --
jim		 What is it?
bill		Well, he didn't say in so many words that ever since you started with that house you haven't turned in a decent piece of copy, but --
jim		But you kind of got the feeling...
bill		...that if I told you, you'd know that he knew that you knew that he knew... that you knew... or something.
jim		What's he worrying about? The deadline's three months off. I've always --
mary		Hello? Yes. Just a minute.  Mrs. Blandings calling from Lensdale.
jim		Yes, Muriel. What? What's that? Tesander struck water! Say that's wonderful!  We've finally got our well.
bill		 Congratulations.
jim		 Come on, Bill, we'd better get out to Lansdale.
mary		Anything wrong?
jim		 Mary, have you ever seriously considered building a house?
mary		Well, no offense, Mr. Blandings, but my boy friend says that anybody who builds a house today is crazy.
jim		You stick with that boy, he's got a great future.
jim		You mean you hit a spring, a bubbling spring right here in our cellar?
simms		It'll have to be diverted before Retch here can lay his cement.
retch		 May take a while. Pumps are over in Jersey.
tesander		Tsk, tsk, tsk.
jim		 Water, Mr. Tesander.
tesander		Yep.
jim		At six feet!
tesander		Yep.
jim		 And over there, just thirty-two yards away, you had to go down two hundred and twenty-seven feet to hit the same water.
tesander		Yep.
jim		How do you account for that, Mr. Tesander?
tesander		We-ll, way it seems to me, Mr. Blandings, over here the water's down around six feet and over there it's -- uh --
bill		What's this, another closet?
jim		This happens to be our dining room.
muriel		Not the dining room, dear, the living room.  There's the fireplace.
jim		Then where's the dining room?
bill		Maybe it's that little room off the hallway.
jim		That's the breakfast nook.
muriel		It's not the breakfast nook, it's the powder room.
jim		Oh.
bill		Do me a favor -- don't ever invite me here for a meal.
first workman		I don't figure this Blandings at all. If you gotta build on the windiest hill in Connecticut, why do you have to pick the windiest side of the hill?
bill		 You know these New York millionaires -- they're eccentric.
jim		I think I'd like to go outside.
bill		 After you, Rockefeller.
carpenter		 Just the man I want to see. Would you step over here a second?
jim		Sure.
bill		 I'll browse around upstairs.
carpenter		 On them second floor lintels between the lally columns, do you want we should rabbet them or not?
jim		 The -- second -- floor -- lallys?
carpenter		The second floor lintels, between the lallys.
jim		Oh. Oh, the lintels between the lallys?
carpenter		Yeah. From the blueprints you can't tell. You want they should be rabbeted?
jim		Un -- umm. No, I guess not.
carpenter		Okay, you're the doctor.  Hey, fellas, you got any of them rabbeted lintels set, rip 'em out!
jim		 It sounded less... expensive to say no.
muriel		Stop it! Stop it!
voice		Okay, fellas, let's quit!
jim		 Now look what you've done.
jim		 I mean, there's no point in walking off a job just because... a woman makes a silly little remark.
workman		It's Saturday, mister. We quit at twelve o'clock. This ain't a chain gang, you know.
muriel		I'm just sick. From the outside this house looks like a grain elevator, and on the inside everything's miles too small.
muriel		What's that?
jim		What's what?
muriel		That noise -- listen.  It's coming from the closet!
jim		What happened?
bill		The door blew shut. I got locked in.
jim		Impossible. I had this closet built especially for myself. The lock opens from the inside.
bill		Maybe for Houdini -- not for me.
jim		Nothing to it. A child could work it. Look, I'll show you.
jim		 You see, it just takes a little good old Yankee know-how.
muriel		You know, dear, it's just possible the lock worked for you and not for Bill.
jim		Ridiculous. Even you could do it.
muriel		 Thank you.
jim		Come on, I'll show you.
jim's voice		Go ahead, dear, just open it.
muriel's voice		I don't seem to be able to ---
jim's voice		Here, let me show you! You just take the knob and turn it clockwise.
bill		Nothing like that good old Yankee know-how.
jim		Hey! Hey! Somebody let us out of here!
muriel		Oh, dear.
bill		 Monday morning.
jim		If I could just get over to that scaffolding...
jim		 Seems a shame but I guess it's the only way...
muriel		What are you going to do?
jim		Don't get panicky, I'll get you out of here.  Here, hold this over the window.
jim		Stand back, Muriel.
jim		 Ready?
bill		Roger.
muriel		 In case of emergency -- break glass. Come on, Bill.
jim		 Funny... always worked before. Huh. I wonder...
joan		Dad, do you suppose I could have a chemistry lab in the basement?
jim		 Sure, why not?
betsy		I think it's awful. Smelling up the house with those horrible chemicals.
muriel		Never mind, Betsy.  Dear, I'm going up to the place this afternoon to see about landscaping. Bill's driving me.
jim		 What do you mean, Bill's driving you?
muriel		 Why do you always say, "what do you mean," when you know perfectly well what I mean and what you mean?
jim		I mean that every time I turn my back Bill Cole's driving you some place or something.
muriel		He's only being helpful.
jim		 I thought he was a lawyer! Why isn't he out suing somebody?
joan		Bicker, bicker, bicker.
muriel		 Another word and you don't get your laboratory.
betsy		Well, that's something!
jim		We'll just see about that!
muriel		 What is it, dear?
muriel		Jim, what's the matter?
muriel		 ...Well?
jim		 We're moving in thirty days.
bill's voice		So-came thirty days -- and they moved.
bill's voice		I mean -- we moved.
bill's voice		 That's the wrong road! Any fool knows that!
bill's voice		Well, there she is, bright and shining -- and just about complete -- the residence of Mr. and Mrs. James H. Blandings.
bill's voice		Not bad at that.
bill's voice		 All right! -- Everybody out.
bill's voice		Guess you can't blame them for feeling just a little bit proud.
bill's voice		 Look -- he wants to carry his wife across the threshold. Romantic, isn't it?
bill's voice		Ooops! I guess I meant "corny."
bill's voice		Uh-uh. Watch that sacroiliac. Fifteen years since you've done this sort of thing.
bill's voice		Whew! Nice work, Tarzan. Now, let's see if you can make it into the hall.
bill's voice		That's right. Go right in. Don't pay any attention to the sign.
bill's voice		 Don't mind me, buddy, I just got through varnishing that floor.
bill's voice		Whose bright idea was this?
bill's voice		She just wanted everything to be nice and shiny on the day they moved in.
bill's voice		Stop painting that floor and put some planks down in here, or some thing!
bill's voice		Okay, mister, but take it easy. The Republicans ain't in yet, you know.
bill's voice		Oh, fine! A house without windows! We'll just see about that!
bill's voice		Look out for those papers!
jim		Where's Simms?
workman		Around back trying to figure out what to do about them windows.
jim		What's the problem? You put windows up.
workman		Not these. They don't fit.
jim		 Oh, they don't, don't they?
retch		Oh, Mr. Blandings, you'd better look these over.
jim		What's this about the windows?
simms		 I'm afraid there's a little slip-up. These windows seem to belong to a Mr. Landings in Fishkill, New York. I talked to Mr. Landings this morning.
jim		Well, has he got mine?
simms		No, he seems to have some windows that belong to a Mr. Blandsworth of Peekskill.
jim		Where are my windows?!
simms		As near as we can figure out they've either been sent to a Mr. Benton in Evanston, Illinois, or a Mr. Bamberger of Phoenix, Arizona.
jim		What are we supposed to do -- live the rest of our lives in a house without windows?
simms		It'll just be a matter of a few days.
bill		What's a "Zuz-Zuz Water Soft-N-R"?
jim		How should I know?
bill		 You've got one.
jim		 I will not have any such piece of equipment in my house!
simms		I'm afraid I authorized that, Mr. Blandings -- to save your boiler and water pipes.
jim		From what?!
simms		Rust. The plumbing man assures us the water from your well is the most corrosive in his entire experience in the trade.
bill		Another first!
jim		 Well, if it's necessary, put it in! We're moving in today, you know and --
retch		It's in.
jim		Oh.  Then get me the bill for it!
bill		 You've got it.
jim		All right then.
muriel		Now I want the living room to be a soft green.  Not quite as bluish as a robin's egg, but yet not as yellow as daffodil buds.
pedelford		Mm.
muriel		 The best sample I could get is a little too yellow, but don't let whoever mixes it go to the other extreme and get it too blue. It should just be sort of a grayish yellow green.
pedelford		 Mm-hmm.
muriel		Now the dining room I'd like yellow. Not just yellow, a very gay yellow.
pedelford		Mm-hmm.
muriel		Something bright and sunshiny.  I tell you, Mr. PeDelford, if you'll just send one of your workmen to the A&P for a pound of their best butter and match it exactly, you can't go wrong.
pedelford		 Mm.
muriel		This is the paper we're going to use here in the foyer.  It's flowered but I don't want the ceiling to match any of the colors of the flowers. There are some little dots in the background, and it's these dots I want you to match. Not the little greenish dots near the hollyhock leaf, but the little bluish dot between the rosebud and the delphinium blossom. Is that clear?
pedelford		 Mm-hmm.
muriel		The kitchen's to be white. Not a cold, antiseptic hospital white -- a little warmer but not to suggest any other color but white.
pedelford		 Mm.
muriel		Now for the powder room, I want you to match this thread.  You can see it's practically an apple red. Somewhere between a healthy Winesap and an unripened Jonathan.
pedelford		 Mm.
muriel		Will you excuse me?
pedelford		Got it, Charlie?
charlie		 Green, yellow, blue, white, red.
pedelford		Check.
muriel		Joan, you know father was to take care of the heavy dishes.
joan		He disappeared. I haven't seen him for an hour.
betsy		Where's Uncle Bill? I just checked the timetable -- he's going to miss his train.
muriel		If they've run off somewhere it certainly isn't very -- 
muriel		Heavens!
jim		 I thought you were going to take care of it.
muriel		I thought you were.
betsy		 You're going to miss your train, Uncle Bill! It leaves Lansdale in twenty-five minutes.
bill		Isn't there a later one?
betsy		Not till the Commuter's Special tomorrow morning at six-fifteen.
jim		You mean seven-fifteen.
betsy		No, Dad, six-fifteen.
jim		What about the seven-fifteen I'm supposed to take to the office every morning?!
betsy		 There's a little asterisk. The seven- fifteen only runs Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
jim		 Muriel!
muriel		Oh, dear, don't tell me I read it wrong.
jim		That's fine! For the rest of my life I'm going to have to get up at five o'clock in the morning to catch the six-fifteen, to get to my office by eight, which doesn't even open until nine -- and which I never get to until ten!
muriel		Perhaps if you started earlier you could quit earlier.
jim		 So I could get home earlier to go to bed earlier to get up earlier!
bill		Maybe you can have the railroad push the train up to four-fifteen -- then you won't have to go to bed at all!
betsy		Uncle Bill, you're going to miss your train!
muriel		Jim, you clean up this mess. I'll drive Bill to the station and pick up some cold cuts for dinner.
betsy		You'd better hurry!
bill		 Kind of hate to leave that little place. Just four walls and a couple of mothballs, but to me it'll always be home.
jim		 So long, Bill.
joan		It's certainly going to be fun this summer when Uncle Bill comes up for his vacation.
betsy		We'll get in a lot of doubles.
jim		Hmm?  What are you talking about? Bill's going to Europe.
betsy		No, he's not. I heard him and mother talking. He's going to move his vacation up and take a place in Lansdale.
jim		 All right, come on, come on. Get busy.
muriel		I'll scout around and find you a place in Lansdale.  Now, you're not going to change your mind about coming up?
bill		Don't worry, I'll be on the job.
muriel		It won't be easy. I promise you a Cook's tour of every lamp maker, rug weaver, and antique shop in Lansdale County.
bill		 When I married you two I suppose I took you for better or for worse.
muriel		Good old Uncle Bill.
bill		 Good old Uncle Bill.
jim		Now look what you've done!
betsy		Father, the first principle of lighting a fire is to see if the flue is open. A three-year-old child knows that.
jim		Next time we want a fire I'll send out for a three-year-old child!  Get that stuff cleaned up and go in and help Gussie set the table. It's getting late.
joan		Look, Dad, your fraternity pins.
jim		 Pins? I only had one.
joan		There are two of them here.
jim		All right, all right. Just put them away.
joan		 William Cole! It must be Uncle Bill's!
jim		Huh?  Hmmmm.
joan		What's that?
betsy		Mother's diary when she was in college. It's slightly torrid.
joan		 Let's see.
jim		 That's none of your business!
betsy		 I'd say mother and Uncle Bill were somewhat of an item!
jim		 Now go in there and help Gussie with the table.
betsy		 What about --?
jim		I'll take care of that. Now, shoo, shoo.
muriel		Where are you going?
jim		To shave.
muriel		Tonight??
jim		While I can still trust myself with a razor. At six o'clock in the morning I'd probably cut my throat. Goodnight.
muriel		Excuse...
muriel		Excuse...
jim		Muriel, do you have to do that now?!
muriel		There's no need to be so irritable just because you have to shave at night.
jim		I'm not irritable!
muriel		Well, you're certainly something! You haven't said a civil word all evening.
jim		Sometimes a man doesn't feel like talking.
muriel		 What is it, dear? Something down at the office?
jim		No.
muriel		Have you got the new slogan for "Wham"?
jim		It's not due yet!
muriel		Well, it's something. You're certainly upset about something. I can always tell.
jim		I'm not upset.  It's just that I don't happen to approve of falsehood and deception. Particularly in my own wife.
muriel		What are you talking about?
jim		 Oh, nothing. It's just that I distinctly remember your telling me you gave back Bill's fraternity pin fifteen years ago.
jim		Well, did you or didn't you?
muriel		Did I, or didn't I what?
jim		Give it back to him.
muriel		Of course I did. If I said I did, I did.
jim		 Then perhaps you'd have the goodness to explain how this happened to fall out of your jewel box?
jim		What's so funny?
muriel		You! You're jealous! You're standing there with your face full of soap and you're jealous.
jim		 If you were so crazy about the guy, why didn't you marry him?!
muriel		 Because I wasn't in love with him!
jim		 That's not what you said in your diary!
muriel		 Oh, now you've been reading my diary!
jim		 Well -- it happened to fall open and... I... happened to look at it. It... just happened.
muriel		I'll just bet!
jim		It's all over the book so why don't you admit it? You were in love with Bill Cole!
muriel		Don't be absurd! Of course I was in love with Bill. In those days I was in love with a new man every week.
jim		Then why did you marry me?
muriel		I'm beginning to wonder!  Maybe it was those big cow eyes of yours or that ridiculous hole in your chin! Maybe I knew that some day you'd bring me out to this thirty- eight thousand dollar icebox with a dried-up trout stream and no windows! Or maybe I just happened to fall in love with you -- but for heaven's sake, don't ask me why!
jim		 ...Muriel?
jim		...Honey?
jim		Would it do any good to say I'm sorry?
muriel		I don't know.
jim		Well -- I am. I acted like a schoolboy and I'm sorry.
muriel		Oh, Jim!
muriel		 Why don't you take the soap out of your ears?
jim		 Why do I love you so much?
muriel		 Darling, it's awfully late.
muriel		 Maybe you ought to go down and lock the doors.
jim		 What for? The windows are all open anyway.
muriel		 Jim, you have to get up at six o'clock.
jim		 Yes, I guess so.
muriel		 Goodnight, dear.
jim		 Goodnight.
bill's voice		And so the days sped by -- and the bills -- and the extras -- and as the house approached forty thousand dollars, Jim approached his deadline for the new slogan. It was almost a photo finish.
jim		You'd better send out for coffee and sandwiches,... It looks like an all night session.
mary		 What did he say?
jim		 Tomorrow morning.
mary		 Well, I guess you'll just have to dream something up -- good or bad.
jim		I rather got the impression it had better be good.
mary		 Oh.
jim		 Funny how you look forward to the little things. Rain, for instance.
jim		For a month now, I guess I've been looking forward to the first rainy night at the house.  Oh, well.
muriel		 Thank heavens! The children.
bill		 Stay put. You look too comfortable.
bill		Oh, I'm not Mr. Blandings. Cole's the name, Bill Cole.
bill		Friend of the family. Wet clothes. Just came in out of the rain.
muriel		I'm Mrs. Blandings.
jones		How do. Mrs. Williams just called. Says your phone's out of order. Wanted me to tell you the water's rising and they've got the bridge roped off. Girls'll spend the night over at her place.
muriel		Thank you. I was beginning to get concerned. Can I make you a cup of tea?
jones		No, thanks. Better be gettin' back 'fore I have to swim for it. 'Night, Mrs. Blandings.  'Night, Mr. Bl--
bill		 Cole. Bill Cole. Friend of the family. Just came in out of the rain.
jones		 Well -- 'Night.
muriel		Goodnight... and thanks so much.
bill		That's fine. No bridge. How do I get back to Lansdale?
muriel		 You'll just have to spend the night right here.
bill		Muriel, really! With your husband in New York and your children away -- think of my reputation.
muriel		 Don't worry, Snow White, you'll be as pure and unsullied in the morning as you were the night before.
bill		 That's the story of my life.
muriel		Poor Jim, he sounded so worried before. I certainly hope he comes up with something.
bill		Don't worry about the man who gave the world "When you've got the whim, say Wham!"-- This well will never run dry.
jim		 "Compare the price, compare the slice, Take our advice -- Buy Wham!"
jim		"If you'd buy better ham. You'd better buy Wham!"
mary		It's Boyle Petroleum. "If you'd buy better oil, You'd better buy Boyle."
jim		"This little pig went to market As meek and as mild as a lamb. He smiled in his tracks When they slipped him the axe He knew he'd turn out to be Wham!"
jim		 "...knew he'd turn out to be Wham!"
jim		 I don't know... I don't know.
mary		 Where are you going?
jim		Home, to get some sleep -- and I'd advise you to do the same.
mary		But -- but you haven't --
jim		Suppose I haven't! This isn't the only job in town!
mary		But -- but -- what'll I tell Mr. Dascomb?
jim		 You just tell him!
jim		'Morning, dear.
muriel		 Darling, you must be exhausted. How did it go?
jim		Fine. Fine.
muriel		 Is... everything all right?
jim		 Hello, Simms, what brings you out with the morning dew?
simms		Just dropped by to check the blueprints. Some extras came in from Retch this morning and there're a couple of things I thought we ought to go over together.
jim		 Really. What are they?
simms		Well, let's see.  Few little things here, all right, I guess. "Mortising five butts -- a dollar sixty-eight."
jim		Let's not quibble about that. A man's entitled to mortise a few butts now and then.
simms		 Extra nails and screws -- three dollars, eighty-nine cents.
jim		Petty larceny, but let him get away with it.
simms		Now there's one here I frankly don't understand. Ah, here we are.  "Changes in closet, twelve hundred and forty-seven dollars." Did you authorize that?
jim		Well, we probably told him to --  Twelve hundred and what?!
simms		Forty-seven dollars. Changes in closet. 
jim		 What's this notation: "Refer to Detail Sheet Number one thirty-five?"
simms		 Far as I remember, that would be something in the back of the house. Let's just take a look.
simms		Ah, here we are. It isn't a closet at all. It's off the back pantry... Mrs. Blandings' little flower sink.
jim		Oh... Mrs. Blandings' little flower sink.
simms		 You didn't authorize any changes, did you?
muriel		 Well... they certainly weren't changes.
jim		What -- have -- you -- done?
muriel		 I haven't done anything! And what I did was... just nothing at all.
jim		What -- have -- you -- done?!
muriel		Well --  All I did was one day I saw four pieces of flagstone left over from the porch that were just going to be thrown away because nobody wanted them and I asked Mr. Retch if he wouldn't just put them down on the floor of the flower sink and poke a little cement between the cracks and give me a nice stone floor where it might be wet with flowers and things. That was absolutely all I did.
jim		That's all you did?
muriel		Absolutely. Just four little pieces of flagstone.
simms		 Did you by any chance authorize a drain?
muriel		 Of course I didn't. All I said was I wanted a nice stone floor and Mr. Retch was just as nice as could be and said, "You're the doctor," and that's all anybody ever said to anybody about anything.
jim		...Well?
simms		 All right, I think I can tell you what happened. First, the carpenters had to rip up the flooring that was already laid. Those planks run under the whole width of the pantry, so Retch had to knock the bottom out of the pantry wall to get at them.
simms' voice		Then he had to chop out the tops of the joists under the flower sink space to make room for a cradle. I guess he bought some iron straps and fastened them to a big pan to give him something to hold the cement. What with that added load on the weakened joists, I'll bet he had to put a lally column down there for support, too.
muriel		It was just four little pieces of flagstone, and I only ---
jim		Quiet!
simms		Well, the main soil pipe runs under there on wall brackets, so Retch had to get his plumbing man back to take out a section so he could get that cradle set. I guess that meant he had to change the pitch of the soil pipe from one end of the house to the other.  'Morning, Mr. Cole.
bill		'Morning. Hello, Jim.
jim		 Hello, Bill.
muriel		 The bridge was roped off and Bill had to stay last night.
jim		...Oh.
bill		 Slept like a rock.
jim		I'm delighted.
simms		 And then, of course, there are hot and cold water pipes hooked to the joists right under that pantry. They go up to the wing bathroom on the second floor, and I'll bet my bottom dollar he had to relocate them.
simms' voice		And I guess the electrician had to rip out about sixty feet of armored cable between the main panel and the junction box by the oil burner, including the two hundred twenty volt cable that goes to the stove.
gussie		'Morning, everybody. Whew! What a night!
jim		Where have you been?
gussie		Lansdale. Couldn't get back across the bridge.
jim		You... weren't here last night?
gussie		They weren't letting anybody across that bridge, Mr. Blandings.  I passed the girls over at the Williams. They'll be along any minute.
muriel		 Thank you, Gussie. You'd better get breakfast started.
muriel		Where were we?
bill		We were at the two hundred twenty volt cable that goes to the stove.
jim		Just a minute.  You mean the children weren't here last night either?
muriel		How could they be, dear? The bridge was closed.
jim		I just came across it.
muriel		Well, it was closed last night.
jim		 It's open now!
bill		 If you'll all excuse me -- I -- I think I'll just go up and slip into something a little more comfortable.
simms		 Well, that's about the size of it --
simms		-- except that Retch had to repair the pantry wall and that meant getting a plasterer back. And of course, he couldn't have broken through that wall --
jim		All right, Simms, all right. We'll take care of it.
simms		 I'll admit it's a little steep. But I'll try to get Retch to knock a hundred dollars off the bill. If I can't get that, I'll certainly try for seventy-five.
jim		Fine.
simms		If he doesn't go for seventy-five, I'll take a stab at fifty.
jim		You do that.
simms		 Anyway, I'm almost sure we can get twenty-five.
simms		 Well. Good day.
muriel		 Now dear, you're upset, you've got a lot of things on your mind --
jim		 Muriel, there's only one thing on my mind -- This house -- and how fast we can get rid of it!
muriel		That's not what you're thinking.
jim		Maybe it's not. Maybe I'm thinking I was once a happy man!  I didn't have a closet, I didn't have three bathrooms, but I did have my sanity, a few dollars in the bank, two children who loved me and a wife I could trust!
muriel		That's a fine thing to say!
jim		I also had a job at Danton and Bascomb, something I don't happen to have at the moment!
muriel		Jim!
jim		That's right, I've resigned! We're starting all over again! From scratch! And without this house!
muriel		 You love this house!
jim		I hate it!
muriel		You don't mean that.
jim		Every word of it! Anybody who builds a house today is crazy! The minute you start, they put you on the list. The All-American Sucker list! Everywhere you turn they've got a hand in your pocket. If you take out their hands, they find more pockets!  It's a conspiracy, I tell you, a conspiracy against every man and woman who want a home of their own! Against every boy and girl who were ever in love!
jim		 What do you want?!
tesander		 Well, Mr. Blandings, there's a matter of twelve dollars and eighty-six cents.
jim		 Wouldn't Retch like a little something? Maybe Zucca could use my new dinner jacket? It's open house, Mr. Tesander! Help yourself! If this isn't enough I'll come over to your place and do some odd chores. Maybe I can mow your lawn or scratch your back!
tesander		 You don't understand, Mr. Blandings. This twelve dollars and eighty-six cents -- you don't owe me, I owe you.
jim		...W-what was that?
tesander		 Found I overcharged you. Almost three feet.
tesander		Better count it. I think it's all there.
muriel		Thank you very much, Mr. Tesander.
tesander		Well, I guess I'd better be gettin' along.  I'll tell Mr. Zucca about the dinner jacket.
bill		Oh, Mr. Tesander -- could you give me a lift to town?
tesander		Yep.
bill		Be right with you.
muriel		 What did you mean before about losing your job? Will we really have to sell the house?
jim		 I don't know, dear... I don't know.
bill		In case anyone's interested, I'm leaving for town.  If you want to count the silverware, I'll wait.
jim		 Bill, be patient with me. Maybe one of these days I'll grow up.
bill		 What happened to him?
muriel		Twelve dollars and eighty-six cents.
bill		Mind if I say something?
bill		You know, I've kind of been the voice of doom about this whole project. Every step of the way I was firmly convinced you were getting fleeced, bilked, rooked, flimflammed and generally taken to the cleaners. And maybe you were. Maybe it cost you a whole lot more than you thought it would. Maybe there were times when you wished you'd never started the whole thing. But when I look around and see what you two have here -- I don't know.  Maybe there are some things you should buy with your heart and not with your head. Maybe those are the things that really count... See you around.
betsy		'Morning, everybody!
joan		 Hi, Dad! How come you're not at the office?
jim		 I'm on a... kind of a vacation.
joan		You mean you got fired?
jim		Well, not exactly, I --
muriel		We'll discuss it later.
gussie		 Come and get it! Breakfast everybody.
betsy		Good! I'm starving! What are we having, Gussie?
gussie		Orange juice, scrambled eggs and you- know-what.
joan		 Ham?
gussie		Not ham -- Wham!  If you ain't eatin' Wham, you ain't eatin' ham!
jim		What did she say?
jim		Darling, give Gussie a ten dollar raise!
jim		 Drop in and see us sometime.
****Dialogues from script :Mr_Brooks.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Mr_Deeds_Goes_to_Town.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Mrs.txt****

brown		God save the Queen!!
assistant dresser		 Sorry, ma'am.
jenner		Congratulations, Your Royal Highness!
bertie		Thank you, Doctor.
jenner		A boy, I hear.  Excellent, excellent.
bertie		Yes.  Albert Victor.  Eddie for short.  What do you think?
ponsonby		A fine choice, sir.
jenner		Excellent!
driver		Are you riding up front?
brown		I'll stay with the pony, thank you. She's all the way from Deeside and she's not sure she likes you yet.
victoria		How many?
lady ely		The Royal Family and senior members of the household, ma'am.
victoria		Just them?
lady ely		Yes, ma'am.
jenner		We're expecting Brown this afternoon, ma'am.
victoria		Whom?
princess alexandra		Yes, ma'am.
brown		I was due at a quarter past one.  You're late.
ponsonby		 Her Majesty's routine at Osborne House is not as you will remember it.  The Household remains in full mourning and no-one is permitted to raise their voice under any circumstances whatsoever.  As for the Queen's routine, she breakfasts at nine thirty, lunches at two,takes tea at five thirty and dinner at eight forty five.  No one is allowed to leave the building while the Queen is at home. On the rare occasions when she is out, you may ask permission to leave, but only with my consent. You're to be ready to walk the pony at any time after ten o'clock.  You'll clean her outdoor things and do any odd jobs as and when she requires.
brown		How will I know?
ponsonby		 I'm sorry?
brown		How will I know what she requires?
ponsonby		You'll be sent a message.
brown		Who'll bring it to me?
ponsonby		Her Highness' Equerry.
brown		I need a man who knows where I am.
ponsonby		I'm sure it won't be difficult to find you.
brown		That's not good enough.
ponsonby		Then we'll have to see what can be arranged.
brown		Aye, do.
ponsonby		There is to be no communication with other members of the household on matters concerning the court except through myself or one of the Equerries.  No plans must be altered unless you are given prior authority by myself or a senior member of the household.
brown		I came down at the Queen's request. I'll take my orders from her.
ponsonby		In matters concerning the Household, I act on her behalf.
brown		Do you?
ponsonby		Yes.  I do.
brown		So, is passing wind out of the question or do I need permission for that?
ponsonby		As I am sure you remember from Balmoral, you do not talk while in Her Majesty's presence unless Her Majesty addresses you directly.
victoria		Mr Brown.
brown		Ma'am.
victoria		You are here safely.
brown		Aye, ma'am.
victoria		You are well?
brown		I am.
victoria		And the pony?
brown		She's well, too.
victoria		Your family sent cards.  It was much appreciated.
brown		I'm glad of it.
victoria		My husband was always very complimentary in speaking of you.  He would have approved, I am sure, of my calling on you in this way.  I trust it does not inconvenience you too much.
brown		I've no family, ma'am, apart from my brothers and sisters.
victoria		Yes.  I forget his name.
brown		Archie.
victoria		Yes.  That will be company for you.
brown		Yes, ma'am.
victoria		You do not - he ... get him out.  Get him out.  Get him out!
archie		 So the day they arrive, she greets the Sultan and his family with barely a word and then retires to her chamber. The Sultan, not used to State Occasions without a head of State, is standing in the lobby waiting for someone to tell him what to do.  But the court is under strict instructions not to talk in the corridors so nobody speaks to him, not a living soul, for the whole afternoon.  So now it's dinner and everyone's standing round the table -- still not a word -- waiting for Her Majesty to arrive. One hour goes by, two, the Sultan's getting a wee bit peckish to say the least.  So finally, his wee laddy breaks for the cold meats and stuffs a slice in his mouth.  Well, the uproar when she heard.  You'd have thought someone had stolen the crown jewels.
brown		So?
archie		So, there are rules.  Things you do and things you don't do.
brown		I was just telling the woman how I feel, for God's sake.
archie		You don't tell Her Majesty how you feel.
brown		I speak as I find, Archie.
archie		Not down south you don't.
brown		I think he nearly ruptured his truss.
brown		How much?
archie		Seventy a year.
brown		Not bad, not bad.
archie		How about yourself?
brown		Sixty.
archie		 That's pretty good for a ghillie.
brown		Prince Leopold?  Is he the one who bleeds all day?  So what does his valet do?  Wash his poultices for him?
archie		It's better than shovelling horse shit.
brown		If you were looking for promotion, you should have picked one of the healthier ones.
archie		She's hardly a full hamper herself.
brown		 It's only grief makes her like she is.
archie		Three years, John.  Is that not a bit long to be grieving?
brown		She loved him.
archie		Come on, man.  There's love and there's ...
brown		What?
archie		You know what I mean.
brown		I'm not sure I do, Archie.
archie		There's love and there's behaving like you do because there's nobody to tell you not to.
brown		Which one of us is she flirting with?
archie		The good-looking one.
brown		Aye?  Then she's obviously not got enough to do.
archie		You work the system right, you could ask her yourself.  Just be thankful you're not working for Household.  The Queen never lets them out of her sight.  But wee spats like us can slip through the net, easy.
brown		I'm no wee spat, ARCHIE.
victoria		 Who is that?
lady ely		It's Mr Brown, ma'am.
victoria		What is he doing there?
lady ely		He appears to be ... standing by his horse.
victoria		I made no request to go out riding today.  How long has he been there?
lady ely		I don't know, ma'am.  He was observed earlier, I believe.
victoria		Sir Henry, Mr Brown is standing in the courtyard.  I have no wish to go riding.
ponsonby		I'm very sorry, ma'am.  I can't imagine -- he was certainly given no instructions.
victoria		Please make sure it does not happen again.
ponsonby		Of course, at once.
ponsonby		What on earth did you think you were doing?
brown		Awaiting my orders.
ponsonby		You do not report for duty unless the Queen requests it.  You know that very well.
brown		I didn't come all this way to sit on my arse.
ponsonby		You will await your orders like everyone else.  Unless you prefer a repeat of yesterday's little excitement.
brown		No.
ponsonby		I beg your pardon?
ponsonby		I thought I made myself perfectly clear.  You do not leave your room until Her Majesty requests it.
brown		 Well, you tell Her Majesty from me, if her husband was here now, he'd have had her out of that house and getting some air in her.  What the hell's the point in me being here otherwise?!
ponsonby		Go inside at once.
brown		Is that the Queen's request?
ponsonby		Yes, it most certainly is!
victoria		Mr Brown.
brown		Yes, ma'am.
victoria		You have been told repeatedly not to stand in the courtyard unless requested to do so.
brown		Yes, ma'am.
victoria		Then why do you persist in doing it?
brown		Because I think Her Majesty is wrong. If ever there was a poor soul who needed fresh air, it is her.
victoria		The Queen will ride out if and when she chooses.
brown		And I intend to be there when she's ready.
victoria		Prince Albert was going to build a bench here.  He thought it one of the best views in Osborne.
brown		It's a fine spot, ma'am.
victoria		He thought so, yes.
brown		If Prince Albert were here today, he'd tell him a thing or two.
victoria		Sir Henry is not alone.  They all wish it.  The same people who refused to grant my husband the title of King because he was deemed of insufficient rank--
brown		Aye, ma'am.
victoria		Yes.
bertie's valet		Mr. Carter, the Head Butler, sits there.
brown		Not now he doesn't.  This is my place.
bertie's valet		By whose authority?
brown		My own.
bertie's valet		The order of seating at the Upper Servant's table is arranged personally by the Queen herself.
brown		That's a tautology lad.  If you say the Queen arranges something, you've no need to say she's done it personally.  That's understood.
assistant dresser		Assistant, sir, yes.
brown		What's your name?
assistant dresser		Mary Taylor, sir.
brown		Have I seen you up in Balmoral, Mary?
assistant dresser		I hope to go up next year.
brown		You wouldn't happen to know what the Queen's reading for recreation, would you, Mary?
assistant dresser		Lord Tennyson, sir?
brown		Am I the only one eating?
ponsonby		Lord Clarendon arrives, by invitation, at eleven o'clock, followed at twelve by a picnic in the grounds to celebrate Princess Alice's birthday. Dispatches, as usual, at two.  The Chancellor writes to say that, by happy coincidence, he will be in Cowes for the weekend.  He asks if Your Majesty might grant him an audience.
victoria		Why?
ponsonby		He thought, perhaps, Your Majesty might wish to be informed of the latest developments in government.
victoria		No.  I shall be out walking.
ponsonby		Then perhaps Your Majesty might consider it opportune if the Prince of Wales were to meet him on your behalf?
victoria		On no account.
bertie		Mama, I really do think it's time we made ourselves a little more ... available.
victoria		Gesture?
bertie		I thought, a dinner for our ambassadors perhaps?
victoria		 Why are you dressed for outdoors?
bertie		It's so infernally cold in here.
victoria		Cold is good--  Is that not so, Dr. Jenner?!
jenner		I'm sorry, ma'am?
victoria		Cold is good!
jenner		Excellent, ma'am, excellent.  But perhaps if her Majesty were to consider accompanying her new-found physical vigor with the benefits of mental activity...
victoria		 Why am I being lectured in this way?!
jenner		Forgive me, Your Majesty.  In no way did I wish to suggest--
victoria		 I will not tolerate anybody lecturing me about the responsibility of the monarchy....
bertie		Mother....
victoria		... Least of all my son.  It was his irresponsibility that drove my husband to his grave.
bertie		If it is inconvenient to Her Majesty, then perhaps she might consider allowing the Prince of Wales to host--
victoria		I do believe they send so many boxes to taunt me. Doctor Jenner writes to them to say that my nerves are in an extremely fragile state and yet they continue to hound me with box after box after box after box after box!
victoria		Don't potter, children.  Swim.
brown		You could buy that lot for garden ornaments and still see change from ten guineas.
stanley		Have you seen this?
stanley		Should we take it seriously?
disraeli		The cartoon or Her Majesty's absenteeism?
stanley		Well, both.
disraeli		The question is, do we need her?
stanley		Surely, you're not suggesting we dispense--
disraeli		My dear Stanley, a Prime Minister with only a handful of friends must respect public opinion.
stanley		So?
disraeli		We'll see which way the wind blows.
brown		My heart's in the Highlands, my heart is not here!  My heart's in the Highlands a-chasing the deer!  Chasing the wild deer and following the roe! My heart's in the Highlands wherever I go!
brown		One box of biscuits, one box of drop tablets, one box of pralines, sixteen chocolate sponges.  It's the same order every week, but does anybody bother to check it?  Now she has to travel all the way to Balmoral without the few luxuries she actually enjoys.
archie		So?  Someone'll send it on ahead.
brown		Aye, but will they?
archie		John, it's not your problem what she eats.
brown		The woman's surrounded by fools!  She has to be packed and ready to leave by seven thirty tomorrow morning.  Knowing that lot, they'll still be dressing her at eight.
archie		She's got an army of people to get her up and out.
brown		But I'm the only one she trusts.
archie		She'll blow hot and cold on you, John, she always does.  You want to be careful.
brown		I'm on ninety pounds a year plus seventy pounds for a pile of tartan I'd be wearing anyway.  That's as much as a Page of the Back Stairs gets and that job's only for toffs.  I'm Her Majesty's Highland Servant! Indoors and Out.  There's no stopping me now.
ponsonby		Oh God, not the pipes!
victoria		What are those?
brown		What?
victoria		Those, over there, there.
brown		 Craobhan-geanmchno-fhiadhaich.
victoria		 How can I possibly say that with a straight face?!
brown		Are they worth reading?
victoria		 I am told so.
brown		Who by?
victoria		Sir Henry Ponsonby tells me they are charming.
brown		What does he know about the Highlands?
victoria		He has been attending at Balmoral for many years.
brown		That doesn't make him an expert.
victoria		His remarks were directed at the quality of the writing, not its subject.
brown		I don't groom a horse to have it admired by others, I groom it because it needs grooming.
victoria		 I do not do it for others.  But Ponsonby thinks they are good.
brown		Just say what you have to say, woman. What other people think shouldn't matter to you.
victoria		 Of course I shall say what I have to say.  I always do.
brown		Aye, well, if all you want is a good opinion then he'd be sure to oblige you.
victoria		 Literary appreciation does not begin and end with Tennyson.
brown		 She'll be away on Friday between eight o'clock and six in the evening to visit the Grants in Glasalt.  If she's to make the journey there and back in the day she's to have no distractions the night before.  She'll take a light supper alone in her private drawing room and retire early.
ponsonby		She'll need to sign dispatches before she retires.
brown		That can wait till the weekend.
ponsonby		There are important papers from --
brown		It can wait.  Anything else?
jenner		Are you sure Her Majesty is up to such a long journey?  She has only just recovered from a severe head cold.
brown		If I thought she wasn't up to it, I wouldn't let her go, would I?
bertie		Surely it is for the gentlemen to decide when to stop...
victoria		It is a disgusting habit, Bertie.  It should be discouraged.
bertie		Yes, but isn't midnight a little excessive?
victoria		It is quite late enough.
bertie		But mama, the room was built expressly for that purpose.  It has been a smoking-room by tradition ever since father --
victoria		 Brown's responsibilities are onerous enough already.  He has far too much to do without having to stay up all night waiting for you to go to bed. The smoking-room will be closed and the lights put out at twelve o'clock.
bertie		Mama...
victoria		And that is my last word on the matter.
bertie		Well, I'm sorry, but I really do think it's too much that the gentlemen of the house should be dictated to by a servant.
brown		It's the Queen's decision.
bertie		I beg your pardon?  Mama...?
brown		I think you should go now.  You've tired your mother enough.
brown		There's really no need for this.
mrs grant		I'll not have her seeing it like it is!  I know she means well, but I wish she'd warn us she was coming.
brown		She thinks if she warned you, you'd go pouring water on the fire and stuffing the knitting under the sofa.
mr grant		Aye, well, you can't stop a wife being house-proud.
mrs grant		All right.  Show her in.
brown		They're ready now.
victoria		I hope they didn't go to any trouble, John.
brown		Ah, well...
victoria		Mr Grant.  How good it is to see you.
mr grant		 Your Majesty.
victoria		Mrs Grant.  How is your knee?  Has the pain eased a little?
mrs grant		 Oh not so bad, ma'am.
victoria		Good.  Oh and here are Douglas and John.  Haven't you grown?
mrs grant		 Growing all the time, ma'am.
mr grant		Will you sit, ma'am?
victoria		I know that!  That's Cairn Lochan.  We picnicked there once, did we not, John?
disraeli		Ah, the greasy pole.
mary anne		Don't be facetious, dear. Remember your position.
disraeli		It's my position I'm thinking of.
stanley		I see the Prince of Wales is here.
disraeli		I hope he got his mother's permission.
disraeli		And in your opinion?  Is she foolish?
disraeli		What?
disraeli		La superstition met le monde entier en flammes.
disraeli		 Has anybody seen this ... Mr Brown?
stanley		He is her personal servant, I believe.
disraeli		He would hardly make a very good personal assistant if he did not.
mrs grant		... it's not my best china.  I mean, it is my best china now, but the family set got stolen last summer.
victoria		Oh, I'm so sorry ...
mrs grant		Of course it was no-one on the Estate. More likely one of the lads from Braemar.  Or further even.  I'll fetch the salt.
bertie		Mr Disraeli.  Ma'am.
disraeli		Your Royal Highness.  What a pleasure to see you here.
bertie		Have you met Mr Lyle?  He's in sugar...?
disraeli		I don't think I've had that pleasure.
bertie		No doubt you've heard the rumors.
disraeli		I take no account of gossip, Your Highness.
bertie		My concern is for the reputation of the Monarchy.
disraeli		Of course.
bertie		I fear the influence he has on her. The man's word is not to be credited. He is an arriviste of the very lowest water.  She's having a bust cast of him.  In Nero Marquino marble.
disraeli		I see.
bertie		I would talk to her myself, but she won't listen to me.  She must be persuaded, by someone she respects, to abandon this ridiculous favoritism before a situation develops.
disraeli		A situation?
bertie		I don't imagine you frequent the Republican Clubs.  But the fact that neither you nor I are members should not blind us to the significance of their existence.  The Tory Party has always been our party.
disraeli		I'm flattered you think so.
bertie		I tell you, if we don't stick together on this, you could find yourself First President's Opposition.  Du Royaum Uni.
disraeli		Quite.
bertie		I don't think we can overstate the seriousness of this.
stanley		What did he want?
disraeli		To know when he'll be king.
brown		... so Grant here and myself are riding over Lochnagar and the rain's pouring down in sheets and all we're thinking about is getting home for a drink, when through the gloom Grant spots a couple of poachers.  He gives me a shout and we chase them down towards the loch until Grant has your men up against the stacks and he's shouting and cursing at them, "Why are you poaching on Royal land?!"  And one of the little fellas looks up at him and says, "coz we've come up in the world."
jenner		Your Majesty!  Thank goodness you're safe!  I'll have a bath prepared immediately.  I recommend Macdonald's African Embrocation --
brown		 Ah, pipe down, man.  The woman's fine.
victoria		We stayed a little longer than expected with Mr and Mrs Grant.  It was most agreeable.
ponsonby		We were expecting you to return by six.
victoria		And now I am back.
brown		We took a nip of whiskey.
victoria		To keep out the cold.
brown		Aye.
victoria		Thank you, John.
jenner		 She's drunk.
ponsonby		No, she wasn't.
jenner		Surely not ...
ponsonby		Don't even think about it.
jenner		Pandora's Box ...
victoria		What is it, John?  John?
brown		I heard something.
journalist 1		Where did he get to?  I've lost him?
journalist 2		I don't know if there's much worth writing about.
journalist 1		Hard to tell.
brown		This close enough for you?  Go on!  On your way!  You filthy scavengers!
brown		If I catch the miserable by-blow who told those men where she'd be, then I'll hang his balls to dry on Jock Wemyss, so I will!!
bertie's valet		We --
brown		You'll talk when I'm finished!
jenner		"Court Circular, Balmoral."  "On Tuesday, Mr John Brown enjoyed a display of sheep-dipping by local farmers.  On Wednesday, he attended a seance where he was pleased to listen to a recital of Auld Lang Syne by Mr Robert Burns himself ..."
brown		If I find out that you had anything to do with this, I will have you sacked.
ponsonby		I believe that decision rests with Her Majesty.
brown		Don't think I can't persuade her.
ponsonby		I don't doubt that the Queen was highly amused.  She has always had a very healthy sense of humor.
brown		This is a slur on her good name.
ponsonby		In as much as the article is about yourself, I think you must now accept that the public has a right to its interest in you.
brown		Nobody has any rights over me.
ponsonby		We are all of us subject to forces beyond our control, Mr Brown, even you.
brown		You'll regret saying that.
counter		Ayes to the right, three hundred and thirty, noes to the left, two hundred and sixty-five...
dilke		Mr Speaker, I table a motion in furtherance of the Bill to Disestablish the Monarchy!
speaker		Order!  Order!!  ORDER!!!
disraeli		We're going to lose.
stanley		You can't know that for sure.
disraeli		Gladstone's got his party facing the same way for the first time in years. We need help.  Where is the old girl?
stanley		Who?
disraeli		Mrs Brown.
stanley		It's questionable whether there's any advantage to be had from that direction.  She's never been less popular.
disraeli		In the press, perhaps.  But she's sold more copies of her Highland Journal in three months than Punch will ever sell in a year.  Time to wheel her out.
stanley		She's refusing to leave Balmoral.
disraeli		What's her excuse this time?
stanley		The Princess Louisa is too ill to move.  Frankly, the Queen's rather upset at the recent spate of bad publicity.  You're smiling.
disraeli		I was trying to imagine "rather upset."
dean wellselly		Forgive me, gentlemen.  I'm late.
disraeli		Not at all, Dean.  Good of you to spare the time.
dean wellselly		I came as quickly as I could.
disraeli		You've seen the latest cartoon in Punch, I take it?
dean wellselly		 I beg your pardon?
disraeli		 One of our madder brethren in the house was calling for disestablishment of the monarchy.
dean wellselly		Good Lord.
stanley		 I'm sure it won't come to that.
disraeli		 I was just telling Stanley how vital it is that the nation should feel the visible influence of the Sovereign. As a reminder that Parliament, indeed my own ministry, depends on the will of the Queen.
dean wellselly		I couldn't agree with you more, but I am only Dean of Windsor.  I don't understand what ...
disraeli		We hear from Balmoral that Mr Brown is interesting Her Majesty in some of the forms of worship associated with ... low-church Presbyterian.
dean wellselly		What can we do?
disraeli		Oh, several things.
victoria		Read it.
ponsonby		Again?
victoria		Read it!
ponsonby		"The Times wishes to join the rest of Her Majesty's loyal subjects in expressing its deep joy at the news that the Queen is soon to come out of her mourning."
victoria		Who told them that?
ponsonby		I have no idea.
victoria		Why not?
ponsonby		I -- forgive me, ma'am, I am no wiser than yourself.
victoria		No-one should think themselves wiser than me!  It is not for any of the Queen's subjects to presume to tell Her Majesty when and where She should come out of mourning.  It is the Queen's sorrow that keeps her secluded!  It is Her overwhelming amount of work and responsibility, work which She feels will soon wear her out entirely!
ponsonby		Your Majesty --
victoria		 And now they attack Brown too.
bertie		I wish to see my mother.
brown		She's busy.
bertie		Convey her a message.
brown		She's away to Windsor tomorrow.  Talk to her there.
bertie		Tell her the Prince of Wales wishes to speak with her urgently about matters concerning the press.
brown		Are you deaf as well as stupid?
bertie		What did you say?
brown		I said, are you deaf as well as stupid?
bertie		Do you know who you address, sir?
brown		Whom you address.
bertie		The future King!
brown		Well, everyone's entitled to their opinion.
bertie		Out of my way!
brown		LEAVE US ALONE, WHY DON'T YOU!!
brown		You!  What's your business here?!
brown		Well, don't stand where you shouldn't!
victoria		Must they always follow us?
brown		I ordered it.  It's for your own safety.
victoria		Dear me, you'll be telling me to watch what I eat next.
brown		Aye.  But there are Fenians reported on the mainland.
victoria		 The threat from the Irish is greatly exaggerated, I'm sure.
brown		 I'll decide when it's exaggerated.
victoria		Is anything the matter, John?  John?
brown		Nothing's the matter.
brown		Hey, Barney.
barney		Mr Brown, sir --
brown		It's cold out there tonight, Barney.
barney		Yeah, yeah, I did.
brown		Good man.  And is she all right?
barney		Yeah.
brown		Good.  She's a good girl.  Aren't you? Yeah, she's a lovely girl.  And you know the Queen's riding tomorrow?
barney		Yeah.
brown		 Are you all right, Barney?
victoria		Well?
lady ely		Mr Brown is unable to attend today.
victoria		Why?
lady ely		I believe he is unwell, ma'am.
victoria		Unwell?
lady ely		I understand he was in a fight.
victoria		Has he been hurt?
lady ely		I believe not, ma'am.  I understand -- he'd had rather too much to drink.
victoria		You may go.
brown		And she sent no word down?
archie		They said you were drunk.  Why don't you tell her the truth?
brown		She'll think it's her fault for keeping me.
archie		What are you doing?!
brown		I'm getting dressed.
archie		You've got three broken ribs, man!
brown		I've got my duties to attend to.
archie		Don't be an idiot!  You're in no fit state to go anywhere.
brown		She'll be worried about me.
archie		She'll get over it.
brown		I can't let her down now, Archie.
archie		And when was the last time she put herself out for you?  Look, John, whatever she says to you now, in the end you're still a servant.
brown		Oh, I'm much more than that.
archie		Aye, she may say that to you, but the woman can say what she wants.
brown		You watch your tongue.
archie		Come on, man, I'm telling you what you already know.
brown		You know nothing about her!
archie		When are you gonna see it, John?  She doesn't give a damn about you.
brown		From the Queen!
archie		Aye.
brown		She means it.
archie		She'll drop you.  When she's done with you, she'll drop you.
brown		Get out.  Out!
ponsonby		... to be followed by a visit from Lady Bridport.  She is keen to secure a place for her niece as Maid of Honor.
victoria		I am tired.
ponsonby		There is one other matter.
victoria		What is it?
ponsonby		I have a letter, ma'am.
victoria		From whom?
ponsonby		From Princess Helena and other members of your family.
victoria		 My family is quite capable of communicating with the Queen in person.
ponsonby		They are demanding the dismissal of John Brown on grounds of drunkeness.
dean wellselly		You wished to see me, ma'am?
victoria		My husband tried always to make me think more subtly.  Of course he taught me so much and I can never repay my debt to him, or the love I feel, even now.  But, in truth, I think I am someone who can only feel things while they are alive to me. For that reason, I know I do not have a subtle mind.  I know that.  But I work hard and I try to do my duty.  Friends close to me now.
dean wellselly		Your Majesty, a settled resignation is more lasting proof of affection than active grief.  If the good Lord sees fit to bring one into contact with congenial fellow beings, one should not analyze one's reaction too deeply. To allow oneself to be comforted by someone else need not imply any disloyalty to the memory of the loved one.
victoria		Sir Henry.
ponsonby		Ma'am?
victoria		Please tell the Princess, and other signatories to this letter, that the Queen will not be dictated to, or made to alter, in any way, what she has found to answer for her comfort.  Do I make myself clear?
ponsonby		Ma'am.
victoria		You may go.
victoria		I would like to get down.
brown		Yes, ma'am?
victoria		I was told you were in a fight.
brown		Yes, ma'am.
victoria		Has someone seen to those bruises?
brown		Yes, ma'am.
victoria		Yes?
brown		Having considered my position here at court, I have come to the conclusion that it is in the best interest of Your Majesty that I should resign.
victoria		I do not accept.
brown		I had foreseen that you would not. But Your Majesty should understand -- that my mind will not be changed in this.  I leave for Deeside --
victoria		 I cannot allow it because I cannot live without you.  Without you, I cannot find the strength to be who I must be.  Please.
brown		I promise.
victoria		How dare the Irish break with the Anglicans? If Albert were alive today he would never allow the Crown to give up Church patronage.  No, the Irish must be told, very firmly, to stay exactly where they are.  It is the thin edge of the wedge, Mr Disraeli.  Next, you will be telling me that the Crown no longer governs this nation.
disraeli		Your Majesty remains at the very epicenter of governance.  As for your people, look no further than the sales of your Highland Journals to see in what affection the nation holds their Queen.  You sell even more copies than Mr Dickens.
victoria		But I lack your prose, Mr Disraeli.
disraeli		Of course I understand your concern. You miss your people.  And they miss you.
victoria		Then they may read about me.
disraeli		Indeed, and for that they are eternally grateful.
victoria		Is that not enough?
disraeli		In so many ways ... and yet it is your presence they crave.  A figurehead.
victoria		I never thought to be bullied by you, Mr Disraeli.  You, I thought, understood a widow's grief.
disraeli		Forgive me, ma'am, I cannot speak for the nation, only for myself.  As Prime Minister I confess I miss your presence, but that is only an expression of my own selfish desires and I should not burden you with it.
victoria		I stay here because I am happy.  Is that such a terrible crime?
disraeli		No, ma'am.
brown		Time for your walk.
victoria		This is my good John Brown.
disraeli		 Yes.
victoria		I have asked him to show you a little of Highland life while you are with us at Balmoral.
brown		What brings you here?
disraeli		A man can refuse only so many invitations from his Queen.  It was remiss of me not to come earlier.
brown		What do you know about the Highlands?
disraeli		I am a blank sheet.
brown		Do you hunt?
disraeli		Occasionally.
brown		Dare say you can be taught.
disraeli		To shoot perhaps, but not to kill.
brown		If you hunt, you kill.
disraeli		Well then, I'll do my best.
brown		 Always remember, you keep it tight to your shoulder, you absorb the kick. Aim for the head.  Then imagine it's Gladstone.
disraeli		 Quite.
brown		 ... Back doors, West Wing.
brown		Side doors, East Wing.
assistant dresser		Checked and locked, sir.
brown		Louder, girl!
assistant dresser		 Checked and locked, sir.
brown		Kitchen and lower house.
bertie's valet		Checked and locked, sir.
brown		Back and upper corridors.
brown		Front door.  Checked and locked.
bertie's valet		 Did you see any Irish assassins today, Mr Brown?
brown		There's not a soul here cares about that wee woman's safety except me! She'd die in a ditch if I wasn't there to look out for her --
archie		What's this?
brown		It's a diary.
archie		Be careful who sees it.
brown		What do you take me for?
archie		You should have someone look after you.
brown		I'm all right.  I just need to rest up a wee bit.  The room ... You don't have to stay.
archie		The place is a mess.
brown		I can't move to tidy.
archie		It's what the maids are for.
brown		I'm not having some prattler going through my things.
archie		Won't you give yourself a rest, John? She's other people to look out for her.
brown		She needs me, Archie.  She canna do without me, she said it to my face.  How can I stop now?
brown		You sent for me.
disraeli		I've been called back to London.  My last day.  I thought I might take a walk on Lochnagar.
disraeli		Princes and Lords are but the breath of kings, An honest man's the noblest work of God.  You must miss such magnificent views.
brown		I don't think about it.
disraeli		Forgive me, I've called you out and you should have been resting.
brown		I'm fine.
disraeli		You're injured.
brown		It's nothing.
disraeli		Still, someone must attend you.  Your wife should not have let you out.
brown		I'm not married.
disraeli		 Oh.
brown		This is the top.
disraeli		I confess, I sometimes feel as if I am not married myself, I see my wife so little.  But I'm forgetting the rewards.
brown		I wouldn't know.
disraeli		Surely --
brown		 What I do, I do for my Queen.
disraeli		Was there never ambition?
brown		 Maybe, once.
disraeli		Then I envy yo.
brown		Why?
disraeli		To have achieved one's ambition, or to have reconciled oneself to its limits, is a lifetime's work.
brown		I do what I do.
disraeli		For Her Majesty.
brown		Aye.
disraeli		But yourself?  What about John Brown?
brown		I said.  I serve the Queen.
disraeli		No other aspiration?
brown		To see her safe.
disraeli		You will not be unaware of the threat now posed by Republicanism.
brown		Why do you think I keep her here?
disraeli		Ah, but therein lies the paradox.  It is her very isolation that encourages the malcontents.  The longer she is away, the stronger they become; and who, honestly, can promise security against that?  However many doors you lock, someone will always get in. Even here.
brown		So...?
disraeli		The truth is, the Queen would be safer doing her duty and returning south to her public.  John Bull loves her and John Bull is her best defense.
brown		Her mind is set.  She won't change now.
disraeli		She trusts you, John.
brown		They don't see it.
disraeli		See what?
brown		The threat.  I tell them, but they don't see it.
disraeli		They aren't as watchful as you.
brown		Too busy looking after themselves.
disraeli		The greasy pole.
brown		No loyalty.
disraeli		No love.
brown		I promised to protect her from people like you.
disraeli		For once in my life, I am not the issue.
brown		She'll never understand it.
disraeli		In time, she will.
brown		She'll think I betrayed her.
disraeli		But others will know that you acted for the greater good.
victoria		I received a letter today from Mr Disraeli.  Parliament is calling for my return to public duties.  Why won't they let us be?
brown		We can't always have what we wish.
victoria		Duty?!  You talk about duty?!
brown		If duty and safety are served by the same end then, aye, I do.
victoria		I cannot believe you are saying this? You, who I have relied on all this time --
brown		 Have I ever let you down before--?
victoria		 -- You stand there and tell me it is my duty ... after all you promised me!
brown		I'm breaking no promises!
victoria		You are forcing me to do the very thing you know I fear most!
brown		For god's sake, woman, I'm just trying to keep you safe!
victoria		I will not hear any more about my safety!!  You made me a promise and now you have broken it!
brown		-- When I took you out riding, come rain or shine, because I knew it was right for you, when I kept the bairns off your back so you could have a bit of peace, when I saw you safe from home to home and you didn't even know I was there...!  All I've ever thought about is you!
victoria		Then why send me back to them?!
brown		Because I have to! (pause Will you no listen to me, woman?
victoria		Do not presume to talk to your Queen in that manner.
ponsonby		May I say, how glad I am to see Your Majesty so much recovered.
victoria		Where is my son?
princess alexandra		Prince Albert is at Windsor, ma'am.
victoria		Why is he not here?
princess alexandra		He is sick, ma'am.
victoria		Then why are you not with him?
princess alexandra		You ordered all members of the Royal Family to attend you at Balmoral.
victoria		What is the matter with him?
princess alexandra		He has typhoid fever, ma'am.
victoria		No.  You are mistaken.  Prince Albert, my husband, had typhoid fever.  I asked what was wrong with my son.
jenner		The same, your Majesty.
victoria		Why was I not informed?
jenner		I did not consider it wise, in the circumstances, to tax your nerves.
victoria		How ill is he?
jenner		Better.
victoria		Should the good Lord see fit to spare my son, I will order a mass to be celebrated at St. George's.  The people must share with their Queen, her prayers and hopes for their future King.
ponsonby		 The Queen will be riding to St. George's on the fifth.
brown		 I recommend Her Majesty uses the covered carriage with a full Horse Guard.  In the event of any disturbance I will ensure --
victoria		 I will ride to St. George's in an open carriage.  It is time the Queen was seen by her public.
brown		NO!!
bertie		 ... all seven stone of the man, paddling madly towards us through a sea of Horse Guards, waving something that looks vaguely like a pen.  I thought he must be one of the mother's ardent readership in search of the Royal indenture...
victoria		I intend Brown to be rewarded with a special medal cast in gold.  It will be called The Devoted Service Medal.
bertie		A toast.  Victoria Regina!
everyone		Victoria Regina!
disraeli		... If the first great object of the Tory Party is to maintain the institutions of the country, the second is, in my opinion, to maintain the Empire of England ... the hereditary, the traditionary policy of the Tory Party.  Go to your homes, teach them these truths, which will soon be imprinted on the conscience of the land ...
page		North woods, sir.
brown		God save the Queen!!
victoria		 How long has he been this sick?
lady ely		A few days, ma'am.
victoria		Why was I not told earlier?
victoria		You should never have gone out in such foul weather.
brown		Someone has to look after you.  It could've been someone.  It was before.
victoria		Yes.  Yes it was.
brown		Don't be silly, woman.
jenner		Erysipelas.
ponsonby		Not too protracted, I hope.
jenner		 When he heard, the Prince of Wales threw the bust from the window of the Royal Gallery.  It took four hours to gather the fragments.
ponsonby		The Queen wishes to publish an account of him.
jenner		Dear oh dear.
ponsonby		We think she can be dissuaded.  Have you had a glance at the diary?
jenner		Yes.
ponsonby		Quite.  I think I'd best take it back.
jenner		Of course.
ponsonby		Some young page was boasting about having seen it.  Lucky.
jenner		Well, no rest for the wicked, Henry.
ponsonby		No, indeed.
****Dialogues from script :Mud.txt****

shooting script		September 16, 2011
ellis		I'm comin' out now.
mary lee		I just want to have a conversation. I just want to talk about it.
neckbone		What the shit man?
ellis		Suck it. Drive. The bike spits up mud as they peel out down the trail.
neckbone		How old is she?
ellis		A Junior.
neckbone		She's got nice titties. You talk to her?
ellis		Nah.
neckbone		You're gonna have to talk to her.
ellis		I know.
neckbone		Remind me when we get back to my house, Galen's got a book on that. Neckbone takes a spot up front in the small, flat-bottom boat. Ellis, a foot on the bank and one in the boat, launches them out into the water.
neckbone		Shit. Ellis raises up behind him. He takes a deep breath, nods.
ellis		I'm not worried about my dad killin' us. THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER sprawls out in front of them. It's enormous. Their boat drifts at the mouth of the Arkansas, a small river by comparison. The Mississippi is a swirling mess of brown water and yellow foam six football fields wide.
neckbone		What if it sinks?
ellis		It ain't gonna sink. We gotta move if we're gonna make it back. Set your watch. We'll need a good fifteen minutes. Neckbone sets an alarm on his fat plastic wristwatch. They take their seats. Ellis cranks the motor. The small boat slowly chugs out onto the massive river.
neckbone		Galen thinks it's been here awhile. Thinks the last flood did it. Ellis follows as Neckbone winds through the trees. They stop at a deep creek that cuts across the island. Neckbone looks to his right, then his left. Sees what he's looking for.
neckbone		So there it is.
ellis		Yeah, there it is. A 26 Foot Long BOAT sits nestled in the tree limbs above.
ellis		It came down from up there. Ellis points to higher limbs that have long been broken off. Neckbone walks to the back of the boat and hangs his head over. He finds a gaping hole of gutted wood.
neckbone		Motor broke off. Ellis isn't concerned with the motor. His eyes are locked on a covered cabin at the front of the boat.
ellis		Who else knows about this?
neckbone		Just me and Galen.
ellis		What's he think?
neckbone		He don't care about it.
ellis		Good. Ellis walks to the cabin. He pushes a vinyl door open.
neckbone		It's got its own shitbox Neckbone slides back a portion of floral curtain and light streams in. He starts opening small closets and drawers. Ellis plops down on the rotted bench cushions.
ellis		This is perfect.
neckbone		Ho-Lee-Shit. Neckbone stares in an open drawer. He removes a stack of Playboys from the 1980's. Ellis smiles at him. He leans back and props his foot against the sink cabinet across from him. This is home. Neckbone opens the first Playboy. It disintegrates.
ellis		Neck.
neckbone		Look at that beave. You gotta see this. Ellis reaches out for the plastic bag. His fingers pull back the edges to reveal its contents: one can of unopened Beanie Weenie and half a loaf of BREAD.
ellis		Neck. Ellis reaches for the bread and gives it a squeeze. It's FRESH. Ellis freezes.
neckbone		What?
ellis		Someone's here.
neckbone		What? Ellis holds the loaf of bread up to Neckbone.
ellis		Someone's livin' here. Neckbone sees the grocery bag. His eyes widen. The boys are stone frozen. They listen for other sounds. Silence.
neckbone		Shit.
ellis		We gotta go. I can't be late.
neckbone		What are you doing? Ellis stares at a muddy boot print, cross in the heel, stamped in the center of their boat. He looks back to the treeline, then down the shore. He looks to his feet. The boys' shoe prints make chaotic patterns in the mud. Larger boot prints lead off down the shoreline.
neckbone		Shit. Let's go. Ellis begins following the boot prints around the shoreline.
ellis		Hold it.
neckbone		Where the hell'd he go?
ellis		I don't know. Neckbone turns and freezes. A MAN has appeared in the distance behind Ellis. He stands between the boys and their boat. Ellis notices the look on Neckbone's face and turns. He flinches at the sight of the Man. MUD stands near the boys' boat holding a pink, child's fishing pole with cartoon characters on it. He stares back at them and casts his fishing line into the water.
neckbone		Shit. You know that guy?
ellis		I've never seen him before.
neckbone		Shit. Mud, not taking his eyes off the boys, slowly reels in his line. His hair is a wild mop that leads to two weeks of growth on his face. With a cigarette clinched, he cracks a smile revealing a MISSING CANINE. He holds a hand in the air as if to wave.
mud		What you say? The boys don't respond. Mud walks past them and casts again.
ellis		What's that? Mud takes the cigarette from his mouth. A tattoo of a snake's head covers the top of his right hand. Two large cotton blossoms spill out of its jaws.
mud		Boat in the trees. It's a helluva thing. Mud continues walking down the shoreline, reeling in his bait. The boys follow, tentatively.
ellis		You talkin' 'bout our boat?
mud		I'm talkin' about my boat.
neckbone		We found it.
mud		You found it with me livin' in it. Possession is nine tenths of the law.
neckbone		So?
mud		Don't tell me you boys are from Mississippi?
ellis		No. They watch as he grabs the bait at the end of his line and spits on it. Then, tucking the pole under his arm, he ties a lock of his hair into a knot. He finishes this process with another cast.
mud		Nails. Shaped liked crosses.
ellis		What for?
mud		Ward off evil spirits. A man I called an Indian but was Meskin said they were Seven-league boots worn by the seventh son of a seventh son. Told me it'd turn me into a werewolf but that's a lie. I don't know nothin' about that. Ellis, confused, won't take his eyes off the man.
neckbone		I'm Neckbone, he's Ellis, and mister you may be stone ass crazy but I know you're not the owner of that boat, not for nine tenths of nothin'.
mud		Neckbone? That's a real handle son. Where ya'll from?
neckbone		What do you care where we're from?
ellis		DeWitt. Neckbone looks at Ellis, frustrated by his friend.
mud		Arkansas boys. Ya'll had me worried for a second. Mud, pleased by this news, tucks the fishing pole under his arm and holds out a hand to shake. Ellis stares at the hand, unsure. He takes it reluctantly.
ellis		We s'posed to know you?
mud		I doubt it. I grew up `round here, but I've been gone awhile.
ellis		Where around here?
mud		Different places. Spent a lot of time back up near the White.
ellis		You know Shelly's Oxbow? Neckbone can't believe his friend is offering this up.
neckbone		Ellis. We gotta go.
mud		I know it. Guy named Tom Blankenship used to live back in there.
ellis		He still does. His boat's cross from mine. Mud smiles.
mud		Ain't that somethin'. In one motion, Mud flicks his cigarette away and grabs a pack out of his shirt pocket.
ellis		A deal for what?
mud		Food. Food for a boat.
neckbone		This guy's a bum Ellis. Come on. Mud's smile vanishes. Neckbone begins to walk off but begrudgingly stops when Ellis starts back in.
ellis		Why don't you go get your own food?
mud		I would if I could, but I told somebody I'd meet `em here. So I'm stuck for now and what I got's runnin' low. Neckbone walks back and pulls Ellis by the arm.
neckbone		He's a bum Ellis, let's go. Mud lays a serious look down on Neckbone.
mud		I'm no bum. I got money. You can call me a hobo `cause a hobo'll work for his living and you can call me homeless `cause that's true for now, but if you call me a bum again I'll have to teach you somethin' about respect that your daddy never did. Neckbone's confidence recedes. Ellis stands his ground.
ellis		When they show up, you'll leave? Mud begins fishing again.
mud		Yeah.
ellis		And when you leave, that boat's ours?
mud		Yeah. Ellis studies Mud's face, clothes, tattoos. He's thinking about it. Mud pauses from fishing to make eye contact.
ellis		We gotta go. With that, Ellis turns to leave. The boys walk briskly back to their boat. Ellis looks over his shoulder to see Mud making another cast with his fishing pole.
ellis		You get his name?!
neckbone		No! Ellis looks back. Mud has disappeared.
ellis		I'm sorry.
senior		Where you been?
ellis		Neck and I got caught up helpin' Galen.
senior		You're s'posed to be helpin' me. I had to load this myself.
ellis		I know, I'm sorry.
senior		Just get in the back. Can't be later than we are.
ellis		Yessir. Senior flips up the tailgate. Ellis hops up the wheel well and into the bed of the truck. He steadies himself on one of the coolers as his father pulls away.
senior		Let's go son. Ellis crumples the wrapper to his finished hotdog and jumps down from the bed of the truck.
ellis		It's s'posed to be ten.
senior		It's ten you do your share. I loaded this mornin'. That makes it five. Ellis begrudgingly stuffs the five in his jeans.
ellis		You drop me at Neck's? Senior checks his pants pockets, feels around under his seat.
senior		Hadn't you seen enougha him today?
ellis		Said he had something for me.
senior		You see anymore Ding Dongs over there? Ellis checks under his seat and pulls out a half-empty box of Ding Dongs. Hands one over to his father who rips the package with his teeth.
ellis		What'd Momma wanna talk to you about?
senior		What?
ellis		This mornin', what'd she wanna talk with you about?
senior		You spy on me in my own house?
ellis		I wasn't spyin', just heard ya'll.
senior		That's your mother's business. Senior makes this his answer, eats the Ding Dong.
ellis		I came by for that book.
neckbone		What book?
ellis		You said Galen had a book might help me out.
neckbone		Aw, yeah. We gotta give it a minute. You hear that music?
ellis		Yeah.
neckbone		That means he's doin' it. That's his doin' it song. Ellis takes a seat next to Neckbone. They listen to the song, slightly craning their necks to pick up on any other sounds. There are none.
ellis		You know who it is?
neckbone		Whoever's drivin' that white Dodge. Neckbone motions to a beat up Dodge Shadow in the yard.
ellis		You tell Galen 'bout this morning?
neckbone		Nah. You tell anybody?
ellis		No.
neckbone		That guy was crazy.
ellis		Maybe. I don't know. I think he just needed some help.
neckbone		Well he can swim his ass off that island and get some.
ellis		I think I'm gonna go back, take him some food.
neckbone		Why? Suddenly, the music from inside stops. Footsteps approaching and the trailer door flies open, almost hitting the boys. A GIRL bursts out down the steps, straight to her car. She wears tight jean-shorts and is buttoning a white shirt. She stops and turns back to the boys.
girl		You're Neckbone right?
neckbone		Yeah.
girl		You look like a good enough kid. A word of advice, don't grow up to be like your shit heel uncle. The boys can't take their eyes off her cleavage revealed under her half-buttoned shirt. A necklace with three misshapen pearls hangs from her neck.
neckbone		Yeah. The trailer door opens and GALEN emerges. He's a big, lumbering guy wearing a full-body wet suit pulled halfway down. A faded mermaid tattooed in the middle of his chest.
galen		Come on baby.
galen		That's uncalled for. He walks out to her. She heads for the Dodge Shadow.
neckbone		Pearls. Galen finds 'em in some of the mussel shells. Most of 'em ain't worth dick, but he likes to make necklaces for the girls. Come on, let's get that book. Neckbone walks into the trailer. Ellis stands up and retrieves the other two pearls out of the dirt. He crams them in his pocket and follows Neckbone inside.
neckbone		I don't want you goin' back out there by yourself. That river's scary enough with two people, and I don't trust that guy.
ellis		Thanks. Ellis flips delicately through the manual.
neckbone		You really going back out there?
ellis		I think it's the right thing to do.
neckbone		Well...I'll be over in the mornin' then. Galen, his thumbs tucked under his armpits, walks back to the trailer. He passes the boys and notices the self-help book in Ellis' hands.
neckbone		I'll call 'fore I come.
ellis		All right. Neckbone follows his uncle into the trailer. Ellis flips through his new book as he heads out of the trailer park.
ellis		You okay momma?
mary lee		Yes.
ellis		I'm all right. Mary Lee shuts off the water and lets the dish rest in the sink. She turns to Ellis.
mary lee		I'm gonna turn in.
ellis		Okay momma. Mary Lee slips past him and enters her bedroom. The door closes and Ellis is left alone in the den. It's quiet. He waits, looking at the door his mother just closed. Ellis walks into the kitchen and eases open a cabinet door. Checking over his shoulder, he zips his backpack open and fills it with CANNED FOOD.
ellis		What do you know about Tom Blankenship?
senior		What? Senior doesn't turn around from his work at the sink.
ellis		Mr. Blankenship, what do you know about him?
senior		Why?
ellis		I don't know. He looks lonely over there.
senior		Some people move to this river to work on it, and some move here to be left alone. Senior makes his way to the ice machine and begins scooping ice into a large white cooler. Mary Lee emerges from the houseboat dressed for work, a secretarial job. Senior stops what he's doing to watch her. She walks over to Ellis.
mary lee		Let's sit down for dinner tonight okay? Will you make it home by seven?
ellis		Yes ma'am. She walks off the boat without a glance in Senior's direction. He trails her with his eyes before going back to digging in the ice. A29 Ellis looks back at Tom. The Walkie SQUAWKS out several A29 loud BEEPS. Ellis crams it in his backpack and runs off the boat.
neckbone		Where you think he's at?
ellis		I guess we should try the boat. They head for the treeline.
ellis		Looks like he made camp.
neckbone		 You think he's up there?
ellis		What're you doin'? Mud bounds down, stepping from limb to trunk to the ground. It's an agile move.
mud		I try to never sleep in the same place twice. What you got there? Mud motions with his head to the backpack in Ellis' hand. Ellis holds it out to him.
ellis		I brought you some food. Mud looks at the backpack, but doesn't move.
mud		I owe you boys. Keeping the bag in hand, Mud takes a seat on the stump behind him. He pulls out a selection of canned food; pumpkin pie filling, evaporated milk, green beans. He grabs the beans.
ellis		Yeah.
neckbone		What you got that pistol for? Mud wipes off his chin, realizing the boys have been studying him. He closes the knife and tucks it in his pocket.
mud		For protection. Mud gets up, heads for a duffel bag tucked under a nearby tree. The boys pivot, keeping Mud in front of them. Mud notices.
ellis		Who's this guy you're waitin' on?
mud		I'm not waitin' for a guy. I'm waitin' on my girlfriend. Juniper.
neckbone		Is she hot?
mud		She's beautiful.
mud		Best lookin' girl I've ever seen. Hands down. Blonde hair. Long legs. She's like a dream you don't want to wake up from. She's got birds tattooed on her hands, here. Mud stops, points to the area on the top of his right hand, between his thumb and pointer finger.
neckbone		That a good luck snake?
mud		No it is not.
neckbone		I hate snakes.
mud		That's because God made them for us to fear.
neckbone		Thanks.  So what's that for then? Mud walks to a tree branch that has grown out over the bank, nearly resting in the water. He sets a trot line from it.
mud		A reminder. Don't get bit. I was 10, swimmin' `bout a mile up from here. Me and Juniper. Sonofabitch swam right up under me, bit me just below the armpit. June got me out, got me to a clinic. Doctor said I shoulda been dead in twenty minutes. Took us an hour just to get back to town.
neckbone		What'd they do?
mud		Gave me antivenom. For a cotton mouth. See here. Mud shows the tattoo on top of his right hand. He points out the two cotton blossoms bulging from the snake's mouth.
ellis		What happens if you get bit again?
mud		I die, or just sweat it out. Neckbone, not buying it, looks at Ellis and taps his watch.
ellis		We gotta go help Neck's uncle.
mud		All right.
ellis		You never said your name.
mud		Mud. You can call me Mud.
ellis		Mud?
neckbone		Here you go, Mud. I think you need that worse than I do.
galen		They look bright enough. The owner of the shop, an ELECTRICIAN, holds up a metal bar with the lamps affixed by bolts at either end.
electrician		Should be. I rigged DC power up through marine batteries. Makes it portable. Gave you a rigging bar to set on your shoulder.
galen		So you really think these'll work under water?
electrician		In theory.
neckbone		You start datin' I bet her dad'll give you a free pick-up truck.
ellis		I don't care about that. Ellis watches as the same Skinny Kid from before tries to flirt with her. She's not having it. He pops her bra strap before landing the final straw, a smack on her ass. She turns and swats at him. Seeing this, Ellis is on his feet and crossing the street.
neckbone		What's goin' on? Ellis doesn't turn back. Neckbone reluctantly sets the carburetor down and follows.
may pearl		Stop it! She shoves the Skinny Kid, but he continues laughing.  ELLIS  Hey. Ellis taps the Kid on the shoulder. As he turns, Ellis PUNCHES him in the face. The Kid, completely taken off guard, stumbles and trips to the ground. Some older, tougher looking GUYS see this and begin laughing at him. 
older kid		Holy shit Pryor, get off your ass. Pryor collects himself and gets off the ground. Ego bruised, he walks off mumbling. The Older Kids keep riding him. May Pearl sizes up Ellis.
may pearl		You didn't have to do that.
ellis		He was messin' with you.
may pearl		Do I know you?
ellis		I'm Ellis. That's Neck. Neckbone waves by wagging a finger in the air.
may pearl		How old are you?
ellis		Fourteen.
may pearl		Fourteen? You know you just punched a Senior?
ellis		So?
may pearl		You think you're pretty tough. Ellis shrugs, not wanting to deny it.
ellis		I know.
may pearl		What else do you know?
ellis		Nothin'. She smiles.
neckbone		Son of a bitch...Ellis? Ellis breaks away from his conversation with May Pearl.
ellis		What?
neckbone		Look. Neckbone nods to a cheap motel called the EXECUTIVE INN located on the opposite side of the Piggly Wiggly parking lot. JUNIPER, a truly beautiful woman squeezed into tight jeans and a low cut top, makes her way from the motel parking lot to the Piggly Wiggly. She passes in front of the cluster of Teenagers. All of the boys have taken note. Some cat calls from the crowd. Juniper, without facing the Teenagers, gives them the finger.
ellis		No. Did you see her hands?
may pearl		Hello? Ellis catches himself and turns back to May Pearl.
ellis		Sorry. We know a guy we think might know that girl.
may pearl		Oh. A GIRLFRIEND of May Pearl's calls out to her.
girlfriend		May Pearl! Let's go!
may pearl		Okay!
ellis		I guess I'll see you.
may pearl		If you can find my phone number, you should call it. 
ellis		I can find it. May Pearl walks over to her friend. Ellis watches her go, but then remembers Juniper. He turns to Neckbone.
neckbone		Into the Piggly Wiggly. She came from the motel.
ellis		I'm gonna go see if it's her.
neckbone		I gotta go check on Galen. We'll pick you up out front. Ellis heads for the Piggly Wiggly. Neckbone calls after him.
ellis		Wants me to call her.
neckbone		Shit.
neckbone		Was it her?
ellis		It's her. I saw the tattoos. He wasn't lyin'.
ellis		What you hidin' for?
senior		I ain't hidin'. He notices Senior tip back a pint of liquor and set it at his feet. Ellis opens the screen door leading inside.
ellis		Yessir. I know.
senior		I work you hard 'cause life is work. You know that?
ellis		Yessir.
senior		Your Mamma's been talkin' 'bout movin' in town.
ellis		What's that mean?
senior		She seems set on it. Wants to separate. She may ask me for a divorce. This hits Ellis like a ton of bricks. He rights himself.
ellis		What's that mean for me?
senior		It means enjoy the river son. Enjoy it while you live on it, 'cause this way a life isn't long for this world. Game and fish's 'bout made certain of that.
ellis		But you and me can still live out here. Game and fish can't take your boat. Not while you're still in it.
senior		The houseboat's in your mother's name. Her daddy give it to her not me. If she wants to leave it, Game and Fish has ever' right to take this boat apart board by board.
ellis		But that ain't right. You work outta here. We got the ice machine, the traps. What are we supposed to do?
senior		Like I said, this is your mother's business.
ellis		I ain't no townie. I ain't livin' like that. Senior takes a slow pull off the bottle. Ellis' mind races.
senior		I've let you down. A man should be in charge of his own affairs, but I haven't worked it like that.
ellis		But ya'll are married. Ya'll are s'posed to love each other.
senior		I don't know about that anymore.
mary lee		You're late. Ellis doesn't speak, he doesn't look at her. He enters his room and shuts the door. He's heard the news and she knows it. Mary Lee's face drops.
mud		Ellis? Ellis, still frozen, slowly turns to him. Mud huffs out a laugh and drops the pistol to his side.
ellis		I got you some Beanie Weenie. Mud tucks the pistol into his jeans and accepts the backpack.
mud		I appreciate that, but I didn't expect you out here at night. Mud takes a seat on the log and transfers the cans into his own duffel bag. He holds up a can of the Beanie Weenie.
ellis		That's all my mom had.
mud		I'm not complainin'.
ellis		Can I get one of those?
mud		They're yours to begin with. Ellis sits as Mud hands him a can. They eat.
ellis		I missed my dinner.
mud		That's good right?
mud		Juniper. Yeah.
ellis		How'd you meet her?
mud		We grew up together.
ellis		Do you love her?
mud		I do. The first time I saw her was on this river. Just up from here. She saved my life.
ellis		From the snake bite.
mud		That's right. I was younger than you are now, but when I came to in the hospital and she was there, it was like the world split open, came back together new. Everything changed. I knew from then on I'd do anything for her.
ellis		Why aren't ya'll married?
mud		I've asked. Several times. Marriage just doesn't work for some people. Ellis thinks on this.
ellis		My dad says my parents may be gettin' a divorce.
mud		I'm sorry to hear that.
ellis		If it happens, and my mom moves us off the river, they say the government can come take our boat away.
mud		Who says that?
ellis		Everybody. They passed a law so you can't sell your boat. Can't rent it. If the owner leaves, they got you. Game and Fish want `em off the river.
mud		I've never been one to trust the government on matters of personal property, but if your parents love each other, there's always a chance.
ellis		I saw Juniper today.
mud		What?
ellis		I didn't talk to her, but she had the birds tattooed on her hand like you said. You were right. She's pretty. Mud stands, surprised by the news. He walks to the other side of the fire so his back is to the boy.
mud		Where'd you see her?
ellis		At the Piggly Wiggly. I think she's stayin' at a motel by there. The Executive Inn. Mud looks at Ellis through the fire. He takes a drag and smiles at the boy. The hole from his missing tooth shows.
mud		That's good news. Real good news. Mud paces, slowly. He's thinking.
ellis		Does she know you're out here?
mud		No. We picked another place to meet. Couple days from now. Mud walks back to the log and sits.
ellis		You wanna go tonight? I can give you a ride up river. Mud looks at Ellis, nodding.
mud		Tomorrow. I'll go tomorrow.
ellis		You need me to come get you?
mud		Naw. I can manage. Hell I got out here didn't I? Ellis smiles. They sit in silence. Ellis stares up at the boat hanging over them, its peeling hull lit by the firelight. Mud pinches the ash from the end of his cigarette, places the stub back in his shirt pocket. Noticing Ellis, Mud tilts his head back to take in the boat.
mary lee		Time to get up. She begins picking clothes off the floor. Ellis, in bed, raises up on his elbows. He's tired from a late night.
ellis		It's Saturday.
mary lee		I'm going to Wal-Mart. I need you to come with me.
mary lee		Come on. She pulls the covers off of him.
mary lee		Ellis I know what your father told you last night. That's not what I wanted. I wanted to sit you down and talk about it.
ellis		What do you wanna talk about? You want to leave and that means they can tear up our house.
mary lee		I've spent my whole life on that boat. I don't think it's too much to ask for your... Mary Lee is interrupted by a line of traffic backed up in front of her. She slows to a stop.
trooper		Can you open the trunk please ma'am?
mary lee		Of course.
trooper		Have you picked up or seen any hitchhikers today ma'am?
mary lee		No sir. The Trooper produces a flier with a color photo on it.
trooper		Have you seen this man?
mary lee		No sir. The Trooper leans over and holds the paper out to Ellis.
trooper		Son, have you seen this man? Ellis looks at the photo. It's of Mud. He looks exactly the same as he did last night, down to the shirt. In the photo, Mud's smiling, revealing his missing tooth.
ellis		No.
trooper		We've had reports that he's in this area. If you see him, call 9-1-1 immediately.
mary lee		We will officer. The Trooper pulls his head from the window.
ellis		What'd he do?! The Trooper bends back down and looks at Ellis.
trooper		Move along please. Mary Lee pulls forward and speeds back up on the interstate.
mary lee		My lord. 
ellis		 Neck! Neck, pick up!
neckbone		So what's the big deal?
ellis		My mom and I were headed to Wal- Mart on 165. There was a roadblock with state troopers. They searched our car and showed us a picture of Mud. They're lookin' for him.
neckbone		I knew it! I told you that crazy sonofabitch was trouble. Did they say what he did?
ellis		No.
neckbone		So'd you tell `em where he is?
ellis		No. That's why I called you. We gotta warn him.
neckbone		What?
ellis		He's goin' to get Juniper today. I went out there last night and told him where we saw her. He needs to know people are lookin' for him.
neckbone		You think he doesn't know that already? Jesus Ellis, why do you think he's on that island? You don't even know what he's wanted for. Ellis climbs in the boat and Neckbone yanks his shoulder.
ellis		He loves her Neck. He told me.
neckbone		I don't give a shit who he loves. Ellis starts the motor and waits for his friend.
ellis		He's not dangerous. Reluctantly, Neckbone throws his leg into the boat.
neckbone		It sounds like a shitload of state troopers think different.
neckbone		No tellin' where the hell he's been sleepin'.
ellis		He may already be gone.
ellis		What are you doin'?
mud		I'm gonna have to go back on our deal for the boat. I don't feel good about it, but I don't see any other way outta what I'm into. Neckbone makes his way on board. Mud has pulled a panel off the steering column. Exposed wires dangle.
ellis		So you know about the state troopers? He looks up from his notebook.
mud		What state troopers?
neckbone		The ones spreadin' your picture all over the place. Stoppin' cars on 165 searchin' for your ass. Mud factors this in and then goes back to writing.
mud		I didn't know about that, but it doesn't surprise me. There plenty of folks lookin' for me right now.
ellis		Why?
mud		I shot a man. Killed him.
neckbone		Who'd you kill?
mud		It was a bad piece of business. Ya'll don't need to hear about it.
ellis		I need to hear about it. Mud sits up. He looks at Ellis, deciding how much to tell.
mud		Juniper made a mistake. She hooked up with a guy. He was no good. His name was Hutchins. Family owns a chain of restaurants down in Texas.
ellis		Where were you?
mud		I was around, but me and Juniper were on the outs. She met this Hutchins, he sold her on some lies. Got her pregnant. That's when he started showin' who he really was. He dropped June down a flight of stairs after whoopin' her half to death. She lost the baby. He made it so the doctors think she can't have children anymore. There're things you can get away with in this world and things you can't. I tracked him down at a motel just outside of San Antonio. He was there with another woman. That's where it happened. Mud's done with his story. He goes back to the wiring.
ellis		You did it for her? To protect her?
mud		Yeah. Ellis nods. Mud looks over at Neckbone, who still has the disgruntled look on his face.
neckbone		I think you want us to run around, stickin' our necks out, gettin' everything you need, just so you can take our boat.
mud		That's about it. Mud removes a cigarette butt and sparks it with a lighter.
neckbone		What do we get out of it?
mud		What do you want? Neckbone looks to Ellis, judging his bargaining position.
neckbone		What about that pistol? Mud eyes the boy, pulling on the nub of cigarette.
mud		I only got two things out here worth anything. This shirt... Mud pulls the pistol from the back of his jeans. Neckbone tenses, but relaxes when Mud splays it out on an open palm.
neckbone		What kind is it?
mud		A forty five.
neckbone		I guess we could work a deal like that. Neckbone steps forward to grab the pistol, but Mud puts it back in his jeans.
mud		We get this thing floatin' first. Neckbone looks over at Ellis, who shrugs.
neckbone		All right then.
mud		Ya'll scrounge what you can off this list, but if we're gonna get this done right we'll need more help. Can you fetch Tom for me?
ellis		Tom Blankenship? Mud has smoked down to the filter. He crushes the butt into his palm and puts it back in his shirt pocket.
mud		I was hopin' to let that old assassin stay put, but we'll need him to get things ya'll can't. Can you find him?
ellis		I know where he lives, but I've never spoke to him.
mud		Just tell him my name. He'll know you're serious. Ellis folds the list up. He and Neckbone start down the rope as Mud goes back to the wiring.
neckbone		Don't lose my pistol. They continue down the rope. Mud continues his work.
ellis		You comin'?
neckbone		I'll watch the boat. Ellis scans the woods that populate the patch of land wedged between the river and this short tributary.
ellis		What?
neckbone		Be careful. Galen always said that old man's crazy. Neckbone keeps his seat as Ellis darts into the woods
ellis		I ain't huntin you.
tom		What's your business here?
ellis		I came to find you. I got a message for you.
tom		You're Senior's boy.
ellis		Yessir.
tom		What you got to say he can't tell me himself? Tom, rusty on pleasantries, brushes past Ellis as he heads inside the boat.
ellis		It ain't from him. Ellis, not wanting to follow further, shouts from the planks.
tom		Mud sent you.
ellis		Yessir.
tom		What do you know about it?
ellis		He asked me to come get you. Tom straightens his back. He looks into the woods, searching for something he may have missed.
tom		Your daddy know this?
ellis		No sir. Mud needs your help. Tom's mind churns on a series of facts unknown to the boy.
tom		Where is he?
ellis		There he is. Tom spits onto the muddy bank and makes his way toward Mud. Ellis and Neckbone stay by the boat and watch.
tom		Mud.
mud		Sir. They stare at each other for a long moment. Neither one flinching.
neckbone		You think that's his dad?
ellis		I don't know.
tom		Where is she?
mud		In town. Got here yesterday. Tom lowers his head. Frustrated.
tom		Why you out here like this?
neckbone		They don't look like family. Ellis watches Mud as he gestures and speaks. He seems different. Younger. Mud stops talking. Tom scratches a hand through his white crew cut. He begins pointing a finger at Mud. His face is flushed and the sound of his voice carries to the boys, though still unintelligible.
tom		You've spent your whole life followin' that girl! She's run you halfway cross the country and back, and for what? For this, left out on an island beggin' for help. A murderer. A thief.
mud		I ain't no thief.
tom		What would you call it then? Don't even mention draggin' those boys into this. Do you have any idea what you're doin'? Waits for a response, but Mud gives none.
ellis		You all right? Mud raises his head.
mud		Looks like we're on our own. He stands and takes a folded piece of paper from his shirt.
ellis		Yeah.
mud		You have to be careful. You can't just walk up and knock on her door, you hear me? You have to watch yourself.
ellis		I can handle it. Ellis steps forward and Mud hands over the note. Ellis takes it and walks back to the others.
neckbone		You Mud's daddy?
tom		Mud didn't have no daddy. No mother I ever knew of. He was livin' in the woods when I met him. Younger than you are now. Tom doesn't offer anymore. Neckbone thinks on his answer. Ellis kills the engine near the mouth of Shelly's Oxbow. Tom jumps down into the knee deep river and wades onto shore. He turns back to the boys.
ellis		What do you think?
neckbone		He loves her. You can tell that much. You gonna take it to her?
ellis		I told him I would. Neckbone thinks about this seriously, shakes his head.
neckbone		I don't know. Could be a lot of trouble.
ellis		You still got that trailer you made for your bike?
ellis		I say we start at the top, work our way down.
neckbone		All right. They each grab an end of the cooler and carry it across the lot toward a flight of stairs.
black man		What you want?
ellis		We're sellin' fish. You wanna buy some?
black man		Fish? He looks at the two boys like they are insane.
ellis		I don't...I...
carver		I know you know where he is. And I swear to God I'll cut through every one a you to find him. She flinches. Standing, Carver folds up his knife.
neckbone		You all right?
ellis		Yeah.
neckbone		He popped your eye. Ellis holds the back of his hand up to his eye which has begun to swell. The cut trickles blood over his cheekbone. Juniper moves to the sink. Ellis sits up, staring at her back.
juniper		Thank you. He stares back at her. He can't take his eyes off her. She holds the iced towel to his cheek. He doesn't even flinch.
ellis		Mud sent us to give this to you. Juniper is stunned. She looks at the bag, then at the boys.
juniper		You've met Mud? Ellis nods. Neckbone speaks up from the back.
neckbone		Yeah we met him. Juniper takes the bag. She removes the letter and takes a seat on the edge of the bed to read it. Ellis watches her eyes move along the paper. She smiles, which makes Ellis smile. After a moment, she folds it up.
juniper		He tells me to hold tight.
neckbone		Yeah, we read it. Juniper raises her eyebrows at Neckbone.
juniper		Well do you know how long `hold tight' is?
ellis		I think it's a couple days. He wants to get a boat for ya'll.
juniper		God. Juniper shakes her head and goes to the sink. She pulls a lighter from her jeans pocket and torches Mud's note.
ellis		We won't.
juniper		What do you call that? She motions to his swelling eye. Ellis shrugs.
ellis		We'll be all right. Keep your door locked. We'll be in touch. Ellis heads to the door as Neckbone gathers up the cooler.
juniper		Wait. Ellis turns back.
ellis		I'm Ellis. That's Neckbone.
juniper		Thank you Ellis. Ellis stares at her, infatuated.
neckbone		We gotta go. Ellis turns and grabs one end of the cooler. Neckbone slaps back the security latch and opens the door with his free hand. They walk out.
ellis		Lock the door. She smiles. The door slams shut. The room number, 212, stares Ellis in the face. He takes a deep breath.
neckbone		Let's go hard on. He and Ellis wrangle the cooler down the steps. The sun set while they were inside. A blue hue hangs over everything.
ellis		Hello? Is May Pearl there?...This is Ellis...Hey, it's Ellis. Hey... What?...In the phone book... from his car commercials...I think they're all right...Tomorrow? Yeah, I can meet you... Okay. Bye. Ellis hangs up the phone. With the peas pressed firmly against his face, he smirks.  CUT TO:  66 SERIES OF IMAGES: 66 -Neckbone's sneaker busts through a rotten plank of wood. -Inside a decrepit wooden shack, Ellis gives Neckbone a look like he's a dumbass as they proceed to take the shack apart board by board. Ellis now has a full-on BLACK EYE. A66 -Neckbone stands lookout under the carport section of Ellis' A66 houseboat. The coast clear, he gives Ellis a nod. Ellis pops open a metal locker and removes a small chainsaw and container of gas. He loads these into an empty fish cooler. B66 -Tom, sitting atop his houseboat with his pellet gun, watchesB66 as the two boys sneak the tools away. He's displeased. C66 -At Neckbone's mobile home park, Ellis heaves loops of thick C66 rope onto their mini dirt bike trailer. Neckbone stands nearby laughing with the rope's OWNER, a lanky guy with brown teeth and a Tasmanian Devil tattoo on his neck. AC66 -Ellis hoists Neckbone up by the foot allowing him to AC66 unscrew a road sign. D66 -A mop soaked in black tar slops across the flat roof of the D66 furniture store in downtown Dewitt. Neckbone and Ellis stand in the store's parking lot yelling up to the ROOFERS. -They get one's attention, and Neckbone points to a dried pile of leftover tar that has been dumped at the back of the building. The ROOFER swats a hand at the boys. They proceed to load the dried hunk onto the small trailer. E66 -From a distance, Neckbone and Ellis stand on a sailboat in E66 the middle of a fenced-in marine junkyard. Surrounded by old boat parts, the boys begin shuttling several large metal pulleys off the sailboat.  67 EXT. ISLAND SHORE - DAY 67  Mud smiles, showing his missing tooth, as he looks over the load of items the boys have stacked in their boat. Neckbone tosses a loop of rope to him.  61A.
neckbone		We've got more, but no motor. 
mud		This'll work for now. You get her my note?
ellis		Yeah. Ellis turns and Mud sees his black eye for the first time.
mud		Where'd you get that from?
ellis		We came up on Juniper's room. A guy was in there beatin' up on her. Mud's face turns dark.
neckbone		Ellis rushed him. Got smacked for it.
mud		What'd he look like?
ellis		I don't know. Tall. Looked like a cowboy.
mud		Dark hair?
ellis		Yeah.
neckbone		More what? Mud gathers the supplies and heads to the treeline. The boys, with their hands full, follow him.
mud		Bounty hunters. Carver's rotten, but his daddy's the one to be scared of. He'll spend all the money he has to see me dead. If it was up to me I'd put the whole family down same as the other. Not a decent man between `em. Mud stops and turns to lay a serious look on them.
helper		What you waitin' for?
galen		Shut up. After a moment, Galen cranks the motor and speeds away.
mud		Ellis, can you climb up that trunk and get these hung?
ellis		Yeah.
mud		Take a foot of line and tie `em off with a bowline knot. You know it?
ellis		I'm not stupid. Ellis takes the pulley and scales the trunk without hesitation. Mud tosses his pocket knife to Neckbone.
mud		Neck, start cuttin' line. Three fifteen foot sections. Count a foot long as your arm. Mud begins threading the pulleys with rope. As Neckbone cuts rope, he sees the pistol stuck in the back of Mud's pants.
neckbone		What's so special `bout that shirt you'd lose your pistol for it?
mud		It's got a wolf's eye sewn in the sleeve. More protection than a bullet ever gave. Tom swears by it.
neckbone		He said he wasn't your daddy.
mud		Tom's the closest thing I ever knew to a father.
neckbone		I never met my parents.
mud		It's hard not knowin' the ones you came from.
neckbone		My uncle Galen tells me things about `em. He's the one that takes care of me.
mud		Tom did that for me.
ellis		What'd you mean when you called Tom an assassin?
mud		Tom's had lives you'd never know about. Grew up up North. Went to Yale. For a long time he was a paid killer for the C.I.A. Lived in Cuba in `63. He's probably killed more people than you've met.
neckbone		Well if you're gonna do it do it! Mud takes a deep breath and yanks the cord. Angled on one of the main branches holding up the boat, Mud begins cutting. Ellis and Neckbone step further and further back as they watch the chainsaw work through the thick limb. Suddenly, the chainsaw stops. A deep CRACKING sound. The huge branch SNAPS, tumbling off lower limbs before crashing to the ground. Mud holds onto the trunk for dear life. The branch now rests on the ground, SILENCE. The ropes and pulleys hang taught, squeaking from the weight of the boat. Mud slowly lifts his head up. He smiles at what he sees. The rigging has held.
mud		One down! Neckbone and Ellis watch as Mud scampers around the trunk to the next branch. The chainsaw cranks back on.
neckbone		This shit is crazy.
afternoon		Ellis looks out the car window at HIGH SCHOOL KIDS that have gathered in the Piggly Wiggly parking lot. His hair is slicked to one side, and he's wearing a collared shirt.
mary lee		You look nice.
ellis		Thanks.
mary lee		What time are you gonna be home? Ellis shrugs. She looks at him as the car radio rambles.
ellis		You make up your mind?
mary lee		About moving in town?
ellis		About leavin' dad. Mary Lee thinks about how to answer, shuts off the radio.
mary lee		You can't make other people change Ellis. If I'm unhappy then I'll have to be the one to change something. Ellis chews on the inside of his cheek and watches her avoid eye contact. He shoulders his way out of the car. Mary Lee takes a moment before driving off. As Mary Lee pulls away, Ellis takes in the scene.
ellis		Not really. Ellis takes a sip from the Sonic cup. His face puckers.
may pearl		But you're not scared if you have to.
ellis		I guess. You got a lot of friends.
may pearl		They're all right. I don't know all of `em.
ellis		I bet you're pretty popular.
may pearl		Why do you say that?
ellis		I don't know. `Cause you're nice to people.
may pearl		How do you know that?
ellis		You're nice to me.
may pearl		But I like you. Ellis digs into his jeans pocket.
ellis		I got this for you. He removes a bracelet made from the pearls he collected off Galen's porch. May Pearl takes it, begins putting it on.
may pearl		A bracelet?
ellis		Neckbone's uncle caught the pearls. I thought with your name and everything...
may pearl		Thank you. She leans over, hugging him with a kiss on the cheek. She stays close.
ellis		You wanna be my girlfriend? She smiles, then kisses him.
tom		You want some coffee? Tom disappears inside.
ellis		I don't drink coffee. Ellis waits for a moment, but realizes this is Tom's way of inviting him inside. He enters.
tom		You been seein' Mud?
ellis		No.
tom		You don't have to lie to me boy. He hands Ellis a cup of coffee with a cartoon image of a dog on it. It reads, "I'm a real bitch in the morning!" Tom sits in a LazyBoy that he gently rocks in.
ellis		He's okay.
tom		He get that boat down? Ellis nods. There is an awkward moment.
ellis		He called you an assassin. Tom snorts out a laugh, sips his coffee.
tom		How long have you known Mud?
ellis		Few days.
tom		Well that's long enough to know he's full of shit.
ellis		So it's not true.
tom		I was a sharpshooter in the army. In Mud's world, that makes me an assassin. Not exactly true, right?
ellis		Yeah I guess. Tom notices the boy's disappointment.
tom		You think he's a bad ass don't you?
ellis		I don't know.
tom		You know why he's stuck out on that island?
ellis		Yeah.
tom		He tell you why he shot that man?
ellis		Because he hurt Juniper.
tom		Right. The real reason Mud's in the trouble he's got is because of her. He's been in love with that girl since he was your age. They used to run all around here and it was the same back then. He'd follow that girl wherever she led him. Problem is she don't care about nobody but herself. I've told him as much. She'd bed down with the meanest snake she could find, then when things went bad she'd go runnin' to Mud. Mud would take her back, then go find whatever unlucky sonofabitch last put a hand on her and beat `em `til they knew to never touch her again. And this time I guess he thought a beating wasn't good enough. Had to shoot that fella. I don't know for sure, but I'd put money on Juniper knowin' he'd do it. And I have a suspicion she might of even told him to. Either way, those two are set for failure. Only chance Mud has is to cut her loose. Cause I'll tell you what, Mud's no bad ass. He's runnin' scared. Ellis can't look Tom in the eye, he's offended by the old man's remarks. Ellis sets the coffee cup on the desk.
ellis		I gotta go. Ellis heads for the door, but stops short.
ellis		I got more stuff.
mud		You find a motor?
ellis		Not yet.  What's that?
mud		I made a bonfire. Mud enters the woods. Ellis follows.
ellis		Why?
mud		Bonfire's an all purpose cure all for bad luck. I don't know where this boat's been or what kind of person had it before me. For all I know it could have some serious bad business left on it. We got too much ridin' on this thing to leave to chance. Where's Neckbone?
ellis		Helpin' his uncle with a dive.
ellis		Tom called me over to his place this mornin'.
mud		What he say?
ellis		He was runnin' down Juniper. Ellis looks for a response, but Mud just jumps up into the boat and starts throwing pieces of wood on shore.
mud		You don't know his story.
ellis		I don't care.
mud		You should. Tom loved a woman more than most men could in two lifetimes. They had a good life started together. Mud hops down and scoops a load of wood into his arms.
ellis		I gotta go help my dad. Mud turns back but doesn't stop moving.
mud		Thanks for the wood Ellis. Ellis watches him go, thinking on what he said.
galen		This shit never gets easy.
neckbone		That's a good haul.
galen		I've had worse. Galen reclines as Neckbone kills the air compressor and begins organizing the gear. He watches his little nephew.
neckbone		Yeah.
galen		You don't need to tell me anything?
neckbone		Tell you what?
galen		I know I'm just your uncle, not much of a parent. But you can tell me things if you need to.
neckbone		I can tell you this helmet smells like my duck butter.
senior		Where'd you get that black eye?
ellis		A kid in town. He got his too.
senior		What you fightin' for?
ellis		`Bout a girl.
senior		What girl?
ellis		My girlfriend.
senior		You got a girlfriend?
ellis		Yes sir.
senior		When'd that happen?
ellis		Other day. Senior pats his shirt pocket and finds a smoke. Lights it.
senior		You seen your mother today?
ellis		No.
senior		You not talkin' to me?
ellis		I'm talkin'. I'm talkin' to both of you. That's all ya'll want to do is talk.
senior		Well, that's your mother. Would rather tongue lash a problem than step up and handle it. You'll see one day. Women are tough. They'll set you up for things. You can't trust love, Ellis. If you're not careful, it'll run out on you. You just gotta pick a woman and roll the dice. Hope you don't wake up in fifteen years hatin' each other. Ellis keeps staring out the window as they pull into the parking lot of the Catfish Parlour Restaurant.
continuous		Senior climbs out of the truck and enters the restaurant. Ellis pops open the tailgate and reaches for a cooler. The Catfish Parlour is one business in a strip center row. There is nothing else around save for farmland and a motel across the road. Ellis notices Carver's black LINCOLN parked in the motel lot. He walks away from the truck to get a better look. Ellis scans the FOUR OTHER VEHICLES in the lot. All Texas plates. A maroon Cadillac sails past and turns into the motel. Ellis recedes to the rear of his truck. He watches as KING, a fireplug of a man, emerges from the Cadillac. Cramped from a long drive, he stretches and eyes the sign for the Pines Motel. A motel room door opens and Carver walks out. He's smiling and calls out to King. They hug as a green PICK-UP pulls up. MILLER, a slick dressed man in black boots, climbs out.
carver		Daddy this is Miller. He's one of ours.
miller		Yes sir.
carver		We'll be in in a minute. Miller nods and enters the motel room. King turns to Carver.
king		Catch me up.
carver		They work in shifts. Two outside her motel, the others either out searching or sleepin' here. I met with the county sheriff but he wasn't much help. Said they'd handle their own business, but I got two of their people on payroll and a person on the inside at the state police.
king		Good. Doin' good. Who all's here?
carver		All but two now. Nelson and James are watchin' her place. I called the rest in.
king		Okay. Let's meet the men. Carver leads his father to the motel room.
carver		Get up.  Ya'll pay attention. The men get up from the beds and the others put down their cards. Everyone slowly gathers into an audience.
king		Men. I wanna thank you for the work you're doin'. It's important work, and I want you to know what it means to me personally. I'm grateful for it. No man should have to bury his son. It's not natural, and it's a pain I hope none of you ever have to endure. King removes a photocopied picture of Mud from his pocket. He unfolds it, stares at it, then raises it to the men.
neckbone		You touch her breast?
ellis		A little.
neckbone		That's great man.
ellis		Thanks. Ellis walks up and knocks a stack of bricks off the trailer.
neckbone		It's welded. We'd just tear it up. What if we float it out?
ellis		With what?
neckbone		Come on. Neckbone walks to the trailer. Ellis follows.
neckbone		Jesus! They squint and shield their eyes. The light shuts off as quickly as it came on. Galen stands in front of them wearing his wet suit. The bar with the flood lights attached sits across his shoulders. The boys rub their eyeballs, seeing spots. Galen shuffles over to the couch holding a marine battery connected to the lights. He labors to take a seat.
galen		What do you think?
neckbone		That's real good Galen.
galen		Come `ere Ellis. Ellis takes a seat on the other end of the couch. Galen pats the spot next to him. Ellis scoots over, uncomfortable.
ellis		Yeah.
galen		I found it in the river. Works great. Best ceiling fan I've ever owned. This river brings a lotta trash down it. Some a that trash is worth a lotta money, some of it's not. You gotta know what's worth keepin' and what's worth lettin' go. You know the difference?
ellis		I think so.
galen		Neck looks up to you. Don't get my nephew into anything you can't get him out of. Galen forces a stare with Ellis, who nods. Neckbone enters as Galen begins to remove his light rig.
ellis		What?
galen		You know what I'm sayin'.
neckbone		We got stuff to do.
galen		Whatever. The boys exit as Galen turns on the amp.
neckbone		What were ya'll talkin' about?
ellis		I don't know.
mud		King. That's what they call him. A BOAT TRAILER rests atop FOUR, 55-GALLON BRIGHT YELLOW BARRELS affixed with plastic zip ties. The make-shift raft is half on shore with the back still floating in the water. The boys watch as Mud walks around the trailer cutting off the zip ties. The barrels kick out from underneath the trailer as this happens.
ellis		No.
mud		Good. That left-handed sonofabitch is the devil himself. If he's here, then it's time. We need to get Juniper out here.
ellis		We still need a motor.
neckbone		There's a motor in the scrap yard might work.
mud		I need one that runs. Mud moves to the front of the boat trailer and begins dragging it fully onto the bank. It's heavy.
neckbone		I can get it runnin'. Tell him Ellis.
ellis		It's true. He built his own dirt bike.
mud		All right then. Give it a shot.
ellis		I don't know. That motor's worth somethin'. It's not like this other junk.
neckbone		It's been there for months. Nobody's even gonna know it's gone. Ellis hesitates. He looks to Mud.
mud		We do need a motor. Ellis thinks on it as Mud takes a deep breath and grabs the trailer again.
juniper		Hello?
ellis		Juniper?
juniper		Ellis?
ellis		It's me.
juniper		Thank god. I've been goin' crazy in this room. Is Mud okay?
ellis		Yeah. It's time to take you out to him.
juniper		Now?
ellis		Tomorrow. We'll come get you.
juniper		What's goin' on?
ellis		He's got a plan for ya'll to get away. Be ready tomorrow at five. Neckbone'll be waitin' at the back of the motel with a dirt bike.
juniper		They're watching my room.
ellis		I'll take care of that. Just be ready at five.
juniper		Wait. Just wait. I don't know about alla this. I don't even know what he thinks we're gonna do. Where are we even gonna go? This is Mud. This is what Mud does. Ellis hears her crying through the phone.
ellis		It's okay. He's got the boat. We helped him fix it up. It's a good plan. Just be ready.
juniper		Why are you even doing this?
ellis		What do you mean?
juniper		Why are you helping us?
ellis		Cause ya'll love each other. Juniper searches for a comment. Ellis, looking out over the parking lot, sees May Pearl getting out of a car with her MOTHER and SISTER.
juniper		Wait. Dial Tone. Juniper holds the phone, worried.
neckbone		How'd it go?
ellis		We're good.
neckbone		Gimme a quarter. This shit took mine. Ellis watches May Pearl entering the grocery store. He calls out with a wave.
neckbone		It's all right man. She's with her family. Come on. I wanna get that motor before dark. They head to the dirt bike.
neckbone		That'd bout do it.
ellis		We don't want your money. Carver steps in close to the boys.
carver		I bet ya'll really get around this town. Probably know every hole and ditch. Have ya'll come across the man whose picture I showed you?
ellis		No. Carver removes a flier with Mud's picture and holds it out.
carver		You sure about that? Take a look with your good eye.
ellis		I'm sure.
carver		What about that girl in the motel? The pretty one. Ya'll talk to her some more?
ellis		No. Carver smiles. He tucks the flier and the forty dollars into Ellis' hand.
carver		There's a number on there. Ya'll let me know if you do.
neckbone		Jesus that's heavy. The boys get on either side of the motor and begin half- dragging it back to the fence line.
neckbone		Where are those bastards?
ellis		I don't know.
neckbone		What do you wanna do?
ellis		Take your bike around the side. I'll check her room. We'll just have to hope no one sees us. Neckbone cranks the bike and speeds toward the motel. Ellis looks to the motel, then the parking lot.
neckbone		Shit. Was she there?
ellis		Nothin'. Ellis notices the front office
ellis		Scuse me, sir?
motel clerk		Yeah.
ellis		We're lookin' for the girl in room
motel clerk		I've seen her.
ellis		You see her today.
motel clerk		Yeah, she came down askin' for directions to the nearest bar. I told her to head out to a place on
neckbone		You think this is it?
ellis		It's gotta be.
bartender		Ya'll stay outta here! Ellis just stands staring at the front door. The Bartender makes a swatting motion toward them.
neckbone		Thanks a lot asshole!
ellis		We're gonna have to tell Mud. Neckbone drops his head, nods reluctantly.
ellis		Just leave it. Mud'll have to help get it.
neckbone		What're you gonna tell him?
ellis		I'll just tell him the truth.
mud		What you say there?! Ellis appears out of the dark, followed by Neckbone. Mud's eyes search the treeline for Juniper.
ellis		We got that motor.
mud		Is Juniper okay?
ellis		Yeah.
mud		Where is she?
ellis		She didn't meet up with us.
mud		What happened? Was it Carver?
ellis		It wasn't Carver. Mud straightens up, prepares for the news.
mud		What's goin' on Ellis?
ellis		She was supposed to meet us on the side of the motel. She never showed up. We went asking for her. The motel clerk told us she went to
mud		What?
ellis		We tracked her down. She was there with another guy.
mud		She probably thought Carver was on to her.
ellis		She knew the plan Mud. She just didn't show up.
mud		What was she doin' with the other guy? Ellis hesitates, not wanting to say. Mud pushes.
ellis		They were playin' pool. Drinkin'. He was close up on her. They were laughin'. He kissed her on the neck. Mud nods.
mud		And that's how it is. He takes the pot of roofing tar over to the boat and begins pasting some of the newly replaced boards with a flat stick.
ellis		What do you want us to do?
mud		Just go home Ellis. Ellis looks at Neckbone, then sets the grocery sack on the ground.
ellis		Tom left this for you. They slowly retreat into the woods and disappear. Mud turns back to the campfire and shoves the pot into the ashes. His eyes, soft and red, reflect the flame.
ellis		You think it's all right to leave him alone?!
neckbone		I doubt it! Neckbone sees Ellis' concern.
ellis		Hello? Is May Pearl there...This is Ellis...I called yesterday, you give her my message?...My name is Ellis. I'm her boyfriend...Oh, she's asleep...I said she's asleep? The front door flies open. Senior storms headlong toward Ellis. He shouts.
senior		You tell her. You tell her what you've been up to.
ellis		I don't know what you're sayin'.
mary lee		Take your hands off him Senior! Senior keeps Ellis pinned to the wall with his left hand. He opens up and addresses Mary Lee with his right.
senior		J.J. Crawford said a boat motor went missin' from his stock yard. Said his daughter saw this one and his friend haulin' it off. This makes Mary Lee pause.
ellis		We didn't steal it.
senior		Lie to me again.
ellis		We thought it was junk. We didn't think it was worth anything.
mary lee		Ellis? A cool anger rushes over Senior's face. He releases Ellis and takes a step back.
senior		You tell me I raised a thief?
ellis		I'm not a thief.
senior		You take property that's not yours. Property that belongs to another man. That junk is his livelihood. I'm ashamed of you. Ellis drops his head. His face flushed.
mary lee		Senior.
senior		 Shut your mouth. You think you can take things and not have him see it? Neither one of you has any respect for a man's livelihood. A life that puts clothes on your back and food in your stomach.
mary lee		Don't you blame this on me. One doesn't have a thing to do with the other and you know it.
senior		Don't tell me what I know. If you can steal a man's life out from under him in front of your son and think he won't take a lesson from it than you're even dumber than you look.
ellis		Stop it dad.
senior		She's raisin' you a snake like herself, and you can curl up with her `fore I give a damn. You just remember this when you watch them rip this house apart board by board. You Hear Me! Mary Lee slaps Senior hard. He turns to her, saying nothing.
mary lee		You're a man who's never had the strength to support his own life. I never asked you for a thing, and I've never took a thing from you that I couldn't provide for on my own. If they do tear my home apart the only joy I'll have in my heart is knowin' that they'll be tearing you out of my life for good. She wipes her eyes and turns her attention to Ellis.
ellis		I can't take that motor back. But I'll pay him for it. I'll pay him what he wants for it. Senior, stoic, pivots his body away from the boy.
senior		I don't care what you do Ellis. Senior retreats to the bedroom. Ellis is left alone in the wake. He looks to his room. The door opens slightly and Neckbone takes a step out. Neckbone doesn't say anything. He just bites at his lip, sympathy for his friend.
neckbone		What the hell's all this?
ellis		It's a bonfire.
neckbone		I guess he didn't care about bein' seen. Ellis kicks at one of the burned logs. He bends down and finds the bottle of Jack Daniels, smashed.
ellis		He had something else on his mind. Come on. Ellis leads Neckbone into the treeline.
mud		What are ya'll hidin' for? Mud drops the wiring and scales down to the bank. They emerge from the woods. Ellis carries the yellow shirt.
ellis		We found your shirt. Ellis tosses it to him. Mud tosses it back.
mud		Keep it. I don't need it anymore. Mud goes to the motor at the rear to tinker with more wires.
ellis		We saw what's left of your bonfire.
mud		I guess.
ellis		You do some drinkin' last night?
mud		I did a lot of drinkin' last night. Mud stops and walks over to address the boys. His face is pale and his manner is curt.
ellis		Okay Mud. Ellis takes the letter. Mud goes back to the boat motor. He motions to Neckbone to join him.
mud		Let's go.
ellis		You still takin' Juniper?
mud		I had a dream last night. I saw Juniper laying in a field with another man. They were making love. I walked out into the field. Walked toward `em. I was so angry the tips of my ears were burnin'. That's how I knew I was gonna kill this man. But when I got up close enough, I saw that the man she was with had tattoos on his back, just like mine. I moved in closer and the guy turns his head back toward me. Hair for hair, dead truth, the guy she was with was me. Mud ducks back under the motor. Ellis looks at Neckbone, worried.
neckbone		You be all right?
ellis		Yeah. What about you?
neckbone		He'll be okay.
ellis		Can I borrow your bike? Neckbone fishes the key out of his pocket. Hesitates.
neckbone		Don't tump it. Ellis nods. Neckbone walks over to Mud with the toolbox. Letter in hand, Ellis gives a final look toward Mud's labor and walks back into the woods. On his way, he stops to hang Mud's shirt on a tree branch.
ellis		 Hello. I saw the guy you're lookin' for...Yeah, he's crazy lookin'. Saw him at the Wal-mart outside of Gillet. He was buyin' some beanie weenie...'bout five minutes ago.
juniper		I was wonderin' when I'd see you. Ellis checks over his shoulder and walks inside
juniper		I'm sorry about last night. I didn't plan on... Before she can finish Ellis has fished the letter out of his pocket and holds it out to her.
ellis		I'm supposed to give this to you. Juniper takes the letter.
juniper		Okay. Ellis goes to the door. He pulls the bedroom curtain back slightly to check the parking lot. The coast is clear.
ellis		No. I gotta go.
juniper		Ellis? He turns to her.
ellis		All you had to do was be there.
juniper		I couldn't.
ellis		Then why'd you even come here?
juniper		I came here to leave with him. I really did. But now...now I guess I just came to say goodbye. His eyes fall to the floor.
ellis		I know he'd do anything for you. She puts her cigarette out in a Coke can on the floor.
juniper		You really believe that? Ellis nods. Juniper speaks to him gently, almost smiling. It's a look of resignation.
ellis		What's it say?
juniper		It says it's over. Tell him I've packed my things. Tell him I've gone. She takes a deep breath and smiles at him.
kyle		So what'd she say?
may pearl		She said she didn't like him that much. I told her I thought he was all right. Ellis appears with his elbows in the driver's side window. He sticks his head so far in the door that Kyle has to lean back in his seat to make room. May Pearl is surprised. Kyle snorts out a laugh.
ellis		You get my phone calls?
may pearl		What?
ellis		I've been callin' you.  Who's this guy?
kyle		Get your head outta my car kid. Ellis takes his right elbow and quickly knocks Kyle in the mouth. It splits his upper lip. Kyle grabs his face.
may pearl		Ellis!
ellis		I called you twice yesterday. Your sister didn't tell you? Kyle slings the door open knocking Ellis to the pavement. From the ground, Ellis can see that Kyle is big and considerably tougher than the skinny kid he punched before. Kyle's friends from other cars take notice and begin to converge on them. Ellis makes a move for Kyle's legs but is kicked back to the pavement. Kyle straddles him on the ground and punches him. Another punch to Ellis' face. May Pearl is out of the car and yelling.
may pearl		Kyle! Stop it Kyle!
ellis		What?
may pearl		You can't just run up and punch people I'm with!
ellis		I'm sorry, I just wanted to know why you hadn't called me back.
may pearl		Why would I call you back Ellis?
ellis		Because you're my girlfriend. The crowd is watching.
may pearl		I'm not your girlfriend! We went on one date. One!
ellis		We kissed.
may pearl		That doesn't matter!
ellis		Yeah but...
may pearl		But what Ellis?! What did you expect?!
ellis		I love you.
may pearl		You're fourteen!
ellis		Don't. Wait. We can make this work. We can figure it out. I love you.
may pearl		What? Ellis is losing it. His eyes are red. He looks at the crowd of kids. There are smiles and some snickering. May Pearl is speechless. She just stares at him. Ellis turns and walks back to the dirt bike. May Pearl's girlfriends gather around her. She shakes her head, dumbstruck. Ellis lifts the bike off the ground. He looks back at May Pearl who appears to be shrugging off the whole affair in front of her friends. Ellis speeds off.
senior		What the hell are you doin'?! Ellis says nothing. He doesn't move. Senior, continuing to yell, runs and drags a hose up from the houseboat.
ellis		What are you doing? Ellis watches as dresses and blouses begin to shrivel up in the flames.
neckbone		Try it now. Mud turns a switch. No result.
mud		Nothin'.
neckbone		Sonofabitch. Ellis emerges from the treeline. Mud sees him and hops down from the boat. He walks up to him.
mud		What'd she... Ellis punches Mud with as much force as he can muster. It's barely enough to turn Mud's face, but it stuns him.
ellis		You're a liar. Makin' two kids run around doin' work you're too scared to do yourself. Makin' me tell her it's over `cause you're too scared to do it yourself. Mud steps back and gives the boy his space. Neckbone has made his way over and watches from behind Mud.
mud		Come on Ellis. Mud holds a hand out to him. Ellis slaps it away.
ellis		You made me a thief! Ellis walks back into the woods. Mud exhales and turns back to Neckbone.
neckbone		Let me talk to him.
neckbone		Ellis! Ellis, stop for a second! Neckbone watches as Ellis reaches the tree trunk that bridges the creek. Ellis steps onto the log, but his muddy shoes miss a step. He SLIPS. Neckbone sees Ellis disappear down into the creek bed.
mud		Get the motor started. Neckbone cranks the motor. As they move up river, Mud searches Ellis' body. He looks at his neck, his arms, he pulls up his shirt.
neckbone		IS HE OKAY?! Is he bit?! Mud notices Ellis' jeans leg riding up. He pulls the jeans back. A BITE in the middle of his calf. It's a bluish bruise with two distinct red dots. The skin around the bite has already begun to swell.
mud		Shit. He rips the jeans up to the thigh. Mud tears a section of cloth from the bottom of his own shirt and creates a tourniquet just below Ellis' knee.
neckbone		It's four eighteen! Mud draws a line on Ellis' leg just above the swollen bite. He writes, "418".
mud		Yell out every 10 minutes! Mud elevates Ellis' leg then gently cups his head. He dabs the gash on Ellis' forehead.
neckbone		Is he gonna be okay?!
mud		We just need to get him to a clinic! Is there still one in town?!
neckbone		Yeah!
mud		It's the closest?!
neckbone		Yeah!
mud		I'm gonna need your bike!
neckbone		Are you bit?! Mud shakes his head.
mud		No. He holds Ellis as they move steadily up river.
neckbone		My bike should be just over that ridge! Mud looks at Ellis' leg. The swelling has crept up his thigh. Black lines with numbers mark its progress: "428, 438, 448". Ellis' face has taken on a blue tint.
female nurse		Just stay calm. What's going on?
mud		He's been snake bit. ANOTHER NURSE rushes off calling for a doctor. The room becomes more frenzied. Patients talking. Nurses shouting.
male nurse		Sir? Mud slowly backs up.
male nurse		Sir?! Mud hops into the bank of trees and disappears.
king		Hello...Yes...Yessir we are...Uh huh. King takes a pen from his shirt pocket and scribbles on a pad on the nightstand.
mary lee		It's okay. You're okay. Just set back. Mary Lee guides Ellis back down on the pillow. Senior stands with his arm on her shoulder. They look down at their son.
ellis		Where am I?
mary lee		You're home. We got you home. Ellis takes a second to get his bearings. His mother lifts a glass of Sprite up to his mouth. He takes a sip.
senior		You had us scared son. Senior steps forward and kisses Ellis on the forehead. Staying close to his face.
mary lee		The doctors gave you some medicine. You had a snake bite.
ellis		How'd I get to the doctor?
mary lee		A man brought you in. No one knew him. Ellis tries to sit up in bed, but his mother stops him.
ellis		No. Senior gently pats her shoulders.
senior		Come on. Let's let him rest. Mary Lee touches Senior's hand on her shoulder. She stands.
mary lee		I'll be back in to check on you but just try and sleep if you can.
ellis		Okay. Senior leads Mary Lee to the door.
mary lee		We love you too Ellis. They exit the room. Ellis rests his head back on the pillow and takes a deep breath.
neckbone		It ain't sunk yet. Mud smiles. He holds out his hand, which Neckbone slaps.
mud		I know. Mud walks back on shore and collects his duffel bag.
neckbone		Where the bullets?
mud		The deal was for the gun, not the bullets.
neckbone		Shit. Neckbone begrudgingly crams the pistol into the back of his pants.
mud		I got one last favor to ask you. Neckbone sucks his teeth.
mud		Ellis?
ellis		Mud?
mud		Yeah. Mud pulls his body through the window. It's tight but he manages to make it look somewhat graceful. Mud takes a quick survey of the dark room. Ellis begins to get out of bed.
ellis		How'd you get here?
mud		Neck brought me.
mud		We got the boat in the water.
ellis		You did?
mud		Just now. Smooth sailin' from here on out.
ellis		Good.
mud		Wish you coulda seen it.
ellis		Me too.
mud		Didn't feel right leavin' town without sayin' goodbye. There is an awkward moment.
ellis		I'm sorry `bout what I said.
mud		No. No. You were right to be mad. You were right about a lot of things. I'm the one that's sorry. I shoulda never gotten ya'll into all this. I just didn't see any other way around it. But I couldn't leave without you knowin' I never lied about being your friend. I never lied about that.
ellis		I know.
mud		I don't traffic in the truth too often. But I did love her. I do love her.
ellis		She loves you too. She said it. This fact still strikes Mud. He nods.
mud		I just made mistakes. We both did. This is a hard life to keep up with. You can't blame her for gettin' tired of tryin'.
ellis		My dad says you can't count on women lovin' you. He says you can't trust it.
mud		That's not true. Don't judge your life on all of our mistakes. You'll make plenty mistakes of your own, no need takin' on everybody else's. You're a good man Ellis. If you find a girl half as good, you'll be all right.
ellis		You're a good man too Mud. Mud smiles.
mud		No. I'm not. But maybe from here on out I can be... A SHOTGUN BLAST rips a fist-sized hole in the flimsy interior wall. Mud, as if by reflex, yanks Ellis from the sheets and shoves him under the bed.
ellis		Mud?!
mud		Stay put! JUST STAY UNDER THERE! The SOUND of shotgun shells being slipped into the chamber. Mud gets to a crouch. Through the holes in the wall, Mud makes out Nelson, the fat bounty hunter, reloading his gun.
carver		Let him go. James unhands the boy. Neckbone sprints into the woods.
mud		You still down there bud?
ellis		Yeah.
mud		Stay put. Mud pops out of the bedroom into the den.
carver		Flush him out this way. Carver walks to the covered carport.
king		Hello...You're speaking to him... King listens. His face taut.
neckbone		Hey.
ellis		You got your bike back.
neckbone		Mud dinged the shit out of it. Neckbone takes a seat next to Ellis. They watch the workers.
ellis		It's the law.
neckbone		It's bullshit. They ever find Tom? The boys focus on Tom Blankenship's boat across the bayou. It sits vacant, covered in police tape.
ellis		No. He's gone.
neckbone		Your dad not here?
ellis		Said he couldn't watch it. He's pickin' me up in a minute. Got deliveries today. They sit in silence as the Workers exit off the houseboat.
neckbone		Heard on the news. They still hadn't found Mud's body. Ellis nods.
ellis		I don't know. I hope not. The crane begins lifting up the houseboat. The metal wires tighten and the entire structure creaks. A sucking sound as the flotilla separate from the water. The boat hangs, suspended in the air. A HORN HONKS behind the boys. Ellis turns to see Senior's truck.
neckbone		All right. Neckbone watches Ellis climb into the bed of the pick-up and take his spot on the coolers. The sound of twisting metal shifts his attention back to the houseboat being swung over a flatbed semi.
ellis		I'll see you next week?
senior		Yeah. Ellis begins to get out but stops when Senior speaks.
ellis		Yessir.
senior		All right. I love you.
ellis		Love you too.
tom		Come on son. You need to see this. Mud, groggy, raises up. Tom helps him to his feet, putting an arm over his shoulders. Tom practically carries Mud outside.
****Dialogues from script :Mulan.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Mulholland_Drive.txt****

driver		Get out of the car.
herb		Why did you want to go to breakfast if you're not hungry?
dan		I just wanted to come here.
herb		To Denny's? I wasn't going to say anything, but why Denny's?
dan		This Denny's.
herb		Okay. Why this Denny's?
dan		It's kind of embarrassing but,
herb		Go ahead.
dan		I had a dream about this place.
herb		Oh boy.
dan		You see what I mean...
herb		Okay, so you had a dream about this place. Tell me.
dan		Well ... it's the second one I've had, but they were both the same......they start out that I'm in here but it's not day or night. It's kinda half night, but it looks just like this except for the light, but I'm scared like I can't tell ya. Of all people you're standing right over there by that counter. You're in both dreams and you're scared. I get even more frightened when I see how afraid you are and then I realize what it is - there's a man...in back of this place. He's the one ... he's the one that's doing it. I can see him through the wall. I can see his face and I hope I never see that face ever outside a dream.
herb		So, you came to see if he's out there?
dan		To get rid of this god-awful feeling.
herb		Right then.
dan		Around here.
herb		Dan! ... Dan! You all right? ... Dan!
old lady		It's time to say goodbye, Betty. It's been so nice travelling with you.
betty		Thank you, Irene. I was so excited and nervous. It was sure great to have you to talk to.
irene		Now, remember I'll be watching for you on the big screen.
betty		 Okay Irene. Won't that be the day.
irene		The best of luck to you, Betty. Take care of yourself and be careful.
betty		Okay I will. Thanks again.
cab driver		Where to?
betty		 1612 Havenhurst.
cab driver		Got it!
manager		Hi there...ten bucks says you're Betty.
betty		I am, Mrs. Lanois. It is Mrs. Lanois isn't it?
betty		Pleased to meet you.
betty		Okay, Coco.
coco		I guess it was your grandfather, was it ... he called me to check in, said you were on your way and for you to call when you get in. Nice man... farmer I hear.
betty		Yes, he is. He raises corn.
coco		Damn lot of corn raised in Hollywood these days too.
betty		Well, I ...
coco		You don't have to tell me. It's written all over that pretty face of yours.. You came here to be an actress. I just hope you'll remember there's never been a great poem called "tits and ass."
betty		I...
coco		You probably don't remember her, but Louise Bonner lives right over there in number 29. When she isn't drunk she runs a damn good acting class.
betty		Have many famous actors and actresses lived here? I was meaning to ask you that.
coco		Honey, all the great ones came through here at one time or another.
betty		I guess I've come to quite a place.
coco		Sweetheart, you don't know the half of it.
betty		No, I don't.
coco		That's good. They're allowed, but I don't like 'em...for obvious reasons. One man used to live here that had a prize fighting kangaroo. You wouldn't believe what that kangaroo did to this courtyard ... let's see your Aunt's apartment ... it's a good one.
betty		I can hardly wait, Coco.
betty		It's unbelievable!
coco		I told ya.
betty		Wow!
coco		Now I guess you and your Aunt have an understanding. So here's the key and you need anything, just give a holler.  Everybody in this building's pretty much okay with me or they wouldn't be here. If you want, later I'll introduce you around. No hard feelings if you don't, and don't forget the rooftop garden. It's just up the stairs we passed. It's open to all the tenants. You can see the Hollywood sign from there.
betty		Oh Coco thank you. Thank you so much.
coco		You got it! See you later honey.
betty		Oh my!
betty		I'm Ruth's niece. My name's Betty. I'm sure she told you I was coming.
betty		I understand. I saw the dress. I...I'm sorry.   Are you all right?
betty		Are you okay?
betty		Oh my god. I'm sorry. I'll let you get back to that. I'm going to get unpacked.
betty		Hi...do you work with my Aunt?
rita		No ..........I.
betty		I...I mean......I...it's none of my business.
rita		She has pretty red hair... she is very kind I think.
betty		She sure is. She's letting me stay here while she's working on a movie that's being made in Canada, but I guess you know that.  I couldn't afford a place like this in a million years. Unless of course I'm discovered and become a movie star. Of course, I'd rather be known as a great actress than a movie star, but sometimes people end up being both and that is, I guess you'd say, sort of why I came here. I'm sorry, I'm just so excited to be here..I mean I just came here from Iowa and now I'm in this dream place. You can imagine how I feel.
rita		I think I've been hurt.
betty		Oh...
rita		No.
betty		But, this could be serious.
rita		No...I need to sleep.
betty		If you have a concussion you shouldn't sleep.
rita		It will be okay if I sleep. I need to lie down and sleep.
betty		All right, but...I'm going to check on you.
joe		So man, that's unheard of ... an accident like that ... who coulda foreseen that.
ed		Unreal ... so, you're looking good. Whatcha doin' these days?
joe		Well, not much Ed. Just doin' some stuff for this guy.
ed		Making ends meet, huh.
joe		Hardly.
ed		Yeah, look at my digs ... times are tough.
joe		Oh, things aren't so bad. Gee, I hope you're not goin' to get in any trouble.
ed		It was just a thing. The story made you laugh.
joe		Yeah, that's a funny story.
ed		Yeah, the history of the world in phone numbers.
voices		What the hell .... what happened? What's this cord doing here? It's the vacuum. It's the vacuum what did it.
adam		So what's the problem?
ray		There is no problem.
adam		So why did you idiots bring me here? ... I'm in the middle of making a picture.
ray		He isn't gonna like it.
adam		Hello ... who're we talkin' about here?
robert smith		You see Adam... there are some suggestions which are to be brought forward ... and I know you said you would entertain suggestions and that's all anybody here is asking you to do.
adam		What're you talking about?
robert smith		An open mind ... You're in the process of re-casting your lead actress and I'm...  We're asking you to keep an open mind.
ray		Ah... the Castigliane brothers. Let me introduce you around ... please ... sit down.  ... this is Mr. Darby whom you know and this is the director Adam Kesher and his manager Robert Smith
luigi castigliane		Espresso.
vincenzo castigliane		Nothing.
adam		Uh  what's the photo for?
adam		What's the photo for?
ray		 A recommendation... a recommendation to you Adam.
vincenzo castigliane		Not a recommendation.
luigi castigliane		This is the girl.
adam		What girl? For what? What is this Ray?
ray		We'd be happy to put her in the pile for considerations ... you'd be pleased to know there's quite a lot of interest in this role.
adam		Interest?! There's six of the top actresses that want this thing.
luigi castigliane		This is the girl.
adam		Ray...you better take care of this.
robert smith		Hold on ... hold on, Adam.
adam		Hold on!!!!!!!! There's no way, there's no way!!!
luigi castigliane		Napkin.
espresso man		 Pardon?
luigi castigliane		Napkin.
espresso man		Of course. Excuse me.
luigi castigliane		Is shit!
ray		I'm sorry. That was a highly recommended...
adam		Wait a minute!! What's going on here?
adam		There's no way that girl is in my movie!
luigi castigliane		That is the girl.
adam		Hey!!!!! That girl is not in my film!!!
vincenzo castigliane		It is no longer your film.
adam		 You'd better fix this, Ray!!!
ray		I'll speak to someone.
adam		 And by the way, Ray, I don't know who these guys are kidding, but every foot of film I've shot is in a vault at the lab that only I can access. No one's getting that film!!
robert smith		This is a catastrophe...  you told me they might insist on a girl, that's all.
adam		Why didn't you tell me, Robert? That's what I mean ... you set me up! I woulda never come here.  I'm leaving. I'm a director you don't want to lose ... you guys better fix this!!
ray		 Well...I didn't know that was going to happen.
adam		Did the Castigliane brothers get out of that limo?
attendant		They two guys in dark suits?
adam		Castigliane brothers?
limo driver		Beat it!
adam		O.K.
betty		No Grandpa, you wouldn't believe it. It's more beautiful than I ever dreamed ... no she left me a lot of food. The refrigerator's full ... Aunt Ruthie said she'd call me when she got settled... it was real smooth. I sat next to a lady who gave up her first class seat to a boy with a broken leg. She was so nice to me. She invited me to her house sometime. It's in Bel Air which is a place where people have a lot of money... I will. Everybody's telling me to be careful, but I sure love it here Grandpa. Thank you for helping me get here ... yeah, it's long distance. I love you. Say hello to Grams. Give her a big kiss for me. Okay, I love you Grandpa ... bye.
rita		 I'm... sorry. I ...  Betty's heart softens.
betty		What is it Rita?
rita		 I'm...I'm... oh no... I thought when I woke up... I thought sleep would do it ...
betty		What's wrong?
rita		 I don't know who I am.
betty		What do you mean? You're Rita.
rita		 I'm not. I don't know what my name is. I don't know who I am!!
betty		This is your purse. Your name must be in your purse.
rita		I ... yes, but ... I ...
betty		Open it!
woman's voice		Who is it please?
receptionist		 You may go right in, Ray.
ray		Good afternoon Mr. Roque. .
ray		I know they said...
ray		Then... I guess it's so .... alright, but that means we should ...
ray		Shut everything down ... Is that something that...do you want us to shut everything down?
limo driver		The other car is here sirs. Please allow me.
billy		Yeah, sure. Look what happened to them.
joe		No, no, no, I told you. They're fine. They're all real happy.
billy		My next delivery is up that way, so I'll be getting down to it real soon.
joe		You're so easy.
billy		Gotta keep an eye on her, that's all.
joe		Yeah, what for?
billy		Keep her from gettin' in trouble, that's all.
joe		What's  the matter now?
billy		Nothing... I don't like being out in the open like this.
joe		It must be just so pathetic being you. Sure Billy, grab your dog we'll eat in the van.
laney		 Not here...no thanks.
joe		Not a coke or anything?
laney		No ... thanks though... I'll take a cigarette if you have one.
joe		Sure, reach in my shirt pocket there.
laney		 No.  I haven't seen any.
joe		A brunette? ... maybe beat up?
laney		No...
joe		You'll keep your eyes open for me won't you baby?
laney		Sure.
joe		You bet you will.
the man		Hello.
the man		Same.
betty		Well...  what do you think about then? I mean...  well what do you think about?
rita		What do you mean?
betty		Well ... if you don't remember anything, I mean what goes through your mind then if you don't remember anything?
rita		Nothing. I do remember the car crash... I told you... I remember the glass ... I think about that sometimes ... I remember walking here, sort of. Now I remember this place and you. That's about it.
betty		How do you remember how to talk?
rita		I don't know.
betty		You don't remember anything else?
rita		No  There are things there.... but I'm... here.
betty		The money. You don't know where it came from?
rita		Unh, unh.
betty		When you think about them... the money... the key ... does it make you remember anything?
rita		The money... I don't know about the money... the key... it makes me feel ... afraid.
adam		Office...
secretary		Adam Kesher's office.
adam		It's me. Where's Cynthia?
secretary		She's on the set. I'll connect you Mr. Kesher.
voice		Stage One.
secretary		Paul, I have Mr. Kesher for Cynthia.
paul		Right baby, all Hell's broke loose down here. I'll try to find her.
cynthia		Adam, where are you?
adam		What's going on, Cynthia?
cynthia		They've closed the set. They sent everybody home.
adam		What did you say?
cynthia		They fired everyone.
adam		Who fired everyone?
cynthia		 Ray did ... and then they closed the set.... everybody's gone. You'd better get down here Adam!
adam		No.
cynthia		You've got to talk to Ray you've got to fix this.
adam		I'm going home.
cynthia		Home! Meet me at the office. We've got to do something ... you've got to do something Adam!
adam		I'm going home Cynthia.
cynthia		Adam, this isn't like you. Please come to the office. There must be something we can do.
adam		I'm going home. I'll call you later.
betty		I wonder where you were going.
rita		Mulholland Drive.
betty		Mulholland Drive?
rita		That's where I was going... Mulholland Drive.
betty		Maybe that's where the accident was. There must be a police report. We could call.
rita		No.... I don't...
betty		We could call anonymously from a pay phone... just to see if there was an accident.
rita		Okay... but just...just to see.
betty		Just to see if there was an accident on Mulholland Drive.
rita		 Okay.
betty		Come on... let's find you something to wear.
betty		It's terrible ... My Aunt dresses like Miss Marple.  She's kind of a frumpy woman detective in British movies.
japanese gardener		Ah, Mister ... you remember me. I am Taka. your gardener. For long time I not see you. I pleased to see you.
adam		Hello Taka. It's 'cause I'm never home in the day time. It's good to see you again. The garden looks great.
adam		 Lorraine ... you home?
lorraine		Now, you've done it!
gene		Just forget you ever saw it. It's better that way.
lorraine		What the hell are you even doing here?
lorraine		That bastard!
gene		He's probably upset Lorraine.
lorraine		WHAT.. ARE ... YOU ... DOING!!!???
gene		That's not a way to treat your wife, buddy. I don't care what she's done.
lorraine		Throw him out!
betty		Hollywood Police Department please.
operator		Is this an emergency?
betty		No, no, I just want the number.
operator		Hold for the number.
voice		Hollywood Police Department
betty		I'm inquiring about an accident that happened last night on Mulholland Drive.
voice		Hold please. I'll connect you to traffic.
sergeant baxter		Traffic. Sergeant Baxter speaking.
betty		Hi. I'm inquiring ...well, I heard a sound last night that sounded like a car crash and I want to know if there was an accident on Mulholland Drive.
sergeant baxter		Yes, there was.
betty		Can you tell me what happened?
sergeant baxter		No. I can't.
betty		Was anyone hurt?
sergeant baxter		May I have your name please?
betty		There was an accident. He wouldn't tell me anything else, but that was your accident Rita. I just know it was. Maybe there's something about it in the papers. Come on I'll buy you a cup of coffee and we can see.
rita		There's nothing?
betty		Not that I can see.
diane		You're welcome. Will that be all? You want your check?
betty		Just the coffee. Rita, you want something?
rita		 No. Just the coffee.
betty		We'll take our check.
rita		 Shhhh.
diane		Thank you. Come in again.
betty		You're welcome. We will.
rita		I remember something... I remember something!
rita		Diane Selwyn. Maybe it's my name.
betty		Strange to be calling yourself.
rita		Maybe it's not me.
betty		Call the number.
woman's voice		 Hi ... this is me. Leave me a message.
rita		It's not my voice ... but I know her.
betty		Maybe the voice isn't Diane Selwyn. Maybe that's your roommate or if it is Diane Selwyn she can tell you who you are.
rita		Maybe...maybe ... maybe.
kenny		Adam Kesher...he...
lorraine		Yeah, right ... get lost!
kenny		This is Adam Kesher's house. Where...
lorraine		Like hell it is! Get out ... NOW!!!
gene		I guess you don't understand English. She asked to leave. Here's the door.
betty		It's right about here on Sierra Bonita. That's not too far away.
betty		What's wrong with that?
rita		I'm not sure about this.
betty		I know you're afraid of something. We'll be careful. Tomorrow we'll go over there and we'll find out.
betty		It'll be okay.
louise		Where is Ruth?
betty		Ruth's gone on a film. I'm her niece Betty.   Who are you?
louise		Someone is in trouble. Who are you? Why are you in Ruth's apartment?
betty		I'm her niece. She's letting me stay here. My name is Betty.
louise		No it isn't. That's not it. That's not what she said. Something bad's happening. Where's Ruth?
betty		I'm sorry, but I don't know who you are and I'm...
coco		Louise... what're are you doing Louise?
louise		Where have you been Coco? God, I've been trying to find you all afternoon since 3:00 o'clock. That one is in my room and she won't leave. I want you to get her out. I want you to get her out now.
coco		This is Louise Bonner. I'm sure she meant well.  Sorry about this. Sometimes it happens.
louise		No, she said it was someone else in trouble.
coco		Stop it, Louise. Let's get you home ... goodnight Betty.
betty		Whoa!
adam		Yes...what is it?
hotel manager		I'm sorry Mr. Kesher, but there seems to be some problem concerning your credit card.
adam		... What??
hotel manager		The fact is Mr. Kesher a representative of your bank called us.
adam		How...  how'd they know I was here?
hotel manager		I don't know. All we do is take an impression of the credit card and until you check out it just sits in our files.
adam		So, what did they say?
hotel manager		Well, Sir, I'm afraid they said you're overdrawn at your bank and your line of credit has been cancelled.
adam		Unbelievable. Look... here.  I don't know what's going on. That's so much baloney. I've got enough cash for one night, okay?
hotel manager		That's fine, Mr. Kesher. You can pay cash when you check out. I'm sorry. it was my duty to inform you.
adam		Fine. I'll check out in the morning.
hotel manager		Have a good evening, Mr. Kesher.
adam		Someone's shut off my money!
cynthia		I know.  Where are you Adam?
adam		What do you mean "you know"?
cynthia		Someone called me. When they couldn't get you they told me you were as good as broke. I didn't believe then, so I made some calls.
adam		And?
cynthia		You're broke!
adam		But I'm not broke.
cynthia		I know, but you're broke. Where are you?
adam		Beverly Hills Hotel. I've got enough cash in my pocket for one night.
cynthia		Do you know somebody called the The Cowboy?
adam		The Cowboy??
cynthia		Yeah, the Cowboy. This guy, the Cowboy, wants to see you. Jason said he thought it would be a good idea.
adam		Oh, Jason thought it would be a good idea for me to meet the Cowboy. Should I wear my ten gallon hat and my six shooters?
cynthia		Something tells me this guy is connected with what's happening, Adam, and I think you should do it and I think you should do it right away.
adam		Cynthia...what's going on?
cynthia		It's been a very strange day.
adam		And getting stranger. Where do I meet this Cowboy? I mean do I have to ride out to the range?
cynthia		Sort of, funny boy. If I tell him the meeting's on you're to go to the top of Beachwood Canyon. There's a corral up there where he'll be.
adam		You gotta be kidding?
cynthia		Will you meet with him?
adam		Yeah, sure. It is that kind of a day. When?
cynthia		I'll call him, then call you back...If you want you could stay at my place.
adam		Cynthia... that would not be a good idea.
cynthia		I'm just offering a place to stay.
adam		I understand, Cynthia and thank you for the offer. I'll find a place. Now go ahead and give the Cowboy a yodel and get back to me.
cynthia		Okay, but you don't know what you're missing.
adam		Git along little dowgie and call me back.
cowboy		Howdy!
adam		Howdy to you.
cowboy		Beautiful night.
adam		Yeah.
cowboy		Sure want to thank ya for drivin' all the way up to see me from that Beverly Hills Hotel.
adam		No problem. What's on your mind?
cowboy		Well now, here's a man who wants to get right to it. Kinda anxious to get to it are ya?
adam		Whatever.
cowboy		A man's attitude ... a man's attitude goes some ways toward how a man's life will be. Is that somethin' you agree with?
adam		Sure.
cowboy		Now... did you answer cause you thought that's what I wanted to hear or did you think about what I said and answer cause you truly believe that to be right?
adam		I agree with what you said...truly.
cowboy		What did I say?
adam		That a man's attitude determines to a large extent how his life will be.
cowboy		So since you agree I guess you could be a person who does not care about the good life.
adam		How's that?
cowboy		Well, just stop for a little second and think about it. Will ya do that for me?
adam		Okay, I'm thinking.
cowboy		No. You're too busy being a smart aleck to be thinkin'. Now I want ya to think and quit bein' such a smart aleck. Can ya do that for me?
adam		Look ... where's this going? What do you want me to do?
cowboy		There's sometimes a buggy. How many drivers does a buggy have?
adam		One.
cowboy		So let's just say I'm drivin' this buggy and you fix your attitude and you can ride along with me.
adam		Okay.
cowboy		Now I know a few things. I know you have had a rough day. You're probably thinkin' I don't know the half of it, but in actual fact I know every part of it. The business of gittin' thrown off your movie, the heartache of seeing your wife with another man... losin' access to that precious film vault...
adam		It will work out.
cowboy		Good then, but, just in case, that bank's gonna stay closed a bit longer. You understand that?
adam		I understand.
cowboy		You're an understandin' fella.
adam		So, this is the last time I see you then unless I do bad?
cowboy		No, this one doesn't count. It's part of the original one. So then ... until we meet again.
adam		Okay.
betty		"You're still here?"
rita		"I came back. I thought that's what you wanted."
betty		 "Nobody wants you here!"
rita		"Really?"
betty		"My parents are right upstairs! They think you've left..."
rita		"So... surprise"...
betty		"I can call them... I can call my dad... "
rita		"But you won't..."
betty		"You're playing a dangerous game here. If you're trying to blackmail me... it's not going to work."
rita		"You know what I want...it's not that difficult."
betty		 "Get out! Get out before I call my dad ... he trusts you ... your his best friend. This will be the end of everything... "
rita		"What about you? What will your dad think about you?"
betty		"Stop! Just Stop! That's what you said from the beginning. If I tell what happened... they'll arrest you and put you in jail, so get out of here before..."
rita		"Before what?"
betty		"Before I kill you."
rita		"Then they'd put you in jail."
betty		Cry, cry, cry, and then I say with big emotion, "I hate you... I hate us both!"
rita		But you are really good.
betty		Thank you dahling!
coco		 Hello ... Ruthie... How's the great up north? ... Oh, I'm sorry to hear it ... what? Well, I haven't seen her if she's in there. Now, Ruthie there's nothing to worry about. I saw Betty last night and she was just fine. Yes, and I gave them to her. She's a real nice kid, Ruthie. Now stop worrying, will ya. I'll go over and have a look around. I will. I've got the production office number. I'll find you. Now keep your socks on up there and take lots of "C." Goodbye honey.
betty		Oh, no wonder I'm starving. I'm going to fix a sandwich. You want one?
rita		I'm all right.
betty		You've got to eat something. You're just nervous about going over to see if you're Diane Selwyn.
coco		Hi! Who are you?
rita		Uh...Betty!?
coco		Can I see you outside a minute Betty?
coco		Your Aunt called me.
betty		I was afraid of that.
coco		She wants to know who's staying in her apartment.
betty		 It's just for a night or two, until she finds her own place. I tried to explain that to Aunt Ruth, but the connection was bad and her plane was leaving and she got it all mixed up. I kept telling her it was my friend and she kept saying she didn't know any Ritas ...
coco		Sweetie, look at me straight.
betty		Coco...she's very nice. We went to school together.
coco		So I guess your Grandpa and Grandma know her.
betty		Not really. I met her in junior college and she was from this other town.
coco		Honey... I was married to a director for thirty years. He had an uncanny ability to read people. Maybe some of it rubbed off on me or maybe I had it all along ... you're a good kid... What you're telling me is a load of horse - pucky but it comes from a good place. I'll trust you to sort this out. Now I'm not going against Ruth. She's got enough to worry about up there in Canada. If she asks- I'm going to say everything is okay, and you make sure it is.  If you need any help you know where to find me.
betty		You're really something Coco...thank you.
coco		Don't make me out to be a sucker. Louise Bonner says there's trouble in there. You remember last night. Sometimes she's wrong, but if there is trouble - get rid of it.
rita		Is everything all right? Is it bad for you that I'm here?
betty		 Everything is A-okay, but I've gotta get that sandwich!
betty		I hope I'm back in a couple of hours. Don't drink all the coke. 
rita		Good luck!
betty		When I get back I'll have the cab waiting, so be ready to go.
rita		Okay.
betty		Sorry to trouble you, Coco.
coco		It's all right gorgeous. Something wrong?
betty		No, no. I'm on my way to my audition. Before I go I wanted to ask you if you could remember the man's name ... Aunt Ruthie's friend who helped put this together. It completely went out of my mind.
coco		His name's Wally Brown .... great guy. Been in the business since forever.
betty		Thanks Coco. It'd be so embarrassing
coco		Naw! He wouldn't have cared. Just give him a good performance and he'll be happy and I've got a feeling you'll do just that.
betty		Thanks Coco. I'll let you know.
coco		Get going. You don't want to be late.
betty		Right. See ya.
coco		Good luck, honey!
paramount guard		And where do we think we're going, Miss?
betty		To my audition.
paramount guard		And who are we auditioning for today?
betty		Wally Brown.
paramount guard		And do we know which of the fifty-seven buildings Wally Brown is in?
betty		 No, we don't.
paramount guard		Well, now we've got to figure that out first don't we?
betty		Yes, Sir.
paramount guard		Mr.Wallace Brown is in the Executive Building on the second floor. We want to go in and turn right at the first street. Then we want to walk three blocks down past Stage 17 to the white Executive Building. Once we're on the second floor the receptionist will take us from there. Now do we have name?
betty		Betty Elms.
paramount guard		Let's see if we have a pass for Betty Elms ... and we do. Here we go. And good luck Miss. Elms.
betty		Thank you... thank you very much.
receptionist		Number 43, on the left.
betty		Thank you.
receptionist		May I help you?
betty		My name is Betty Elms. I'm here to audition for... Mr. Brown
receptionist		Good. Perfect timing. Have a seat and I'll get Mr. Brown.
wally		Betty Elms?
betty		Yes.
wally		I'm Wally Brown. Your Aunt is a very dear friend of mine so it's particularly nice to meet you.
betty		Very pleased to meet you.
wally		Come in. I'd like you to meet everyone.
sarah james		Why thank you, Wally. Hello Betty.
betty		Pleased to meet you.
sarah james		This is Nicki, my assistant.
wally		And this is Martha, Martha Johnson, who you met out front.
betty		Hi.
wally		Well. Shall we get to it? Would you like a water or a coffee before we begin?
betty		No, no, I'm fine.
wally		Well then, take a seat everyone. Betty why don't you join Jimmy and we'll play the scene. Is there anything you'd like to say Bob... something to Betty before they begin?
bob		No ... it's not a contest, see, the two of them with themselves, so don't play it for real until it gets real.
betty		Okay.
jimmy		Just tell me where it hurts, baby.
betty		What?
jimmy		I want to play this one close, Bob. Like it was with that girl, what's her name, with the black hair. That felt good. Whaddya think?
bob		That'd be good, Jimmy. Just don't rush that line again. I told you... the line where you say, "Before what?"
jimmy		I was playin' off 'em. They say, "They'll arrest you"... and stuff like that.. "put you in jail"... they say it like that. They all say it the same way, so I react like that.
betty		Betty.
jimmy		Yeah ... Betty. You don't rush it. I don't rush it. We play it close, just like in the movies.
wally		Bob?
bob		And ... ACTION!
betty		You're still here?
jimmy		I came back. I thought that's what you wanted.
betty		Nobody wants you here.
jimmy		Really?
betty		My parents are right upstairs! They think you've left.
jimmy		So ... surprise!
betty		I can call them... I can call my dad.
jimmy		But you won't.
betty		 You're playing a dangerous game here. if you're trying to blackmail me... it's not going to work.
jimmy		You know what I want...it's not that difficult.
betty		 This will be the end of everything.
jimmy		What about you? What will your dad think about you?
betty		Stop... just stop! That's what you said from the beginning. If I tell what happened... they'll arrest you and put you in jail, so get out of here before...
jimmy		 Before what?
betty		 Before I kill you.
jimmy		Then they'd put you in jail.
betty		I hate you... I hate us both!
sarah james		I'm going to take her over there.
nicki		Big time!
wally		 Wow!
betty		Well, there it was.
jimmy		There it was it was! Baby, you got a way!
wally		Bob?
bob		Very good. Really. I mean it was forced maybe but still humanistic. Yeah, very good, really.
wally		Well, thank you Betty, and I mean that. That was very impressive. You've done your Aunt proud and I'm going to tell her the first chance I get. We'll speak again soon I'm sure, and thank you so much for coming in.
betty		Well, thank you.
sarah james		Thank you, Wally. I'm sure you all have a lot to talk about. We'll walk Betty out.
wally		Well, yes indeed. Our pleasure, Sarah, and don't you be a stranger. We'd love to see you around here again real soon.
sarah james		Well come along, Betty.
betty		Thank you again, Mr. Brown. It was nice meeting all of you.
sarah james		Oh God, that was awful!
nicki		 How about that Jimmy Katz?
sarah james		Oh god! Jimmy Katz never had a day. Jimmy Katz never had a minute. Poor Wally.
betty		They seem very nice to me, and Wally... Mr. Brown is a very close friend of my Aunt's, so. . .
sarah james		Settle down, Betty. Don't get me wrong. I love Wally. I ought to. I was married to him for ten years.
adam		 Cut it!
carol		Oh, man, are you kidding? I love this script! Where do I sign?
adam		Look... I love you, but there's no way they're gonna let me cast this thing until I've seen everyone. I'll let you know as soon as I can.
carol		I know you will ... cause my manager's gonna bug you day and night ... me too.
adam		It'll be my pleasure. Now, get out of here.
carol		Oh, you're just so cruel... don't forget me. I'm the girl that's going to play this part.
adam		 See ya later.
hank		Camilla Rhodes.
adam		Is she ready?
hank		All ready.
adam		Bring her out.
hank		 Camilla Rhodes next!
adam		 Playback!
hank		Yeah?
adam		Get Jason over here.
hank		Cindy ... Adam wants to see Jason.
jason		Did you want to tell me something, Adam?
adam		This is the girl!
ray		Excellent choice, Adam.
betty		Oh ... oh...I have to be somewhere. I promised a friend.
betty		C'mom. There's nothing to be afraid of.
cornell dumont		Hey!
betty		Sol?
cornell dumont		No ... not you...  I'm sorry... I forget your name.
rita		 Rita.
cornell dumont		Yeah. Well, I haven't seen Sol lately. Tell him to come by the club.
betty		And what's your name?
cornell dumont		 Cornell Dumont.
betty		 Ask him who Sol is ...
betty		Why didn't you ask him? Sol knows you!
rita		 But I don't know, Sol. I never heard of Sol. I'd just get in trouble. That's why we shouldn't go see about Diane Selwyn... it's better not to get in trouble.
betty		You're not going to get in trouble. You're going to find out who you are. Finding out who you are gets you out of trouble.
betty		It should be around here...
rita		Don't stop!
betty		What is it? What do you see?!
rita		 Those men in front, in the car.
betty		Do you know them?!
rita		No... but...
betty		 Keep going. Go around to the back.
rita		Oh no ... don't.
betty		Diane?
betty		Well ... we'll leave her a note.
betty		I guess you're not Diane.
rita		I don't think...
betty		 C'mon help me in. I'll open the front door.
rita		No.
betty		PUSH!!!
betty		Rita... I know what you're doing.
rita		 What ... I..HAVE... to do.
betty		I know what you have to do, but let me do it.
betty		 You look like someone else.
wilkins		Hello. Adam. How's it going? No, it's okay. Yeah, I'm working, but... they wanted this script a week ago. What? What's wrong with your house? The poolman? Sure, you can have the couch. No, it's no problem..it's just I gotta ... I gotta work. Any chance you could bring some food. No, I got plenty of money - I just haven't gone out for awhile. Groovy man!
betty		What are you doing?
rita		You've been so good to me ... now we know why ... why I was so afraid. We know what kind of trouble I'm in. I shouldn't... ask you... I only have this to offer. I'll give you this if I can stay here for awhile. I don't know what else to do.
betty		Rita... I want you to stay here and you don't have to give me that money.
rita		But I want to.
betty		No. We shouldn't touch that money. We don't know about that money. That might be dangerous money. You have to start all over again. You look like a brand new person and you can be a brand new person... whoever you want to be.
rita		It sounds kind of nice ... being somebody brand new.
betty		Hey, let's introduce the brand new you to Hollywood. We haven't seen the roof garden yet.
betty		Here I am Hollywood! My name's Betty.
rita		Here I am Hollywood! My name is ... Rita.
****Dialogues from script :Mumford.txt****

landlady		...not very fancy... house needs repairs... We haven't had a man around here for so long...
mumford		 ...next time.
follett		I have eighteen more minutes!
mumford		I don't want to hear any more today.
follett		Why not?
mumford		Mr. Follett, do you trust me or don't you?
follett		Well, I don't know... I only been seeing you --
mumford		Without trust, there's no point to any of this. You might as well not come.
follett		Now hold on, I didn't say I didn't want to come --
mumford		Good, then go.
lily		You're early... it's not ready. What happened?
mumford		My patient had to leave early.
lily		Who was that?
mumford		Does the phrase "nosy" have any meaning to you, Lily?
lily		I think it's like... inquisitive.
mumford		It was Henry Follett.
lily		 Man, you see him a lot. And it's very wrong to reveal it. Next you'll be saying what his problem is.
mumford		What do you want to know?
lily		You're terrible. I'm never telling you anything.
patron		Hey, Doc... how's it going?
mumford		Fine, Vincent... how's yourself?
lily		How long you been in this town?
mumford		Oh, I don't know...
lily		Four months, two and a half weeks -- that's how long.  And you've already got more patients than those other two shrinks combined.
mumford		Lily, I don't think even you could know that --
lily		Look at that guy...
lily		You know who that is, don't you?  You really don't? That's Skip Skipperton, man. He gets himself hit by a truck, this whole town shuts down.
mumford		Oh, so that's him? The Panda Man.
lily		So, what makes you so popular? What's your secret?
mumford		 You like me. How come?
lily		Not sure. Let me think about it.
lionel		That's the new psychiatrist?
lily		Psychologist. He's not medical.
lionel		Probably thinks he's pretty smart.
nessa		...so he already had the tattoo that said, "Naomi Forever"... and now they're broken up, see, and he has to have it removed. But while the scar is still healing, or whatever you call it when you have a tattoo removed, he meets Chandra. And it's serious, immediate love. So in no time, he's gone from the most gorgeous model in the world to the most gorgeous actress in North America.
mumford		What do you mean, "in no time"?
nessa		In maybe three or four issues.
mumford		Weekly or monthly?
nessa		Monthly! God, how shallow do you think Brad is? Why do I waste my time telling you this stuff?
mumford		Why do you think you tell me, Nessa?
nessa		Don't do that thing...  ...that shrink thing.
mumford		It's a big part of the show.
nessa		You really need to let people smoke in here, you know. It's perverse. What are they paying you to see me?
nessa		The school board doesn't pay you? What kind of deal is that?
mumford		It's called pro bono.
nessa		Pro boner?  Pro bono, huh? For whose good, supposedly?
mumford		It's my bit for the community.
nessa		Fuck the community.  There was this article my friends and I read. It was "25 Signs He's Great in Bed". It was very fascinating.
mumford		Where was this?
nessa		Where?... The New York Times. The first one was -- "he handles produce well." Which we already knew!  The point is, you have a lot of the signs.
mumford		You been spying on me in the supermarket, Nessa?
nessa		Have women found you attractive?
nessa		I knew you wouldn't answer. I've been thinking about what you said last time. How me trying to lose weight -- and constantly not -- is like a lot of people with addictions. How maybe I can't lose the weight, ever...  Which we already knew...
mumford		That's not quite what I said --
nessa		It's a really weird thing for a shrink to say... and then you said maybe people'd be happier if they'd accept that some things don't change -- that it'd be some kind of a relief or something...
nessa		Well, I guess I'm just a dumb bitch, but how depressing is that moment -- the moment when you give up?
skip		Hi.
skip		You're Doc Mumford.  Skip Skipperton.
mumford		How are you?
skip		Fine. Okay. Pretty good. I've been hoping we'd meet. I've heard a lot about you.
skip		Do you think we could...? Can I buy you a drink?
skip		..."Find the need and fill it" my dad used to say -- I guess a lot of dads say that -- but I did and it just took off.
mumford		No kidding... Panda. Where'd that come from?
skip		Panda? I've always liked giant pandas... I've been to China and seen them in the wild. That's the kind of thing I can do if I want... now. I can do pretty much anything I want to do these days.
skip		So now we make 23% of the modems in the market, which is pretty good.
skip		When I was growing up here, the town was about dead. The timber business was played out... Panda changed all that. Now, just about everybody in town either works for the company or depends on it somehow. Which is kinda the problem...
skip		Would you like another beer?
mumford		Nah... scotch.
skip		 Can I pick it?
mumford		You want me... to be... your friend.
mumford		But that's not what's really going on...  ...What's really going on is... you have some problems and you want some therapy, but you feel it could be very bad for Panda Modem stock if word got out that you were having head problems.
mumford		Can I ask you a personal question?
skip		Of course! That's exactly what I want.
mumford		Have you thought about getting a wife?
skip		When Panda started to happen, I was dating women from New York, San Francisco, L.A. They came out of the woodwork. Models, actresses, venture capitalists... These were not the kind of girls who were interested in me before I hit it... And you know what I discovered? I discovered these girls did not love me for myself. The majority of them didn't even like me. But a lot of them would've gladly become Mrs. Skipperton for a while. Can you imagine that -- marrying someone just because they've got money?
skip		I gotta pee.  Now here's the question -- Your name is Mumford, too.
mumford		Is that the question?
skip		You moved here from back East and your name is the same as this town. Is that right?  Far out.
skip		I hope you don't think I want you to do this for free. Just because we're gonna play it like we're friends, doesn't mean I won't pay you like a doctor.
mumford		I understand.
skip		I have a lot of money. Do you know how much money I've got?
mumford		Don't tell me, 'cause I'm not going to tell you what I've got.
skip		I've got three big ones.
mumford		I'm impressed. I couldn't make three million dollars if I lived three lifetimes.
skip		No, no... I have three billion dollars.
lionel		...so I'm watching Brokaw and they've got some astronomer, this little limey know-it-all, and he's telling how, with this Himball telescope, they've discovered there are maybe 400 million more galaxies than they thought there were. And I guess that's supposed to make me feel small? I'm supposed to feel insignificant? Is that the point? Because I can tell you it didn't.
mumford		Lionel, since this is our first session together, maybe --
mumford		-- you can sit up and look at me if you'd like --  -- maybe it would be helpful if you told me a little about what brought you here.
lionel		Kind of impatient for a big-time headshrinker, aren't you? How 'bout you let me explain it my own way...
lionel		...and in the dream, it's always the same, I wake up in my room from when I was I kid in Ohio, and I realize this is the day of the big exam at school...
lionel		...which is no problem for me, because I remembered it was coming and I've attended every class, so I'm totally prepared. Then I see myself running down the hall at school...
lionel		-- you crazy? You can't do this!
mumford		Sure I can, Lionel.
lionel		I'm a criminal lawyer -- you think I like my clients? I can't stand most of them! But I don't kick them out...
mumford		See that sign -- We retain the right to refuse service to anyone. I'm not going to charge you for this session, but I don't want to see you back here.
lionel		Don't you at least have a back door I can use?
mumford		Come out this way. There's no shame in getting a little therapy... is there, Althea?
althea		Not at all. It takes guts, Lionel.
lionel		Maybe some of us don't need this crap!
mumford		And it's the Hubble Telescope, not the Himball Telescope.
mumford		Jeez... what an asshole.
althea		What do they want from me?  Even you probably have things.
mumford		Me more than most.
althea		Why are they ganging up against me?
mumford		I'm not sure. But I think they're worried about you.
althea		It's the kids, you know, not Jeremy. He had nothing to do with this -- except pay, of course. He's always willing to pay. He's extremely generous.  I'm so humiliated that my own children would threaten me.
mumford		How did they threaten you?
althea		They said if I didn't get help, they wouldn't deal with me any more.  What do you think about that?
mumford		Good kids.
althea		Mmmmfffstttubll abbittmm.
mumford		Hmm?
althea		I said... you must come out to the house for dinner on Thursday.
mumford		Really? You think so?
althea		Yes. Jeremy will be home for the weekend. And you can meet the kids.
mumford		How ya doin', Ainge? Evenin', Lily.
lily		Doc.  Ainge...
cook		Dr. Mumford.
mumford		 Mr. Cook.
cook		Could you come with me please?
cook		I know I shoulda come to your office. I was gonna, actually, but then when you walked in here today...
mumford		Uh-huh.
cook		It's my daughter Sofie... she's gotta problem.
mumford		What's that?
cook		We're not sure. She's been to all kinds of doctors in the city and they've said different things. Some of 'em are callin' it --  -- Epstein-Barr virus, and the rest are callin' it... Chronic Fatigue Symptom...
mumford		Syndrome... Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.
cook		That's it -- syndrome. So you know all about it?
mumford		No... a little. There's a lot of debate about it.
cook		Yeah, I got that. Some people think it's all in their heads.  It's been so bad she's had to move back here to Mumford and live with us. And I'm not sure that's the best thing, either...
mumford		Why's that?
cook		Oh... a lot of things. Several different factors. Will you see her, Doctor Mumford?
mumford		Sure. Why don't you bring her up to my office at 3 tomorrow afternoon.
cook		I'm not sure she'll come. She's in a mood. Do you ever go to somebody's house?
mumford		Generally that doesn't work out so well. It sends the wrong message to people who need to make a change.
mumford		Hello, Lionel.
lionel		You've got to have the right ladder for the job. You don't know what you're doing, you can get yourself in trouble.
mumford		You're right, as usual. See you.
sheeler		-- practices.
lionel		-- Whatever. Six months ago, you two were the only games in town. The value of your...  ..."practices" could be seriously undermined by this bozo. A town this size has only so many headcases to go around.
delbanco		What exactly would you have us do, Lionel?
lionel		Protect your turf! Check this guy out. I smell a rat, I tell you.
sheeler		Mr. Dillard, I'm sure Dr. Delbanco shares my gratitude for your concern. But I also know he'd agree that you misunderstand the nature of our calling to mental health. We're not in some... widget business, trying to crush our competition.
lionel		What the hell's a widget?
delbanco		What an asshole!
sheeler		 Ernest, what do you think?
delbanco		I think he's got a point.
skip		This is great!
skip		This is exactly what I wanted.
mumford		Skip, you must have lots of people you can throw a ball with.
skip		You'd be surprised. Most guys have kids or wives or girlfriends. They're busy. It's not as easy as you think.
mumford		Skip, you're the head of the whole deal here. Are they busier than you?
skip		Well, you know... that's the thing. Like I said, just about everybody in town works for me. And it's just not the same asking someone to throw a ball when they work for you. It's like an order or something... And no one -- no one -- asks me.
mumford		So, would you say we're out here... let me think how to put this... Is your problem really that you're... lonely?
skip		Don't you like this?
mumford		Hell yes, I like it. What's better than this? Most guys would kill just to have someone do this with them whenever they like.
skip		Okay then.  Have you got a lot of friends?
mumford		 Lily and I talk a bit. You know Lily, runs the coffee shop?
skip		No... I've seen her. Good-looking woman.
mumford		 She's probably ten years older than you.
skip		 Good-looking woman.
mumford		Lives downstairs from me. She's got a great dog named for Danny Ainge.
skip		 Really? I'm the only person I know that likes Danny Ainge, outside of Celtic fans. Maybe Phoenix.
mumford		Well, there's Lily.
skip		Did you know that Danny Ainge was drafted by the Blue Jays? Do you know what kind of athlete you have to be to play in the NBA and in the bigs?
mumford		Amazing.
skip		Unbelievable...  ...And Lily named her dog after him? Far out.
mumford		What kind of person do you have to be to do this?
skip		What?
mumford		This --
skip		I would've traded any of it to have made the Mumford High varsity.
skip		So I guess Henry Follett is a patient of yours. He's my pharmacist.
mumford		Yeah.  Guy's got some serious sex fantasies.
mumford		Pretty good, too. Lots of detail. Nothing hard core. Old-fashioned ones, from back when people cared about atmosphere and character.
skip		Uh-huh.
mumford		Problem is, his fantasy life's a lot better than his real one. Nothing can live up to it. His wife got sick of it and left him. Took his kids with her.
skip		I wondered what happened to her...
mumford		Of course, it's not that simple. There's something powerful going on there. We've got a lot of work to do.  It's hit to the warning track!
mumford		In these fantasies, Henry Follett is played by a handsome guy with biceps. Can you imagine that? Where your self-esteem has to be?  Man, I'd just like to move the guy to the point where he gets to appear in his own fantasies.
mumford		Feel free to lie down. Most people do.
sofie		I'd better not, I'll fall right to sleep. I think it's too soon for me to be sleeping with you.
mumford		What can you tell me about this?
sofie		Oh, lord. It's almost too exhausting to tell you...  ...about my exhaustion. I didn't really want to come. I'm not hopeful right now. But I couldn't take the look on my dad's face. He's a truly kind person, which is pretty extraordinary if you knew the story. He's the opposite of me, I guess -- all stamina and resolve.
mumford		When did you start to feel this way?
sofie		About six months ago, I guess it is now. God, it seems like years. What a bore! I'm embarrassed by it. Before this happened -- when I'd hear people talk about this kind of thing -- I thought it was a bunch of bullshit.
mumford		What?
sofie		You think that now! You think it's a bunch of hooey, don't you?
mumford		 No.
sofie		I saw it. I saw it in your eyes.
sofie		That's okay. Maybe it is. My mother always says -- "Everything that's wrong with you is in your head." I suppose that's true.
mumford		Back when this started, was there anything unusual happening in your life? A change of job, of living situation... a loss of some kind?
sofie		No... but it started one year to the day after my divorce became final. That's not too suspicious, is it?... But it wasn't like I was feeling bad about the divorce. Just the opposite.
mumford		Hmm.
sofie		Hmm? Is that a professional opinion?
mumford		Hmm, as in -- that's interesting. Sometimes, with enough clues, it's possible to figure these things out.
sofie		Even if you don't think it's real?
mumford		I don't know what's real and what isn't. That's never been my strong suit. But if you're tired all the time and you've had to give up the life you were having and come back home when you didn't want to... that's worth trying to fix. Maybe I can help you do that.
sofie		What would you do?
mumford		We... we would try several things. But I need to see you a lot.
sofie		I don't know. I barely made it today.
mumford		I'll come to you. We'll try a little walking.
mumford		We'll take it slow. You'll never feel you can't handle it.
sofie		I don't think I can afford it. I don't want my dad paying.
mumford		We'll work it out.
sofie		You have the best answer for everything.  You seem so... hopeful. Are you always this sunny?
mumford		No one ever thought so. You must bring it out.
sofie		Is it contagious? 'Cause everyone agrees my immune system's way down.
mumford		Maybe you'll catch it.
sofie		Can I ask you something?  So what changed?
althea		-- sorry everything's in such an uproar. Lots of big occasions coming up, and of course Christmas is only eight months away --  ...I know Katie's here, but I'm not so sure about Martin... I'm making dinner myself tonight, so I'll have to leave you, I'm afraid...
althea		I'm awful I know, but will you please help yourself. I just got a new copper sauciere from Williams-Sonoma and I'm afraid it'll be the death of us all if I don't get back in there...
mumford		You must be Katie. People call me Doc.
katie		 C'mere. Quick... c'mon!
katie		Cuddledown... Linen & Lace... Scully & Scully... Smith & Hawken... Plow & Hearth... Museum of Modern Art... Smithsonian Museum... J. Crew... Wolferman's... Hold Everything... Nieman Marcus... Coldwater Creek... Garnett Hill... Norm Thompson... Victoria's Secret... Sharper Image... Hammacher Schlemmer...
martin		Is this him?
katie		 I showed him.
martin		 Do you get it now? This is no joke.
jeremy		Hey, kids. Oh, hi.
jeremy		You must be Dr. Mumford of Mumford. Jeremy Brockett.
mumford		Doc. Nice to meet you.
jeremy		Sorry I'm late... traffic was a motherfucker. Have another drink, I'll be back in five.
althea		I'll be back.
jeremy		I think you'll like this. Know much about Cuban cigars?
mumford		Nope.
jeremy		Makes the whole thing that much better.
jeremy		Just hold the flame a little bit below the end... that's it... now just turn it slowly as you draw...
jeremy		Are you a man who likes to treat himself right?
mumford		I've had my moments.
jeremy		I am. And I'm not ashamed of it. Nobody ever said on their death bed -- "I treated myself too well."
mumford		I thought it was -- Nobody ever said, "I should have spent more time at the office."
jeremy		Fill in the blank. I don't mind the office. The point is, you only go 'round once. Like the Zens say -- Be here now.
mumford		What do you do?
jeremy		Althea hasn't told you?
mumford		 We've been talking about her, mostly.
jeremy		Well, in '85 four of us left our firms and formed an investment banking venture. We've got twenty-three people working there now.
mumford		You've done well.
jeremy		We've done... very well. You know anything about addiction, Doc?
mumford		A little.
jeremy		Well, I'm addicted to winning. I say when you're in the red zone, you gotta score.  So what do you think?
mumford		Tastes good.
jeremy		No... I mean about Althea. About her...  ...behavior. Do you think you can fix her up?
mumford		What do you think's wrong with her?
jeremy		She's gone weird is what's wrong with her. Out of control. Probably from living out here in Mayberry.
jeremy		You're the doctor, what do you think?
mumford		She seems very unhappy.
jeremy		I think we all knew that, professor. The question... the real --  -- quest-tio-nee... is... why?
martin		But you know how to drive?
mumford		Sure.
martin		Got a license?  But no car?
mumford		Don't need it.
martin		I just got my license two weeks ago.
mumford		You're good.
martin		I been drivin' since I was twelve.
mumford		That would explain it.
martin		Can you help Mom?
mumford		I'm trying.
martin		 Got to.
martin		Nessa Watkins... She comes to you, doesn't she? You're treating her, right?
martin		What's wrong with her?
mumford		Is she a friend of yours?
martin		No... sort of. Man, she could be cool, but all she does is get wrecked and do all the guys. She's blowin' them in the parking lot.
martin		A person's got to hate themselves to act like that.
martin		Have you ever met a bigger shithead than my stepfather?
lily		Ainge!
martin		That's okay. Jeremy won't mind. Good dog.
lily		Ainge!
lily		 Nice car. How's that place?
mumford		It's a pretty piece of land.
lily		And the Brocketts?
mumford		Horror show. What'd you do tonight?
lily		It was insane here, man. 'Hadda call in the National Guard.  Then I did my laundry... watched
mumford		...And?
lily		Shocking. Did you know the government is wasteful?  You heard it here first. Oh, and being a supermodel... it's no walk in the park.
mumford		Why do you watch?
lily		No gentleman caller, Doc.  Not that I care. I've had it with men. They're so fascinated by their own crap. Took me four years to get the last one out. Almost turned me into a dyke... These days my idea of a hot date is a long shower by myself before bed. Now that feels good. And you don't have to do all that... listening.
lily		Oops... sorry. I guess that's the story of your life.
sofie		I'm not making any promises.
mumford		We'll turn back anytime you want.
sofie		 Oh boy... this should be interesting.
sofie		Hello, Mother. I want you to meet Dr. Mumford.
mumford		 Yes. It's nice to meet you, Mrs. Cook.
sofie		We're going for a walk.
sofie		Dr. Mumford does, yes. I've put myself completely in his hands. For today, anyway.
mumford		Ph.D., psychologist.
mumford		That's right, the fake kind.
sofie		We'd better go or I'm liable to bail on the whole thing.
sofie		Mom's such a cutie.
mumford		People usually have to get to know me before they hate me.
sofie		She's not in a bad mood. She's like that all the time.  It doesn't bother me anymore. It's my dad and my brother I worry about.
mumford		Maybe... but you're the one whose ass is dragging.
sofie		 Is that the technical description of what I've got?
mumford		Is she against you getting help?
sofie		We don't discuss it.
mumford		Something's bothering her.
sofie		Oh, we've all disappointed her. Me, especially, but Dad, of course. She thinks my brother's all right, but she didn't expect much. It's what happens when you "marry beneath yourself"...
mumford		Please... forgive me.
sofie		What?
mumford		Negative thinking makes everything more difficult. If you're going to have enough strength to do this, we have to talk only about positive things. All right?
mumford		Okay then... Are you positive your mother's a bitch?  Just kidding.
sofie		You've got a funny idea of funny.
mumford		 I've offended you!
sofie		No.
mumford		Really? What would it take?
sofie		Is this the treatment?
mumford		Sorry... I'm done.
sofie		'Cause I'll tell you, none of the others have tried this approach.
sofie		 Hey, 'Just do it!'
sofie		I'm embarrassed. The list is so long.
mumford		Be specific.
sofie		Well... I'm tired all the time, obviously. I always feel like taking a nap. But when I try to sleep, I have trouble.  My muscles ache. And my joints. I feel like an old person, or like I did back when I used to work out too hard... What else?...
mumford		Painful lymph glands?  Forget fulness... irritability... depression?
sofie		Yes, yes, and definitely yes. Also... I get confused.
mumford		Yeah, most people have that. It's confusing here.
sofie		Where?
mumford		Life.
sofie		I don't know if I mentioned the headaches.
mumford		Did you get headaches before this?  But you get more now? Or more severe?
sofie		No, not really. They're about the same. My marriage was one long headache.
mumford		So the headaches may not even be a part of this?
mumford		I can give myself a headache instantly.
sofie		Is that like a party trick?
mumford		All I have to do is have two conflicting thoughts at the same time... Like I'll think -- 'Taking these walks is going to help Sofie get better.' But then I'll also think -- 'Mumford, you just enjoy taking these walks and you're kidding yourself about the benefits.'
mumford		There... I've given myself a real whopper.
sofie		You actually address yourself by name in your thoughts?  So you really think having two opposing ideas in your head does some kind of damage?
mumford		Sometimes, yeah... pulling in two different directions at once. It makes tiny little tears in our fabric.
sofie		Well then, my life has been some kind of huge rip.
landlady's daughter		...get off my case! You don't like any of my friends...
follett		What?
mumford		Stop now.
follett		Why? I'm paying for this.
mumford		Not for this. Not me, you're not.
follett		 You find it distasteful, don't you?
mumford		It doesn't matter how I feel about it. It's how you feel about it that matters.
follett		I enjoy it. Does that make me some kind of pervert? Just because a man has a rich imaginative life --
mumford		You didn't come to me because you have a rich imagination.
follett		No?
mumford		You came because it's taking over. You're in its grip.
follett		I never said that.
mumford		Where's your wife, Henry?
mumford		Where's your wife, Henry?
follett		Go to hell.
mumford		 I didn't hear you.
follett		We got divorced.  I had to get rid of her. She couldn't satisfy me.
mumford		 What?!
follett		 I was... never satisfied.
mumford		 Now we're back on track.
mumford		What's that?
follett		 You are so mean.
mumford		Hey, Skip.
skip		Doc. I know we're not supposed to get together till Wednesday...
mumford		That's all right. What's on your mind?
skip		How many sessions have we had now, Doc?  Six. And it's been good... like we were two buddies hanging out. Just shootin' the shit.
mumford		Yep.
skip		This is really hard. Everything I want to say is hard...
skip		...We're like friends, almost... who trust each other.
skip		I want to tell you something, Doc, but before I do, I need to ask you a question... Because, for me to tell you this thing -- well, I haven't told anybody about this. It's the biggest secret I've got.
mumford		Sometimes it's best to keep a few things just for ourselves.
skip		You're a shrink, Doc. Aren't I supposed to be able to tell you everything?
mumford		It's just a thought.
skip		That really relates to the thing I want to ask you... I've noticed that sometimes, not a lot, but sometimes, when we're hanging out, throwin' the ball... or that time we went bowling... sometimes you'll like --  -- tell me things about your other patients.
skip		Hey, maybe that's all right! I don't know all that much about psychology or therapy or... ethics, so maybe there's something I missed... or something...
mumford		You're concerned that maybe I can't be trusted with a secret.
skip		I trust you. Definitely. No question. But, yeah, I'm a little concerned. I mean, you're not supposed to tell anyone about your patients' problems... are you?
mumford		That is correct, Skip. I'm going to have to take a long look at that.
skip		Yeah, well... what I was gonna tell you --
mumford		-- Skip. Knowing what you do about me --
skip		Doc, I trust you! You've listened to me better than anybody... maybe ever.  And this secret I've got, I can't stand it anymore. I don't know if I'm some kind of --
skip		-- I don't know if I'm a pervert or what. It's taken me this long to get where I can come out and say it... I can't back away now. I can't spend another day not knowing if I'm nuts.
skip		All right, I'm just gonna tell you, as simple and direct as I can.  Okay. You know I've got this gift for certain kinds of... machines.
mumford		You are Panda, monarch of modems.
skip		That's right. And you also know that even though I make 23% of the modems in the world... I cannot make one simple connection with any woman who could truly love me.
mumford		Okay... let's say that, for now.
skip		It's true, believe me. So... do you know what I've been doing, all alone, in my workshop, for almost two years?... Mr. Find-the-Need-and-Fill- It. How I spend my every solitary hour?
skip		Guess.  Go ahead, guess!
mumford		 Jerking off?
skip		No!... Although that's a good guess. No, what I've been working on, what the world really needs and no one has been able to create --  -- a virtually life-like, humanoid, gender-specific, anatomically functional... sexual surrogate slash companion.
mumford		Slash what?
skip		Sexual surrogate... slash... companion.
mumford		A doll?
skip		No, Doc, not a doll. I am Panda. I'm talking about much, much more than a doll. The world has never seen what I'm talking about... except maybe in the movies.
mumford		How's it coming?
skip		You don't think I'm insane?
mumford		 You meant -- like a trade secret?
skip		No, Doc, a private secret! It's perverted, it's pitiful. What am I -- Dr. Frankenstein? Aren't you repulsed?
mumford		Sounds like kind of a good idea.
skip		 Really?
mumford		Definitely.
mumford		Skip, that's not much of a secret.
skip		 It's not?
mumford		Oh, it's okay. It's just not something to be ashamed of. Maybe you don't want people knowing -- and believe me, it's safe with me -- but on the scale of dirty little secrets, I'd give it, say... a two.
mumford		You want to know a secret? I'll tell you a secret. Since it's just between us and all...
mumford		The secret, Skip, is this -- I am not now, nor have I ever been... a psychologist.
mumford		We'd better get going. Just follow my light. And, Skip, watch your step.
skip		Who else knows?
mumford		Just you.
skip		It's time you did some talkin', Dr. Mum -- Wait a minute. That is your name, isn't it?
skip		Damn! What is your name?
mumford		Doesn't matter. You can call me Doc.
skip		It matters to me.
skip		I've told you a lot of private stuff.
mumford		I can tell you anything else.
skip		What about everything? How did this happen?
mumford		Did you know that every species of mammal has found some way to drug, inebriate, or anestnetize itself? Even if it's just banging its head against a rock. Seems to be some natural urge... to get away for a while.  I've had it for as long as I can remember. The first place I wanted out of was home...
mumford		...pizza delivery, pipe fitting, pest control... lots of jobs that started with the letter "p". For some reason, I kept losing these jobs.  The only mind-altering substance I never had a problem with was alcohol. I never got drunk. I didn't like the feeling. But really, when you're as fucked up as I was... big deal.
mumford		Eventually, doing all these different jobs, I noticed something. For some reason, probably because I was too stoned to talk, everywhere I went --
skip		-- an investigator for the Internal Revenue Service?
mumford		Everybody has a story, Skip.
skip		Sounds like you have several.
mumford		What it felt like was... a series of separate, unconnected lives -- hillbilly kid, wrecked college boy, garbage man, civil service guy...  ...et cetera... et cetera. Every time I'd leave a life, it felt good. Whatever problems I was having were suddenly gone. I had no friends and I didn't talk to my family. The only constant, stabilizing force in my life was... drugs.
skip		An IRS investigator with a drug problem?
mumford		It wasn't the best situation.
skip		Did you carry a gun?
mumford		Didn't need one. We didn't even need a warrant for most of the shit we did. Man, the IRS... we could go in your bank account, your credit cards... hell, we used to go into doctors' files and get all the juicy details. Nobody wants to argue with the IRS.
mumford		 "Get to know your therapist."
skip		You were messed up, man.
mumford		 But look at me now...
skip		Hey, you've done good. Look at yourself... you've cleaned up, you've got a career --
skip		At least you pulled yourself out...
mumford		Things got a lot worse.
skip		You and Candy...?
skip		And so you did...
skip		And the drugs?
mumford		Harder than I thought. Took me three tries. But I was highly motivated -- figured there was no point in leaving me and taking that along. After two bomb-outs, I found a place in the desert...
mumford		...which seemed perfect for starting something new. Be back.
skip		Somebody's taking a shower down there.
mumford		That'd be Lily.
skip		I wish I could live in the shower. I'd take five a day if I had the time. I went to this spa in Germany, a sanitarium practically, up on this mountain. And the great thing -- they just kept you wet all day.
mumford		Who'd you go with?  That's not good.
skip		How'd you do it?  The new you.
mumford		You know how easy it is. A kid can manage it if he wants a fake I.D. You can do practically the whole deal at your local Kinko's. The only variable is how much pride you take in the product.
skip		I know it starts with a birth certificate...
mumford		All new people start with that...
mumford		What about it?
skip		"Mumford"... I mean, why pick the name of the town you were going to?
mumford		Oh. You got it backwards. I already had the name when I started looking for somewhere to settle. When I saw this town on a map, I thought maybe it was a sign. See...
mumford		In a free society, you are who you say you are.  Skip, all this beer's got me sleepy.
skip		But you studied psychology, right? You did the training and just never got the degree?
mumford		No... no training.
skip		 Psych major?
mumford		English Lit.
skip		Jeez, man. But you're good at it!
mumford		I understand what it's like to want to leave a problem behind. That's all most people are looking to do.  Mainly, I listen.
skip		Where ya going? I've got a million questions.
mumford		See you Thursday... regular time.
sofie		...so we get on this incredible steam engine train that runs up into the mountains...  ...and this trip is everything it's cracked up to be... an open car, great views, the mountain air blowing through. We're sitting there, married for six years, and he says how he likes it better when I put my hair back...
sofie		That wasn't so good.
mumford		You're doing great.
sofie		I don't know if I'm going to make it the whole way.
mumford		It doesn't matter. Go on.
sofie		Oh... this makes me sound irrational, which is probably right, but there was something about him saying this -- it was maybe the millionth time he'd told me about some preference of his. Well, I was so... tired of it.  Seems like my whole life someone's been telling me... I'm just not getting it right. Can we rest for a second?
sofie		You're purposely making me talk while we do this...  ...and you're a sadistic bastard...
mumford		Yes.
sofie		...who thinks there's nothing really wrong with me.
mumford		Oh, there's something wrong with you, all right. Especially after hearing that dream of yours, about the Roto-Rooter.
sofie		That was really bad, wasn't it?
mumford		Disgusting.
sofie		And I'll bet you can interpret the whole thing
mumford		It's pretty obvious to a trained professional.
sofie		I hate those dreams where everything means something.
mumford		Is that when you split up?
sofie		No, that'd be a good story, but that was just the beginning of the end. We went on for another year or so.
sofie		So whose route is this?
mumford		Brady Peck's. Fourteen years old. Lives next door.
sofie		And he's where?
mumford		In the capitol for Boy's Nation. Five days. Why?
sofie		 I'm thinking a gal could make a good living doing this. How hard could it be squeezing out some fourteen year old?
mumford		You like it?
sofie		It's all right.
mumford		Then you can expect me at 5:30 tomorrow morning.
sofie		And this is legitimate therapy?
mumford		Therapy? Hell no, I just don't want to do it alone.
nessa		What are you doing? We're not done. I just need to find the thing...
mumford		If you don't want to have a session today, it's okay.
nessa		I want to have the session. I thought it would be cool if I could show you some of the things that interest me. But I guess you're not into it... which we already knew.
mumford		What happened today?
nessa		What are you talking about?
mumford		Was it something that happened at school?
nessa		 These appointments were not my idea, remember.
mumford		True. Should we stop them?
nessa		I don't think you know what you're talking about.
mumford		Uh-huh.
nessa		This shrink school you went to... did you hear about it on an infomercial?
nessa		I want to live in the world these people are in. No one ever says anything in there, have you noticed? So they're very cool. Like they're all really deep. It's when people start talking that everything goes to shit.
nessa		There's this kid at school... Martin Brockett. He has some gigantic idea of himself that no one else shares. You wouldn't believe the crap he lays on me... Who appointed him my spiritual leader? If he has everything so figured out how come his best friend is a .22 rifle? And why's he spend all his time chasing after me? Probably thinks I'm gonna give him a hummer...
mumford		Do you think that's what he wants?
nessa		 Fuck him. Look in a mirror, bozo.
mumford		What's the deal?
lily		They come through a few times each year.  It's a tour.
mumford		Where am I supposed to eat?
lily		You're on your own today, honey.
skip		Doc.
mumford		Lily, I want you to meet Skip. Skip, Lily.
lily		It's a pleasure to meet you.
skip		 Yeah... me you, too... I was at your house...
lily		Oh?
skip		Upstairs, with Doc... Yeah, it's very nice... I heard your shower.
lily		I've seen you going by on your board, but I didn't realize -- you're so young... to be so...
skip		What?
mumford		...so rich?
lily		 ...so accomplished.
skip		I may be young, but Doc can tell you, I'm very immature.
skip		So, is this like a Japanese restaurant?
lily		I'd better get in there.
skip		That's a lot of people all at once.
lily		It's okay. They pre-order. There's a choice of three entrees.
skip		What are they?
lily		Meat loaf, turkey quesadillas, or salad nicoise.
skip		Salad nicoise? I love salad nicoise.
lily		 You do?
skip		Yeah.
lily		Well, come on in.
mumford		Dr. Delbanco. It's nice to see you again.
delbanco		I don't think you know Dr. Sheeler. She's the other therapist here in town.
mumford		 Of course... I've heard great things about you.
sheeler		Thank you.
delbanco		You never got back to me.  ...I called to say we'd like to take you out for a meal?... Kind of a professional welcome.
mumford		Forgive me, please. What a gracious thought. We must do that.
sheeler		When?
mumford		Why don't I call you when I've got my calendar in front of me?
delbanco		What are you doing for lunch?
mumford		Right now?
delbanco		...annihilation anxieties engendered by bad experiences with a depriving mother... but no one can escape the fear of death. It is, as Henry James put it, "the worm at the core." Try as we may to forget or ignore our mortality, James said --  -- "the skull will grin in at the banquet."
delbanco		I've run on. Forgive me. We're here to talk about you.
mumford		Are we?
sheeler		 What Ernest means, I think, is we're very interested in other methodology... different kinds of training. We're great believers in learning from each other. I've learned so much from Ern -- Dr. Delbanco...
delbanco		...And I from Phyllis.
sheeler		 So... the University of Kentucky. Who runs the program down there?
mumford		My mentor was an amazing teacher named Benton Mandlebaum. Died quite tragically in the collapse of a gazebo.
delbanco		I think I've heard of him... a disciple of Rothberg, wasn't he?
mumford		It's possible. I don't know about that.
sheeler		I suppose your extended training was at an institution in that area?
mumford		Lots of institutions. My graduate advisor believed we should experience as many environments as possible -- prisons, clinics, half-way houses. For a while I was chief therapist in a shopping mall. Had a little spot next to the yogurt place.
delbanco		Interesting approach. What was his name?
mumford		Dorothy Fowler. Fantastic woman. She passed last year in a train wreck. Damned Amtrak.
sheeler		I trained in the east, myself -- Cornell -- and I don't care what anyone says, there really are regional differences. I found the state certification exams out here quite harrowing... Did you?
mumford		Oh, yeah, very tough. But I guess that's good... to keep out the quacks.
sheeler		Which examiner did you have? I probably know him.
mumford		Wallace Franklin... from Greensburg.
sheeler		That was a terrible thing.
mumford		 I don't even know why hang-gliding is considered a legitimate sport.
delbanco		 We're interested in any new therapies. How would you characterize your approach?
mumford		My approach?
sheeler		Yes... your particular approach.
mumford		I don't have one really. Most of the time I'm faking it. See, I think there's not much that can be done about most problems... they're too complicated, too deep-rooted by the time I hear about them. The most I can do, usually, is look and listen real closely, try to catch some glimpse of the secret life everybody's got. If I can get a sense of that, well then, maybe... just maybe, I can help them out a little.
delbanco		I see.
althea		-- The argument had nothing to do with it.
althea		 I had ordered some books. "The 100 Greatest Books Ever Written."
althea		Oh, all the great writers -- Shakespeare, Charles Dickens, Moby Dick... those people. Each is bound in genuine premium leather with 22 carat gold accents. It's a magnificent set -- and only $33.50 per volume. Right away you get Great Expectations
althea		It's irrelevant. It had nothing to do with what happened.
althea		We argued on Sunday. He went to work on Monday and stayed in the city during the week, like always. But on Thursday, when he normally comes home, he didn't. Didn't call either. Not till Saturday afternoon.
mumford		You must have been concerned.
althea		It's happened before.  I'll probably have a complete depressoid collapse soon, won't I?
mumford		Doubtful. What did he say?
althea		He said he wasn't coming back. He said it wasn't working for him any more. That it hadn't "worked for him" for quite a while... You know what I regret the most? I'm sorry I let him make the kids take his name. He was an acquirer.  He liked to acquire things.
althea		You think that has something to do with my problem? Ordering all those things?...
althea		...Like I was on some kind of campaign to out-acquire him...  ...If I was just an acquisition to him, and he lost interest once he had me --
althea		That can't be it. It's too simple. And besides, I still like it. This morning I ordered a marble turtle cheese board from The Horchow Collection.  Can I tell you something just awful? You know how people who are just assholes will sometimes look at a woman who's got problems and say, "What she needs is a good shtupping!"?
althea		Well, there may be something to that. Jeremy didn't keep up his end -- Oh, what difference does it make?  Why do I feel elated? Am I in denial? You know what it feels like?...
althea		I know my time's up, but I've got to get this out while I've got hold of it --
mumford		Take your time.
althea		 -- When I was in high school, the thing I wanted most, when I was stuck in class, the thing I was always desperately in pursuit of -- was a hall pass. That's all I wanted. I loved moving freely around the school while everybody else was trapped in there... And that's how I feel right now... Like I have some giant, all- day hall pass.
althea		My god, did it just get hot in here or what?
althea		See you next time. I'll probably be a basket case by then.
mumford		You can go out there if you like...
althea		 "There's no shame in getting a little therapy", right, Doc?
althea		Hello, Mr. Follett. Have a good session. Bye, Doc.
mumford		Henry...
skip		Thanks, Jennifer, I'll take him from here.
skip		I've never brought anyone down here before.
mumford		I'm honored.
skip		Doc, there's something about what you told me the other night I can't get out of my head. It's driving me batty --  Why me? How did you know you could trust me?
mumford		You're completely reliable.
skip		It's just me, Dino!
mumford		Skip, I've got a problem and I need some advice.
skip		You want my advice? Far out!
skip		I hope nothing you're about to see will shake your faith in me.
skip		Pretty creepy, huh? Are you totally disgusted?
mumford		 Skip, you're a visionary. That can be a burden.
skip		This doesn't seem a little... perverse?
mumford		There are a lot of lonely people in the world. Somebody's gonna figure this out someday.
skip		It's not going to be me. I'm giving it up.
mumford		Really?
skip		It's all your fault. In the last 48 hours, I've completely lost interest.
mumford		What'd I do?
skip		Lily.
mumford		Lily...  ...Skip, that's great! You and Lily.
skip		Oh, she doesn't know about it yet. Right now, of the two of us, I'm the only one in love. But I'm very stoked.
skip		Doc, how I can be of help to you?
skip		Sorry...
mumford		Wow.
skip		I'm here for you, Doc.
mumford		Skip, you know that it's improper -- completely unethical -- for a licensed psychologist to carry on a romantic relationship with one of his patients?
skip		I guess that makes sense.
mumford		Yes, yes it does...
skip		You've fallen in love with one of your patients?
skip		Doc!... It's not me, is it?
mumford		What?
mumford		No, Skip, it's not you. But I like you a lot.
skip		Doc, what about this? You're not really a licensed psychologist!
skip		Hmm. I guess that doesn't help... I see where you're going here. It's a mess.
mumford		Yep.
lionel		Don't you find it incredibly convenient that everyone who could possibly corroborate his story has recently died some exotic death?
delbanco		They're neither all recent nor exotic.
sheeler		But they're certainly dead. And yes, personally, I find it a bit odd.
delbanco		It could happen. What about his state certification exams? The records seem to be in order.
lionel		What's easier than hacking your way into a state computer and inserting some numbers? For all you know he never even took the exams!
sheeler		That's true.
delbanco		I don't know that it's all that easy...
lionel		Doctor, correct me if I'm wrong, but it sounds to me like you've gone for this guy's story hook, line and bull- twaddle.
sheeler		You do seem much more disposed toward him than I understand, Ernest. Did I miss something?
delbanco		 Oh, for god's sake, Phyllis -- we have no reason to doubt the man! Are we listening to Lionel now?
delbanco		Phyllis, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to shout...
sheeler		No, Dr. Delbanco, it is I who am sorry. Sorry to have wasted your time with such...
lily		Stop it! He's a kid. I'm old enough to be his... older sister.
cook		Dr. Mumford. Please, come in.
mumford		Hello, Mr. Cook. I was wondering if Sofie was around?
cook		Were you supposed to have a session?
mumford		No. It's sort of spur of the moment.
cook		Look who's here. Have you met Sofie's moth--
cook		And our son, Ben...
ben		 This is a real honor, Doctor. Have a seat, will ya?
mumford		Well, actually, I can't really... Do you think I could see Sofie?
ben		I insist! I've been wanting to meet you.
cook		Her friend from the city came and took her out to dinner. First time in a long time she's been willing.
mumford		A friend?
ben		We owe that to you. She's perked up a lot since you started treating her.
mumford		There's something I think we need to talk about.
ben		We certainly do not.
mumford		Well... yes, I guess I should tell you. I don't think I'm going to be able to treat Sofie anymore.
mumford		What do you mean?
mumford		No, I really don't.
mumford		Why don't you tell me?
mumford		 I'd better go.
ben		Why can't you see Sofie? I know the treatment's working.
mumford		Well... you see, the problem is --
mumford		Wow. You're something.
mumford		Problem? I guess there is no problem... Uh, this friend of Sofie's, where'd he take her?
ben		It's she -- Roxy. Used to work with her. I think they went over to The Lantern.
mumford		 Oh, Roxy! Excellent. Roxy.
follett		What is it?
mumford		It's a thought I had.
follett		Should I open it now?
mumford		Let me just say something here... I have no idea if this is going to help.
follett		What exactly is it supposed to do?
mumford		You remember when I asked you about pornography --
follett		-- I find it degrading. Maximum gynecology and minimum turn-on --
mumford		-- and you told me that. Still, there's some kind of imagery that's haunting you and, I think, getting in your way --
follett		-- Which I don't necessarily agree.
mumford		But you did come to me.
mumford		My guess is these images were burned into your brain when you were young. Maybe if we could nail down the exact fantasies that are haunting you -- maybe you could get past them... Anyway, I thought we could try an experiment.
follett		 And the experiment is in here?
mumford		You know what? I think this was a dumb idea...
mumford		...I just heard myself talking and I realize I'm completely unqualified to be doing this. Let's forget the whole thing.
follett		Whoa, whoa, what are you doing? I want to know what's in here.
mumford		 There's absolutely no reason to think this is going to have any impact on you. I'm embarrassed to have --
follett		Hey! I agree with you that you don't know what you're talking about. That's what I've been saying all along. And I can guarantee you that looking at the Lost Ark or whatever you got in here is not going to mean diddly to me...  ...but if you think I'm going to let you walk out of here without seeing what's in this box, you don't know much about Henry A. Follett.
follett		What?! What the hell is so important I can't have five minutes --?
young pharmacist		It's her, sir. You told me to get you when she came to pick up her prescription.
follett		Uh, sorry, I'm going to have to...  ...I really appreciate what you're trying to... uh, I can't thank you enough for...
mumford		My pleasure.
follett		I'll see you on... whatever...
sofie		When I was in high school we used to come up here and make out. I liked to sit on the rock and watch the sun go down.
mumford		That's what I like.
sofie		Which thing?
mumford		Either one.
sofie		Why'd you come to the house the other night?
mumford		I thought I had something to tell you. But it turned out I didn't.
sofie		My brother said you were about to fire me.
mumford		That's one way to put it.
sofie		I bet I know what changed your mind...  ...My mother. She was so horrible, you decided you couldn't desert me.
mumford		I thought only action movies had villains like that.
sofie		That's the cut-off, isn't it?  I know why you were going to quit seeing me.
sofie		You feel like a fake, an imposter...
sofie		...as if maybe you don't know what you're doing.
sofie		Everybody feels that way sometimes... like we're not who we're supposed to be. But I have to tell you, Dr. Mumford --
sofie		-- you've been a tremendous help to me.
mumford		Yeah?
sofie		I can't tell you how much I admire you. You have a wonderful way with people. And you're very insightful. I feel like you've seen me clearly... I never used to admit what a horrible person my mother was. You've made that possible for me.
mumford		That's... good?
sofie		Yes! And my ex-husband -- he never accepted me for who I was, just like Mother. The things you've said have helped me understand what a dick he is.
mumford		I don't know if --
sofie		You're shockingly honest, that's what makes you great. I've never had a man treat me this way. With you, I feel really... listened to.  Can I tell you something? It's a little embarrassing, but I feel very unguarded with you.
mumford		Of course.
sofie		Thanks to this therapy, I now know what I'm looking for. I need to find a man like you.  And I'm going to do it, dammit! You've given me the confidence.
mumford		Sofie... that makes me very happy.
nessa		...I mean, Doc, the dude is seriously deluded. I said that to him, I said, "If you think I'm gonna do all that shit for you, man, you are seriously deluded."
mumford		What'd he say?
nessa		 He said -- "Which we already knew!"
mumford		What did he want you to do?
nessa		First off, he tells me to stop smoking cigarettes. I told him abso-fuckin'- lutely no. As you can see --
nessa		Then he says stop smoking dope. No again. So then he says he doesn't want me getting together with any other guys...
nessa		...What balls on this guy? What're we...  ...going steady? Jesus.
mumford		No again?
nessa		 I said I'd consider it. Nobody owns me. And the last thing was insane. I don't know what's wrong with him... No magazines.
mumford		Really?
nessa		I don't know if I can quit. We're gonna try it together, like, you know, AA or something. And I made him give up his .22. No more sneaking around the hills with his fucking nut gun like some loony tune.
mumford		He agreed?
nessa		 He's pitiful, Doc, a goddam puppy. I don't know how much longer I can put up with it. I already got two arms and legs, I don't need another appendage.
nessa		Oops... gotta go!
martin		Hiya, Doc.
mumford		Martin.
martin		 Did you straighten her out?
mumford		How are you?
martin		Insane! Didn't ja hear? My family got five hundred times better.  Let's go, Vanessa.
mumford		I didn't see you there. Can I help you?
gilroy		My name's Gilroy. I'm from the State Certification Board.
gilroy		It's all right, it won't bite you. Under civil code 1294.67b you are entitled to be notified that your status and certification are being reviewed. This is the notice.
mumford		 Do you want to come in?
gilroy		 No thanks. Plenty of time for that when we're a little further along.
mumford		Mr. Gilroy --
mumford		What brought this on?
gilroy		I'm not at liberty to say. Sometimes it's just routine, sometimes there's been a complaint. We'll be in touch.
delbanco		...and when you said at lunch about everybody having "a secret life", something just snapped inside me. I knew I could no longer continue my relationship with Dr. Sheeler. It was tearing me up inside. And I know Phyllis wasn't getting what she needed from it. What had started as a genuine respect, I think, for each other's professional abilities, and became, over time, a personal attraction had somehow... migrated into a rather torrid sexual relationship...
delbanco		...I won't go into that today. Though, if we should continue these sessions, as I certainly hope we will, there are some aspects of that I would like to look at. God knows, I've listened to enough people giving me the juicy --  ...At any rate, I just wanted to acknowledge the catalyzing effect your comment had on me. I just hope that it doesn't come roiling back upon you like some dreadful undertow.
mumford		How do you mean?
delbanco		Well... you see, when I broke it off with Phyllis, she was naturally upset and she became more determined than ever to pursue certain -- how to put it -- doubts she's been harboring...
mumford		What kind of doubts?
delbanco		About you... your background and your qualifications. I'm afraid Phyllis somehow got you mixed up in her fury with me, and actually took the whole issue to the state board.
mumford		I see.
delbanco		And please, for whatever small way I may have encouraged this, accept my apologies.  There is good news, though.
mumford		What's that?
delbanco		Phyllis has decided to leave town and pursue her practice in the city. Which leaves you the only psychologist in town.
mumford		Dr. Sheeler is leaving Mumford? I'm sorry to hear that.
delbanco		As you can imagine, my own feelings about this are mixed... Unlike, I must say, those of my wife.
mumford		I'm very happy for you, Henry.
mumford		I feel like we're making real progress here.
follett		Me too, Doc. And I can't tell you what that package meant to me --
sofie		I need to talk to you... Doctor. Can I come in?
mumford		Of course.
sofie		We haven't met in this office since that first time. This is how a real professional and his client are supposed to see each other.
sofie		It might've been more appropriate if we had followed a traditional approach to the doctor-patient relationship.
mumford		Is something wrong, Sofie?
sofie		Yes, something's very wrong, Dr. Mumford.
mumford		You're upset.
sofie		How intuitive! That must take years of training right there. Maybe you can guess what has upset me.
mumford		Is it something you've heard about me?
sofie		No, it is not something I've heard about you! It is someth--  Why? Is there something I should have heard about you?
mumford		Why don't you tell me what's on your mind?
sofie		May I?
sofie		All right... I'm going to come right out and say this, because that's what your shrink is for, right, so you can tell him what's bothering you?
mumford		Um-huh.
sofie		 First of all, I have been feeling much better lately. I don't know if the syndrome is over -- if it's just run its course or something -- but I feel a hundred per cent better than when I first came to you.
mumford		I'm glad.
sofie		Given that, I'm obviously not going to be judging things in the most realistic way.
mumford		I don't follow you.
sofie		 I'm saying that since I'm doing so much better -- which I attribute to you -- I'm liable to misinterpret some of my feelings.
mumford		 Okay...
sofie		The point is this -- I am not a blank page. I did not just fall off the turnip truck. Do you know what I mean?
mumford		I think so.
sofie		I know a little about psychology. I took three different courses in college. It's true, none of them were above the two hundred level, but I took them... And there was one concept I remember very well.
mumford		What was that?
sofie		Transference!
mumford		Transference.
sofie		Yes, and that is what I have got right now. I have taken my feelings of gratitude... and relief... and transferred them onto... you. I have taken all those warm, grateful emotions and confused them with feelings for you... So that now I am under the delusion...  ...that I am in love with you.
sofie		Hello?
mumford		Hello.
sofie		I think you can understand why I have some serious questions about your methods. I mean, obviously it becomes much more likely that I'm going to have confusion about this when your idea of treatment is to go walking in the woods and up to make- outs-ville and do all these highly romantic activities --
sofie		-- We had a paper route together, for godssake! Do you understand how I might be a little resentful? Knowing that this so-called "love" I'm feeling is totally bogus, and just a pathetic case of... transference?
mumford		Yes.
sofie		Maybe you ought to think about how you're going to fix this. And when you do...  ...please get back to me.
mumford		Hey, Ainge.
lily		Doc...
mumford		 Lily.
lily		Doc.
lily		I don't want you to be mad at Skip...
mumford		He told you.
lily		 Skip and I wouldn't have got together if it weren't for you. That's a big deal.
mumford		 You would have met in some shower eventually...
lily		I want to give you something. Will you let me?
mumford		Thanks, Lily, I don't need anything.
lily		Yes, you do, you damn well do.
mumford		 Okay.
lily		Here it is, some advice -- do the hard thing.
mumford		That's it? That's what you're giving me?
lily		Clean up the mess. No matter what it takes.
mumford		What it might take is... doing time.
lily		Too bad. That's tough, I mean it. I'm not unsympathetic. But Skip says you're in love.
lily		Then it's worth it.
mumford		I'll tell her tonight.
robert stack		...A drug rehabilitation center in the lonely southwestern desert... run by reclusive monks... becomes the point of departure in a mysterious vanishing...
robert stack		...as an intrepid government investigator disappears -- without a trace.
robert stack		...despite brilliant promise as a fearless investigator... found himself on a downward spiral of drug abuse and dissolution...
mumford's sister		...we didn't talk much after our folks died, but I know he felt his life had taken a wrong turn...
robert stack		His former undercover partner at the IRS... is now a trooper with the Pennsylvania State Police...
gregory		The guy was obsessed... didn't always know where to draw the line... but I would have trusted him with my wife -- er, my life --  ...I can't say I was surprised, though, when he disappeared.
robert stack		Who was this enigma... a courageous public servant or a debauched addict?... Either way, his last known stop was here... isolated in the Arizona desert... taken in by an order of devoted monks...
brother timothy		We don't talk about the people who've been our guests... but I can tell you this about our order -- we believe everybody has the right to start over... everybody deserves a second chance.
robert stack		And perhaps... that is exactly the chance the now-sober pilgrim took... on a blustery November day... walking away from the rehab center... never to be heard from again...
mumford's sister		I'd like to know if he's alive. If he is, I just hope he's happy and his new life is...  ...well, I hope he's found what he was looking for...
robert stack		If you have any information about this man or know anything about his whereabouts, contact the Sheriff's Department in Cochise County, Arizona, or call this number...
mumford		Good evening, Mrs. Cook.
mumford		Could I see Sofie, please?
sofie		Mother...
mumford		What do you think I'm after, Mrs. Cook?
mumford		Well, I gotta say, Mrs. Cook, you're right about that.
sofie		 Mother... go away!
mumford		I guess you saw the show...?
sofie		Which show was that?
mumford		Sofie...
sofie		Part of it. We were watching "ER" until someone called.
mumford		You probably got the idea.
sofie		Do you know what a betrayal this is?...
sofie		...How violated I feel?
mumford		You're not the only one...
sofie		You feel violated?
mumford		Not me... all my other my patients. I smelled tar and feathers on the way over here.
sofie		You deserve it.
sofie		I should be irate.
sofie		I am irate!
mumford		 But...
sofie		But nothing... I'm mad as hell. This is a terrible thing you've done.
mumford		I know it! Please believe me, I know that...
mumford		But, there is one... mitigating factor I want you to consider before you write me off.
sofie		What?
mumford		Will you think about it?
sofie		I don't know. Depends. I'm in a bad mood.
mumford		I love you. More than I've ever loved anyone or anything in my life.
sofie		Oh.
mumford		I want to spend the rest of my life with you... but I'm not sure you feel the same way.
sofie		I sort of do...
sofie		...but first, you have to tell me something...
mumford		Anything... just ask.
sofie		What is your name?
judge otto		Clarence Norman White, do you understand how serious are the crimes with which you have been charged?
mumford		I do.
judge otto		Do you realize how insidious it is to invade the most private thoughts and secret lives of unsuspecting people?...
judge otto		...People who have come to you with the faith that you know what you're doing... and that you are who you say you are?
mumford		Yes, your honor.
judge otto		It means absolutely nothing to me that so many of your patients have come forward with praise for you and your therapeutic skills. You understand that?
mumford		Yes.
judge otto		Mr. White, I am frustrated that the criminal code in this state allows a maximum sentence of only six months
mumford		I'm sorry, your honor.
judge otto		What?
mumford		I'm sorry you're frustrated.
judge otto		Are you disrespecting this court, Mr. White?
mumford		No, sir. I was empathizing. Sorry.
judge otto		Maybe you can empathize with this -- Maximum fine. Three months in jail, three months house arrest. Sentence to begin immediately at the Orchard Valley Correctional Facility. Case closed. This court is adjourned.
lionel		It's a country club. Don't worry about it.
mumford		Thanks for your help, Lionel.
lionel		I'll have him out in half the time.
sofie		You got off easy.
mumford		Will you wait for me?
sofie		We're only talking about six weeks.
mumford		Will you be here?
sofie		Of course... I haven't got the energy to get out of town that fast.
correctional officer		Better make yourself comfortable. We got a three hour drive here.
mumford		I'm fine.
correctional officer		You're the shrink, aren't you?
mumford		No, not really.
correctional officer		But you do therapy?
mumford		Not any more.
correctional officer		I'll tell you, Doc, the wife and I, we got a little bit of a problem. Would you mind if I just ran it by you?
mumford		Go ahead.
****Dialogues from script :Mummy.txt****

narrator		Thebes. City of the Living. Crown jewel of Pharaoh Seti the First.
narrator		Home of Imhotep, High Priest of Osiris, Keeper of the Dead.
narrator		Birthplace of Anck-su-namun. Pharaoh's Mistress. No other man was allowed to touch her.
narrator		But for our love, we were willing to risk life itself.
pharaoh		What are you doing here?
pharaoh		WHO HAS TOUCHED YOU?!
pharaoh		Imhotep?... My priest.
priests		Pharaoh's bodyguards!
imhotep		Her body was mummified, her vital organs removed and placed in sacred canopic jars.
imhotep		The Book of The Living contained sacred incantations that would send the evil dead on a journey into the dark underworld.
imhotep		The slaves were killed...
imhotep		...and the soldiers who killed them were also slain, so that no unholy person should ever know the exact location of the burial site.
imhotep		But there was another book, The Book Of The Dead, which was never to be opened, never to be read, for it contained the incantations that could bring a dead body back to life a most unholy thing.
imhotep		It was hidden at Hamunaptra, City of the Dead, inside the statue of Anubis, so that no such sacrilege might ever disgrace Egypt.
imhotep		But for my love of Anck-su-namun I was willing to defy the gods.
imhotep		Anck-su-namun's vital organs were still fresh, so a human sacrifice would not need be made.
imhotep		Anck-su-namun soul had come back from the dead! Now all that was needed, was to return her organs to their rightful place within her body.
imhotep		My Priests were condemned to be mummified alive.
imhotep		As for me, I was condemned to endure the HOM-DAI. The worst of all ancient curses. One so horrible, it had never before been bestowed.
imhotep		By eating the sacred scarabs, I would be cursed to stay alive forever. And by eating me, they were cursed just the same.
imhotep		I was to remain sealed inside my sarcophagus, the undead for all of eternity.
imhotep		They would never allow me to be released. For I would arise a walking disease, a plague upon mankind, an unholy flesh-eater, with the strength of ages, power over the sands, and the glory of invincibility.
imhotep		And if I could raise my beloved Anck- su-namun from her place in hell, together, we would be an unstoppable infection upon this world. The Apocalypse. The End.
beni		Personally, I would like to surrender. Why can we not just surrender?
beni		Then let's run away. Right now. While we can still make it.
beni		Then let's play dead, huh? Nobody ever does that anymore.
beni		In the desert? What for?
beni		I got caught robbing a synagogue. Lots of good stuff in them holy places; churches, temples, mosques, and who's guarding them?
beni		Exactly! I speak seven languages, including Hebrew, so my specialty was synagogues. How about you? Kill somebody?
beni		What then? Robbery? Extortion? Kidnapping!
beni		Then what the hell are you doing here!?
evelyn		Tuthmosis?... Now how did you get up here?
evelyn		OHEIUGM!! AHHHHHH!
evelyn		Oops.
curator		Look at this! Sons of the Messiah! Give me frogs, flies, locusts, anything but this! Compared to you, the other plagues were a joy!
evelyn		I'm sorry, it was an accident.
curator		When Ramesses destroyed Syria, it was an accident. You are a catastrophe! Why do I put up with you?
evelyn		You put up with me, because I can read and write ancient Egyptian, decipher hieroglyphs and hieratic, and I'm the only person within a thousand miles who knows how to properly code and catalogue this library.
curator		Who needs smart women? I put up with you because your mother and father were our finest patrons, Allah rest their souls. Now straighten up this mess!
evelyn		Hello?
evelyn		Abdul? Mohammed? Bob?
evelyn		You...! YOU...!
jonathan		Drunkard? Fool? Rat-bastard? Please call me something original.
evelyn		Have you no respect for the dead?
jonathan		Right now, I only wish to join them.
evelyn		Well I wish you'd do it sooner rather than later, before you ruin my career the way you've ruined yours.
jonathan		My dear, sweet, baby sister, I'll have you know, that at this moment my career is on a high note.
evelyn		High note? Ha! For five years you've been scrounging around Egypt, and what have you to show for it? Nothing.
jonathan		Oh yes I do! I have something right here!
evelyn		Oh no, not another worthless trinket, Jonathan, if I bring one more piece of junk to the Curator to try and sell for you.
evelyn		Where did you get this?
jonathan		On a dig, down in Thebes.
jonathan		My whole life I've never found anything, Evy. Tell me I've found something.
evelyn		Jonathan?
jonathan		Yes?
evelyn		I think you found something.
evelyn		See the cartouche there, it's the official royal seal of Seti the First, I'm sure of it.
curator		Perhaps.
jonathan		Two questions. Who the hell is Seti the First? And was he rich?
evelyn		He was the last Pharaoh of the Old Kingdom, said to be the wealthiest Pharaoh of them all.
jonathan		Alright, good, that's good. I like this fellow, like him very much.
evelyn		I've already dated it, this map is almost four thousand years old. And the hieratics over here...  It's Hamunaptra.
curator		My dear girl, don't be ridiculous, we are scholars, not treasure hunters. Hamunaptra is a myth.
jonathan		Are we talking about the Hamunaptra?
evelyn		Yes. The City of The Dead. Where the early Pharaohs were said to have hidden the wealth of Egypt.
jonathan		Right, right, in a big underground treasure chamber. Everybody knows the story. The entire necropolis was rigged to sink into the sand. On Pharaoh's command, a flick of the switch! And the whole place could disappear beneath the dunes.
evelyn		All we know is that the city mysteriously vanished around 2,134 B.C.
curator		As the Americans would say: it's all fairy tales and hokum.
jonathan		You burned it! You burned off the part with the lost city!
curator		It's for the best, I'm sure. Many men have wasted their lives in the foolish pursuit of Hamunaptra, no one has ever found it, most have never returned.
jonathan		 You killed my map.
curator		I'm sure it was a fake, anyway, I'm surprised at you, Miss Carnarvon, to be so fooled.
evelyn		You told me you found it on a dig down in Thebes!
jonathan		I was mistaken.
evelyn		You lied to me!
jonathan		I lie to everybody, what makes you so special?
evelyn		I'm your sister.
jonathan		That just makes you more gullible.
evelyn		You stole it from a drunk at the local Casbah?!
jonathan		Picked his pocket, actually.
evelyn		And what is he in prison for?
warden		I did not know, so when I heard you were coming, I asked him that myself.
evelyn		And what did he say?
warden		He said... he was just looking for a good time.
evelyn		But he's just a filthy criminal?
jonathan		 Way to go, Evy.
evelyn		Broad?!
jonathan		She's my sister, actually.
warden		I'll be back in a moment.
evelyn		We uh,... found... your puzzle box, and we've come to ask you about it.
evelyn		No?
evelyn		How do you know the box pertains to Hamunaptra?
jonathan		How do we know that's not a load of pig swallow?
jonathan		Um, well, you see...
evelyn		You were actually at Hamunaptra?
evelyn		Yes, well...  I know my brother.
evelyn		You swear?
evelyn		No, I mean --
evelyn		What did you find? What did you see?
evelyn		Could you tell me how to get there? The exact location?
evelyn		Yes.
evelyn		Yes.
evelyn		Where are they taking him?
warden		To be hanged.
warden		Apparently, he had a very good time.
warden		No women allowed.
evelyn		I am an English woman.
evelyn		I will give you one hundred pounds to spare his life.
warden		I would pay one hundred pounds just to see him hang.
evelyn		Two hundred pounds.
warden		Proceed!
evelyn		Three hundred pounds!
hangman		Any last requests, pig?
evelyn		FIVE HUNDRED POUNDS!
warden		And what else?
evelyn		NOOO!
warden		His neck did not break! Good! Now we watch him strangle to death.
evelyn		He knows the location to Hamunaptra.
warden		You lie.
evelyn		I would never!
warden		Are you saying this filthy godless son of a pig knows where to find The City Of The Dead? Truly?
evelyn		Yes and if you cut him down, we will give you ten percent.
warden		Fifty percent.
evelyn		Twenty.
warden		Forty.
evelyn		Twenty-five percent, and not one single farthing more.
curator		She must die.
hook		She is like all the others. She will die in the desert.
curator		No! She has seen too much. She knows too much.
curator		Not only does she have a map, but she has the key.
hook		The key!? She has the lost key!?
curator		Yes. No one has ever had so much, been so close. We must stop her, or it will be the end of us all.
hook		Then we will kill her, we will kill her and all those with her.
curator		And burn the map and retrieve the key.
hook		It will be done. But what of the American expedition? They leave tomorrow as well.
curator		Forget the bumbling Americans, they will be like all the others. Without the map to guide them, how can they possibly find Hamunaptra?
beni		It is three days down the Nile, then two days by camel, sahibs.
daniels		For all the money we're paying you, something better god-damned well be under that sand.
henderson		"Hamunaptra," Daniels, that's all ya gotta keep sayin, to yourself, "Hamunaptra."
evelyn		Do you really think he'll show up?
jonathan		Undoubtedly, I know the breed, he may be a cowboy, but his word is his word.
evelyn		Personally, I think he's filthy, rude and a complete scoundrel. I don't like him one bit.
evelyn		Oh... um,... hello.
jonathan		Smashing day for the start of an adventure, eh, O'Connell?
burns		You're sure Hamunaptra is out there?
beni		Along with the scorched bones of my entire garrison, sahib.
beni		A thousand pardons, my good sahibs but there is much work to be done.
evelyn		Mister O'Connell, can you look me in the eye, and guarantee me this is not some sort of flimflam? Because if it is, I'm warning you --
jonathan		Yes, yes, you're right, filthy, rude, a complete scoundrel, nothing to like there at all.
warden		A bright good morning to all.
evelyn		What are you doing here?
warden		I have come to protect my investment, thank you very much.
jonathan		Sit down, O'Connell, sit down, we could use another good player.
daniels		Never? What if I were to wager five hundred dollars says we get to Hamunaptra before you?
burns		What makes you so confident, sir?
henderson		We got us a man who's actually been there.
jonathan		I say, what a coincidence, why --
jonathan		-- whose deal is it? Is it my deal? I thought I just dealt?
evelyn		The only thing that scares me, Mister O'Connell, are your manners.
evelyn		If you call that a kiss.
evelyn		Did I miss something? Are we going into battle?
evelyn		Yes, I'm hoping to find a certain artifact, a book, actually, my brother thinks there's treasure. What do you think is out there?
evelyn		Ahmar is Ossirion. "Passageway to the underworld", actually.
evelyn		I don't believe in fairy tales and hokum, Mister O'Connell, but I do believe that one of the most famous books in history is buried out there, The Book Of The Living. It's what first interested me in Egypt as a child. It's why I came here, sort of a life's pursuit.
evelyn		You know your history.
evelyn		By the way,... why did you kiss me?
beni		My very good friend! What a surprise.
beni		You never were any good with the ladies, O'Connell.
beni		Unfortunately no, these Americans are smart, they pay me only half now, half when I get them back to Cairo, so I must go all the way.
beni		You never believed in Hamunaptra, O'Connell. Why are you going back? The devil himself lives out there.
beni		You always did have more balls than brains.
beni		Even?
hook		Where is the map?
hook		And the key? Where is the key?
hook		Then I'll find it myself.
evelyn		The map! We need the map!
evelyn		Oh that's comforting.
jonathan		EVY!!
jonathan		Hey that's mine --
evelyn		Well of course I can swim, if the occasion calls for it.
jonathan		Americans.
jonathan		I say! Good show!
jonathan		And did I panic?
jonathan		I think not.
beni		Hey O'Connell! Looks to me like I got all the horses!
jonathan		I can't believe the price of these fleabags.
jonathan		Yes, awfully tempting, wasn't it?
jonathan		Never did like camels. Filthy buggers. They smell, they bite, they spit. Disgusting.
evelyn		Well I think they're cute.
jonathan		And you snore!
warden		I do not snore!
jonathan		All night you snored!
warden		I have never snored!
evelyn		Are you sure?
jonathan		What in bloody hell is this?
warden		Other seekers of Hamunaptra.
beni		Good morning, my friend!
daniels		Well, what the hell we doin'?
beni		Patience, my good sahib, patience.
henderson		First one to the city, O'Connell! Five hundred! Cash bucks!
evelyn		For what?
daniels		SEE YA THERE, O'CONNELL!
jonathan		Ah, begging your pardon, but shouldn't we be going?
evelyn		After all, you rode us night and day to win that bet.
beni		Fools.
daniels		Where'd all these camels come from?
beni		They belong to the dead. They will wait years for their masters to return before leaving.
jonathan		That thing gives me the creeps.
evelyn		That "thing" gets me excited.
evelyn		According to Bembridge Scholars, inside the statue of Anubis was a secret compartment, perhaps containing The Book Of The Living.
evelyn		Ancient Egyptian trick. You'll see.
evelyn		Do you realize, we are standing inside a room that no one has entered in over four thousand years.
warden		Who cares? I don't see no treasure.
jonathan		And it stinks to high heaven in here.
evelyn		Cretins.
evelyn		Oh my god, It's a preparation room.
evelyn		For entering the afterlife.
jonathan		Mummies, my good son, this is where they made the mummies.
henderson		Ya scared the bejeezus out of us, O'Connell.
daniels		This here is our statue,... friend.
beni		Ten to one, O'Connell, your odds are no-so-good.
jonathan		Yes, me too.
evelyn		Let's be nice, children, if we're going to play together, we must learn to share.
evelyn		According to my calculations, we should be right under the statue. We'll come up right between his legs.  Oh my.
jonathan		And when those dirty Yanks go to sleep --  No offense.
jonathan		We'll sneak up and steal that book right out from under them.
evelyn		Yes, if their Egyptologist hasn't already found it.
jonathan		I say, what's our smelly little friend got himself up to?
egyptologist		Seti was no fool.
henderson		Yeah, sure...
henderson		We'll let him open it.
jonathan		OWCH! That's really got to hurt.
evelyn		It's called mummification. You're dead when they do this
jonathan		Still...
evelyn		You two are worse than a couple of schoolboys.
egyptologist		FENI!
evelyn		Oh my god,... it looks like, it looks like a sarcophagus.
evelyn		They didn't, they buried him at the foot of Anubis. He was either someone of great importance. Or he did something very naughty.
jonathan		Well?... Who is it?
evelyn		'He that shall not be named.'
evelyn		Quarried granite with a cobalt lining.
jonathan		Whoever's in here, sure wasn't getting out.
evelyn		A key! That's it! That's what he was talking about.
evelyn		The man on the barge. The one with the hook, he was looking for a key.
jonathan		Hey that's mine!
evelyn		What do you suppose killed him?
jonathan		Did you ever see him eat?
evelyn		How?
jonathan		Maybe this place really is cursed.
evelyn		You two!
evelyn		No. I believe if I can see it and I can touch it, then it's real. That's what I believe.
jonathan		Seagrams!
jonathan		Well, he may have been a stinky fellow,... but he had good taste.
jonathan		Evy! Excuse me! But didn't the man just say -- !
beni		Just looking for you, O'Connell! I wanted to be with my friend!
beni		 Why do you like to fight so much?
jonathan		Let 'em have it, boys!
jonathan		I say, bloody good show.
ardeth ray		LEAVE THIS PLACE!... LEAVE THIS PLACE OR DIE!
evelyn		Yes,... fine,... thank you.
daniels		See! That proves it! Old Seti's fortune's gotta be under this sand!
henderson		For them to protect it like this, you just know there's got to be treasure down there.
evelyn		Where's Jonathan?
evelyn		Unlike my brother, sir, I know when to say no.
evelyn		I know, you're wondering, what's a place like me doing in a girl like this?
evelyn		Egypt is in my blood. My father was a famous explorer, he loved Egypt so much that he married an Egyptian. My mother! Who was quite an adventurer herself
evelyn		I may not be an explorer, or an adventurer, or a treasure hunter, or a gunfighter! Mister O'Connell But I'm proud of what I am.
evelyn		...I am a librarian!
evelyn		I'm going to kiss you, Mister O'Connell.
evelyn		I'm not?
evelyn		Why would I do that?
evelyn		I can't believe I allowed the two of you to get me drunk.
jonathan		Don't blame me, I don't even remember being there.
evelyn		Well neither do I, thank you.
evelyn		No... Why?... Should I?
egyptologist		There is a curse upon this chest.
daniels		Curse my ass.
henderson		Yeah, who cares.
egyptologist		In these hallowed grounds, that which was set forth in ancient times, is as strong today, as it was then.
henderson		Yeah, yeah, okay, what's it --
egyptologist		"Death will come on swift wings to whomever opens this chest".
egyptologist		It says, there is one, the undead, who if brought back to life, is bound by sacred law to consummate this curse.
henderson		Yeah, well, let's just make sure we don't bring anybody back from the dead then, huh?
egyptologist		He will kill all who open this chest,... and assimilate their organs and fluids.
daniels		Assimilate their organs and fluids? Ya mean eat 'em?
egyptologist		And in so doing he will regenerate. And no longer be the undead, but a plague upon this earth.
henderson		Ah hell, let's open it anyways.
evelyn		Oh my god, I've dreamed about this ever since I was a little girl.
evelyn		Look, all the sacred spells have been chiseled off. The hieratics and hieroglyphs that protect the deceased on his journey into the afterlife, they've been removed. This man was cursed,... doomed.
jonathan		Yes, I'm all tears, now let's see who's inside, shall we?
beni		The curse,... beware the curse!
daniels		Stupid superstitious bastard.
evelyn		No. I've never seen a mummy look like this. He's, he's still...
jonathan		Juicy?
evelyn		Yes. He's more than four thousand years old and still decomposing.
evelyn		Oh my god, he was buried alive.
evelyn		And he left a message.
evelyn		It says: 'Death is only the beginning.'
jonathan		What are you going to do? Shoot him?
egyptologist		I have heard told of this book, but I never truly believed it existed. This, good gentlemen, is a most priceless treasure.
henderson		I wouldn't trade ya for a brass spittoon!
daniels		Yeah! It's supposed to be made outta pure gold!
jonathan		What is this stuff? It smells like our late friend, the Warden.
jonathan		You did not!?... We're not!?
henderson		Say O'Connell, whadaya think these honey's'll fetch back home?
burns		We hear you gentlemen found yerselves a nice gooey mummy. Congratulations.
daniels		Ya know if ya dry him out, you can sell him for firewood.
evelyn		Scarabs, flesh eaters, I found them inside our friend's coffin. They can stay alive for years living off the flesh of a corpse, or in this case...
evelyn		Famished.
evelyn		Very slowly.
jonathan		He certainly was not a popular fellow when they planted him.
evelyn		According to my readings, our friend suffered the HOM-DAI, the worst of all ancient Egyptian curses, one reserved for only the most evil blasphemers. In all of my research, I've never read of this curse actually having been performed.
evelyn		Yes, they never used it because they feared it so. It's written, that if a victim of the HOM-DAI should ever arise, he would bring with him the ten plagues of Egypt.
beni		Like what that Moses guy did to that Pharaoh guy?
evelyn		That's one way of putting it.
jonathan		Let's see, there was frogs, flies, locusts...
burns		Hail and fire.
henderson		The sun turning black.
daniels		Water turning to blood.
jonathan		And my personal favorite: people covered in boils and sores.
evelyn		Fried gizzard anyone?
evelyn		It's just a book, no harm ever came from a book.
evelyn		Ahm kum Ra. Ahm kum Dei.
egyptologist		NO! NOOOO! YOU MUST NOT!
egyptologist		What have we done?
jonathan		Did you see that!? Grasshoppers! Billions of grasshoppers!
evelyn		This is not a plague. It's generational. Every so many years the locusts of Egypt have a population explosion and they all take flight.
burns		Daniels! Henderson!
burns		Daniels?... is that you?
burns		Henderson?
jonathan		EVY!?
evelyn		Oh thank goodness, you're one of the Americans, aren't you?
imhotep		Anck-su-namun?
henderson		RUN, YOU SONS-A-BITCHES! RUUUUN!
evelyn		Help me,... please,... help me.
imhotep		Kadeesh pharos Anck-su-namun!
imhotep		ANCK-SU-NAMUUUUUN!!!!
ardeth ray		I told you to leave or die, you refused, and now you may have killed us all. For you have unleashed the creature that we have feared for more than four thousand years.
ardeth ray		No mortal weapons can kill this creature. He is not of this world.
beni		May the good Lord protect and watch over me as a shepherd watches over his flock. And may Satan in all his forms be vanquished forever.
imhotep		 The language of the slaves.
imhotep		 I may have use for you. And the rewards will be great.
imhotep		Where are the other sacred jars?
daniels		You bastards!
henderson		What did you do to him!?
ardeth ray		We saved him! Saved him before the creature could finish his work. Now leave, all of you, quickly, before he finishes you all.
jonathan		You're not going to kill us?
ardeth ray		We must now hunt him down, and try and find a way to kill him, before he consumes the earth. Allah be with us.
ardeth ray		Know this, the creature will be coming for you. He must consummate the curse. And until he does, he will never eat, he will never sleep, and he will never stop.
imhotep		ANCK-SU-NAMUUUUUN!!!!
evelyn		Having an encounter with a four thousand year old walking-talking corpse tends to convert one.
evelyn		No, we are not.
evelyn		No we are not. We woke him up, and we must try and stop him.
evelyn		Alright then, Me, I,... I read the book, I woke him up and I intend to stop him.
evelyn		Then we'll have to find some immortal ones.
evelyn		According to that Book, once this creature has been reborn, his curse will spread, and as he grows in strength, so will his curse grow, infecting the people until the whole of the earth is destroyed.
evelyn		 It's everybody's problem!
evelyn		That's what I am to you? A contract?
evelyn		I'm staying.
beni		You left me! You left me in the desert to rot.
beni		This is Prince Imhotep, High Priest of Osiris.
beni		The Prince does not like to be touched by other humans. A Silly eastern superstition, I'm afraid.
beni		He has come to help Mister Burns. Somehow I feel responsible.
beni		Do you know where I can steal some?
winston		I'm the last of the Royal Force still stationed here, you know? All the other laddies died in the air and were buried in the sand.
winston		Ever since the end of the Great War, there hasn't been a single challenge worthy of a man like me.
winston		I just wish I would've chucked it with the other laddies, gone down in a flame of glory, instead of sitting around here, rotting from boredom and booze!
burns		The drawer there, spectacles.  As you see, I won't be needing them.
beni		Mister Burns, Prince Imhotep thanks you for your spectacles, -- and for your eyes,... and for your tongue.
beni		But I am afraid more is needed, the Prince says he must finish the job, consummate the curse which you and your friends have brought down upon yourselves.
henderson		Sweet Jesus! That tasted just like,... like...
jonathan		"And the rivers and waters of Egypt went red and were as blood."
jonathan		Who's here!?
evelyn		The creature!? Are you sure!?
imhotep		You saved me from the undead. For this, I shall make you immortal.
henderson		The curse. The curse.
evelyn		There's only one person I know who can possibly give us some answers.
everybody		YOU!
curator		Miss Carnavon. Gentlemen.
evelyn		What is he doing here?
curator		Do you truly wish to know? Or would you prefer to just shoot us?
curator		You will not believe it.
curator		We are part of an ancient secret society, the cult-of-the-Mumia, and we have a sacred mission, passed down through thirty-nine generations. For over four thousand years we have guarded The City Of The Dead. we are sworn at manhood to do any and all in our power to stop the High Priest Imhotep from being reborn into this world.
ardeth ray		And because of you, we have failed.
evelyn		 And you think this justifies killing innocent people!?
curator		To have stopped this creature? Yes!
curator		According to the ancients, cat's are the guardians at the gates of the underworld. Imhotep will fear them until he is fully regenerated, and then he will fear nothing.
daniels		Right! And ya know how he gets fully regenerated?! By killing everybody who opened that chest and sucking us dry! That's how!
curator		Yes, the creature must first try and regenerate, and then he will attempt to resurrect the one he has loved for more than four thousand years.
evelyn		Anck-su-namun.
evelyn		In the necropolis, when I saw him, - alive,... walking, he called me Anck- su-namun. And then in Mister Burns' quarters he tried to kiss me.
curator		It is because it was you who read from the Book. He has chosen you to be the human sacrifice needed to regenerate the body of Anck-su-namun.
jonathan		This is not good. Not good at all.
ardeth ray		Tonight is the full moon. The moon of Osiris. It will begin tonight.
jonathan		"...and he stretched forth his hands towards the heavens, and there was darkness throughout the land of Egypt."
evelyn		We must stop him from regenerating.
evelyn		Who opened that chest?
henderson		Well, there was me and Daniels here and then poor Burns of course, oh yeah, and that Egyptologist fella.
daniels		Naw, he scrammed outta there,
evelyn		We must find the Egyptologist and bring him back here to the safety of the fort, before the creature can get to him.
henderson		The hell with that! I'm not goin' nowhere! We're safe here.
daniels		Yeah, I'm not leavin, this fort for nothin'.
evelyn		Who put you in charge? You can't just leave me behind like some old suitcase. I'm the one responsible for this mess and I intend to be the one to clean it up.
jonathan		Me?
beni		What friend? You're my only friend.
beni		It is better to be the right hand of the Devil,... than in his path. As long as I serve him, I am immune.
beni		You shall see.
beni		The book! The black book they found at Hamunaptra! Imhotep wants it back. Said to me it would be worth it's weight in diamonds.
beni		 And your sister.
jonathan		That looked rather painful.
jonathan		Yes, I know, I do that to people.
jonathan		And then he'll be coming after Evy.
soldier		Ten o'clock! All is well!
daniels		The hell with this. I'm goin, downstairs to get me a drink. You want somethin'?
henderson		Yeah, get me a glass of bourbon, a shot of bourbon and a bourbon chaser.
evelyn		You called me your girl?
evelyn		I think you were jealous
daniels		Shut-up! JUST SHUT-UP! We gotta do somethin'! we gotta do somethin, NOW! Before it's too late!
evelyn		Last month I came across an inscription that mentioned The Book Of The Dead.
daniels		That book we found at Hamunaptra?
evelyn		Yes. I dismissed it, because it talked about bringing people back from the dead. A notion I was unwilling to believe.
jonathan		And now he's going to use it to bring his girlfriend back
ardeth ray		And if he succeeds, the two of them together will bring about the apocalypse.
the curator		The plagues we have seen so far, are merely Imhotep flexing his muscles. Only at the moment of Anck-su-namun's resurrection will he be truly invincible.
evelyn		I'm thinking that if the black Book Of The Dead can bring people back to life --
curator		-- then perhaps, the golden Book Of The Living can return them to the underworld.
evelyn		Exactly --
curator		-- And read the sacred incantations contained inside it.
curator		Correct, And that's when --
ardeth ray		It has begun. The beginning of the end.
evelyn		Not quite yet it hasn't. C'mon.
evelyn		Got it!
evelyn		Since the black Book of The Dead was found inside the statue of Anubis, then according to this, the golden Book of The Living should be inside...
jonathan		What?
daniels		WHAT!?
evelyn		The golden Book Of The Living, is inside the statue of Horus.
curator		Which would be located not far to the east of the Anubis statue.
curator		If we want to kill the creature, yes.
jonathan		Anck-su-namun! Anck-su-namun!
beni		Imhotep! IMHOTEP!
evelyn		He's gorgeous.
the curator		He has consummated the curse, now all he need do is raise Anck-su-namun from the dead, then it will be the end of us, and the beginning for them.
imhotep		Koontash dai na.
beni		Take his hand and he will spare the others.
evelyn		Any bright ideas?
evelyn		I have no choice.
imhotep		Keetah mi pharos, aja nilo, isirlan.
beni		Come with me my princess. It is time to make you mine, forever.
evelyn		All eternity, idiot.
evelyn		You better think of something, because if he turns me into a mummy, you're the first one I'm coming after.
evelyn		Yes, I know, and I'd like to keep them.
jonathan		Hey that's mine -- !
ardeth ray		Be calm. There is still time. We can stop him yet.
imhotep		Pared oos.
evelyn		NOOO!!
beni		Kill them.
curator		Go! Find a way! Kill the creature!
jonathan		I'm with you, old man. No one touches my sister like that and gets away with it.
ardeth ray		Yes. To Hamunaptra. To perform the ritual.
jonathan		And what ritual would that be?
ardeth ray		The ritual to bring the body of Anck- su-namun back to life.
jonathan		And how does one do that?
ardeth ray		By reading the Book Of The Dead.
jonathan		Oh yes, of course.
ardeth ray		And then killing your sister.
jonathan		Excuse me?
ardeth ray		Imhotep is now able to cross the desert with great haste.
jonathan		Begging your pardon, but I wasn't quite clear on that last part.
ardeth ray		If he arrives before us, it will be too late.
jonathan		Did you say 'kill' my sister?
winston		So what's your little problem got to do with His Majesty's Royal Air Corp?
winston		Is it dangerous?
winston		By Jove, do you really think so?
jonathan		Everybody else we've bumped into has died, why not you?
winston		So what's the challenge then?
winston		Winston Havlock at your service, sir!
evelyn		What just happened?
beni		All I remember is him turning into a blast of sand,... and then I remember nothing.
winston		Hang on, men!
winston		We're going down!
winston		Here I come, laddies!
evelyn		Stop it! You'll kill them!
jonathan		Excuse me... A little help would be useful... IF IT'S NOT TOO MUCH TROUBLE!!
jonathan		He's a big fellow with pointy ears and a face like a falcon.
beni		Keep moving.
evelyn		You know, nasty little fellows such as yourself, always get their comeuppance.
beni		Yeah?
evelyn		Oh yes, always.
jonathan		I say, look at that.
jonathan		Say, gents! You should come have a look at this.
beni		Prince Imhotep wants your heart.
evelyn		Tell him, I'm truly flattered... but that it's already taken.
beni		He wants your heart and your brain, your liver, your kidneys...
beni		...and how do you say? Those slimy things, in your stomach?
evelyn		Intestines.
beni		Yeah! Them.
evelyn		You only want me for my organs?!
ardeth ray		Priests. Imhotep's priests.
ardeth ray		They are evil, cursed, they matter not.
imhotep		 Kill them! Kill them all! And bring me the Book Of The Living!
ardeth ray		My turn.
ardeth ray		I'm out.
jonathan		There he is!
jonathan		Hello Horus old boy.
ardeth ray		Allow me.
ardeth ray		Keep digging!
ardeth ray		Save the girl! Kill the creature!
imhotep		With your death, my love and I will be invincible!
jonathan		I found it, Evy! I found it
evelyn		Shut-up and get me off of here!
evelyn		Open the book, Jonathan! Open the book! That's the only way to kill him!
jonathan		I can't open it! It's locked or something!
jonathan		We need the key!
jonathan		What do I do, Evy!? What do I do!?
evelyn		Read the inscription on the cover!
jonathan		Keetash-something, naraba-something.
jonathan		Ebarra im hatu Kashka ummmmm -- ?
jonathan		Rasheem Aaaaa ANUBIS!
jonathan		Oh boy.
jonathan		You have got to be joking?
evelyn		Finish the inscription, idiot!
jonathan		Oh.
jonathan		Ummm, Hootash im... Hootash im now what is this last symbol here?
evelyn		What's it look like!?
jonathan		It's an Anck symbol, with two little squiggly lines above it, and a bird, a stork! on either side.
evelyn		Ah! Ah! Ahmenophus!
jonathan		Yes,... I see.
jonathan		Hootash im Ahmenophus!
jonathan		I got it!
evelyn		Kadeesh mal! Kadeesh mal! Pared oos! PARED OOS!!
evelyn		Death is only the beginning.
beni		O'CONNELL!!
beni		Go away.
jonathan		Well,... I guess we go home empty handed.
****Dialogues from script :Music_of_the_Heart.txt****

shooting draft		January 25, 1999
assunta		But I have no room for this!
officer		I'm sorry, M'am. We have orders to deliver these.
roberta		Watch it, you idiots! Be careful with those!
assunta		Why so many?
nick		 Mommy, which box has our toys?
roberta		Look, I know he's there, so quit lying to me!... Then check under Lana Holden -- Mrs. Lana Holden... Fine. Just tell Lieutenant Demetras that his wife called and --
roberta		Ma!
assunta		No. I want you to listen to me. You can't keep doing this to yourself -- or to the boys. They need their mother now. You're a beautiful, talented woman and you have your whole life ahead of you.
roberta		If I'm so beautiful and talented, why did Charles leave me?
assunta		Because Charles is a big jerk.  Now get dressed.
roberta		You really think Charles is a jerk?
assunta		From the day you married him.
roberta		Why didn't you say something?
assunta		Since when do you listen to me?
roberta		 What am I gonna do?
assunta		First, you eat breakfast. Second, you go out and get a job -- any job. Your boys, god-bless-em, are good eaters -- but I can't afford it.
roberta		Mama, he's gonna get tired of her -- you'll see.
assunta		Well in the meantime, get a job.
supervisor		Just wrap. You're not Picasso.
roberta		Brian Turner?
brian		Hello, Roberta.
roberta		I thought you moved away.
brian		I did. I'm in town for my Mom's birthday.
brian		No -- that's her gift.
roberta		 Oh! Sorry.
brian		It looks very pretty.
roberta		Thank you.  I heard you had a book published. I didn't read it but...
brian		That's O.K. My parents didn't read it either. It looks good on their coffee table, though.
brian		So what are you doing here? I thought you'd be in Carnegie Hall by now.
roberta		My college professors said it was too late -- I hadn't had enough training to be a concert violinist. So I got a teaching degree instead.
brian		I'll bet you're a great teacher.
roberta		I think I am. It's just that...  See, every time I'd get started somewhere, Charles would be transferred... then I had my kids and took time off to raise them... and then when I decided to teach again, no one would hire me 'cause you can't count on a navy wife to stick around. I finally decided I'd start my own program -- Charles gave me the money and I bought fifty violins from this little Greek shop -- got started at a private school and then...
brian		Your husband ran off with your best friend.
roberta		She wasn't my "best" friend. She was a friend.  I wake up one night -- it's like one in the morning -- and he's not in bed. I go outside and our neighbor -- this old Greek guy -- is sitting out there, smoking a cigar, so I ask if he's seen my husband. "He's taking a walk with the other officer's wife," he says. "He takes a walk every night with the other officer's wife."
roberta		God, these are cold.
brian		So you're just gonna wrap presents and wait for him to come back?
roberta		You sound like my mother.
brian		That's not very sexy.
roberta		Are you trying to be sexy or be my friend?
brian		A little of both.
brian		You know, I know this really cool lady who runs this elementary school -- I wrote a piece on her. It's a public school, but it's alternative -- she might be able to create some kind of gig for you. Let me give her a call.
roberta		Great!
brian		 If she hires you, though, you have to be willing to relocate.
roberta		Where is it?
taxi driver		Welcome to East Harlem.
janet		 Aside from half a term in a private school -- in Greece -- and a year teaching chorus in Hawaii -- ten years ago -- it doesn't look like you've had any other teaching experience.
roberta		Well, not traditional teaching experience. I've been doing private lessons...
roberta		It's not on there... I taught my sons.
janet		I'd like to help you, Mrs. Demetras. Brian spoke highly of you and I told him I'd consider starting a violin class... But without the proper qualifications, and without any experience in an inner city school...
janet		I'm very sorry.
roberta		I'm sorry to interrupt, but I wanted you to meet my sons -- Nick, Lexi...
roberta		Roberta Guaspari-Demetras.
janet		This is Dennis Rausch, our music teacher and program coordinator.  Mrs. Demetras, didn't I make things clear yesterday?
roberta		If I could just show you something -- it'll only take a minute.
dennis		Are we having a talent show? I should have brought my tap shoes.
lexi		Will you hire her now?
janet		How long have you boys been playing?
nick		Since I was three.
lexi		 Maybe since I was three and a half.
janet		Your mom must be a good teacher.
nick		 She's O.K.
janet		 If you could teach our students to play like that, I'd be thrilled, but --
roberta		I can. Any child can learn the violin.
dennis		Assuming they had the discipline.
roberta		I'll teach them to have discipline.
janet		A lot of our parents are struggling to feed their kids and pay the rent -- they don't have time to help them learn violin.
roberta		They don't have to. If they can help, great -- but these kids will be committed. They'll practice on their own, they'll help each other in the classroom --
dennis		 I think I know these students, Miss Demetras. Their attention span doesn't go past do-re-mi. Maybe on a good day, I can get them to "fa."
roberta		You're underestimating them. They can play as well as any other kids.
dennis		That I'd like to see.
roberta		You will.
janet		 For now I'll put you down as a sub, but I have to warn you -- even if it works out, the Board may not let me create a permanent position for you.
roberta		That's O.K. I'll worry about that later.  Thank you.
dennis		 Well, I've already planned out the whole term, and I can tell you right now, there's no room for this! Besides, where you gonna find money for violins?
roberta		You need violins?
roberta		 Please do not open the cases, O.K.?
roberta		Look, can everyone just settle down and listen to me -- please?
roberta		 Keep them closed! Please.
roberta		 Did you hear what I just said?
roberta		Put those down, please!
roberta		 Don't do that! Put the bows back in the cases -- right now!
roberta		Who's plucking?
roberta		What have I been saying? Put that away! Back in the case!
roberta		O.K. Thank you. That's much better.  I'll be dividing you into five classes, but for today --
roberta		O.K. -- that's it! You! Stand up!
roberta		You will be the first student who will NOT be in my violin class. Out!
roberta		I said OUT!
roberta		Who else would like to be kicked out of my class?
roberta		Are you raising your hand because you want to be kicked out?
de sean		Yeah.
roberta		Why?
de sean		I don't wanna learn no stupid violin. It's for wimps.
roberta		Who told you that?
de sean		I just know.
roberta		What's your name?
boy		De Sean.
roberta		Well, De Sean -- you haven't given me a good enough reason, so you're staying.
roberta		Anyone else?
naeem		Hey, I play pretty good.
roberta		 What's your name?
naeem		Naeem.
roberta		 But if you don't listen to me, you'll sound so bad that your own parents will feel sick when they hear you. They might even throw up.
roberta		 What's this?
brian		It's a toast.  To Roberta, who's made it through her first week.
roberta		I don't know, Brian. I'm hanging on by a thread there. Out of fifty kids, maybe six are listening to me.
brian		Look at the progress. Didn't you say no one was listening to you on Monday?
roberta		I really appreciate all you've done for us. And I promise -- this weekend I'll start looking for a place.
brian		There's no rush.
roberta		No, we've put you out enough. You're supposed to be writing, not babysitting for us.  I've started your book. It's very powerful.
brian		Thank you.
roberta		So what made you choose migrant workers for your next book? I mean, how do you know what to write about?
brian		 I follow my gut, pay attention to what I'm being drawn to...
roberta		What are you doing?
brian		I've been waiting to do that since Mr. Baines' orchestra class.
roberta		You didn't even notice me!
brian		Sure I did. You used to ignore me and it drove me wild.
roberta		You had at least five different girlfriends.
brian		It didn't mean I had the one I wanted.
brian		You're not a navy wife anymore...
roberta		Yes I am... legally.
brian		And is it a navy requirement that you dress like it's the 1950's?
roberta		I do not!
brian		 Who did you vote for in the last election?
roberta		What does that have to do with anything?
brian		Tell me.
roberta		 I don't know. Charles filled out my absentee ballot.
brian		Oh my God -- it's even worse than I thought!  Is this the same Roberta who got the orchestra to strike until they gave us new uniforms?
roberta		That Roberta's not around anymore.
brian		I don't believe that.
roberta		I shouldn't.
brian		Because?
roberta		The boys --
brian		They're sleeping.
roberta		I know, but... I'm still married.
brian		And what's your husband doing right now?
roberta		Oh shit -- the boys.
roberta		Where are you going?
brian		Texas.
brian		Farm workers. I just got the call -- it came through -- my research grant! It came through! Isn't that great?
roberta		Today?
brian		I've got a few families lined up there, some in California --
roberta		How long will you be gone?
brian		Two, three months.
roberta		What?
roberta		I thought... I just thought you were gonna be around. And then last night --
brian		Whoa. Roberta -- last night was great but did you think I was gonna marry you in the morning?
roberta		No! Of course not.
roberta		It's just that... we just got here and we're barely... I don't even know where to buy groceries.
brian		You're gonna be fine. You have a job, a place to stay, your kids have a school to go to -- and there's a D'Agostino's around the corner.
roberta		Congratulations.
roberta		And what am I doing now?
roberta		Good. And what am I doing when I turn this little screw?  Everyone stop talking. Right now!
roberta		Naeem?
naeem		Tightening the horse hair.
roberta		 And what do we call this?
roberta		De Sean?
de sean		Yeah?
roberta		What do we call this?
de sean		I don't know.
roberta		Why not?
de sean		I wasn't here.
roberta		Yes you were but you weren't paying attention! Do you want people to think you're stupid?
roberta		All right, Naeem -- tell them.
naeem		It's called the frog.
roberta		Anyone remember what this is?
roberta		Lucy! Do you like people snapping their fingers when you're talking?
lucy		Yeah!
roberta		What is this called?
lucy		The jeri curl?
dennis		C-C-C-C, D-D-D-D, E-E-E-E...
roberta		Excuse me -- sorry to interrupt --
dennis		No talking!
roberta		I'm supposed to take kids out of Miss Cooper's classroom for my ten o'clock class -- there's nobody there.
dennis		Miss Cooper's students have phys ed on Tuesdays.
roberta		But you scheduled them for violin.
dennis		You must have read the schedule wrong.
roberta		 I don't think so.
dennis		Well, I can't solve this problem for you right now.  I'm trying to teach.
roberta		So am I.
lexi		Can I bring a puppy for show and tell tomorrow?
roberta		Honey, we don't have a puppy.
nick		Daddy said we could get one when we moved back to America.
roberta		How about your truck? I'll bet you're the only one in school with a truck from Greece.
nick		When's Daddy coming back?
roberta		Well, he's still on his tour, so we'll just have to see but... It shouldn't be too much longer.
lexi		Is he gonna live with us and Brian?
roberta		No, honey. We're just staying at Brian's house for a little while.
roberta		Good night, sweetie.
nick		No! Leave it on.
roberta		Now take the right foot and put it on a tile. Good. Now with the other foot take a tiny step forward and put it on a line. Try to make a box with your feet --
roberta		Lucy! Would you like to leave the class right now?
roberta		You should feel very strong -- so strong and balanced that if I wanted to knock you over I couldn't.
roberta		You see? If you're standing strong, I can't even push you.
roberta		De Sean! James! Quiet!  Does anyone know where Naeem is?
tanisha		I saw him this morning but he's not here.
roberta		Yes, I know he's not here -- that's why I'm asking.
roberta		See how I pushed you? It means your feet aren't centered.
roberta		Can you bring over a chair?  It's probably better for you to sit.
roberta		Where were you today, Naeem?
naeem		I can't be in violin class anymore.
roberta		Why not?
naeem		My mother won't let me.
roberta		What?
roberta		They're gonna learn "Twinkle Twinkle Little Star"!
roberta		That doesn't mean it's the way it should be. Naeem's learning to play music -- and that makes him feel good about himself. Why should it matter who wrote it?
naeem		Please, Mom? Can't I be in the class?
roberta		Brian Turner's room, please.
alice		And which ocean is this?
roberta		Excuse me... I'm here for the violin students.
alice		 You're late.
roberta		Just a couple of minutes -- I'm sorry.
alice		They're having a lesson now.
roberta		But this is when they have violin class!
alice		That's not my problem.
roberta		I thought all the teachers agreed to this.
janet		In theory.  Adam! I want you in my office right after lunch, you understand?
adam		What'd I do?
janet		Think about it!  Whenever you pull kids out, it's a disruption, plus it's extra work for the teacher 'cause they have to fill the kids in on what they missed. Some teachers resent it.
roberta		Well, can't you talk to them?
janet		I took this off a second-grader this morning. I'll help you Roberta -- but I can't hold your hand here.
janet		A word of advice? When you're picking up your students, go to Alice's classroom first.
roberta		So pretend you're driving a car and I'm the policeman and I say STOP! Thumb up, fingers straight up, flat palm. Now you be policemen, but turn your hand and make it say stop to yourself.
de sean		 You're under arrest.
roberta		Knock it off, De Sean!  If you kids can't take this seriously, I don't want you here. I'm teaching you a difficult instrument because I respect you and have faith that you can learn it. But none of that matters if you don't have respect for yourself.
roberta		Now turn your wrist so it's flat against the fingerboard, and that's how you'll set up your hand...
roberta		Guadalupe! You've got the violin in the wrong hand! How did that happen?
roberta		Hello?
roberta		Where are you?
roberta		Are you still with her?
roberta		 We've missed you so much, Charles. The boys... they can't wait for you to come home... I know we'll have a lot to work out and it won't be easy right away, but we're gonna get through this, you know? We're a family and we belong together and --
roberta		What?
roberta		But you said... you and Lana... you said it was over.
brian		I can't believe you were still holding out hope. The guy hasn't called you or the kids in three months -- I thought you'd moved on.
roberta		I never said that.
brian		No? Maybe not with words.
roberta		You know what? I shouldn't have called you. This was a mistake.
brian		No, no -- I'm sorry. Look, I know it hurts, but you're gonna get through this, Roberta -- you will.
roberta		I'm moving back to my Mom's.
brian		What? You're gonna quit teaching in the middle of the term?
roberta		I don't fit in there -- I'm not making any progress with the kids...
brian		What are you gonna tell Janet -- your husband left you and nothing else matters?
roberta		I don't know yet.
boy		My mother gave it to me.
janet		Why would she give you fifty dollars?
boy		To buy breakfast.
janet		Do you know how hard your mother works? Do you think it's right for you steal from her?
boy		I didn't!
janet		Well let's go call her right now and ask her.
roberta		I need to speak to you. It's important.
janet		It'll have to wait.  Come on. In my office.
roberta		Guadalupe? What are you doing here?
guadalupe		I can't get the stop sign.
roberta		Honey, your teacher's probably looking for you.
guadalupe		I can't come anymore. It's too hard.
roberta		The violin is hard for everyone.
guadalupe		But everyone else is better than me. I'll always be slow.
roberta		Did you ever hear of Itzhak Perlman?
guadalupe		No.
roberta		He's one of the greatest violinists in the world, and he has problems with his legs too. He walks with two canes -- but he still makes the most beautiful music.
guadalupe		And he sits down when he plays?
roberta		He has to.
guadalupe		He was your student?
roberta		No. But if he was, I'd tell him the same thing I'm telling you. You shouldn't quit something just because it's hard.
guadalupe		But I can't stand strong.
roberta		Standing strong doesn't only mean using your legs. You can stand strong on the inside too.  Know what I mean?
janet		You wanted to speak to me?
roberta		Oh. Umm -- that's O.K. It's taken care of.
landlady		Is just for you and your boys?
roberta		Yes.
landlady		No husband? No boyfriend?
roberta		No.
lexi		Look what I made you, Mommy!
roberta		 That is so beautiful!
isabel		Whatsa matter -- you got cooties?
roberta		Apparently.
isabel		I'll take my chances.  Isabel Vasquez. Second grade.
roberta		Roberta Demetras. I'm the --
isabel		Violin teacher. I know.
roberta		Is it my imagination, or does everyone hate me?
isabel		It's hard to fit in when you're doing a special program. People figure you're not gonna be here very long, so why make the effort?  It may take a while for folks to warm up, but nobody hates you.
roberta		 What about Alice Crowley?
isabel		 -- she's a bitch.
roberta		And then there's Dennis.
isabel		The Music Man. You've had the bodacity to threaten his private little empire -- not to mention the fact that you messed up his sacred scheduling chart.
roberta		How come you're being nice to me?
isabel		Ulterior motives. I want my daughter in your class next year.
roberta		If I'm here next year.
isabel		You will be.
nick		In Greece, we could see the ocean. Remember?
roberta		I remember. And the fishing boats...
nick		And the octopuses.
nick		Is Daddy coming here soon?
roberta		Well, that's something I've been wanting to talk to you about. Daddy's not gonna live with us anymore. You and Lexi will have special times when you stay with him, like at Christmas.
nick		Can you tell the birthday story?
roberta		Don't you want to talk about what I told you?
nick		I want to hear the birthday story.
roberta		It was the day of Grandpa's birthday, and I was sad because he had died a few months back.
nick		But you knew I'd be born that day.
roberta		So I packed a bag and got all ready --
nick		And Daddy laughed.
roberta		I said, "It's my father's birthday, and the baby's gonna be born today."
nick		He didn't believe you. But I was born. The same day as Grandpa.
roberta		It was a happy day.
nick		Was Daddy happy too?
roberta		Of course he was.
nick		Then why is he leaving me?
roberta		He's not leaving you, Nick. He loves you and Lexi very much.
nick		Then why can't he live here?
roberta		 It's very hard to explain... Sometimes things happen between grown-ups... and they just can't be together.
roberta		Slow bows! Slow bows! Don't squeeze! Stop! Everybody stop!  How much did you practice this week?
de sean		My asthma -- it was very bad and I had to go to the hospital.
roberta		Again? You told me you went to the hospital last week.
de sean		Oh yeah. Maybe it was last week.
roberta		Lucy -- you sounded the worst of all. Have you practiced?
lucy		No.
roberta		Why not? You can't be in this class if you don't practice!
lucy		My grandma got mugged.
roberta		Oh. I'm sorry. Is she O.K.?
lucy		She died.
roberta		I'm really sorry, Lucy.  Just do the best you can.
naeem		Hi, Roberta.
roberta		Hi, Naeem. Can I talk to your mom for a minute?
roberta		Look, I didn't come up here to rescue anybody. I'm a single mother and I needed a job. And I know you think you're protecting your son, but you're not. I mean, what if Arthur Ashe's mother had stopped him from playing tennis because it's a "white man's game"?  The important thing is that when Naeem plays music, his whole face lights up. You should see him.
roberta		We all have to take turns cleaning up, O.K.?
roberta		 Yeah, right.
roberta		First finger on the E! Three -- two -- one -- open!  Wrong string, Becky! We've done this fourteen times! And look at your nails! You're supposed to cut them for violin class! O.K, everybody stop! It sounds horrible! I can't believe how bad it sounds!
roberta		Is this an important question, Tanisha?
tanisha		Do you have two of those skirts?
roberta		What?
tanisha		You wore a skirt just like it on Monday.
roberta		You know, Tanisha -- I don't think that's such an important question.  O.K. Let's try --
roberta		I'd love that.  You'll have a lot of catching up to do. You think you can work that hard?
naeem		Yeah, I can.
roberta		Maybe we can also arrange some private lessons at my house.
roberta		That's O.K.  Why don't you go grab one of my spare violins?
roberta		 Let's try it again.
roberta		What are you playing?
lucy		Twinkle.
roberta		 Let me hear.
roberta		Did someone teach you that?
lucy		No. I made it up.
roberta		That's really great, Lucy. I'm proud of you.
roberta		 All of you -- try it.
roberta		Not all the time. But if they don't listen --
roberta		That wasn't exactly what I said --
roberta		I'm just trying to discipline them. If they're gonna learn an instrument, they need to take it seriously --
janet		I think what Mrs. Lamb is trying to say, Roberta, is that you're a little too harsh. I'm sure you might be able to soften some of your comments to the children?
roberta		Well, that was... that was pretty good... that wasn't too bad...
de sean		It wasn't? I thought we stunk.
roberta		I wouldn't put it that way... You all just need to practice a bit more.  James, have you practiced this week?
roberta		Can you please try a little harder for next week?
roberta		Good. Just do the best you can.
de sean		Why you acting like that?
roberta		Like what?
de sean		Nice.
roberta		Don't you want a nice teacher?
de sean		I already got nice teachers. You added some variety.
lucy		Yeah. We like you better the way you used to be.
roberta		Oh.  What about you, Becky?
becky		Yeah. This is even worse. You're acting weird now.
roberta		Well, then -- I take it back. You all stunk.
roberta		But don't tell your parents I said so!
lexi		Can't you come with us? Please?
roberta		Honey, I told you. This is Daddy's special time with you.
flight attendant		I'll take good care of them.
roberta		Who is it?
brian		I'm back.
roberta		O.K., enough goofing off -- back to work.
brian		You trying to kill me?
assunta		I was the only person in the whole coffee shop not speaking Spanish.
assunta		You hear that? Gunshots! How you gonna live here by yourself?  Boys, come eat!
roberta		I work in this neighborhood, Mama. I want to live here.
assunta		What's your name?
lawrence		Lawrence.
assunta		You hungry, Lawrence?
assunta		 Why did you let her buy this house?
brian		Hey, your daughter does what she wants -- or haven't you noticed?
assunta		I've noticed.
assunta		I still don't understand the rush.
roberta		Having my own place will make me feel like I'm really starting my life again.
assunta		But if you invested your divorce settlement, you could buy something nice someday. It's bad enough that you've been renting in this neighborhood, but to lock yourself into a mortgage --
roberta		 Mama, please. Just stop!
roberta		Don't worry, O.K.? Besides, if things keep going well, I'm sure eventually Brian will move in with us.
assunta		How much do you know about this man?
roberta		Brian's a good person, he's helped me a lot, he's great with the boys -- since he got back to town, it's been really sweet.
assunta		 And how long has he been back?
roberta		Two months.
assunta		That's not very long. Don't make the same mistake twice, Bert. You barely knew Charles when you married him.
roberta		 I don't get it -- you're ragging on me about buying the house -- I would think you'd want Brian to live with me.
assunta		Not if he's the wrong person.
roberta		Get ready, now -- we're coming up to the fermata...
roberta		Hold... Hold... Don't anybody move. Now at the Spring Concert, the audience is gonna be dying for that next note -- but we'll make them wait. As a matter of fact, I think I'll go grab a cup of coffee.
roberta		Well, O.K. But you have to promise you'll all start together.
de sean		Man. We'll never get that right.
roberta		That's not a very nice thing to say about your classmates.  How many people think they can get it right by the concert?
roberta		I love you.
roberta		Did you just laugh?
brian		I'm sorry. It's just...
roberta		What?
brian		Why do people feel like the minute something's going great, they gotta name it?  Once you name something, you snuff the life out of it.
roberta		Jesus, Brian. Do you still get away with that crap? It's not the Sixties anymore.
brian		Well, maybe if you'd actually gone through the Sixties, you'd know what I'm talking about.
roberta		Fine! We won't name it, we won't talk about it, we'll act like we have no feelings for each other whatsoever!
brian		I'm sorry. I'm being an asshole.  You can say you love me if you want.
roberta		Forget it. I changed my mind.
roberta		How's it coming, Ernie?
ernie		Well, if I could just remember what I did here yesterday, I'd be moving a whole lot faster.  You look real pretty today, honey.
brian		You're crazy. Why did you hire him?
roberta		He needed a job. Besides, he's wired all of East Harlem.
brian		When? Fifty years ago?
roberta		Why is there wallpaper on it?
ernie		Yep, that's how it comes now.
brian		What the hell is this?
roberta		Sheetrock.
brian		You've gotta be kidding. Those ex- cons you hired ripped this off -- and you too!
roberta		Look -- this house is taking every penny of my settlement. I can't afford fancy union workers!
brian		 Fine. Do it your way.
janet		I'm giving him a two-day suspension -- but next time he'll be expelled.
roberta		There won't be a next time -- I promise.
janet		Have you noticed your son lately? He's tied up in knots and he needs help.
roberta		Janet, kids fight. You're making too much of this.
janet		He was choking the kid.  Nick's in trouble, Roberta. You need to deal with it.
roberta		 Keep playing, guys.
roberta		You can watch when we're done.
nick		It's my house! They don't live here -- I do!
roberta		 Nick honey -- the kids are real nervous about the Spring concert. You could probably give them some pointers.
nick		I don't feel like it.
roberta		I said no.
brian		Good catch Nick!
brian		 Uh-oh. You know what that means?
nick		 Don't! Don't throw me in!
brian		Whatsa matter? Afraid of a little water? The ducks aren't afraid! Are you a chicken or a duck?
nick		Don't! Don't throw me!
brian		Looks like you got yourself a chicken, Roberta!
nick		I'm not a chicken!
brian		Well then you must be a duck!
lexi		Throw me in the water, Brian! Do it to me!
roberta		You seem to be the only one who can get Nick to laugh these days.
brian		He misses his dad. I'm just a surrogate.
roberta		No -- I think Nick really likes you.  You know... we're all hoping you'll move into the new house with us.
brian		Whoa. Can we just slow down here a minute? It's too much like getting married.
roberta		What's so bad about that?
brian		That kind of commitment just isn't realistic. I mean, how can we know that you and I will even be able to stand each other in five years?
roberta		Well, we don't. But if two people care about each other, they take a chance.
brian		And look what happened to you and Charles.
roberta		I'm not talking about Charles. I'm talking about us.
brian		Look, Roberta. Marriage is based on a belief that one person can completely meet another person's needs. I just don't buy that.
roberta		 What are you saying? If there's some need you have that I don't meet, you'd go and get it "met" by someone else?
brian		I'm saying that it's the 80's and it's a fantasy to think of marriage lasting these days. One out of two marriages ends in divorce!
roberta		You didn't answer my question.  If I don't meet all your needs, and we're in a committed relationship -- forget marriage for a minute; I'm just talking about a relationship -- would you go to someone else?
brian		In theory, yes.
roberta		In theory.
brian		Roberta, we've got something good right now -- that's the important thing. Let's just keep it that way, O.K.?
roberta		He just can't, O.K.? Brian's at his house tonight, and we're at ours.
nick		Well then I wanna go to his house.
roberta		Enough, Nick. Now why don't you and your brother practice while I make dinner.
nick		I don't feel like practicing.
roberta		Well do it anyway.
nick		I wanna go to Brian's!
roberta		Stop whining, and get your violin.
roberta		What the hell are you doing?
nick		The problem with you is you're mean to everybody and then they don't want to be with you!
roberta		I've heard just about enough from you, young man. Now set your violin up properly and start practicing.
nick		I hate the violin!
roberta		You pick that violin up right now and don't you ever ever --
nick		It's all your fault! You made Daddy leave and you're gonna make Brian leave too! You're gonna be all alone and I'll have to take care of you!
roberta		Nick -- you don't have to take care of me.
nick		Then who's going to?
roberta		I'll take care of myself -- and I'll take care of you and Lexi. I promise.
nick		You didn't try hard enough. You made Daddy leave us.
roberta		That's not true. I begged him not to leave, but he didn't listen.
nick		Why not?
roberta		Your father met someone he liked more than Mommy, and then --
nick		Who?
roberta		Lana. Remember our friends Lana and Tom?
nick		Is he gonna marry her now?
roberta		No, but he's not coming back... to me.
roberta		I'll take care of you, Nick. You too, Lexi. I promise. I'm not going anywhere. We're still a family.
roberta		 I promise.
roberta		What color is this?
painter		White.
roberta		I told you Eggshell.
painter		Eggshells are white.
brian		You're an idiot! I told you -- you can't be your own contractor.
roberta		You're right. I'm an idiot.
roberta		Wake up, Ernie.
roberta		You're fired.
roberta		You're fired.
roberta		You're fired.
brian		That's more like it.
roberta		You're fired too.
roberta		No, Brian. I mean it. I need to be with a man who can make a commitment to me. I need that, and my sons need that.  So can you?
brian		 Roberta --
roberta		Get out.
woman		That's the one Lucy wrote!
isabel		C'mon everybody, settle down -- Janet wants to talk to you.
janet		Today's a very special day because we're starting the tenth year of the East Harlem Violin Program. This is a wonderful opportunity for you, so I want you to talk to your parents about whether you'd like to try this.
isabel		My daughter took violin with Roberta when she was your age, and now she's in high school and she still talks about how much she loved it.
dennis		Janet and I started this program because we knew how much you kids could benefit from it.
dennis		You should know, however, that the violin is a difficult instrument.
justin		Who's that lady in the back?
janet		That's Dorothea Van Hauften --
justin		Say what? What kinda name is that?
isabel		Justin -- sshh!
janet		-- and she's taking pictures of Roberta's classes for a magazine article about music education.
justin		I wanna be in the magazine!
isabel		First things first, Justin. Roberta's gonna explain to you about the "lottery."
roberta		I used to just teach fifty kids at this school. But now I teach a hundred and fifty kids at three East Harlem schools and there's so many children who want to take violin classes that we have to have a lottery.
vanessa		Can I be in the class?
isabel		Roberta's explaining that. Just listen.
roberta		After your parents sign your permission slips, I'm gonna put them in a sack, and I'll pick fifty names from each school.
roberta		So everyone bring in your slips by Friday, and I'll come back and tell you who's in violin class.
isabel		Remember, she's just picking names from a hat. It doesn't mean that anyone's better than anyone else.
ramon		 I really really hope that I get in the class.
roberta		I hope so too.
rachel		How come you guys don't play the violin?
lexi		Well, picture her being your teacher and your mother.
roberta		Hi Rachel. Be right with you.
roberta		 You're gonna practice upstairs?
nick		No. I'm done.
roberta		Already? You've barely practiced.
nick		What -- are you timing me with a stop watch? Why don't you pick on Lexi for a change?
lexi		'Cause I'm perfect.
lexi		 Have a good lesson.
lexi		I'll be back in a couple of hours.
roberta		Be careful.
lexi		I'm gonna be leaving pretty soon.
henry		Just wanna take it for a spin.
lawrence		C'mon, Henry -- he don't want to loan you his bike.
henry		I didn't hear him say that.  Is that true? Did you say that?
roberta		Vibrato... don't wiggle your wrist.
rachel		Dang! I can't get that right.
roberta		You almost have it.
rachel		Almost isn't good enough.
roberta		Did I turn you into such a perfectionist?
rachel		No. I came that way.
roberta		 Just as long as you get it right for your Julliard audition.
rachel		What?
roberta		I've recommended you for a gifted kids scholarship.
roberta		Where's the bike?
lexi		Mom, please. Don't do this to me!
nick		C'mon, Mom -- why don't you let me handle this?
roberta		Are we getting closer, Lawrence?
lawrence		It's the next block up.
lexi		 You don't have to do this. I'll pay you back.
roberta		How? It took me six months to save up for it.
nick		I'll help him, O.K.? We'll both pay you back.
lexi		Or we'll ask Dad -- he'll help us out.
roberta		Yeah, right.
lawrence		O.K., slow down. It's the second one on the right.
nick		C'mon Mom, let's get out of here.
roberta		Lock the doors.
lexi		I'm dead. She's gonna get me killed.
nick		I'm coming with you!
roberta		No. Get back in the car and stay with the boys.
lawrence		Don't take the stairs!
roberta		I'm a school teacher. Henry has taken my son's bicycle and I want it back.
old woman		Henry's not here.
roberta		Well you tell Henry that if he returns the bike, I won't have to notify the police -- or his school principal. Although since I am a teacher, it would be very easy for me to do that.
old woman		He's not home. He doesn't get home till late.
roberta		How late?
old woman		Not till after ten.
roberta		I'll be on the steps of CPE 1 at 11 P.M. I'll be waiting for him.
lexi		You're crazy. He's not gonna show.
nick		You think he actually cares that you're a teacher? You think he even goes to school?
lexi		C'mon, Mom -- let's just go.
roberta		It's only five after eleven.
henry		I was just borrowing it.
roberta		Shandra Wilson.
roberta		Justin Brady.
roberta		Vanessa Klein.
roberta		O.K. One more name...
roberta		Leonard Hood.
leonard		It's too hard! I don't wanna do it!
isabel		Don't you even wanna try, Leonard?
leonard		 I don't want to!
roberta		Well, O.K. then. I'll pick someone else.  Ramon Olivas.
ramon		This is to inform you that your child, Ramon Olivas, has been chosen by lottery to be in the violin program.
concepcion		You happy?
concepcion		I think you're happy.
roberta		No. But I keep trying. And maybe someday the school will give me a parking space!
dorothea		Wait --
dorothea		Those copies are for you.
roberta		Thank you. Can I... pay for you them?
dorothea		Don't be silly. Besides -- you'll need your money for parking tickets.
dorothea		What you're doing for these children is wonderful. My husband's a violinist -- he was quite impressed when I told him about you.
roberta		What's his name?
dorothea		Arnold Steinhardt.
roberta		Of the Guarneri String Quartet?
dorothea		Stay in touch. Let us know when the kids have a concert.
rachel		Don't be late for violin class! I hear the teacher's really mean.
roberta		Amanda, what did I tell you about wearing cowboy boots to violin class? They're too slippery!
roberta		Relax your two, Simon...
roberta		Your stop sign has to be up, Kenny! Stephanie, it doesn't look like you ever had a lesson with me!
roberta		Where's your violin, Carlos?
carlos		It's coming.
roberta		What, is it walking here by itself?
roberta		Your buddies giving you a hard time?
carlos		Look, it's just not cool. You wouldn't understand.
roberta		Hey, you want your sister to carry your violin, that's fine. But is she practicing for you too? Because lately, that's how it sounds.
carlos		I've been busy! I've been --
roberta		I'm not interested! Just get here on time, and commit to this class or I don't want you in here, you understand?
roberta		You're a good violinist, Carlos -- and it's definitely not "cool" to waste your own talent.
manuelo		Why didn't you show it to me?
concepcion		It just needed one parent's signature.
manuelo		 Well, I'm his parent and I don't give permission! He should be playing baseball, not the violin!
concepcion		It makes him happy.
girl		She carry that violin with her all the time 'cause she think she special.
rachel		I am special.
rachel		 So I heard from Julliard.
roberta		And?
rachel		They said yes!
roberta		So when you take the violins home, tape your music to the wall directly in front of your nose so you can play with perfect posture. Your parents are gonna be so excited to hear you play!
pedro		 Ramon! How many cats you killing in there?
roberta		More bow! To the frog! Myesha, your stop sign line should be touching. Don't let it wiggle! You're on the wrong string, Justin! And look at your feet!
roberta		Where's your violin?
vanessa		I forgot.
roberta		Goodbye! And you may be dropped.
roberta		Look at those nails, Rosario!
roberta		I see you over there, Myesha.
roberta		 You're doing much better.
ramon		Drop dead, Justin!
justin		It was a accident!
ramon		Was not!
roberta		Ramon, I don't like that kind of talk. Justin, pick up his stand, now! Our spring concert is in three weeks and you might not be in it. Is that what you want?
roberta		Mr. Klein? I'm gonna have to drop Vanessa from the class if she keeps forgetting her violin.
roberta		 Oh. I'm sorry.
roberta		Vanessa, maybe you could write down for your Mom and Dad which days are violin days.
vanessa		 The tape doesn't stick.
roberta		What?
vanessa		I taped the music to the wall at my Mom's house and then I took it to my Dad's house and it doesn't stick anymore.
roberta		Well you know what? That's an easy problem to solve.
roberta		Now you have two, O.K.? One for each house.
ramon		You wanna hear my new song, Papa?
manuelo		 Not right now.
concepcion		We made mistakes with Pedro and Ernesto and we can't fix them now, but Ramon -- he works so hard. The violin makes him want to be good at everything.
roberta		 What happened?
ramon		You go to heaven... You go to hell... You go to hell... heaven...
toussaint		My grandpa died and my uncle, so that makes six.
shandra		I know more than that. At least seven people... maybe even nine.
roberta		 I know that you've all heard the bad news about Justin.
myesha		I didn't hear.
toussaint		There was a drive-by shooting by his house and he got shot on accident and he died.
roberta		Does anyone want to talk about it?
ramon		 I think we should just play violin.
concepcion		Roberta! Come in.
roberta		I came by to check on Ramon.
concepcion		 Why?
roberta		Didn't he tell you what happened at school?
concepcion		Roberta wants to talk to you, O.K.?
ramon		Did that sound O.K.?
roberta		Yeah, it did.
roberta		I've been thinking about Justin. Remember how mad I got the last time I saw him?
ramon		Yeah. You got very strict with him.
roberta		It wasn't always so easy to be nice to him, you know?
ramon		You think Justin's in heaven or hell?
roberta		Heaven.
ramon		I told him to drop dead.
roberta		Justin didn't die because of what you said. I promise.
ramon		How do you know?
roberta		I don't think you're that powerful, do you? I mean, if you had such powers, just imagine what kind of violin player you'd be by now!
ramon		Yeah. I'd be better than you!
roberta		It's O.K. to cry, you know.
ramon		Not for a man.
roberta		My boys still cry and they're big, strong young men now.  I bet Justin's daddy cried.
roberta		Nick, Lexi! Get down here right now!
nick		We were just trying to help!
roberta		This is humiliating!
nick		Mom, no one knows it's you! I mean, you don't even have to read them if you don't want to.  Although obviously, a lot of guys are interested in dating you.
roberta		No. A lot of guys are interested in dating you and Lexi.  What did you say about me, anyway?
nick		"Beautiful musician, late 40's, tired of playing solo --
lexi		-- seeks a healthy, stable, attractive man who's not afraid of a duet with a strong, independent woman.
nick		My violin playing will feed your soul...
lexi		...And my lasagna will be music to your palate."
roberta		Oh, my God.
lexi		Did you catch all the music metaphors?
roberta		Don't you think it's a little weird that you're trying to get your mother a date?
nick		Don't you think it's a little weird that you're not even interested in dating?
roberta		Boys, look. Number one -- even if I wanted to date, I don't have time. And number two -- I've got my teaching, I've got you guys -- that's all I need.
lexi		 I really thought she'd like the music metaphors.
roberta		I think you're flat, Nick.
nick		I'm not flat.
roberta		The B sounded flat.
nick		Just play the violin, Mom. I'll take care of the cello.
lexi		You nervous, Mom?
roberta		No. I'm fine.
dan		Hi. I'm Dan Paxton.
dan		 Wow. An honest woman.
roberta		Honest?
dan		Your ad. When you said you were beautiful, you were telling the truth.
nick		Make sure you're home by midnight, young lady.
lexi		Ten bucks he tries to kiss her.
nick		That's a no-brainer. Of course he'll try. The real question is whether she'll let him.
lexi		O.K. -- ten bucks she lets him.
nick		You're on.
dan		I had a lot of fun tonight.
roberta		Yeah, I did too.
dan		I have a confession -- I've never answered an ad before. I did it on a dare.
roberta		Well, I have a confession -- my boys placed the ad behind my back.
roberta		Look, Dan -- I went along with this 'cause it's been a while. Quite a while... And I had a very nice time... but I'm not sure if I'm ready to get involved with anyone right now.
dan		 Does this mean I don't get any lasagna?
roberta		Why are you guys still up?
nick		 Why? Is it late?
roberta		Good try, Nick.
lexi		So how was it?
roberta		Well... he's nice.
nick		"Nice"? As in "let's just be friends" nice?
roberta		I don't know yet. We'll see.
nick		There's still a lot more letters.
roberta		Good night, Nick.
lexi		Hey, Mom -- can you loan me ten dollars?
roberta		Guys, I'm so sorry -- I got stuck
roberta		What's going on? Where are all your violins?
ramon		We heard you got fired.
roberta		What?!
roberta		Is it true?
janet		Why don't you come in my office?
roberta		It's true? You're firing me?
janet		It's not me, Roberta. The Board of Ed. cut the budget, the District had to comply, and as of the end of this term, the violin program has been... excessed.
roberta		Excessed.  They specifically said that my violin program has to go.
janet		They've slashed the budget -- music and art programs got hit the worst.
roberta		What about Dennis' classes?
dennis		I'm tenured, Roberta.
roberta		When was this decided?
janet		Things happened very quickly... I wanted to tell you myself --
roberta		 I just... I can't even believe this is happening!
dennis		Why not? You're a sub. Your position has never been permanent.
janet		Shut up, Dennis! You're not helping!  Come into my office, please.
roberta		There's gotta be a way to fight this!
janet		Fight it with what? I don't have any other extra programs to give them instead.
roberta		Oh, I see. So after ten years, after fourteen hundred children have learned to play the violin, this is just an "extra program."
janet		You know I don't feel that way and you know damn well I've been standing by you all these years! You think I haven't noticed what you've done for these kids?
roberta		Then do something!
janet		 I've been on this phone for the past three days trying to "do something" -- the District office can't even stand the sound of my voice. Believe me, there are some people around here I'd much rather get rid of. But as far as the Board's concerned, violin classes are not a priority.
janet		I don't have the power here, Roberta. I'm so sorry.
roberta		sitting at the kitchen table with a glass of wine, her face ashen.
nick		What happened?
roberta		I'm a good teacher. I've worked so hard to give these kids something to be proud of.
lexi		I'm so sorry, Mom. I can't believe they did this to you.
roberta		It's like when my father got killed. For twenty years, he followed every safety rule the factory had, and then someone else flips the wrong switch...  It's not fair. You do everything right and then...
nick		It's the wrong analogy. You couldn't do anything about Grandpa's death. It was irreversible. This isn't.
roberta		Tell that to the Board of Education.
nick		Let me ask you something. Why did you risk your life for a bicycle?
roberta		I did not risk my life.
nick		Of course you did! That building? Threatening Henry? And for what -- two hundred dollars?
roberta		No. Not for that.
lexi		Then why?
roberta		When someone steals something that belongs to my kids, I'm not gonna sit back and let that happen!
roberta		Guys -- you need to think about this. If I try to fight this -- with no salary coming in -- I could lose the house, screw up your college plans... It would be a lot safer to just go out tomorrow and get a job in a private school.
lexi		Yeah, but is that where you really want to be?
roberta		 The beautiful concert that you just heard could be the last concert of the East Harlem Violin Program. The Board of Education and the District Superintendent don't think that music is important for our children. But they're wrong -- and they're in for a fight.
roberta		Someone's early.
janet		Hello, Assunta. How are you?
assunta		I'd be a lot better if my daughter had a job next year.
roberta		Ma!
janet		 I would too.
janet		 Sorry I'm early, but I figured we'd need time to set up.
roberta		Mama, why don't you take Allegra out for a walk?
janet		You are having a meeting here tonight, right? Parents and teachers?
roberta		Well, yes, but ...
janet		Take it from me. If you want to get parents to help you with something, you have to feed them.
janet		You have a cutting board for these?
janet		 And if you think parents are bad, teachers are even worse, no offense. If you don't feed them, you never get anything extra out of them. That's why I got this.
janet		Entenmann's gets them every time.
janet		What? Don't tell me you expected me to bring something homemade.
roberta		 Well, no... I --
janet		Good. Because take it from me -- my own family begs me to stay out of the kitchen.
roberta		What I didn't expect was for you to be here.
janet		Why not? We've gotta figure out a way to fight this.  After ten years, Roberta, I can't imagine walking through those hallways and not hearing that off-key, screechy, scratchy, nails-on-the- blackboard violin music.
janet		What do you think? Cut it into slices now, or leave it whole?
roberta		Let's cut it now. It'll be less messy.
isabel		Don't they realize how much this program helps the kids?
janet		You're wasting your time. The Board and the District are not gonna pay for this program, no matter how many letters they get.
isabel		What if we raise the money ourselves?
janet		I can't see how they'd object to that.
concepcion		Well once that newspaper article comes out, that should help bring in money.
beverly		Yeah, but what if it doesn't? For all we know, it's gonna be buried on the back page. Besides, who says anyone's gonna give a damn about our kids?
dorothea		 What if you do a benefit concert? We can raise a batch of money from ticket sales, and then the concert itself could be great publicity. There's word of mouth... you could get reviewed...
roberta		It better be a good concert!
roberta		We have to offer something more than me and the kids.  Do you think maybe your husband would perform with us?
dorothea		 I'm sure I could persuade him with a little pillow talk. And maybe he can get another violinist too -- Itzhak Perlman, perhaps.
roberta		That would be fantastic.
dorothea		We could rent a place like the 92nd Street Y -- it's perfect for this. It seats about nine hundred people and if we charge between fifty and a hundred a ticket --
isabel		 We could probably raise enough to reinstate your program for a year.
janet		Sounds like a plan.
roberta		 It better be a good concert.
dan		Take your pick.
roberta		Kids, listen to me -- it's really important that you don't look at the camera and you try to act as natural as possible.
dennis		Who authorized this?
roberta		Janet.
dennis		Well Janet's not here today and I want these people out of here.
dennis		Turn that off, you hear me?
roberta		Why are you doing this? We're not bothering anyone.
dennis		You're disrupting school and I want them out of here -- now.
roberta		You still don't get it, do you? I don't care if you hate me, Dennis -- that's your business. But think about the students for once. Every time you interfere, you're not hurting me -- you're hurting them.
dennis		Get these people out of here or I'm calling the police.
roberta		Go right ahead, call them. That'll look real good on the eleven o'clock news.
ramon		I don't hear no sirens.
roberta		I'm from a blue collar family, and if it weren't for the lessons I got in public school, I never would have learned the violin.
shandra		It makes us sad!
ramon		Yeah, like we're never gonna have no more violin lessons --
vanessa		And it's bad because... because we love violin class.
roberta		Yes, I've gotten offers from two private schools, but this is where I want to be.
arnold		Didn't we send them a donation?
dorothea		They need something bigger. And you can't just write a check -- you have to get involved.
arnold		Involved how?
arnold		Uh-oh.
roberta		Listen up, everyone! Quiet down!
roberta		You are my very best beginner and advanced violin students and I've chosen you to play in Fiddlefest because I trust that you can handle the pressure. It's gonna be a lot of work -- a lot. Right now, we've sold some tickets, but I'm not gonna be back here in the fall if the audience storms out of their seats, demanding a refund!
roberta		Rachel's gonna be my lieutenant and I expect you to listen to her.
ramon		Bach's "Minuet One"?
roberta		People are gonna be paying good money for this concert -- we're not just gonna play "Twinkle."  I'm passing out a contract that you and your parents need to sign.
carlos		Every Saturday and Sunday?
roberta		Plus night time rehearsals during the week. There's only six weeks till the concert, so classes in school won't be enough.
roberta		Come to think of it, we'll probably also need to meet before school.
roberta		You've heard of Navy Seal Training? Well, this is gonna be Roberta String Training.
roberta		Oh my god! Naeem! De Sean!  Guadalupe!
roberta		Lucy? Is that you?
roberta		Kids, these are four of my very first violin students and I've asked them to play in the concert with us.  I was just telling them how hard they're gonna have to work.
de sean		 Take it from me -- this lady don't lie. Y'all are gonna work your butts off.
carlos		Yeah, I know, but... I can't make it.
carlos		I just can't make it.
carlos		Yeah. I do.
roberta		Frog! Frog! I need more accents on the down beat! More bow! More!
roberta		Stop! Stop!  You sound horrible! Isn't anyone practicing?
carlos		How can we practice? We're rehearsing all the time.
roberta		 You think the four hundred people who've bought tickets so far will think it's funny too? You think Itzhak Perlman will think it's funny that he's donating his time and you're all gonna stink?
roberta		Am I boring you, Vanessa?
vanessa		No. It's 7:30 in the morning. I'm just tired.
roberta		There's no time to be tired.  Let's try it again.
roberta		I must have been crazy to agree to this. They're never gonna be ready. And you should hear the Bach Double! A disaster. So the good news is tickets are selling like hot cakes, but the bad news is that the kids sound like shit.
dorothea		There's more bad news... We've lost the Y.
roberta		What?!
dorothea		They had a flood -- a water heater burst... The concert hall was damaged and they've cancelled all events.
roberta		Until when?
dorothea		"Until further notice."
roberta		This can't happen! We've sold tickets! We've done publicity! The concert's in three weeks!
dorothea		I've been on the phone all morning calling other theaters. Nothing's available.
roberta		Just keep looking.
roberta		Stop! Someone's playing the wrong notes! And you shouldn't need your music anymore! Except for the Bach Double, everything has to be memorized by next rehearsal!
roberta		And you sound like you're sleepwalking. Your heart's not even in it.
vanessa		Maybe 'cause we don't have a place for the concert.
roberta		Well, you're right. This might all be for nothing. So we can either keep on rehearsing in case we find a place -- or we can just... give up.
de sean		Am I hearing right? Did you use the words "give up"?  Let's take a vote. How many of you want to give up?
guadalupe		See? You taught us well.
roberta		What about in the Bronx?
nick		There's nothing.  Why don't you just do it in one of the schools? It'll be a lot smaller but --
roberta		We won't make enough money.
lexi		What about postponing it?
roberta		Itzhak and Arnold are booked all summer.
dorothea		I have good news -- really good news. Arnold got a call from his friend Wally Scheur who heard about us losing the Y and wanted to see how he could help -- and then Wally had this brilliant idea and called his friend Isaac Stern and it's all arranged! We have a new place for Fiddlefest!
roberta		Where?
dorothea		Carnegie Hall.
roberta		 Carnegie Hall?
roberta		Oh my god -- Isaac Stern.
isaac stern		You must be Roberta.
roberta		Thank you so much for helping us.
isaac stern		 Would you believe in 1960, they tried to tear this place down? They wanted to replace it with a bright red skyscraper -- we called it "the red terror."
roberta		You're kidding.
isaac stern		We had to fight like hell, but with a lot of help, we saved Carnegie Hall.
isaac stern		If it's all right with you, I'd like to play in your concert. Maybe bring a couple of friends...
roberta		Yes, of course! That would be great!
isaac stern		Don't give up.
roberta		I just don't see how I'm gonna do this. It's huge. It's gigantic! It's Carnegie Hall! And listen to this: now Isaac Stern wants to play with us -- Diane Monroe, Michael Tree -- there's other people calling --
dan		That's fantastic!
roberta		Fantastic? I'll never get the kids up to speed in time, I'll never get myself up to speed. I'm gonna be playing side by side with the world's greatest violinists.
dan		And "the world's greatest violinists" are playing side by side with you because they want to help you win this fight.
roberta		Yes, but... you don't understand. Maybe there's a good reason why I never made it as a violinist -- maybe I just can't cut it. I keep blaming it on not having enough early training, but if I were talented, if I had a gift --
dan		But you do have a gift. You're gonna put thirty East Harlem kids on stage at Carnegie Hall not because they're prodigies, but because you got them to stick with something that's hard as hell and to strive for excellence -- which, by the way, I certainly wasn't striving for when I was their age. Not to mention the other ten years' worth of students whose lives were changed because of you. That's your talent, Roberta.
roberta		I'm scared.
dan		I know.  And by the way, I happen to think you're a pretty good violinist too.
roberta		You've barely heard me play.
dan		I've heard enough to know you're gonna do just fine.
dan		Besides, no one's gonna be paying attention to your playing anyway.
carlos		Teacher's late. I think she should be dropped, don't you?
ramon		Yeah. I don't think we should let her play in Fiddlefest!
carlos		More bow! To the frog! You sound terrible! I can't believe how terrible you sound!
carlos		You're gonna make everyone in Carnegie Hall sick to their stomachs! That's right, they're gonna pay a thousand dollars a ticket and you're gonna make them throw up on their gowns and tuxedos!
roberta		 G'head, Carlos. Continue.
carlos		No, that's O.K. You can take it from here.
roberta		He's right, by the way. You do sound terrible, and you are gonna make everyone in Carnegie Hall sick to their stomachs.
rachel		I need to talk to you.
roberta		 What's wrong?
rachel		We're moving away.
roberta		What? Where are you moving?
rachel		 It's a secret... My father... he's been hurting my mom... We have to leave.
roberta		 Has he been hurting you too?
rachel		I'm sorry about Julliard... and the concert.
roberta		Keep it. Take it with you.
rachel		No... I don't want to play anymore.
roberta		What?! You can't give up violin, Rachel -- it's a part of you. A very important part.
roberta		Please honey. Just take it.
rachel		I don't want to.
roberta		No, no, no! Accent the up bow after the slurred notes and then it'll get you off of those slurred notes! You Double Concerto kids need to be working harder! This is the grand finale of the concert! You're each gonna be sharing a music stand with one of the world's greatest violinists!
roberta		I think we should forget the Bach Double.  And you guys are never gonna get Minuet One. I think we should drop that too.
vanessa		No! We can do it, Roberta!
carlos		And we'll get the Bach Double. We will.
naeem		It's gonna be O.K., Roberta.
roberta		 You think?
roberta		O.K...  It's gonna be O.K.
roberta		Nick -- did you feed Allegra?
nick		 Yes, Mom.
roberta		Lexi, can you make sure the charts are still in my bag?
lexi		I already checked, Mom.
assunta		Bert, which earrings you want?
roberta		Nick? Get two more violins.
nick		You've already got two -- how many emergencies can there be?
roberta		Get three more. And make sure a couple of them are half-size.
roberta		Lexi -- can you call about the car again?
lexi		Mom, they're not gonna forget to send a car!
nick		What are you doing?
roberta		Just straightening a little.
nick		You're insane, you know that?  Finish getting dressed!
roberta		Can you believe this?
roberta		It can't be time! Is it time?
assunta		I'll sew it in the car.
lexi		See? I told you they'd send a car.
roberta		Thank you, Mama.
assunta		Don't worry about it. You rip -- I sew.
roberta		Not just for that.  Thank you for getting me out of bed.
assunta		Don't thank me -- thank Charles.
roberta		Charles?!
assunta		If that jerk hadn't of left you, none of this would've happened.
roberta		Thank you, Charles.
roberta		Where's Vanessa? Has anyone seen Vanessa?
janet		I'll call her house.
brian		Congratulations.
roberta		Thank you...
brian		I knew you'd get here sooner or later. I'm glad I'm here to see it.
roberta		I am too.
guadalupe		Excuse me, Mr. Perlman?
guadalupe		 I'm Guadalupe. I've wanted to meet you for a long time.
itzhak perlman		A pleasure to meet you, Guadalupe.
carlos		You nervous, Mr. Perlman?
itzhak perlman		Should I be?
carlos		Us kids are gonna be great -- I don't know about you guys. How much did you practice?
roberta		You called Vanessa's father and mother?
janet		No answer at either.
staff person		Half hour call! It's now half hour call! So pace yourself accordingly. Don't get more than thirty minutes worth of nervous!
vanessa		They stole the car!
roberta		Oh my God.  Nick, Lexi --
nick		Done.
vanessa		 And then when we were getting a taxi, I fell down.
janet		C'mon honey -- let's get you cleaned up.
dan		You're glowing.
roberta		It's terror.
staff person		FIVE MINUTE CALL. WE NOW HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
janet		When I became the principal of Central Park East Elementary, I envisioned a school where children could fulfill their highest potential, despite the challenges of poverty and racism. Ten years ago, Roberta Guaspari walked into my office because she needed a job, and because she had a vision that any child could learn the violin. We put our dreams together and created the East Harlem Violin Program which has helped more than a thousand students expand their vision of what's possible in their lives. When a program like this is cut, our children's future is compromised. I want to thank you for your support. Enjoy the concert.
roberta		Everyone -- attention please!
roberta		I want you all to take a second just to breathe, O.K.? Deep breath.
roberta		I would like you all to play with your heart, all right? Play like I know you can play. You'll be wonderful. Watch me, don't look out in the audience -- you don't need to be afraid. It's gonna be really wonderful. So play -- play from here.
roberta		We're all here tonight because we have a bigger mission: to take the magical spirit of tonight's concert with us out into the world, and to fight for music and art to be a part of every child's education. Thank you.
roberta		And this? What's this?
boy		The frog hair?
roberta		Did you ever see a frog with hair?
roberta		That's right.  But you're right, there is a frog. Can you show me where it is?
girl		Ooh! I know!
roberta		Sssh -- let him answer.
****Dialogues from script :Mute_Witness.txt****

mute witness		 
andy		Cut. Brilliant.
andy		Okay, I think we have a little communication gap here. Natasha translates in Russian what Andy just said.
andy		When I said more...
andy		...I didn't mean trash the fucking set.
andy		This is not Chekhov. You're not the star. You're just another victim.
andy		I want to see the pain.
andy		I want to see the blood spurting.
the actor		Oh !
karen		You make the blood flow by squeezing the bag with your elbow. Okay ?
the actor		Sure.
karen		We're gonna be here till Christmas, right ?  Natasha !
natasha		Yes.
karen		Tell him you make the blood flow by squeezing the bag with your elbow.
karen		Okay.
karen		Mmmm... She heard you. You all keep forgetting she can hear you perfectly well.
andy		Okay, from the top.
the voice		Stop. Stop. Stop!
andy		What's the holdup ? The angry bearded man speaks angrily in Russian.
andy		What is he saying ?
andy		Okay, well, let's just do the close-up of the corpse now, and that'll wrap it for today.
andy		All right. Okay. So, what I want to do is zoom in, do a slow zoom into the puddle of blood... On another part of the set, behind the dining room, Billy kneels down in front of a big ancient-looking wooden trunk.
natasha		Billy.
natasha		Madame Olga wants some sugar in her blood again. Billy laughs.
karen		So, he's kind of cute.
karen		Three months in Moscow, cold winter nights...
karen		Just a thought.
karen		Billy, that's what Mom would say.
natasha		He says use more white like a real dead body.
andy		What... what is going on now ?
alex		Andy. Sorry, it's six o'clock.
andy		One shot, one more shot !
alex		We have no time.
andy		One shot ! I can't believe this.
karen		She needs to go get Strohbecker's face.
karen		We'll wait for you here.
andy		Karen, she's got her own car.
karen		Okay. Okay. Don't forget tonight.
andy		Yeah, yeah, yeah! Fiesta ! I'm making my famous chili con Clarke. Near Andy's car, Alex, the assistant producer we just saw on the set, is opening the door of his car.
andy		Alex !... what do you say ? You coming ?
alex		Sorry. I have tickets for the Bolshoi Ballet tonight.
andy		Well, try and stay awake.
andy		Yeah !
andy		Damn !
andy		Honey ! Honey, can you get that ?
andy		Honey !
andy		Hello ?... Hello ?
andy		Hello ?
karen		It could've been Billy.
andy		I'm still thinking about dinner.
karen		She's not there either. Shit.
karen		Okay. Ohh !
karen		Hello, Billy !
karen		Thank God. She's there. Are you all right ?
andy		Ask her about the mask.
karen		You want to tap something through ? CINEMA STUDIO - BILLY'S WORKSHOP - INTERIOR NIGHT
karen		Wait. Wait. Wait.
andy		Oh, man !
andy		Oh, man !
karen		...L ?
andy		Man ! Oh, man !
karen		Was it L ? The second letter, was it L ? Karen shushes Andy with her hand.
andy		Shit !
karen		A-L-L ?
karen		O...kay !
karen		Okay. So are you coming over now ?
karen		Well, don't worry. Just get over here.
andy		You hungry ?
karen		Bye.
lyosha		Hey !
lyosha		Hello ?
lyosha		Is anyone there ?
lyosha		I can explain.
arkadi		Lyosha ! Lyosha is coming to meet Arkadi. They speak in Russian.
lyosha		Arkadi !
lyosha		Arkadi !
arkadi		Billy !
arkadi		Wait. I explain.
arkadi		Lyosha ! In the electricians' control cabin, hearing his name, Lyosha looks outside the cabin.
lyosha		Come here, quickly !
karen		Oh, my God, Billy.
lyosha		Quickly !
karen		What did happen ?
lyosha		I don't know.
lyosha		She slipped and fall bad. Poor Billy.
karen		Andy, she's at the back !
lyosha		Get the doctor, quickly.
karen		You go. I'll stay here with her.
karen		Let go of her.
lyosha		No, I must hold her. She must not move.
lyosha		Go !
karen		Yeah, okay.
karen		Billy !... Billy, you mustn't move... You may become paralyzed. It's dangerous... Don't worry. I'll be right back... I promise.
karen		Andy !
andy		What's going on ?
karen		Andy, go with the janitor...
karen		Do it now !
andy		Ambulance !
andy		Come on !
karen		It's all right, sweetie.
karen		I'm here now and an ambulance is on its way.
karen		Police ?
karen		Murder ?
karen		Andy ! Andy ! CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT
lyosha		Excuse me. It's true. We just fake murder. If we really want to murder...
lyosha		We're not stupid, really. The janitor is trying to follow the conversation. We hear a policeman talking in Russian.
arkadi		No, no. Sorry.
arkadi		...a real murder and panic. Billy taps on Karen's arm. Karen looks up at Arkadi.
first policeman		Where did you see the murder from ?
first policeman		And it was this man ?
first policeman		But you say here : He wore a stocking pulled over his head.
first policeman		And then they chased me through the building and try to kill me as well.
arkadi		We make test for you.
arkadi		For your film. We try make blood much big.
lyosha		We not tell you. Keep secret not to hurt your feelings.
andy		I would've let you done tests.
andy		What I mean is... What I mean is... Let's see their film. I'll know if it's real.
karen		Wait. Stop ! Karen runs after Lyosha.
karen		He could expose the film.
first policeman		Let her do it. Please.
karen		Okay.
karen		This lets you unload the film without needing a darkroom.
first policeman		I see. Close shot on Arkadi's face. He looks very menacing.
karen		It's okay... It's okay.
karen		Murder weapon ? Where ?
andy		I'm...
karen		What ?
andy		I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine.
karen		You...
andy		Oh, my God!
first policeman		Tastes sweet.
andy		It's for the actors. They put the stuff in their mouths.
first policeman		What she say ?
karen		That it's her knife. They broke into her box and used all the blood. FIRST POLICEMAN So now she say it was a trick.
karen		It happened so fast she couldn't see the knife clearly.
first policeman		But everything else she saw tonight was clear ? Huh ?
karen		The body in the elevator shaft. She saw that.
karen		What ?
andy		What ? What ?
first policeman		Sweet. It is fake blood.
andy		It's fake blood. KAREN They could have soaked the sheets in fake blood afterwards.
first policeman		But... where is the body ? Huh ?
first policeman		Here you say, "A head cut off."
karen		Oh ! Wait. Wait. Ah ! She says... Well, there were more bags in there before.
arkadi		No, she's right. I will show you.
andy		Hey, we need that.
first policeman		Sorry, I can do nothing for you now. But I will call you after I see the film. Okay ? Sorry. He walks away. The second policeman shakes hands with Arkadi and Lyosha and goes away with his chief.
andy		Well, I've never been more embarrassed in my entire life.
karen		I don't get it. I mean, Billy's a pro. She'd know the difference between a real murder and a gag.
andy		Please, has she even seen a real murder ?
karen		That's my point. If what she saw tonight was real, then she has seen the difference, right ?
andy		Oh, come on, honey. We all bought the guy cutting me up tonight. Even I believed it.
karen		Because you're a wuss.
andy		No offense, Billy, but I'd like to re-shoot the stuff today using that guy's knife.
karen		It was her knife. God !
andy		Whatever. It looked good.
karen		Shut up.
janitor		Buka !
janitor		Buka ?
janitor		Buka.
janitor		Buka. Buka.
andy		Please, Billy, take some of mine. You'll feel better.
andy		Okay.
andy		Could you pass me the salt, please ?
karen		You could at least make the effort. Andy stops eating, looks at Billy drinking water and then at Karen.
andy		Listen... I'm sorry. All I can think about now is the movie, but as soon as we get back, I promise, I'll learn.
karen		How often have I heard that ?
andy		Come on. I can understand some of what she's saying.
karen		What ?
andy		Okay, how about this ?
andy		Means makeup, right ?
karen		Wrong. It means somebody's look, the expression on their face.
andy		That was close.
karen		What Billy said she'll never forget the look on the girl's face tonight from the moment she knew she was gonna die. She said the pain and the terror was real. You can't act that.
the reaper		Come closer, Mr. Hausmann. I won't bite.
lyosha		About the money...
the reaper		Did it go smoothly ?
lyosha		Yes, of course. No problem.
the reaper		Did it go smoothly, Mr. Hausmann ?
lyosha		We did our job. The condition was...
the reaper		The condition was that everything would go smoothly.
lyosha		Yes. Yes, and we have your diskette.
the reaper		And who informed the police ?
lyosha		American girl say something, but nobody believe her.
the reaper		As long as there are witnesses, there's no money.
lyosha		You mean ?... THE REAPER I think we understand each other, Mr. Hausmann.
karen		No, honestly, you can come back to our place, and we'll set up the couch if you want.
karen		You're not on one of your I'll show her how independent I am kicks, are you ?
andy		Honey, you coming or what ?
karen		Andy, don't you care about her ?
andy		I don't care ? I don't care ? Fine, fine. I'm calling the American Embassy tonight, okay ?
karen		It's the weekend. They're closed.
andy		Not for us. My dad gave me the duty officer's direct number before we left, just in case. So say goodbye. He waves to Billy, who waves back to him. She blows a kiss to her sister, who blows one back, and enters her building.
larsen		Mr. Lovett, these are the two officers who answered the complaint. He shakes hands with the two policemen.
lovett		Good evening, gentlemen.
first policeman		Good evening.
larsen		Please speak English to the ambassador's secretary. My chief asked me to meet Mr. Lovett here. If this witness is correct about what she saw tonight, she may help my own investigation.
lovett		Your English is quite good, Mr. Larsen.
larsen		Thank you. My mother was a translator.
lovett		In the university ?
larsen		No. KGB.
larsen		Please. They all follow the technician.
larsen		We've been tracking gangsters in Moscow running an international pornography and prostitution racket.
larsen		Sit down, please. We have information they have made snuff films here and sold them all over the world.
larsen		Victims believe they are making a sex film, but they are murdered in front of the camera.
larsen		What is the name of the witness ? What is it ?
first policeman		Billy Hughes, sir.
larsen		Billy Hughes. Yes. She claims to have seen one being made.
larsen		He is brutal, ruthless. They call him The Reaper.
digital voice		Hello, this is Billy Hughes speaking.
digital voice		Hello.
digital voice		Hello.
first policeman		Have you seen a... how do you say... snuff film before ?
larsen		I saw a woman tied to a tree   kept alive while her arms and legs were cut off. It's hard   to talk about it, or even think about it. And it makes   you sick to watch it. You never forget the look in the   victim's eyes. The sheer panic and horror when they realize   they're about to die.
karen		Well ?
andy		I told you. There's nothing to worry about. He says the film's the biggest piece of shit he's ever seen.
digital voice		Hello, this is Billy Hughes speaking.
karen		Hi, Billy. It's Karen. I hope you weren't sleeping. I just wanted to check and see if you're okay.
digital voice		I am fine. No need to worry. Did you call earlier ?
karen		No, I got straight through. You sure you're okay ?
digital voice		Sure. Had bath. All fine. Now I go to bed. You too.
karen		I just wanted to tell you : they saw the film, and it's not the real thing.
karen		Did I hear something there ?
digital voice		Doorbell. Wait. I'll see who.
karen		Billy ? You be careful, now. Check who it is first.
arkadi		Please. I want to talk.
karen		Billy, are you still there ?
andy		Would you leave her alone ?
karen		I heard a noise, Andy. Something's happened. I swear.
karen		Billy !
karen		Okay, that's it. I'm going there.
andy		What ?
digital voice		Karen, help. Call police. Emergency.
digital voice		Police, emergency.
digital voice		Yes.
digital voice		Da.
digital voice		Hello, my name is Billy Hughes. My address is apartment
digital voice		... 126 Kievsky prospekt...
digital voice		Telephone 9-2-0-9-5-9-1-0... BILLY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT
digital voice		Billy Hughes speaking.
digital voice		This is a digital voice computer.
telephone operator		Hello ? You English ?
digital voice		My name is Billy Hughes.
telephone operator		Yes ? What do you want, please ?
telephone operator		Hello ?
digital voice		Help. Intruder.
telephone operator		I no understand. Sorry.
digital voice		Bad man want to kill me.
telephone operator		Bad man ? I get man who speak English, yes ? Close up on the lock : another screw pops off.
telephone operator		I speak English.
lyosha		Where's the diskette ?
lyosha		I know you have !
larsen		My name is Alexander Larsen. I'm a policeman. Take your clothes. We must get out of here.
larsen		You must hurry.
larsen		I explain everything in the car.
larsen		In the car. No time now.
larsen		They are coming.
larsen		We are in great danger.
larsen		Quick.
larsen		It's not over yet. Billy puts her jacket on. Larsen looks in the back-view mirror.
karen		My...
andy		Oh, my God, it's trashed !
karen		Billy, where are you ?
andy		I'll call the police !
karen		Billy ! Oh, Billy. Oh, my God ! BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT
andy		How do you work this thing ? Oh, there it is.
karen		Someone's dead in the ba...
karen		God ! Oh, my God !
larsen		The girl you saw murdered tonight...
larsen		...her boyfriend stole a diskette full of information. Money, names, connections, everything. He blackmailed The Reaper. Very dangerous. And now he thinks that you have the diskette.
billy		Me ? LARSEN You have it ?... Huh ?
andy		We don't have any diskettes.
andy		Not that one. That's my script.
larsen		The girl had it when she went into the studio. Then she was murdered, and it was gone. Where is it ? Think. You were the only person there.
larsen		Think.
larsen		Write. Write it.
larsen		Write it.
larsen		Quick, write.
larsen		Police ? Yes. Yes, but only with the diskette.
larsen		You know, I work undercover. The Reaper thinks I work for him. Trust me. Trust me.
larsen		Crazy !
larsen		They'll kill you !
larsen		Get in !
larsen		Please, give me the keys.
larsen		Write. Where is the diskette ?
larsen		We cannot escape in this car. Write. Write.
larsen		Studio. Where in the studio ? Billy makes a No with her finger.
wartschuk		Delta three.
andy		What ?
andy		What ?
andy		This is all a big misunderstanding and... Excuse me, but this is...
andy		You don't have to arrest us. Why is he arresting me ? This is ridiculous. I'm an American citizen. Do you understand what I'm saying ? Now, I'm a director.
andy		You know, I'm directing a movie here in Moscow. I'm bringing a lot of money in this place.
andy		And my father, okay, he knows a lot of big people, and... Listen.
andy		You want money ? Is that what you want ?
andy		I don't understand what is going on here. We don't have a diskette !
andy		Karen, get the key ! Get the key ! Unlock me !
andy		Right. Let's get out of here.
karen		Answer it.
andy		Why ?
karen		They may say something about Billy. WARTSCHUK  Delta three.
andy		Da.
andy		Da.
karen		I got something about studio. Come on.
karen		Look out !
andy		Mmm... It's not what you think. What do you say ?... How do you ?... In Russian, what ?...
andy		What ? What does that mean ?
karen		Hel...
andy		Hello ? We need help !
andy		I'm a director, and I'm making a movie here. This is not a movie.
andy		Put the gun away. You look like a hit man. He thinks we're gonna kill him !
karen		We're not gonna kill you !
andy		This is not even ours !
karen		The policemen wanted to kill us !
karen		We gotta get out of here.
andy		Well, I think we should call the cops.
karen		Are you crazy ?
andy		Well, we can explain this.
karen		Explain ? You are crazy. Come on. Here.
andy		I'll take these too.
larsen		And now ? Billy tries to get out of the car, but she can't open the back door.
larsen		Child locks.
larsen		Don't look now, but our friends are still here.
larsen		I will block the other entrances.
andy		What... what are you doing ? That... that's Red Square.
andy		Oh, perfect. MOSCOW - RED SQUARE - EXTERIOR NIGHT
andy		This damn gun, I can't work the safety.
andy		Holy shit !
karen		Around the back.
karen		Okay. Jump, Andy. I got you. ANDY What ?
karen		I got you. I got you.
larsen		It's no use. All lines are cut.
larsen		Where is it ?
larsen		You helped us a lot, Billy. Thank you.
wartschuk		He wants you to do it.
larsen		You know why we call him The Reaper ? You see his face, you die.
andy		Nice night, isn't it ?
andy		I'm just taking a piss. Right, you know, just... The watcher walks slowly down the ladder. Karen reaches the ladder, climbs on something we don't see, and catches the watcher's foot through the steps of the ladder. The man falls and rolls all the way down the ladder. He is unconscious and Andy ties his wrist to the ladder with the handcuff. Karen joins him. Andy seems very happy about the successful operation.
karen		Who the hell is that ?
andy		Well, whoever it is, they're coming here.
andy		I can't work the safety.
karen		Andy, come on.
andy		Yeah, yeah, I'm coming.
karen		Hurry !
the reaper		Where is she, Larsen ?
karen		Shoot him. Shoot him, Andy. ANDY Okay.
karen		Be careful of Billy ! God.
larsen		Stay where you are !
larsen		Stand back !
the reaper		Kill her, Larsen.
larsen		Now please, let me explain. Please ?
andy		Karen !
karen		Kill him.
karen		You genius !
andy		You thought we were tourists, huh ? Guess again, pal.
andy		Don't move. Don't move! I'm talking to you !
andy		I'm warning you. Don't move or I'm gonna shoot you ! Okay !
andy		Billy ! Billy ! Billy !
karen		She's okay. She's fine.
andy		She's fine ? She's okay ? Billy mouth the words I'm fine and shows him the special effect device on her stomach. Larsen comes behind her and takes her by the shoulder, saying a few words in Russian. Billy says something in sign language to Karen.
karen		A cop ?
andy		A cop ?
karen		Oh, my God, I'm sorry.
andy		Sorry.
larsen		Forget it. Your sister was brilliant.
andy		Oh !... this is the remote. I get it.
larsen		Big cowboy.
larsen		What ?
karen		That was an invitation to dinner sometime.
larsen		How you say ?... It would be a pleasure.
larsen		I still don't understand.
karen		What ?
larsen		I don't understand why The Reaper didn't take the diskette off me. KAREN Who ?
andy		Whoops !... Shit. I'm sorry.
larsen		Big cowboy.
andy		Ciao !...
larsen		Billy, tomorrow !
larsen		Tomorrow !
andy		What's the matter ?
larsen		Big cowboy.
karen		Guys, could we get out of here, please ?
andy		The expression ?
andy		The car ?
andy		The car...
****Dialogues from script :My_Best_Friend_s_Wedding.txt****

captain		A variation on our squid ink risotto.  Trace of Moselle, to sweeten the stock.
captain		Don't kill us on this one, it's a long shot.
julianne		I'm writing it up as inventive and confident.  Which it is.  Off the record, I'll need an extra boat of the ink.  Or a salt shaker.
captain		I'll toss a coin.
digger		Is it ever embarrassing, having your bum kissed in public?
julianne		If your ass isn't chapped, you are not a good-writer of note.
julianne		Is it sad to be an editor, and bask only in reflected insincerity?
digger		I've adjusted, and thanks for asking.
julianne		See the pull of a book like Twenty Chefs, is not who I put in.  It's who I leave out.
digger		Which is everyone you couldn't get in.
julianne		Plus some guys whose food I don't like.
digger		This fellow from Newsday ever call?
julianne		I'll buzz my machine.  Inventive and confident, yeh?
digger		Needs salt.
julianne		Is Newsday a real interview, or just some cute guy you're setting me up w...
digger		... I don't send you men, anymore. You don't know what to do with them.
julianne		Sometimes I do.  Like for two months.
digger		... weeks.
digger		Who called? The man of the moment?
julianne		No, no, the opposite.  That's my best friend, Michael O'Neal. He sounds desperate to talk.
digger		The wandering sportswriter.
digger		I didn't know you two had a past.
digger		The look in your eye.
julianne		Sophomore year at Yale we had this one hot month.  And, you know me, I got restless...
julianne		So I get up the nerve to break his heart.  I tell him there's this dreamy exchange student from Pakistan who wants to, you know...
julianne		And he gets this... look.  He says, "I knew I couldn't hold your interest", which, of course, makes me feel like the shallow bitch I've always been...
julianne		Then he says, "But what makes me want to cry.  Is I'm losing the best friend I ever had."
julianne		And when he said it, I knew. I felt the same.
julianne		So I cried.  For maybe the third time in my life.  And I kissed him.  And we've been best friends ever since.
julianne		Nine years, we've seen each other through everything.  Losing jobs, losing parents, losing lovers... travelled all over, we've had the best times.  The best times of my life, maybe.  Just drinking and talking.  Even over a phone.
digger		Kindred spirits.
julianne		No, he's nothing like me.  He's like you.  Only straight.
julianne		He's the salt of the earth.  Kind and loyal and generous.  The one constant thing in my life, is he'll always be there.
digger		He's still in love with you.
julianne		Maybe.  But it never gets in the way.
digger		Well, he has a true friend in you.
digger		Whenever George tells someone how steadfast I am, he always makes me sound boring.
julianne		Solid and genuine is not boring. Michael can be completely insane...
julianne		There was this one night in Tucson, like six years ago... we got amazingly drunk, I mean, Keith Richards time...
julianne		God, I haven't thought of this in so long...
julianne		I can even believe we did this...
julianne		Could you give us a minute?
julianne		You won't miss much, I promise there was no sex.
digger		I've lost interest.
julianne		He takes a razor from his dinky little dopp kit, cuts his fingertip, takes my hand, does the same to me...
digger		Blood oath.
julianne		He says, "Swear.  When we're both 28, if we've never been married... we marry each other!"
julianne		See, he figured that would be a sign from God, or someone of comparable authority, that we'd misunderstood our destinies.
julianne		We never talked about it again.  I don't know what made me think of...
digger		You'll be 28 in three weeks. How old is he?
julianne		You think...
digger		Desperate.  To talk.
julianne		He's not proposing marriage, there's no way I'm buying one word of th...
digger		Then why are you compulsively eating? If you're not hysterical?
julianne		He can't do that to me!
digger		We're about to find out.
julianne		When I turn him down...
julianne		We'll never be the same.
digger		I have a suggestion...
julianne		I'll have to kill myself before I call him.
julianne		This is awkward timing, Michael, I just joined this convent, and they never give your deposit ba...
julianne		Michael, I'm married.
julianne		... and I have two weeks to live.
julianne		Michael, I'm trying to be gay, don't confuse me.
julianne		I was calling Michael O'Neal, but seeing it's so late, I could just leave a mes...
julianne		Yeh, well my old machine kept eating messages.  I tried constructively ignoring it in hopes of improvement, but finally...
julianne		I was thinking about you, and I remembered this unbelievably insane night we spent together in Tucson, like a thousand years ago?
julianne		I mean, there's no way you could possibly remember the...
julianne		Well, that's great.  You haven't really had anybody since Dingbat Jennylee...
julianne		Well, somet...
julianne		Well, sure.
julianne		You've met her parents.
julianne		Michael, it's Wednesday night, you can't possibly be getting married on Su...
julianne		 ... Thomas, yeh.
julianne		Well, maybe we should talk ab...
julianne		W...
julianne		OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, WHY AREN'T YOU INTERRUPTING IT TO ANSWER THE PHONE??
julianne		YOU, YOU, YOU! IT'S ALL ABOUT YOU, ISN'T IT??
digger		You can't get lung cancer and die in four days.  Go to Plan B.
julianne		You have no appropriate sense of emergency.  My best friend is ruining his life.
digger		No, he's ruining yours.
julianne		Same difference.  If you love someone, it's your duty to save them from themselves.
digger		You have a real philosophy of life.
julianne		It's called the Law of Love, asshole.
julianne		I'm a busy girl.  I've got four days to break up a wedding, and steal the bride's fella.
julianne		He's adored me for nine goddamn years.
digger		I can see why.
julianne		She knows him maybe five seconds, plus she has billions of dollars, plus she's perfect, so don't go feeling sorry for Miss Pre-Teen Illinois!
julianne		And don't go feeling sorry for me, you don't know me that well. We're only friends.
julianne		I'm making a big mistake, huh?
julianne		I'm gonna bring him back, man. Against all odds, y'know.  Cos if I don't...
julianne		... I gotta live with it forever.
julianne		And at my wedding.  I'll be the only bride with her own best man.
kimmy		This just makes everything so perfect.
kimmy		All I've heard, from the day I met Michael, is Julianne this, and Julianne that...
julianne		Well, we're...
kimmy		I think the best part of marrying this guy is finding you.
kimmy		I've never had a sister.
kimmy		My heart's in my throat, here. Right off, I have to ask this monstrous favor...
julianne		You need a few dollars.
kimmy		Dry.  Just like he said.
julianne		Excuse me?
kimmy		I can be quick.  I can even be funny.
kimmy		But I can't be dry.
julianne		Can you watch the road?
kimmy		See.  Dry.  It's in the delivery.
kimmy		This is a very presumptuous and burdensome fav...
julianne		... you want a menage on your wedding night.
kimmy		My classmate Angelique shattered her pelvis line dancing in Abeline on Spring Break.
kimmy		Be my maid of honor.
kimmy		You can't believe what it'd cost to bring in a temp.
julianne		Uh.  How about promoting a bridesmaid?  Someone you know for at least forty-five minutes.
kimmy		The bridesmaids are my only two female relatives under forty. Identical twin debutantes from Nashville, who are basically vengeful sluts.  With amazing bodies!
julianne		Which was the disqualifying factor?
kimmy		The twin part.  I like to remain impartial in my contempt.
kimmy		This means I have four days to make you my new best friend...
kimmy		And since I already know everything about you.  Including intimate facts I'm mortified to have heard, but too envious to forget.  It's time for you to learn about me...
kimmy		Force yourself.  To get personal.
kimmy		If you'd rather the lilac...
julianne		I thought bridesmaids had to wear the same dress.
kimmy		Not you.  You won't be comfortable unless you're distinctive.
julianne		What else did he tell you...
kimmy		... you hate weddings, you never go.
kimmy		You're not up for anything conventional, or popularly assumed to be female priorities. Including marriage.  Or romance. Or even...
julianne		That's why Michael and I were the wrong fit.  Right from the start.
kimmy		He said that, too.
kimmy		Well, I thought I was like you. And proud to be.  Until I met rumpled, smelly old Michael...
kimmy		And then I found I was just a sentimental schmuck.  Like all those flighty nitwits I'd always pitied.
kimmy		Funny world, huh?
julianne		I need a smoke.
kimmy		It's mostly the seam.  Let's get this to Carlos.
julianne		Don't you have to be somewh...
kimmy		... just my bridal shower.  And Michael has to meet our dads and the groomsmen at Comiskey for a one-thirty game.
kimmy		Other than that...
julianne		Come in, and shut the...
julianne		... door.
julianne		Michael, I'm in my underwear!
michael		We've seen each other a lot more naked than this.
michael		I mean, we were skinny-dipping in Greece, just as pals, less than two years ago.
julianne		Things are different now.
julianne		What's the sec...
michael		Mirrors.
julianne		... luckiest guy in the Northern Fucking Hemisphere, is all I'm s...
kimmy		What? Because I'm a little understand...
julianne		... most sentimental schmucks I pity want a honeymoon after their wedding.  Just to top it off.
kimmy		I can't expect the NBA to hold up the playoffs...
kimmy		I'm excited Sports Illustrated gave him this kind of shot, he's only there a ye...
julianne		So your honeymoon is exactly where?
kimmy		It depends.  If San Antonio sweeps Sacramento, we could start there. Or Phoenix.  Or depending on Indiana- Clevel...
julianne		... garden sports, all.  Little swing of maybe fifty degrees Fahrenheit, represents a packing challenge, but there's fine food and cocktails at a choice of Embassy Suit...
kimmy		It's his career, I'm supportive. Look, I've been everywhere, I've seen the world, I've laid on a beach. I want to be with the man I love. That's what makes it a honeymoon.
julianne		I'm just saying he's lucky.
julianne		Takes one woman in a billion to put up with his array of shit. The guy is a one-man festival of idiosync...
julianne		Well.  You've been introduced to the symphonic range of...
kimmy		... his snoring, yeah.  He says it's worse than ever.  That snaffle one...?
kimmy		Well now it has this sorta phlegm rattle behind it...
kimmy		Guess what? Earplugs work.
julianne		How about...
kimmy		... cigars in bed? I broke him on that.  But the bathroom's a swamp, he wears Reeboks to dinner, tells the same, admittedly funny, jokes three hundred times...
kimmy		... loves action movies, subscribes to Playboy for godsake, reads over my shoulder, can't keep track of the checks he writes...
kimmy		He sucks soup through his front teeth.
julianne		A trademark move, don't touch it.
kimmy		But he sure can kiss.
julianne		It's been awhile.  I'll take your word.
kimmy		After two weeks of cataloguing all his faults, I made a command decision that changed my life.
kimmy		I threw the list away.
kimmy		He's not a balance sheet, so many wonderful qualities, so many faults.  He's Michael.
kimmy		And loving him means loving all of this.
julianne		Do you get nervous in small confined spaces?
kimmy		So it's sweet of you to be protective...
julianne		Let me rephrase that...
kimmy		But nothing ever could, ever did, give me a moment's pause about this marriage...
julianne		Do you get hysterical in small confined spa...
kimmy		... except one.
julianne		Oh, yeah?
kimmy		You.
kimmy		You'll always be there.  In his mind.  The perfect creature he loved for all those y...
julianne		Well, perfection can get wearing after whi...
kimmy		I'm not joking.  I had to face up to all my competitive drives, and believe me, I've got 'em.
julianne		No.
kimmy		And the answer was so simple.
julianne		I was gonna predict that.
kimmy		You win.
kimmy		You're enshrined in his heart and memory.  Unassailable. Which works out great.
julianne		I've missed a step.
kimmy		He has you on a pedestal.  And me in his arms.
julianne		Jesus, we're trapped!
kimmy		Ju...
julianne		No, this happened to me once, almost, it was excruciating!
julianne		There's a panel up there, you could boost me...
julianne		You know how little air is in these things? I've seen statistics! Once you're trapped between floors...
julianne		God! Then the door is jammed!
mandy		Mah Gawd, it's the bride, and the woman she'll nevah live up to!
sammy		Did she say th' wrong thang agin? It is so in character!
julianne		 I'm Julianne Potter, and...
sammy		... we'd be the vengeful sluts. We came in complementary colors.
mandy		Have you sized up the groomsmen, Jules?  As M. of H., you get first fuck.  Don't pick the short, hairy, rich one.
julianne		... unless he has a hump.
isabelle		I'm Isabelle Wallace, and my handsome new son scarcely did you justice, girl.
isabelle		Now, my husband says to scoot you over to the ballpark, so you can hang with Michael.  But first, you have to meet a lot of really old women.
isabelle		That is, if you've absorbed enough profanity.
julianne		Desperate measures! Do you hear me?  Digger, are you the...
julianne		I don't know, hit men, whoopee cushions, saltpeter, something! The girl is impossibly impregnable. Even I want her to get the guy!!
julianne		Tell him the what? The truth...??
julianne		That desperate.  May I never get.
julianne		Which of you gents ordered two beers?
michael		Wow!  Lemme give you a ha...
michael		Think of that.  And as well as I know you.
bodyguard		Sorry, ma'am, I'm on duty.
michael		Julianne Potter, this is Hank and Gerry from SI, and you know Daniel...
michael		Oh.  This is my father-in-law, Walter.
michael		How are you doing this? You're on drugs.
walter		If he gives you grief, I'll have him skillfully beaten, where the wounds won't show.
julianne		I guess getting him whacked would be politically out of the question.
walter		Under the circumstances.  Charmed to know you, Jules.
julianne		Nice meeting you, too, Walt.
michael		And, this guy, you know...
julianne		Papa Joe.
joe		You gonna be my boy's best man?
julianne		Best everything, Joe.  But I'm going to dance with you.
michael		Dance?  You don't dance!  You learn to dance??
julianne		Moves.  You've never seen.
michael		You're an impostor! What have you done with my best friend?
michael		And how was the hot dog?
michael		Cheap and unnecessary.  We were looking anyway.
julianne		I just admire your maturity, that's all.  I mean, there are people who would find that kind of perfection boring.  Day after day, year after year...
michael		... see, that's what I thought at first.  How can you like someone that perfect? No potential for long-range livability.
michael		Luckily.  The closer I watched, the more the fault came into focus.  Each imperfection its own adorable slice of vulnerability.
julianne		Such as.
michael		She's too genuine.
julianne		Hate that.
michael		How can you trust someone you can never mistrust?
julianne		What's next?
michael		No matter how many times I leave the toilet seat up, she forgets and puts it down.
julianne		Endearingly absent-minded.
michael		My very point.  Here's another one...
michael		Every day.  She makes the bed.
julianne		Quite the little eccentric.
michael		At first, I thought it was a gag, but she's always done it!
julianne		Is there a coup de grace in here, somewh...
michael		She admires.  Tommy Lasorda.
julianne		Waiter! Check, please!
michael		She finds him "personable."
julianne		Can that kind of defect be passed on genetically?
michael		Then again.  She has a few good traits.
julianne		Gimme like, eight and nine off the top ten list...
michael		First girl I ever knew.  Who lets me give her a bath.
michael		And when I hug her, even in public.  I don't have to let go right away.  She lets me hold her as long as I want.
michael		Nice kid, don't you think?
julianne		Looks like, from here.
julianne		How'd you find this pl...
kimmy		Lived here my whole life, never heard of it.  Until our first date.
kimmy		He finds all these spots, everywhere he goes, it's a mystical gift.
kimmy		It's not just clubs.  This guy always knows the best everything. The best guitar store, the best beef ribs, the best Horowitz record, was he always like the...
julianne		... always.  The best dim sum, the best camping stuff...
kimmy		Stop, we're embarrassing h...
julianne		... best valley in New Zealand, best... women's shoes...
michael		I tried those on.  When you weren't looking.
julianne		Where was that, Florence, huh?
michael		Firenze.
julianne		The Vespa? Me hanging on behind in the rain all night?
michael		Till the gas ran out.
kimmy		I love Florence.
julianne		Take her there.
julianne		I mean, now.  She's perky, she deserves a honeymoon.
julianne		I heard.  If San Antone sweeps Sacramento.  What is this shit? You gotta get off the road by September anyway, when does Fall Quarter start?
kimmy		Uh.  I'm not coming back.  For senior year.
julianne		Don't architects find a degree, sort of... an asset?
kimmy		Well, the school will be here. Architecture will still be around. Right now...
michael		I travel every week.  College ball, motor sports, training camps...
kimmy		The most important thing. Is being together.
kimmy		I'm just a baby.  I've got all... the time... in the world.
michael		Because I could come...
kimmy		To the twins' soiree?  So they can paw you and drool...?
julianne		Should I whistle down a cab?
michael		Hey, cabs are expensive.  I'm cheap, remember?
julianne		Sometimes.  About the dumbest things.
michael		The El's right down the street. Unless you're afraid of the neighborhood.
julianne		No.  I'm always safe with you.
julianne		Pretty amazing girl, you've got. Make that kind of sacrifice.
michael		What, leaving school...
julianne		... all of it.  She's leaving her family, her friends, everything she knows.  She's putting her career on hold, and she seems a pretty ambitious, driven, kind of pers...
julianne		All to follow you in this dumb job, where you travel 52 weeks a year to College Station, Texas, and such.  It's not a job for a grown man, Michael, Peter Pan never married.
julianne		I mean Walter owns the Sox, cable sports... most girls in her spot would be angling to get Daddy to offer you some juicy gig right here in t...
michael		She would never.  Never.  Even think of that.
julianne		I guess you're right.  That would be deceitful... manipulative... controlling... emascula...
michael		I got the point.
julianne		Still.  All's fair in love and w...
michael		That would be a girl.  I don't even know.
julianne		Dig, of course.  Of course, of course, of course, of course I have a plan.  Certainment!
julianne		How? I ask myself, what would Lucy Ricardo do in this situa...
julianne		Well, one worked, once.
julianne		Ricky wouldn't let her in the show.
julianne		I recall it differently, but we digress.
julianne		So in the version, you're Ethel, with better fashion instincts.
julianne		This puts you in charge of Plan B, the unprincipled and insanely dangerous back-up plan...
julianne		In case simple lying doesn't work.
julianne		Question.  What happens if you brush your teeth with shampoo?
julianne		HOLD ON.  I'M COMING IN FOR YOU!
julianne		You okay? This is one of those problem phones.
julianne		Right.  Your role.  You know guys from Sports Illustrated, yes? I mean, you can walk right in there...
julianne		You could get access to letterhead, for example.
julianne		It's an homage thing.
julianne		Awkward girls grow up on Audrey Hepburn movies.  You wouldn't understand.
kimmy		Anyway, I think you're wrong.
kimmy		What you were saying before.
kimmy		About Michael's job.
julianne		Oh, that.  I forgot I even said th...
kimmy		I just think you're wrong, is all.
julianne		Probably am.  Forget I brought it up.
kimmy		I mean, he loves his job.
julianne		Bad games, bad towns, bad pay, bad flights, bad hotels, real bad food. Homeless, rootless, lonely, maybe your copy gets into one issue out of four...
julianne		What's not to love?
kimmy		But he always says...
julianne		... whatever is manly and independent.
julianne		Why would he trade that for running, say, a big piece of the PR at a powerful, complex, challenging conglomerate like your dad's?
kimmy		That's just the sort of thing my father and I discussed.
julianne		I'm not stupid.  Say, how about this?
kimmy		For the twins? What in the world is th...
julianne		Gold nose hair clippers.
kimmy		So you don't think Michael's as happy with his job as...
kimmy		Gold dog collars? They don't have dogs.
julianne		Hello.
kimmy		You think he'd accept?
kimmy		Michael.  A job like that.
julianne		By any yardstick that involves sanity, it would be the greatest thing that ever happened to him. Present company excepted.
julianne		On the other hand, he's proud. Last thing a man wants to admit, is being trapped in a dispiriting dead-end job that can never support a family.
julianne		Throw a man a life preserver. He'll say, "Thanks, anyway, I'd rather drown."
kimmy		So... one almost has to...
julianne		Exactly.
kimmy		Exactly what?
julianne		What you said.  Make it appear that he's doing you the favor.
julianne		I couldn't really... do that. After, you know...
julianne		Oh, darling, my pitiful desires and ambitions are dirt beneath the manly boots of your priorities!
kimmy		The very words I've used.
julianne		We make Dad your co-conspirator. Michael does a favor for Walter.
julianne		Walter's reorganizing his public relations, needs a brilliant guy who's close to him, who he can completely trust.
julianne		So you beg.  Michael, please do this for Daddy, please, please, please, blah, blah, blah... it's only for six months...  it would mean so much to me to help him out...
kimmy		He'll see right through it.
julianne		Only.  If he wants to.
julianne		In six months, he'll be happy, settled, successful...
kimmy		He won't get mad, huh?
julianne		Bridesmaid gifts for two, well, assertive, outspoken, Tennessee debutantes.
julianne		Could you do this...
julianne		In 24 carat?
kimmy		You don't think he'll be mad.
julianne		Your call.  You can live a lie. In a fabulous selection of Red Roof Inns.  Or you can make one desperate stab at hap...
kimmy		I just don't want to freak him out.
julianne		How mad could he get?
julianne		Great.  I've got this girlfriend at the Justice Department?  With all this time on her hands?
guy		Know what you're looking for, little lady?
julianne		Yeah.  Do you?
guy		I asked first.
julianne		I like 'em long and hard.  Kind of... big around.
julianne		Smell is important, I'm a believer in that.
julianne		But you never know what you've got.  Till you run your tongue over it.
guy		I meant.  What you're looking for in a man.
julianne		Actually, I'm partial to married gentlemen.
guy		Why is that?
julianne		It's so much time.  When I phone the wives.
walter		 Your idea?
walter		You're a woman of insight.
walter		My wife and I love this marriage, and deplore its circumstances.
walter		As you guessed, my daughter is unhappy about giving up her life. And, in my opinion, cowardly in avoiding the necessary confrontation.
walter		Mike has a world of ability. I'd do anything to have him in my company.
walter		Except ask him.
walter		He'd resent it.  And me.  And, most important, Kim.
walter		He's a great kid, but he's still a kid.  Instead of recognizing that his resistance comes from insecurity, he'd turn it to anger. To protect himself...
walter		... from realizing that he's ignoring my daughter's needs, despite how very much he loves her.
walter		They both have some growing up to do.  But they're good people, they're starting with love. They've got time.
julianne		 I think you're making a mistake, sir.
walter		And that interests me.  How someone who knows him so well could be so wrong.
julianne		See, I love him, too, as much as anyone here.  And for a whole lot longer.
julianne		I think I know best what would make him happy.
julianne		Okay, okay, okay, okay, I hear you, all right?
julianne		It is stupid, dishonest, desperate beyond belief, and can't possibly ever work.  It can only end in humiliation and disgrace.  Now can I say two words?
julianne		Do it! Do it! Do it! Do it! Do it! Do it!
julianne		All right, twelve words.
teenager		 You do it, girl.
michael		Wow.  What was going on in there?
julianne		Some crazy person.
michael		You're not eating.
julianne		I never eat when I'm serene.
michael		You never eat when you're despondent.
julianne		I switched that around when you weren't looking.
michael		Last zoo we were in was... Beijing, yeah?  Sure.  The rhinos were fucking.
julianne		Boy, those were the days.
michael		 Yeah, they were.
julianne		That was nice.  The way you said that.
michael		It's weird being the groom.  All these things Kimmy has to take care of...
julianne		You need a baby-sitter.  That's what I'm here for.
julianne		Say it.
michael		Now, there's my girl.
julianne		See, I can only do it with beer.
michael		 See, better already.
michael		We'll go back to the bathroom, you'll put this on...
julianne		Bet you're glad I'm here to take care of you.
michael		Bet I am.
michael		Hope that crazy person's not still there.
julianne		 Is anybody watching?
walter		I hope so.  This is all too mysterious to waste on just me.
julianne		I picked up Michael's messages for him, at our hotel.  I stole one...
walter		Julianne, reading my son-in-law's mail, is not something...
julianne		Sir, this is important! Haven't you ever in your life cut one corner, to make something important turn out right?
walter		Matter of fact, that's how I got married.
julianne		It's a fax from Sports Illustrated from Ben Isaacson, Michael's boss.
walter		 I know Ben.
julianne		"Mike.  We still have no answer to our E-mail of Wednesday.  Which option do you select? I don't mean to rush you, but Personnel needs to tie up the loose ends."
julianne		I think he's been fired.
walter		It doesn't say th...
julianne		He's said some things over the past few weeks.  Look, this is why I came up with the idea of you offering him a job.
julianne		And why I couldn't say anything before in front of Kim.
julianne		I just think of how... desperate he must be feeling.  He's marrying a rich man's daughter, and he's about to become destitute.  You know the kind of job market he'll be facing?
walter		And you think he's kept this to himself.
julianne		He's too proud to beg for help. And if you wait till this comes out, your offer will be like charity. Completely humiliating.
julianne		If you do it now, it's like he's helping you.  He can accept with dignity.
walter		This fax could mean... any number of things...
walter		 Maybe.  I should call Ben.
julianne		Then it could all come out, sooner or later.  Nobody should be in on this.  Just you and me.  Or, more correctly, I.
julianne		What if, what if I could find that E-mail?
julianne		I never noticed.  Kimmy has your eyes.
julianne		Hello, again.
julianne		You still haven't straightened that tie.
julianne		You know, my friend, the one whose message I picked up...  ?
julianne		Well, he's still with the wedding party.  And he asked me to get something he needs real badly from his room...  ?
julianne		He's in 1526.  If you could just let me ha...
boy		See that woman?
boy		She said, if I ever pull a stunt like that again...
julianne		You'll lose your job...
boy		... tear my pecker off.  Is what she said.
julianne		Help me!
julianne		I locked myself out, 1526, please hurry!!
julianne		Uno-cinco-does-ses.
julianne		 You wouldn't change your password, would you?  You never change anything.
julianne		 Shoeless... Joe.
julianne		 Mike.  I hate this downsizing shit as much as you do.  But I know this can't become as a complete surprise...
walter		 Mike.  I hate this downsizing...
walter		 And Kimmy doesn't know.
walter		 I'll tell her I've reconsidered.
walter		You're a smart girl, Jules.
walter		Wish my daughter.  Bad your guts.
michael		Sure you're okay?
michael		It's not just a gag, huh?
kimmy		No, it's, uh... a real big favor.
michael		I wish you'd just... come out with it.  I mean why are we waiting for Jules?
kimmy		Moral support.
kimmy		What's good of having a big sister, if she...
michael		 Wow and wow.  You have a date, after this?
julianne		Never can tell.
michael		You make me think of that song, we used to...
michael		 Someday.  When I'm awfully low...
michael		Okay, kid.  You're on.
kimmy		It's really my father.  Who needs the favor.
kimmy		He's... he's reorganizing some of the divisions of the company...
michael		 He never mentioned that.  Neither did y...
kimmy		 ... and public relations is a big problem area for him.
kimmy		He needs someone incredible, someone really close, who he can trust...
michael		Like family, huh?
kimmy		It would only be, maybe, six months? Or three or four? It would mean so much to him...
michael		To him.
kimmy		And to m...
michael		 ... and you knew about this.
julianne		I think you ought to listen to her, Michael.  This is her life, too.
michael		Well, which is it?
michael		You gonna tell me Daddy thought this one up? All of a sudden, I'm the only jerk alive who can help him deal with the press?
michael		Why don't you start being honest for one fucking sec...
julianne		Michael!!
kimmy		 I am honest!
kimmy		All of a sudden, I'm supposed to drop out of school, forget my family, forget my career, forget all the plans I had for my life...
michael		Well, forgive me for screwing up your plans!
michael		I'm sure glad I'm hearing all this now, before it's too late!
kimmy		What is that sup...
michael		And what am I supposed to do with my life, huh? I am 28 years old! I work in a low-paying, low-status, zero-respect job which, unfortunately, I happen to fucking love.  How inconvenient.
michael		No problem.  A little bullshit about Daddy's "needs," and presto, I'm a lap dog in high society.
julianne		 Michael, it sounds like a wonderful opportun...
michael		 Does it, really? How come you never took some sell-out establishment job? You had plenty of chances!
michael		I'll tell you why.  Because that isn't you.  And it isn't me, either!  We're the same person!
michael		What a sweet little picture.  Mommy and Daddy aren't losing a daughter, they're gaining a eunuch!
kimmy		Well, if that's the way you f...
michael		Damn straight, it's how I feel! What's their wedding gift, a little gold collar that says "Mikey-poo"? Or do I have to change my name to "Binky"?
michael		Great!  Tears!  The big equalizer. You wait till two days before the wedding to drop this on me, and I'm just supposed to roll over and drool!
michael		Fine.  I'm an insensitive, chauvinist asshole, and you're well rid of m...
kimmy		MICHAEL!!
kimmy		Michael, you are so...
kimmy		... so right.  And I am so very wrong.
kimmy		We can't go down two roads.  And still be together.
julianne		Uh, Kimmy...?
kimmy		 We settled this.  And I reneged. That wasn't fair.
kimmy		You have to forgive me, and forget this ever happened...
kimmy		... or I'll die.
julianne		... see that's what I never counted on! I never heard of a brilliant moron before!
julianne		I mean, the little twerp GROVELED!!
julianne		SHE IS SO WRONG FOR HIM!
julianne		Michael and I are the same person! Self-absorbed and imperfect and vaguely loveable! We deserve each other!
julianne		I'm out of hope, I'm out of sneaky ideas, I'm at the end of my rapidly-fraying hysterical little rope!  Help m...
digger		You stole my line.
julianne		Oh, shit!
digger		Chill.  We don't want your face coming off with it.
julianne		Chill?  Since when do you say ch...
digger		When I'm talking to children.
julianne		You flew all the way h...
digger		I noticed.  I'm on the noon back. We have this thing with George's family in the Hamptons.
julianne		 You're butting in.
julianne		 I really resent this.
julianne		What I mean, when I say annoyingly perfect, is that there is nothing annoying about her perfection. It is vulnerable and endearing. And that is annoying as shit.
digger		You like her.
julianne		If I didn't have to hate her, I'd adore her.
julianne		Last night, she was crying, these big, real tears, when she thought she'd lost him.  It was like there was a knife in her heart...
julianne		... and I put it there.  I hated myself, I grieved for her, I couldn't enjoy one second of it! And then, when it didn't work...
julianne		I was devastated.
digger		 Go figure you.
julianne		Because I realized.  When I see him say "I do," that knife will be in my heart.  And it will be there every...
julianne		... every time I think of him, forever, which could be a lot.
julianne		You watch a guy caress his girlfriend's butt.  You see an Old Spice commercial.  Sentimental moments are everywhere, when you're in the right frame of mind.
julianne		There are 18,250 nights in the next 50 years...
digger		You've been working on this, huh?
julianne		... and having "done the right thing" will only really be comforting, oh, maybe, five, six times.
julianne		This is my whole life's happiness. I have to be ruthless.
digger		 And you believe that.
julianne		 Sure.
julianne		He was in love with me every day for nine years.  I can make him happier than she can.
digger		It's not his happiness you're feeling guilty about...
julianne		 I don't know the meaning of the word guilt!
digger		Impressive.
julianne		I am breaking her heart in the short run, but doing her a gigantic favor! She would be miserable tagging along after this insensitive doofus!
digger		The man you love.
julianne		Beyond reason.  The feminist warrior will rise up in this kid, and she'll be standing over his sleeping form with a butcher knife, selecting from a short list of body parts!
digger		Someday she'll thank you.
julianne		Let's not get carried away.
julianne		I'd settle for.  Someday, I'll forgive myself.
julianne		For doing this terrible thing.
julianne		Which, by the way, I can't figure out how to do.
digger		Jesus.  You're supposed to take your make-up off before you apply the m...
julianne		I KNOW THAT!  I WAS DISTRACTED BY GRIEF!
julianne		Guess what I brushed my teeth with last night?
digger		Zit cream?
julianne		I wish.
digger		Neosporin?
julianne		Try less appropriate.
digger		Ben Gay.
julianne		That was Thursday.
digger		Elmer's Glue?
julianne		DON'T BE RIDICULOUS, WE'RE HAVING A SERIOUS CONVERSATION!
digger		I give.
julianne		I can't even say it.
julianne		A hint.  The first word is "Preparation." Then comes a letter of the alphabet, perilously close to G.
digger		Considering the circumstances, I'm not wholly against suicide...
digger		Just not by electrocution in front of me!
digger		I've got this noon flight.
julianne		How do you know you can touch that plug? Are you a licensed contractor?
digger		What do you suggest?
julianne		Maybe they just seal off this room.  They have others.
digger		I didn't mean about that.
julianne		If I hear the words "tell the truth," or any paraphrase thereof, I dive into the sink and pull you with me.
digger		Let's go meet Michael.  I'll wait downstairs.
digger		I suppose it's too late to start over.
julianne		It's too late to start over.
michael		You guys are heartless, my bride picked this out.
julianne		Like I said, dazzling.
digger		Is she going to dress you every day?
michael		Yeah, it's in the contract.
digger		 Well, then, I'll take it up with her.
digger		The cut here, here... this line...
digger		... trouser width, this is all classic.  Which means safe, something I'd wear.
michael		I should look different.
digger		You should look like you dressed yourself.
michael		And I'm supposed to respect your fashion tips, because you're what, a New Yorker?
digger		 Something like that.
michael		 Long trip.  Pretty nice of you to come.
digger		Well, I'm close to her.  I wanted to meet the one that got away.
digger		What?
michael		I'm just glad someone finally put this thing in its proper perspective.
michael		 Stay, huh?
digger		I honestly wish I could...
michael		I'll call George's parents. Tell them I need a best man who actually looks after me.
julianne		 They'd say that's my job.
julianne		I'll take it home from here.
digger		Two words.
julianne		Major.  Dish.
digger		Manicure...
digger		Fly.
michael		 You don't miss much.
digger		Part of being a New Yorker.
julianne		Bye, handsome.
julianne		You're going to say it, aren't you?
digger		Tell him you love him.  With all your heart.
julianne		I'm taking my next book to Viking.
digger		Tell him you've loved him for nine years, but you were afraid to realize it.
julianne		I'm moving this book to Viking.
digger		Tell him you're afraid of love. Afraid of needing.
julianne		Needing.
digger		To belong to someone.
digger		We all do, beautiful.  I'm sorry about that.
digger		Tell him you know this is the worst, dumbest, cruelest moment to do this to him.  But there it is, and he has to choose.
julianne		And what will he do?
digger		He'll choose Kim.  You'll stand by her at her wedding.  You'll kiss him good-bye.  And you'll go home.
digger		This is what you've come to do. Now do it.
julianne		Getting your bed made.  Every day.
julianne		You miss her, huh?
michael		No.  I've got you.
michael		Don't you throw up on boat?
julianne		If you like.
michael		I've been thinking a lot the last couple days.  About us, actually.
julianne		 Have you.
julianne		Well.  There's a lot of memories to choose from...
michael		It's more than that.
michael		I mean, it's embarrassing to say it this way, but...
michael		You've sort of been... y'know, the woman in my life.
julianne		 You've been the man in mine.
michael		And I was thinking this could be our last time.  Alone.  Together. You know?
julianne		Except for the hot affairs we'll have twice a year.
michael		Except for that.
michael		I can hardly wait for your wedding.
julianne		Me either.
michael		Boy, I never thought I'd hear you say that.  Can I come?
julianne		I couldn't have it without you.
michael		It's normal to have... second thoughts, huh? To be scared.
julianne		I wouldn't know.  I never had that many first thoughts.
michael		I mean, you commit to a wedding. And then it seems like... this... momentum, you know?  You forget you... chose it.
michael		You and I.  I mean, in all our relationships with other people... We didn't use the word "love" a lot, did we?
michael		Kimmy says.  When you love someone. You say it, you say it out loud. Right now.  Or the moment...
michael		... passes you by, yeah.  She's a smart girl.
michael		We don't have a song.
michael		Kimmy and I.  We don't have a song. Is that a bad sign?
michael		 Someday, when I'm awfully low... And the world is cold...
michael		 I will feel a glow just Thinking of you... And the way you look.  Tonight.
michael		Dance card filled?
julianne		I'll check.  I have it on powerbook, these days.
michael		 With each word, your tenderness grows, Tearing my fears apart...
michael		 And that laugh That wrinkles your nose, Touches my foolish heart.
michael		Where did we first hear th...
julianne		 The night we met.
julianne		The night we fell in love.
michael		So we heard it... like, right that... that first...
julianne		We danced to it.  Just like this.
michael		I won't lose you, will I?
julianne		No.  Because I won't let you.
walter		I thought Michael was picking me up.
julianne		I told him, get the important stuff, Kim's ring.  I'll collect the inconsequentials.
walter		Kim said, when he turned down the job, there was no friction.
julianne		Friction.  No.
walter		I haven't caused... a problem, have I?
julianne		Nobody has.  So far.
walter		Well, you're a little early...
julianne		I need to make some calls. Could I use... your office?
julianne		 You can do this.
julianne		 E-mail address.  To Ben Isaacson, Senior Editor, Sports Illustrated, from... Walter Wallace.
julianne		See, you can do it.  It's easy.
julianne		You do it fast, it's over.  Like it never happened.
julianne		Ben.  I need a favor.
julianne		My daughter's every happiness. And my wife's.  And, least of all, my own, are in your hands.
julianne		Knowing you value our friendship, and the... cooperative relationship between our companies... I am hopeful of your help.
julianne		I have offered Mike O'Neal, my new son-in-law, a great opportunity in my company.  This would also enable my daughter to settle in Chicago, near us, and pursue her dreams and plans.
julianne		To his own detriment, as well as ours, Michael will not accept our offer.  While he works for you.
julianne		My daughter joins me in this plea for your cooperation and discretion.
julianne		With gratitude.  For your understanding.  Walter.
julianne		Are you crazy?  Get him fired?
julianne		Just till tonight when I bring him back.  To look for...
walter		 Off to rehearsal.  Send out this, and this, not this, this, and... that's it.
walter		I'm holding four or five E-mails I wrote over lunch...
walter		Send 'em out.
mandy		Reverend Dyer, this is Kimberly's somewhat butch maid of honor...
sammy		... Mr. Julianne Potter, prominent New York drag queen.
minister		Billy Dyer, Julianne.  And I love the suit.
michael		 Takes me back.
julianne		Well.
julianne		You sang the song.  Least I could do was wear the outfit.
michael		Except now you're better- looking.
michael		I got the ring.
julianne		No accents today.
michael		Yeah, Kim told me they were giving you their Dueling Scarlet's act.  Actually, they're sophomores at Juilliard.
michael		Will she like it?
julianne		 Yes.
joe		Like to welcome ever'body to our little rehearsal supper...
joe		Okay, everyone stand up!
joe		To the bride, uh, goes the honor... of cracking the first crab!
kimmy		But first, a toast!
julianne		 I'm right-handed.
kimmy		To our host, my cuddly Papa Joe.
kimmy		Who taught me to play "Blue Hawaii." On my nose.
mandy		I know why you're scared of our party.  It's too hip.
sammy		Kimberly wanted to tickle the grandmas, so we figured, give 'em a cheap thrill.  Walter supplied the decorative touches...
sammy		 Nose tackle from the Bears... power forward from the Bulls... defenseman from the Black Hawks... my personal favorite, the designated hitter...
mandy		... I'm partial to the tight end.
sammy		This is USDA Prime, largely available, beef.  With no notice- able competition, present company excepted...
sammy		And yet here you are.  All celibate and reclusive.
mandy		With those big, dark, haunted eyes. As if you were harborin' some... unspeakably... guilty... secret.
julianne		Well, I'm worried about something.
julianne		Oh.  I left this really important file in Walter's office.  I have to send my editor some...
julianne		... figures.  On territorial sales. To close my book deal.
julianne		So Kim gave me the key.  And Michael's on his way, to drive me down to Wal...
sammy		Oh.  We thought it was the ring.
mandy		The one you better get the fuck off your third finger left hand.
julianne		Well.  See.  That was a... reflex to see if it would...
mandy		 ... look good on Kimberly.
julianne		Right.  And then it didn't want to come off.  Exactly.
sammy		Maybe it's happy there.
mandy		Oh the way out of the crab house? We asked Michael if we could see the ring?
sammy		He said you told him.  It'd be safer with you.
mandy		An so it is.
mandy		Shut up, sugar, he's on his way. Let's get to work.
eight people		TWIST IT!  TWIST IT!
janitor		It's mental, lady, you ain't trying!
sammy		There is nothing so tight, this can't help it...
mandy		I saw this on Hard Copy.  People cut off body parts and the hospital sew 'em back o...
julianne		 I saw the show.
mandy		... well, maybe it works on fingers, too.
flower girl		Mr.  Michael's here.
mandy		Don't worry, baby.  You could pick your nose with that finger and Michael would never notice. He's a man.
julianne		I can't believe this!
michael		It's no big deal, she just gave you the wrong keys that's s...
julianne		ISN'T THERE A GUARD?  A JANITOR? A FUCKING CLEANING WOMAN? I'LL TAKE A BURGLAR!  SOMEBODY'S GOTTA BE IN TH...
julianne		WHERE'S A BRICK?  FIND ME A GODDAMN BRICK!!
michael		What is the big deal about getting this file tonight?
julianne		I promised Digger I'd E-mail him those figures.
julianne		They are very important figures.
julianne		I'm up against a deadline.
michael		Me, too.  I'm getting married tomorrow.
julianne		That's my point!!
julianne		I mean, tomorrow... we'll all be busy with more important things. So...
julianne		... tonight's my last chance.
michael		I forgot how cute you look.  When you get impossible.
julianne		It's just... up there... right in front of Walter's... y'know, computer. If memory serves.
julianne		We could use... his computer, to... just E-mail those suckers right ou...
michael		Tomorrow is Sunday.  Nobody's doing business.  Crack of dawn, Monday, Walter'll take you up there...
michael		 Give it up, kid.
michael		You can't win 'em all.
michael		 Listen up, huh? Even if you blow this deal, how big could it be?
julianne		 You're right.  Easy come, easy go.
michael		 Jules?
michael		This thing means that much to y...
julianne		It means a lot.
michael		I'll call the house, Walter's probably not even asleep...
michael		I'll drive you out there, we'll get the key, we'll go back to the office...
michael		Come on, we'll call from your room.
michael		If I fall asleep on the altar tomorrow...
michael		... you better be there to... funny, these are all from Ben.
michael		The fax is from Ben, too.  Man, it's my wedding, and my boss can't leave me alone...
julianne		 ... maybe it's congratulations.
julianne		 Michael? What ha...
michael		 Mike.  I can't believe I'm doing this to you on the night before your wedding.  But I think you need and deserve to know...
michael		... what you're marrying into.
julianne		 I received the following E-mail this afternoon... "Ben, I need a favor.  My daughter's every happiness...  "
julianne		 "Mike, the funny thing is, he's offering you a gig you'd be stupid to turn down..."
julianne		 "Maybe you should take the job. And dump the girl."
michael		Jules.  Could you give me a minute?
michael		Please?
bellman		Miss, are you locked out, or something?
julianne		No, I just stepped out, because... it's a non-smoking room.
bellman		 Well, it's non-smoking floor, too.  Maybe you could go to the...
julianne		 Why don't you have me arrested?
julianne		I mean that.  Arrested, convicted, put in solitary.
julianne		See, I'm a dangerous, criminal person.  I do bad things to honest people.  This, see, this smoking?  Tip of the iceberg.
julianne		Make a citizen's arrest, I won't struggle.  It'll be like getting Al Capone on tax evasion.
bellman		Can I... Can I help you, miss?
julianne		Do you smoke, Richard?
bellman		Yes, ma'am, I do, but it's...
julianne		... a non-smoking floor, yeah. Well, you know what?
bellman		My grandmother always said, "This, too, shall pass."
julianne		Thanks, Richard.  If you weren't on duty, I'd buy you a drink.
julianne		What happened?
michael		 It's over.
michael		I want you to quit this shit, it'll kill you.
michael		She denied it.  Said I was crazy and paranoid.
julianne		A bad combination.
michael		There's this big brunch tomorrow morning?  At her place.
michael		She said "How can I call everything off, what do I tell everybody?"
julianne		Michael...
michael		No, it's for the best, it really is.  We were so wrong for each other.
julianne		Maybe tomorrow, you'll feel dif...
michael		The job thing would have broken us up, eventually, anyway.  She couldn't have lived with it.  I know that now.
michael		And she's right, I'm crazy to fall for someone.  I hardly knew.
michael		Hey.  You still got that ring?
julianne		I tried it on.  But it won't come off.
julianne		It's mental, you know.
julianne		Should we take a walk?  Or maybe some food sent up, or something...
michael		I just want to be alone.  Is that okay?
michael		Maybe I'll go back to New York. Hang with you for awhile, huh? Ben'll understand.
michael		Or we'll go somewhere.  If you have the time.
julianne		If San Antonio sweeps Sacramento...
julianne		I've never been to Texas.
michael		Thanks for coming to my wedding.
julianne		Hey, handsome.  Brevity this...
julianne		 I won.
julianne		Amazing, huh?  I didn't do things quite your way.  But... I got it down.
julianne		And forty years and nine grand- children later, when I sit with Michael on some rustic porch, slogging through our sweet swamp of nostalgic memories...
julianne		No one is going to sweet the details...
julianne		Of one weekend in Chicago.
julianne		Talk about celebration...
julianne		I'm gonna brush my teeth with actual toothpaste.
julianne		I guess I'm too exhausted to feel the elation I so richly undeserve...
julianne		So I'm gonna hold calls at the desk... while I get my...
julianne		 God, it is toothpaste, they should sell this stuff commercially! Anyway, a girl does need her...
julianne		... well, we're a bit past worrying about beauty sleep. Let's just settle for not frightening small animals.
julianne		Anyway, I couldn't have done it without you.  Even though I did, if you follow that.
julianne		Three words:  Happily.  Ever. Well, you know.
julianne		 You're going where?
isabelle		Jules.  We're so glad you slept in.
isabelle		Now, you have a choice.  The idea is bride and groom shouldn't see each other on the magic day...
isabelle		So Michael stays put in the garden. Kimmy stays in here...
julianne		She looks tense.
isabelle		 Nerves.  I would never have guessed.
julianne		I had the craziest dream last night?  Walter and Kimmy had asked your boss to...
michael		Look, I came down here to face everybody.  I didn't want to slink away like some coward...
julianne		But the Scotch salmon was so fucking good, you decided to stay for brunch!
michael		She hasn't told anybody, what am I supposed to do?
julianne		Get married, apparently.
julianne		What the hell are you thinking of, the goddamn wedding is SIX O'CLOCK!!
michael		This is her family and her fault.
julianne		And your point?
michael		 Well.  How come she didn't...
julianne		BECAUSE SHE'S AS CHICKENSHIT AS YOU ARE, YOU MORONS ARE MADE FOR EACH OTHER.
michael		Hey.  This is a serious matter.
julianne		I'll be right back.
kimmy		Look at all this beautiful food, so lovingly prepared...
julianne		They'll eat it anyway, you ever been to a walk?
julianne		You guys want to give us a minute?
julianne		We'd like to be alone with our pork.
kimmy		How's he doing?
julianne		Who?  The jerk who's running your life?
kimmy		This must be... very, very, hard on him.
julianne		What with the psychosis and all, yeah.
julianne		When are you gonna come clean with your folks?
kimmy		Don't you see...
julianne		If you're waiting for "Do you take this man?", that's considered poor form.
kimmy		... that this is all my fault?
kimmy		Whatever delusions I drove him to, there is truth at the heart of it. I want him to work for my father. I want to stay in school.  I want a life of my own!
julianne		Yeah, well, lots of couples are imcompat...
kimmy		I love him.
kimmy		Tell him it's my fault and that I love him.
julianne		I'll be right back.
michael		How is she?
julianne		KNOCK IT OFF!!!
stoner kid		 YES, SIR!
michael		I asked you...
julianne		She admits it's her fault.
michael		Do you think she still loves me?
julianne		Sure, she does.  She's crazy about you.
michael		I keep asking, how can I explain what happened? And I keep getting that same answer all night long.
michael		I can't.  And it doesn't matter. I drove her to it, because I want things my way.  And even if she did something tricky and unfair... she was blinded by love, okay?
julianne		Does that make it right...
michael		Love doesn't have to be right. It just has to be love.
michael		She's giving up half her life for me, and I'm bitching because it hurts her.
stoners		 Sail on silver girl Sail on by...
michael		She's a saint!  And I'm a worthless ingrate!
stoners		 Your time has come to shine, All your dreams are on their way...
michael		Tell her.  I'll marry her at six o'clock, if she'll still have me.
julianne		I'll be right back.
kimmy		 So.  What did he say?
julianne		He said.  Marry me.
michael		 Thank God you were here.
julianne		 Oh, yeah.
michael		I was so confused, so conflicted, so... unstable.
julianne		Well, it happens.
michael		I might have thrown away...
julianne		... your one chance for true happiness?
michael		... yeah, that.
julianne		You never want to do that, see, that's always a... costly turnover.  As they say in the sport biz.
michael		 Are you okay?
julianne		The Big Hurt, huh?
michael		Nellie Fox.  Walter likes the past.  And he likes the little guys.
julianne		Got a minute?
julianne		Why is the dance floor by the gazebo?
michael		Kimmy's idea.  She thought it would be such a romantic place. For our wedding dance.
michael		What's up?
julianne		Shhh.
julianne		I have to say this quick, okay, or I'll have this massive coronary and you'll never have to hear it.  Which you need to. Does that make any sense at all?
michael		Jules, what's wrong...
julianne		This is the dumbest thing I will ever do.  So dumb, in fact, that I can't.  I don't think.
julianne		Michael, I love you.
julianne		I've loved you for nine years, but I was too arrogant and scared to realize it.  Now I'm just scared.
julianne		I know this comes at an inopportune time, but I have to ask this one really gigantic favor, okay?
julianne		Choose me.  Marry me.  Let me make you happy.
julianne		I know.  It sounds like three favors.
julianne		But when you think about it...
julianne		MICHAEL, DON'T, YOU'LL NEVER CATCH HER!!
julianne		SHE HAS TOO BIG A LEAD AND SHE DRIVES LIKE A RABID ANIMAL!!!
julianne		 DOESN'T ANYBODY LEAVE KEYS ANYMORE?  WHATEVER HAPPENED TO TRUST??
julianne		IT IS NOT GOING WELL!
julianne		THIS IS WHAT COMES OF TELLING THE TRUTH!
julianne		OR EVEN PART OF IT!
julianne		GETTING WHAT YOU DESERVE IS NOT FAIR!
julianne		AND I HATE TALKING TO YOUR MACHINE!
julianne		MICHAEL!!
julianne		NNNOOOO!!!
julianne		 Don't speak!
michael		Uh.  I saw that moving...
julianne		DON'T SPEAK!
julianne		I have to make a confession. Another confession.  Besides that I love you.  This is even worse.
julianne		The E-mail?  You thought Walter sent your boss?  I wrote that.
michael		You're not saying you actually... you're saying that y...
julianne		 ... wrote it, yeah.  I'm the bad guy.
michael		ARE YOU CRAZY?
michael		ARE YOU ABSOLUTELY INSANE??
michael		ARE YOU ON DRUGS???
michael		 I mean, do you realize what you've... well, of course you realize, that's why you're confessing, I mean... I mean... how could you do that?
julianne		I didn't know it would get sent.  I just wanted you to... get mad at Kimmy... and...
julianne		I've done nothing but slimy, underhanded, despicable, not even terribly imaginative, things.  Ever since I got here.  Trying to...
julianne		... to win you.  To win you back.
julianne		And I was blinded by love. Like you said.
julianne		But that doesn't excuse any part of it.  I am pond scum.
julianne		Actually.  Lower.  I am the fungus that feeds on pond scum.  Lower. The layer of mucous that cruds up the fung...
michael		Lower.
julianne		 Lower.
michael		The pus that infects the mucous that cruds up the fungus.
michael		 On the other hand, thank you.
michael		For loving me that much, that way.
michel		It's pretty flattering.
julianne		Except it makes me fungus.
michael		Well, that part I knew.
julianne		So you have to marry Kim. Because she will actually make you happy.  I, in contrast, am a shallow, neurotic psychopath, with relatively little to offer.
julianne		Kim.  Nod your head.  Do as you're told.
julianne		Just promise you'll never tell me who you would have chosen. If I hadn't confessed.
julianne		Cos if you would have chosen me. Then I threw away a perfectly good life.  Just to be a decent person.  Which is a questionable trade-off.  Right?
julianne		And if you would have chosen some 20-year-old punk over me. I'd have to kill myself.
michael		 I'll take it to my grave.
julianne		I'm so glad you didn't jump on that train, before...
michael		I came here, looking for her.
julianne		Why would she come here...
michael		This is where I proposed.
michael		I had to cover a game in Milwaukee.  She saw me off. And when the train started to leave... I jumped up on the step, I help the handle, and without...
michael		... without a thought in my head. I shouted, "Marry me."
michael		And she gasped, and covered her mouth, and the train was pulling out, and suddenly she screamed YES!  Just once.  And blew me a kiss.
michael		I never forgot that.
julianne		It's two weeks.
michael		Almost three.
julianne		That is so romantic.
michael		I just wonder if you know why.
michael		It's because romance isn't mystery, and tricks, and doubts, and halting, unspoken longings. That's not the real romance.
michael		The real romance is saying yes.
michael		 Woulda been a nice wedding.
julianne		 You can't believe you've lost her!  Sooner or later, you'll find her, and you'll look in each other's eyes, and you'll see all that love...
julianne		Course, if it's later rather than sooner, I'd hate to be you at six o'clock.  You've got a lot of explaining to...
michael		I'm just thinking of how she's hurting.  Lost.  Alone.  Like her life is over.
julianne		That's little egotistical.
julianne		But, undoubtedly accurate.
julianne		Okay, we'll split up.  You go to every romantic place you guys have, I'll go... someplace brilliant, and the first one who...
michael		If you find her...
michael		The kiss.  May be hard.  For you to explain.  Because the only fear she really has, is...
julianne		... me, yeah.  And she likes Tommy Lasorda.  Case closed.
michael		But if you do get to her first...
michael		There is something you are authorized to say.
julianne		It's Jules, you guys haven't had a call from, say, Kimberly, have you?
julianne		Ex-cuse me?
julianne		You are so right.  What a nerve on that guy!  Bring my dress to church, huh?
julianne		I want to pick up a little something for the ceremony.
bodyguard		She wouldn't confide in me, so I called the house.
bodyguard		Luckily, I got her cousin.
julianne		Going to the john, she said?
bodyguard		Could be there awhile.
julianne		YO!  IMMIGRATION!
julianne		I GOT A WARRANT FOR MS. KIMBERLY WALLACE!
kimmy		 In here, you bitch!
julianne		Let me in, baby, or I'll rip this damn thing off its non- code-compliant hinges...
kimmy		 Over here, nitwit!
julianne		Incoming.
julianne		Pitiful.
kimmy		Haven't you done enough?
julianne		In one minute.  You are going to feel so foolish.
kimmy		WHY DON'T YOU JUST DRIVE A STAKE THROUGH MY HEART?
julianne		Have you ever heard of. Irony?
julianne		I threw my arms around your husband.  And kissed him with all my heart.  Because I was so happy.  For you.  Nitwit.
julianne		 The job!
julianne		 With your dad, yeah.  Can you guess why?  Bitch?
kimmy		HE LOVES ME!!
julianne		Well, of course, he loves you.
julianne		 Hell, even I love you.
julianne		I never want to go through this again.
kimmy		That's entirely understandable.
sammy		Whatever hap...
julianne		 We were bonding, we lost track, we're officially sorry, now let's put it behind us.
julianne		Believe me, we got a bride who's worth waiting for, yes?
julianne		Out of our way.
julianne		Don't worry, sugar.
julianne		When he looks at you, it will be as if...
julianne		... he's never seen a woman before.
walter		 Left foot.
minister		Michael and Kimmy wrote these words.  She asked me to confide, mostly Michael.
minister		So he gets to say them.
michael		Why do people get married anymore?
michael		That's what we want.  And marriage. Is what we do about it.
michael		We are fools in this.  Thank God Almighty.
minister		Boy, that was good!
minister		Michael and Kim also edited what they want me to say...
minister		The idea was, we're only marrying once.  We have to remember it forever.  Let's keep to the good stuff.  You may kiss the bride.
michael		Kimberly.  I promise to love. And respect and comfort you. To hear your voice and your heart.  Until we are parted by death.
kimmy		Michael.  I promise to love and respect and comfort you.  To hear your voice and your heart. Until we are parted by death.
minister		For the record, you each agree to marry the other?
kimmy		 I do!
michael		 I do.
minister		We haven't said much about God this evening, I know.  But He is here.  And He is happy.  To bless His wonderful children.
julianne		I'm a writer, too, not as good as Michael.  But I do steal from quality.
julianne		This is to my best friend.  On the occasion of his wedding.
julianne		If I have truly come to know your bride as my new sister. This is in her heart...
julianne		"Understand.  I'll slip quietly away from the noisy crowd when I see the pale stars rising, blooming, over the oaks."
julianne		"I'll pursue solitary pathways through the pale twilit meadows, with only this one dream: You come too."
julianne		I don't have a wedding gift. But this is on loan.  Until you two find your song...
michael		Wherever I go.  However far...
julianne		You win a few, you lose a few. Some get rained out.
digger		 You have a good time?
julianne		I did what I came to do.
digger		 Good girl.
julianne		I'll think about it.  I'm okay.
julianne		You, too.
julianne		If the sun comes up, I'll see you tomorrow, huh?
****Dialogues from script :My_Girl.txt****

vada		 Dad, I don't wanna upset you, but my left breast is developing at a significantly faster rate than my right. It can only mean one thing.  Cancer.  I'm dying.
harry		 O.K. Sweetie, hand me the mayonnaise out of the fridge.
vada		All right, who's in raise your hand.
boy		Are you coming or not Thomas J?
vada		I knew he wouldn't come.
vada		Leave him alone! Come on, let's go.
vada		 Hey, you didn't pay me!
vada		You're such a baby.
vada		All right, follow me and don't say a word.
vada		Okay. Lean forward.
boy		I want my money back!
vada		I was afraid of this.
vada		Well, sometimes when we get 'em, they're not completely dead, you know, like when they cut a chickens head off and it still runs around crazy.
vada		I bet she's roaming around this house somewhere.
vada		Hi Grammoo.
harry		 Vada would you bring down my cigarettes?
vada		Seeya later. 
harry		Did I tell you, he was my woodshop teacher.
arthur		You took woodshop?
harry		Yeah, I made a tie rack.
arthur		I made a tie rack.
vada		Ahem.
harry		Vada, just put 'em on the stool.
vada		Daddy guess what I beat Thomas J in monopoly yesterday.
harry		 Ya, that rack holds six ties.
arthur		I still have mine.
vada		Arthur!!
arthur		Vada!!
vada		I beat Thomas J in monopoly yesterday.
arthur		Good for you baby.
vada		Once you put the hotels on board walk and Park Place he puts a shoe in your way.
arthur		I like to buy off all the railroads.
harry		Vada, we're trying to work here.
vada		Cruella deville stole all the puppies, she was gonna make a fur out of 'em!
harry		 Hand me the canula.
harry		 VADA!
vada		Dad?
harry		I'm embalming my high school teacher, don't sing. 
harry		 One nice model C-501 bronze stainless eternal journey, yeah, you look like a champion.
stranger		Is Mr. Harry Sultenfuss in?
vada		Sure, come on in.
stranger		 Could I see your Dad, just for a second?
vada		DAD, SOMEBODY'S HERE!!
stranger		Oh.
harry		How may I... Help you?
stranger		I'm Shelly devoto. We spoke, the other day regarding the make up artist job.
harry		Oh yes.
shelly		It's still available I hope?
harry		I think it's still available.
shelly		I'm a licensed cosmetologist, I worked for two years, at the "Dino Raphael" Salon, all my customers cried when I told them I was leaving.
harry		Uhh, Miss devoto...
shelly		I have a wonderful disposition, I put people right at ease.
harry		Uhh, Miss devoto, these people are already at ease. This is not a Beauty Parlor, it's a Funeral Parlor.
shelly		They're dead?
harry		Yes they are.
shelly		Stiffs??
harry		 Deceased.
shelly		The add just said "Makeup Artist"
harry		Ahh, excuse me a second will you? 
vada		Is that your camper?
shelly		Yes it is.
vada		That's really cool.
shelly		 Hello.
vada		She's shy.
shelly		Oh.
harry		Just put it back in the display room fellers.
men		Okay Harry.
vada		Daddy, how come that coffin's so small?
harry		They come in all sizes honey, just like shoes.
vada		Is it for a child?
harry		Of course not.
vada		Then who's it for?
harry		Short people, very short people.
shelly		Excuse me, what about the job?
harry		Pardon?
shelly		I need the job.
harry		Oh, You still want it? Even though uhh...
shelly		Ohh, oh sure it's no big deal, you see all my former clients will eventually die, and all your clients used to be alive, so they have something in common.
harry		You'd be doing hair and makeup and answering the phone.
shelly		Okay Mr. Sultenfuss, you got a deal.
harry		Great, you can start right away. Call me Harry. Now, umm, is this what you'd normally wear for work? Don't get me wrong, I like it, very much, but the....
shelly		I promise i'll take good care of these people, they deserve it, they're dead, all they've got left is their looks.
vada		Oh wow, a real evil canieval.
psycho mechanic		WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU DOING IN MY GARAGE, GET OUTTA HERE!!!
nurse randall		Hi Vada, what's wrong today?
vada		I'm very sick.
nurse randall		Okay, take a seat, i'll check if the doctor can see you.
nurse randall		Okay, he'll see you, why don't you go in?
vada		Well, what is it? I can handle it.
dr welty		You are perfectly healthy.
vada		That can't be, I have all the classic symptoms.
dr welty		Sweetheart, did they bring Mr. Layton to your house today?
vada		Yes.
dr welty		Vada you've gotta stop this, there's absolutely nothing wrong with you!
vada		I'll just have to get a second opinion.
vada		The whole medical profession is a crack.
vada		Hey look!
vada		That's Mr. Bixler, let's go talk to him.
vada		Hi Mr. Bixler!
vada		It's okay. Mr. Bixler, I finished all the books for summer reading.
vada		Yes, and now I'm reading War & Peace for fun.
vada		Mr. Bixler, how come you're painting this old house?
vada		This is one big house for one single person.
vada		How are you gonna get the money for this old house if you're not working?
vada		How much does it cost?
vada		What do you get for that?
vada		No. Well, guess i'll go home and finish off War & Peace.
vada		No, I'm going home.
vada		Dinner time?? You're like a dog! You just go home to eat.
shelly		Excuse me Harry, I finished Mr. Layton's hair. He kinda looked......  Harry, what's wrong with her??
harry		Oh, she's just pretending. Vada, get up here and eat your broccoli!
vada		 I think it's my prostate.
grammoo		I got rhythm, I got music, I got my man who could ask for anything more? I got daisies, in green pastures, I got my man, who could ask for anything more?
shelly		Who's winning?
vada		I am.
vada		He is not my boyfriend!
vada		Do you think I kissed that ugly old thing?
judy		Maybe you can come some time.
shelly		You know Vada, you shouldn't let those girls upset you.
vada		I'm not upset. I will never play with those girls. I only surround myself with people who I find intellectually stimulating.
shelly		 Want a piece of chocolate?
shelly		Thomas J?
shelly		To chocolate?
vada		He's allergic to everything.
shelly		Chocolate?
shelly		Ooh, that's a pretty ring you're wearing.
vada		It's a mood ring, it tells what mood I'm in.
vada		It's only black when you're around 'cause you put me in a bad mood.
shelly		Maybe black means you're happy?
vada		I don't think so.  Shelly, how can I get thirty five dollars?
vada		It's not a real school, it's a writing class, I wanna be a writer.
vada		Shut your big fat mouth!
shelly		I think you'd make a fine writer, did you ask your Dad?
vada		He won't give it to me.
shelly		Well you don't know that. Ask him.
vada		Daddy, can I have thirty five dollars?
harry		That's a lot of money for a little girl.
vada		It's for school, for summer writing class.
harry		 Any more soda left?
vada		Shelly thinks I'd be a good writer.
harry		Last month you wanted to play the violin. Then you wanted to be a ventriloquist.
vada		Dad?
vada		Dad??
harry		What?
vada		The money?
harry		Ahh, maybe next summer.
vada's thoughts		He forgot about the time I wanted to be a magician, I was really great at making myself disappear.
vada		Wanna play?
arthur		No, I gotta go to the cemetery, keep your head up. Don't look at the ball, look at me.
shelly		Vada? VADA?? What happened??
vada		 My ball, I lost my ball.
shelly		 Come on sweetie.
shelly		Excuse me Harry?
harry		Uh huh?
shelly		Could you take a look at Mrs. Porter?
harry		Yeah.
shelly		Yeah, 
shelly		You don't like it?
harry		This was the Reverend Porter's wife, you have her looking like a two dollar hooker.
shelly		 I think she looks nice! Her lips are very thin so I used the gloss to give them a more sensual quality, and her eyes just needed a little definition, and her hair, I'm sorry,
harry		She did. This photo was taken a month ago at the church food drive.
shelly		I just wanted to get past this "old school Marm" image.
harry		That wasn't an image. She WAS an old school Marm.  Fix it.
shelly		Harry?  I was just wondering, if there is anything wrong with Vada.
harry		What do you mean??
shelly		Well the other night at dinner...
harry		Oh that, she just likes to play.
shelly		I don't think so, I think she's confused about death.
harry		She was raised in a funeral home, she knows a thing or two about it.
shelly		Harry, I really think she.....
harry		 She's a perfectly happy eleven year old girl, look, don't give me any advice about my daughter, okay?
vada		There's Shelly!
shelly		Hi.
vada		Can we look around in your camper?
shelly		Sure. I'll give you the royal tour.
shelly		Uh huh.
shelly		Liverpool?
vada		Big Ringo fan.
shelly		Ohh, right. Would you like a soda?
vada		I would.
shelly		Thomas?
shelly		Oh! You shouldn't be looking at that, it's a little too old for you.
vada		Did you read ALL these books?
shelly		Uh huh.
vada		What are they about?
shelly		Mostly love, and romance.
shelly		They're just fun to read.
vada		Are you married?
shelly		No, I'm divorced.
vada		Daddy said it's bad when people get divorced.
shelly		Well, sometimes married people just find out they can't live with each other.
shelly		With bottle of soda in mouth Hmmmph gurgle gurgle...
shelly		Well, I guess you found my secret hiding place.
shelly		Nothing in particular, just putting it away for a rainy day.
shelly		Bye. Well Miss Vada, what d'you say we head back?
vada		Can I use your bathroom first?
shelly		Sure.
vada		You don't have to wait, daddy'll be mad if you're late.
shelly		Okay.
guy		I got one.
vada		 I paid the money.
vada		Uh huh, I wanna be a writer.
justin		Hey, I think it's real beautiful. She want's to be a writer.
ronda		I experienced something with my boyfriend the other day, and I wrote a few words down.
ronda		He covers me like a blanket, from the cold, dark night, As I look into his eyes, I know it's right, To touch, To feel, I know he's real, Flesh all a mush, Flesh ALL a mush, I can't fight it, There's no point, I wake up in Lighter joint.
vada		I wrote a poem too.
vada		Loads of ice-cream by Vada Sultenfuss I like ice-cream a whole lot, It tastes good when days are hot, On a cone or in a dish, This would be my only wish, Vanilla, chocolate or rocky road, Even with pie a la mode.
justin		I hear that Vada, Flesh all a Mush or Rocky Road, it's about desire.
vada's thoughts		My fears and secrets. I'm afraid I killed my mother.
harry		 Can not do without, Harry's wild about me.
shelly		Excuse me Harry, I'm sorry, I just wanna let you know that the flowers were delivered. And the room's all set up.
harry		Thanks, listen I wanna apologize for the other day downstairs, about Vada, I was a little harsh.
shelly		I shouldn't stick my nose in other people's business. It's just that I like Vada, very much.
harry		After my wife died, Grammoo moved in here to help take care of Vada. They were very close, but lately as her mind's been wandering more and more, Vada's been acting kinda crazy. I'm sure she'll snap out of it though.
shelly		I'm sure she will.
vada		Maybe they had a big breakfast.
vada		Big deal, I can do that too.  Thomas J, you got something!
vada		Hurry!
vada		Reel it in.  He's only tiny, throw him back.
vada		You're hurting him, don't kill him!!
vada		Ouch! Darn hook!
vada		I'm bleeding, did he get away? Go look.
vada		Hey, we can become blood brothers.
vada		You could pick that scab on your arm.
vada		It'll bleed.
vada		Uh huh.
vada		Okay, rub them together.
vada		Now we're blood brothers for life.
shelly		Hi.
harry		Oh Hi, what can I do for you?
shelly		Nothing, I was just wondering what you were doing.
harry		Oh, I'm just typing up a funeral notice, you know when someone dies people want it in the paper usually, it's a service we provide for the family.
shelly		Oh right, right, . Bader Lorenzo Died June 22 1972 Devoted husband to Nicolette. Cherished father of Babritzio and Heidi, In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the holy names society.
harry		I wrote that.
shelly		No kidding?
shelly		Oh it's good, "In lieu of" I love that word lieu.
harry		I prefer it to "instead", it has more dignity.
shelly		In lieu... "instead".... No contest.
harry		It's no big deal.
shelly		You have to learn how to take a complement.  Movies, movies, ahhhh, "Love Story" at the drive in, I cried my eyes out, did you see it?
harry		I haven't been to the movies in AGES.
shelly		I love going to movies, especially at the drive in. I don't think there's anything more romantic than going to the drive in.  I'll let you get back to work.
harry		I do enjoy playing bingo, if you'd like to join me for a game tomorrow night at church you're welcome to.
shelly		 Okay.
shelly		Hi Vada.
vada		Are you going out somewhere?
shelly		No.
vada		So how come you're putting lipstick on?
shelly		A girl's always gotta look her best.
vada		I think lipstick looks fake, no-ones lips are that color.
shelly		Have you ever tried any?
vada		No.
shelly		Come here, sit down.
shelly		Now, first we blot.
shelly		Take a look. I think it looks real nice on you.
vada		Shelly, do you think I'm pretty?
shelly		Yes, Vada I think you're very pretty. You've got these great big sparkling eyes, the cutest little nose, an amazing mouth.
vada		The boys at school don't think I am.
shelly		They'll come around. Close your eyes, I wanna bring out the gorgeous color in them. The first rule in applying eye makeup, is you can never wear enough blue eye shadow.
vada		Do you like putting makeup on people?
shelly		Uh huh, i've been trying to get out to Hollywood for years to do makeup for all the stars, I haven't gotten there yet.  All right, open your eyes.
vada		Shelly, I would definitely hold off on that Hollywood thing.
vada		No.
vada		A girl can never wear enough eye shadow.
vada		Oh, in the garage. Walk me over.
vada		It's only a garage, come on.
vada		Hey, one of my streamers is gone! It probably fell off in here.
vada		That was Grammoo's. It's a phrenology chart, they used to study the bumps in your head to see if you had a good personality or not. Come here, i'll diagnose your head.
vada		Come on, it's fun.
vada		Hmmmm, interesting.
vada		You have no personality.
vada		Never mind.
vada		Yes.
vada		It's my mother.
vada		No. Grammoo said she's in heaven.
vada		What?
vada		I think, everybody gets their own white horse, and all they do is ride and eat marshmallows all day, and everybody's best friends with everybody else, when you play sports, there's no teams, so nobody gets picked last.
vada		It doesn't matter, 'cause they're not regular horses, they got wings, and it's no big deal if you fall, you just land in cloud.
phil		Well well well, what's going on in here?
harry		Nothing, I'm dressing.
phil		Oh, you're dressing, uh huh, Harry Harry Harry Harry, don't you know it's not nice to lie to your big brother?
harry		HEY! WATCH THE HAIR!! THIS SHIRT GIVES!!! ALL RIGHT!!!!
phil		Oh yes, oh that's great.
harry		I'm very nervous.
phil		Why?
harry		The last date I had was twenty years ago.
phil		That's true. Harry Harry sit down, let me fill you in on today's women, since the last time you dated, something happened, "The Sexual Revolution", now before that, you used to have to hold a door open for a woman, pull her chair out, pick up the check, no more no more, you wanna know what else is missing? BRAS!
harry		Oh come on.
phil		Harry, I'm serious, trust me Harry this woman's lifting us in, you gotta treat her like every Tom Dick and Harry.
harry		Are you sure about all this?
phil		Did you not tell Vada I'm a womanizer huh?
harry		Oh, I'm running late. Shelly'll be here any minute.
phil		Oh she's picking you up, good you're on the right track.
harry		No, she's just driving over here, then we're taking my car. How do I look?
phil		Like a Sultenfuss. Go get 'em.
harry		Goodnight Vada.
vada		Dad, why are you dressed up to go to bingo?
harry		Ahh, I just wanna look nice.
vada		You never cared before.
harry		Well Shelly's coming over, we're gonna go together.
vada		Why?
harry		She likes to play bingo.
vada		Can I go too?
harry		Naah, I think you'd better stay here and keep Grammoo company.
vada		Here.
vada		Sorry.
vada		Let's go to the church, they're playing bingo tonight.
vada		Pacifist!
vada		Bed wetter!
harry		Don't worry, there's a strategy to bingo. For instance, on a given night anybody can win, but I play the odds, when choosing bingo cards, I use a range of theories from the laws of probability to avoiding duplicate number systems. This way you get much more activity.
shelly		 Does it make it easier to win?
harry		No. Just, more activity.
harry		 Hi Carl.
vada		We're not gonna bet, we're just gonna watch.
vada		Duck!
shelly		 Oh great!
vada		Ssshhhhh, I don't want them to see me.
shelly		 Aarrggh.
shelly		I just had a terrible thought Harry.
harry		What's that?
shelly		I'm gonna be putting makeup on some of these people very soon.
harry		Why d'you think these seats were empty.
vada		Go???
shelly		Oh, I'm just not lucky Harry.
harry		Look, it's not always luck, I mean, depending upon the placement of the numbers, a guy with 10 cards could win just as easily as a guy
shelly		Kinda like men.
harry		Oh, how do you mean?
shelly		You can be in a room with 100 men, and not like any of them, or you can be in a room with just one man, and he's exactly the one you want.
vada		 BINGO!
bingo announcer		We have a winner. Will the winner please raise their hand?
carl		There was no bingo, it came from outside.
vernon		How could someone outside get a bingo?
carl		Someone outside didn't get a bingo, someone outside yelled bingo you moron!
vernon		Who are you calling a mowon? 
vernon's wife		Put a lid on it Vernon!
carl		Put a lid on it?? If you weren't 200 years old, I'd kick your wrinkled ARSE!!
harry		Hey fellers fellers, it's just a bingo game.
vada		We can go now.
shelly		I had a good time tonight.
harry		I haven't had a bingo partner in ages.
shelly		Would you like to come in and see my house? Just for a minute.
harry		Okay, sure.
shelly		Home sweet home.
harry		It's nice.
shelly		I did it myself. I read a magazine article about how to maximize small spaces.
harry		Well it certainly looks bigger that it seems.
shelly		You can look in the bathroom if you want. People are always curious about that, like what happens when you flush.
harry		Yeah.
shelly		Are you mad at me?
harry		No, why?
shelly		I don't know, tonight you just seemed a little cool, not opening car doors and...
harry		Oh, that was Phil, trying to give me advice on dating 70's women. Look I'm so out of touch, I haven't dated women in ages, not since my wife died.
shelly		What happened to her?
harry		Ahh, complications during child birth, she died two days after Vada was born.
shelly		Did she ever see Vada?
harry		I brought the baby into the room a couple of times, she opened her eyes, yeah, yeah I think she saw Vada. It was.....
shelly		Dance with me?
harry		Here?
shelly		This is where we are.
harry		Is there enough room?
harry		I haven't danced in.....
shelly		In ages, I know, me neither.
harry		Rock?
shelly		See, you're not that out of touch.  You're good.
harry		At Widdman High I was considered a pretty hot date, I did a killer frugue.
shelly		What are you wearing?
harry		Old Spice, Phil says it's a timeless classic.
shelly		Do you want to?
harry		Want to what?
shelly		Kiss me.
harry		Yes.
shelly		Good.
shelly		Good at kissing, and dancing, I'm very optimistic.
harry		I ahh, better go.
shelly		It's only eight o'clock.
harry		Goodnight Shelly.
shelly		Goodnight.
shelly		Well, I guess it's official we had a date, maybe we can play bingo again sometime.
harry		I'm tired of bingo, maybe we should try that drive in of yours.
shelly		Goodnight.
woman		Ooooh that's really cool.
justin		Okay what we're gonna do is, send our vibes out into the group.
ronda		Everybody hold hands, and close your eyes. Relax your muscles and take deep breaths.
justin		Now, try to feel what the other person is feeling, without speaking any words, send out your vibe, and receive the vibes around you at the same time. Can you feel it?
ronda		Okay, open your eyes. What did everybody feel?
guy		I felt Mrs. Hunsaker's strength.
other guy		I can feel that Ronda is one with the Earth, she's so cosmically in tune.
ronda		So right on, that's exactly what I sent out, and I felt like, you were full of inner peace and harmony.
vada		I felt Justin's hangnail.
justin		No Vada, that's not what we're looking for, a hangnail is insignificant. What's in my soul, feel my aura.
vada		I don't think I'm allowed to.
justin		I tell you what, let's try it again, hold hands.
vada's thoughts		Grammoo once had a hangnail on her big toe. It got infected and traveled to her vocal chords, it ruined her singing voice, I don't think Grammoo thought it was insignificant.
harry		Lettuce, watch out for the rust when you get lettuce.
shelly		Hey, I thought I recognized you two, hi Vada.
vada		Hi.
harry		I'm just picking some things up for the barbecue.
shelly		Yeah, me too, mind if I tag along?
harry		Not at all. Lot of potatoes!
shelly		It's for Shelly's famous potato salad.
harry		I'm looking forward to that.
harry		HEY, OUCH, damn it!! Vada, watch what you're doing.
vada		Sorry.
shelly		You know this is gonna be my first 4th of July picnic in a long time.
harry		Really?
vada		 Dad, didn't you say you needed prunes REAL bad?
harry		Ahh, Vada, just put anything you want in the cart, anything at all.  I don't know what's gotten into her today.
vada's thoughts		I used to like to play with my Ken and Barbie dolls, Ken was my favorite. Then one Christmas I got them a camper, and all they wanted to do was hang out in it by themselves. So I wasn't too upset when they took that wrong turn and went over a cliff.
phil		Harry Harry Harry Harry Harry, I told you to use fewer briquettes and now look what you've done. You've cremated them.
harry		That's what I do. Do you wanna do it??
phil		No, no no....
harry		Look if you think you know how, why don't you pre-measure the briquettes in little packages, put out a product, support me for a while!
shelly		How's it going chef?
harry		Okay.
vada		Are they ready yet?
harry		No, sweetie, not yet.
vada		When?
harry		Soon honey, soon.
vada		When??
harry		In a minute, look it's hot, sweetie you'll burn your nose, look out.
shelly		Rub a dub dub, thanks for the grub, yay God.
harry		I'll second that.
vada		Hey Shelly, like seafood?
shelly		Uh huh, why?
vada		See food!
shelly		 That's attractive.
shelly		 Oh shit! Excuse me...
man		Hey Shelly, who lives here?  The Addams Family?
shelly		Danny, what are you doing here?
danny		What am I doing here????? What am I doing here?
shelly		 Hi Ralph. Oh Danny, how'd you find me here?
danny		You told everybody where you were going, I'm here for the motor home.
phil		These two people do not have a good relationship.
shelly		 No! _I_ bought it, _I_ paid for it...
shelly		I've been living in it for over a year, the camper is mine.
danny		Excuse me, MUTUAL ASSET, that's what the lawyer said, it's supposed to be "OUR MUTUAL ASSET", not "Shelly's recreational vehicle". Gimme the keys.
shelly		Keep your voice down!
danny		What?
shelly		The boss is watching us...
danny		 I'm impressed.
shelly		God I guess i'll have to introduce you now.
danny		Yeah, all right...
shelly		 This is Harry, Phil, Grammoo and Vada Sultenfuss...
danny		Vada Sultenfuss?? Tough break.
vada		 I like my name.
shelly		 We used to be married.
vada		 Are you here to take Shelly back?
harry		Uhh, it's nice to meet ya. Uhh, we got burgers and hot dogs here if you'd care to join us?
danny		Can't stay, I'm just here because my wife.....
shelly		Ex...ex, ex...
danny		My __EX__ wife seems to have ripped off my camper.
harry		Shelly?
shelly		Honestly Harry, he got the mustang, I promise.....
danny		I don't think so, I got a copy of the property settlement right here.
harry		Danny?
danny		WHAT?
harry		Okay, I know you've suffered a terrible loss, and there's really nothing anyone can do to comfort you, but I urge you to focus on the times you had with the camper, the trips you took, the sights you saw, those days are gone now, but they'll live on in your heart forever.
danny		 This guy bonking you?
shelly		 Danny that's a real _bonehead_ thing to say!
harry		 Look, you're not gonna take Shelly's camper.
danny		Oh.. Oh.. Oh no?? Oh?
harry		It's her home! It's where she lives!!
danny		Oh really, okay fine look, go cook,  Gimme the goddam keys.
shelly		Stop it! That hurts!!
harry		Danny.....
ralph		What'd you do that for??
harry		Who are you?
ralph		I'm his brother.
harry		Oh then you'll probably be visiting us here quite often.
ralph		WHY??
harry		Because if he ever tries to take Shelly's camper again, I'm gonna bury him in my front yard.
phil		 Your father is a savage.
shelly		Bye Ralph.
shelly		 Well, you were pretty great!
harry		Is it really your camper?
shelly		Can we see it from the back yard?
harry		You can get the general idea...
harry		Yep, there they are... They always look the same every year...
shelly		Pointing upwards Look...
harry		Did you ahh, love him?
shelly		I would never marry anybody I didn't love.
vada		He must like Shelly, I never saw him hit anyone in his life.
phil		He likes her.
vada		Does he love her?
phil		Probably.
vada		Do you like her?
phil		Yes I do, and I think she's very good for your father.
vada		Why?
phil		After your mother died, he was sad all the time, but before that, he was pretty funny.
vada		Really?
phil		Now when I see him with Shelly, sometimes he seems like the old Harry.
vada		My Dad was funny?
phil		Well he wasn't one of the Marx brothers, but he made me laugh.
vada's thoughts		My Uncle fought in the Korean war, he had a steel plate put in his head, Daddy said he didn't come back the same, one night, he picked up a radio station from Oklahoma in his teeth, it was really neat.
vada		Aaaaaaaaaahhhhh.
vada		 Carnnk yu sheeee ik??
vada		Can't you see it?
dr welty		No.
vada		It's there.
dr welty		Vada there is no chicken bone stuck in your throat.
vada		Dr. Welty, are you sure those are yours?
nurse randall		So you fill it with water like this, and what have you got? A water gun.
nurse randall		Oh yes, yes.
nurse randall		Do you think she is?
nurse randall		Why do you think she says that?
nurse randall		You know what I think? I think Vada's very lucky to have a friend like you.
nurse randall		Miss Vada, how are you feeling?
vada		As good as can be expected.
vada		What?
vada		HEY YOU!!!!  I'll get you!!!!
vada		What?
vada		So?
vada		Are you crazy, you'll get stung!!
vada		What do you want it for anyway?
vada		My mood ring! It fell off! I gotta find it!
vada		I am running faster!!
vada		Jump in the water!!
vada		Do it!
harry		 Vada is that you?
vada		Yes..
harry		Hey guess what? We're going to the carnival tonight, be ready to go in 10 minutes.
harry		Shelly's coming with us.
shelly		So Vada, what's your favorite ride?
vada		I like the freak show.
harry		I know, I know, let's go on the "sit on the bench and rest" ride.
shelly		I don't think that that roller coaster agreed with your bad stomach. You know Vada you have to watch what you eat here, I remember one time I went to a carnival with my cousins David and Frank, and they both ate hot dogs, and the next day they came down with nephritis.
vada		Nephritis? It's a kidney disease, you don't get it from hot dogs.
shelly		Well, I'm no doctor. All I know is, the next day they had really high fevers, and their faces got very fat. They baffled medical science, they were in a magazine.
shelly		They were!! "Popular Mechanics", no "Popular Science". I don't know, popular.
shelly		Oh look they're trying to hit that poor thing.
harry		Watch you don't knock out a fish.
shelly		Perfect.
harry		I don't know which ball's mine.
vada		I won, I won!!!
shelly		Oh great!!
attendant		Hooray, we have a winner,  See how easy it is folks!
shelly		Oh Vada, that's a gorgeous goldfish.
vada		Where'd you get that ring?
vada		 Did you win it?
shelly		Vada we have something to tell you. Harry?
harry		Vada we have some good news, Shelly and I are getting married.
vada		Oh my fish!!!
harry		We're having the wedding sometime near the end of the summer.
vada		Not acknowledging Harry's comment You'll be okay little fish.
shelly		Vada? Would you like us to get you another goldfish?
vada		 Fish are very resilient animals you know. Don't worry, I won't get another fish.
announcer		THE BUMPER CARS!! THE BUMPER CARS!! FOR JUST 50 CENTS A HALF DOLLAR, FIVE DIMES, 10 NICKELS, WE HAVE A RIDE THAT'S GUARANTEED TO REARRANGE ALL OF YOUR INTERNAL ORGANS.
shelly		Oh bumper cars, oh you can't go to a carnival and not ride the bumper cars.
harry		I fall asleep at the wheel.
vada		 I'll ride on the bumper cars with you!
shelly		Oh great Vada, come on...
shelly		 I got the blue one!!
vada		NO!
shelly		Yes!!
shelly		 I am gonna get you.
harry		Vada, keep your hands on the wheel!!
harry		Careful Vada, careful.
harry		Shelly LOOK OUT!
vada		Hi, can Thomas J come out?
vada		Hi, wanna ride bikes?
vada		Bye Mrs. Sennett.
vada		I'm running away.
vada		California, I'm going to Hollywood to live with the Brady Bunch.
vada		No, you can't, they have enough kids, you'll have to live with the Partridge Family.
vada		Get up!?
vada		My Dad gave Shelly a ring.
vada		You're such a retard, it was an engagement ring.
vada		I don't like her.
vada		He likes her better than me.
vada		Then go home, baby.
vada		Leave then, some friend you are.
vada		No, I'm hiding out.
vada's thoughts		In social studies we learned some people stole the Limburg baby right out of his house, I think i'll sleep with my window OPEN tonight.
vada		OH MY GOD!!!
vada		DADDY!! Daddy daddy!!!! Daddy!!??!?!
vada		Daddy??!?!?!
shelly		Vada, Vada, what's the matter?
vada		Where's Daddy?
shelly		Well he just left, what's wrong?
vada		I'm hemorrhaging.
shelly		What do you mean you're hemorrhaging?
vada		 I don't want, I don't need your help....
shelly		Vada, did this happen in the bathroom?
shelly		How old are you?
vada		I'm eleven and a half.
shelly		It's okay, come on upstairs, we have to have a little talk.
vada		My Mommy and Daddy did THAT?
shelly		It's actually a very beautiful thing, and look there wouldn't have been a Vada.
vada		I think it should be outlawed.
shelly		Believe me, some day, you'll feel differently.
vada		Oh, that's probably Thomas J, I don't wanna see him. It's not fair. Nothing happens to boys.
vada		I dunno..
vada		NO!
vada		Grammoo, I'm going to the bathroom, i'll be right back.
grammoo		It's quarter to three, there's no-one in the place, just you and me.
harry		I'm so sorry, it's all right ma, I'm very very sorry.
harry		Grabs Vada by the shoulders Now what were you thinking, huh? HUH???? It's your responsibility to watch her!! Do you have any idea how upset those people are in there???!
vada		Why do you think people want to get married?
vada		I'm gonna marry Mr. Bixler.
vada		It is not.
vada		Not true.
vada		 Have you ever kissed anyone?
vada		Uh huh.
vada		Maybe we should, just to see what's the big deal.
vada		Here, practice on your arm like this.
vada		Uh huh.  Okay, enough practice.
vada		Close your eyes.
vada		Just do it.
vada		Okay on the count of three.
vada		One.
vada		Two.
vada		Two and a half.
vada		Three.
vada		Say something it's too quiet.
vada		 Just, hurry.
vada		You better not tell anyone.
vada		Well, let's spit on it.
vada		Seeya tomorrow.
vada		What?
vada		For what?
vada		I guess.
harry		Hi Vada.
vada		Hi.
harry		What are you doing.
vada		Feeding my fish.
harry		Is that the fish you won at the carnival?
vada		Yes.
harry		He's getting big.  Vada, come here and sit down for a minute.
harry		Vada, something happened to Thomas J last night, he stepped on a beehive.
vada		 I told him not to tease those bees. Did he get stung?
vada		Maybe I should go over and yell at him.
harry		No sweetheart, you can't.
vada		 Why not?
harry		He was allergic to bees.
vada		 He's okay isn't he?
harry		 There were just too many of 'em.
vada		Dr. Welty!!!? Dr. Welty??
dr welty		Vada, what's wrong sweetheart?
vada		I can't breathe, I'm suffocating.
dr welty		Oh, wait relax now, let me look, let me look, come up here and we'll have a look.
vada		It hurts, it hurts so bad, make it stop.
dr welty		What Hurts Vada?
vada		The bee stings! I can't breathe!
shelly		Knocks Vada?
shelly		Hi.
judy		Hi, is Vada home?
shelly		Yes she is, but she's very upset, so she's not seeing anyone.
judy		Oh, I'm Judy, I go to school with her, I wanted to tell her I'm sorry about Thomas J.
shelly		Well maybe she'll feel better in a couple of days.
judy		Will you tell her I came by?
shelly		Sure.
judy		Thank you. Bye.
shelly		Bye.
rev		Hi Harry.
harry		Ahh, Reverand Miles.
rev		The Sennetts want to thank you for taking care of things so quickly.
shelly		 Vada? I see you took your tray in,
shelly		She won't come out. It's been a whole day. You have to do something Harry.
harry		The funeral's starting.
shelly		Open your eyes, she's eleven years old! Her only friend in the world is dead.
harry		I know that, but what do you want from me?
shelly		Stop hiding Harry, you run Harry. When I first came here, the idea of working with dead people, didn't exactly thrill me, but when I saw a family lived here, I thought, "if I'm living without a family, at least I can work with one, and maybe once in a while i'll be invited in for supper."
harry		Yeah, and when those suppers are disrupted because there's a car crash, or there's a fire, or a little boy steps on a beehive.
shelly		I'm not asking you to stop feeling for those people. But life isn't just death Harry, don't ignore the living, especially your daughter.
arthur		Excuse me Harry, Shelly, the minister's about to begin.
harry		Thank you Arthur.
minister		We are here to honor Thomas James Sennett. He was born, May 7 1961, in Madison, Pennsylvania, and he was survived by his loving parents, Charles and Susan Sennett...... 
minister		The family has asked me to say a few words before we proceed. No words that I could say, would begin to describe the loss and grieving, one word that keeps ringing in my ear is Why?. Why would God choose to take this little boy from us? I can't give you an answer to that question, but I can tell you that God has chosen Thomas J for some very special reason, we must find solace in knowing that Thomas J is now in Gods care. In that face, there is no sorrow such as....
minister		....disciples began to chastise them, and Jesus said "Let the children come to me, do not hinder them, for the Kingdom of God belongs to such as these.  He laid his hands on their heads before he left that place, let us pray in silence.
vada		Wanna go tree climbing Thomas J?
vada		His face hurts, and where is his glasses? He can't see without his glasses! Put his glasses on!  Put on his glasses! He was gonna be an acrobat.
harry		He's gone sweetheart. He's gone!
vada		Get away, get away!!
harry		Vada wait! Vada! Vada!!
vada		 Justin and Ronda say that I should tell people what I feel.
vada		Mr. Bixler,  I love you.
vada		I love you like my Dad loves Shelly. I wanna live here.
vada		No he wouldn't, I can't go home.
suzanne		I'll be ready in a second, I just can't seem to find my other earring....
suzanne		 Vada, hi, I'm really sorry.
suzanne		Yeah.
vada		Who's that?
vada		No....
vada		Get away from me!
vada's thoughts		Why do you think people wanna get married?
vada's thoughts		It's my mother.
vada's thoughts		Now we're blood brothers for life.
policeman		Shelly I'm sorry but we haven't found her yet.
shelly		It's dark, she can't be alone in the dark.
policeman		We'll keep looking.
shelly		We, no, we've been looking since this morning, her teacher called, and he said that she went there first.....
policeman		I know, I know you told us.
shelly		But I....
shelly		Vada. Are you okay?  Oh God.
vada		I should have told Thomas J that he was my best friend.
shelly		I'm sure he knew.
vada		Shelly, I stole some money from your cookie jar, to pay for the writing class.
shelly		It's okay sweetheart.
vada		I'll pay it back, besides, I don't think i'll ever go to class again.
shelly		I'll tell you what, you dedicate your first book to me, and we'll forget about the whole thing.
vada		I will I promise.
shelly		Okay, get in to bed.
shelly		Goodnight.
vada		Goodnight.
shelly		 She's in.
vada		Did I kill my mother?
harry		What??
vada		The bees killed Thomas J, and I killed my mother.
harry		No, no.
harry		No sweetie that wasn't your fault, things like that aren't anybody's fault, it just happened.
vada		I found this.
harry		I forgot about that picture, where did you find it?
vada		In the garage.
harry		Ahh, that little Chevy was your mothers favorite car.
vada		What was my mama like?
harry		She was pretty, and kind, she had your eyes. Oh boy did she love to laugh. Sometimes when you laugh, you sound just like her.
vada		Really?
harry		Uh huh. You know what your mother did when she found out she was gonna have you? She came home and painted this whole room pink. She was so sure she was gonna have a little girl.
vada		Do you miss her?
harry		Yes, I did, very much for a long time, and even now, I get a little sad when I think of a pretty flower or a sunset that your mother would have liked.
vada		I think every time I see a climbing tree i'll think of Thomas J.
harry		That's good, memories are good sweetheart. Vada, I'm sorry; I was trying to keep it from you, I just couldn't. You're a good girl, and I want you to be happy; don't be an old grump like me.  Seeya in the morning.
vada		Daddy, it's not so bad to be like you.
harry		Mrs. Sennett, how are you doing?
harry		Oh she's doing much better. Ahh she's just inside. 
vada		Mrs. Sennett. 
vada		I will, I promise.
vada		Mrs. Sennett.  Thomas J will be all right, my mother will take care of him.
justin		What exactly do you mean by that?
justin		Hey, we missed you man! Gimme a hug!
vada		I can't stay, I just came to read my poem.
vada		Weeping willow with your tears running down, Why do you always weep and frown, Is it because he left you one day, Is it because he could not stay, On your branches he would swing, Do you long for the happiness that they would bring, He found shelter in your shade, He thought his laughter would never fade, Weeping willow stop your tears, There is something to calm your fears, You think death as if you forever part, But I know he'll always be in your heart.
vada		Hi Judy.
judy		Hi Vada.
vada's thoughts		Things are a little better these days; I finally swallowed that chicken bone, Judy and I are gonna be in the same home room and the republican party just re-nominated Mr. Nixon.
****Dialogues from script :My_Mother_Dreams_the_Satan_s_Disciples_in_New_York.txt****

mischa		 Where to?
marian		Are you sure you got my bag in?
mischa		What do you think?  I left it on the curb?
marian		I'm sorry, I'm a little nervous.  It's my first time in New York.  Just a minute.
marian		I want to go to 526 East 5TH.  That's in the East Village.  My daughter said it would cost thirty dollars.
marian		I came to New York to visit my youngest daughter.
mischa		And where is she?
marian		She would have come to the airport to meet me - she wanted to - but ... but, she just started a new job and, well, I guess no one drives here.
mischa		So, you come here all by yourself?
marian		Uh, yes.  My husband passed away recently ...
mischa		... Oh ...
marian		... And the children thought I should take a trip.
mischa		Yeah.
marian		I'm from South Dakota.  Where are you from?
mischa		Moscow.
marian		Ohhh.  Do you know the East Village?
mischa		Oh, yeah ... yeah ... it's a hellhole.
marian		 You mean it's dangerous?
mischa		Nah, not dangerous.  Not that dangerous.  Not during the day.
marian		Pardon me, Mischa.  Is this 526 East 5TH Street?
mischa		No, no.  Sorry, I can't drive you to door.  There's a roadblock on Avenue B ...  right there ...
mischa		This is one-way street.  You go down the block to the middle.
marian		 This way?
mischa		Yeah.  Not far.  You will be fine.  It's still day.
marian		I see.  How much?
mischa		Forty-five all total.
marian		Forty-five?  I thought it was only supposed to be thirty?
mischa		Thirty is base price.  Tolls, tax, tip ... it all adds up.
mischa		Hey, lady.  Hold purse like this.
mischa		 Good luck.
marian		Maybe some other time.
paula		Mom!  Hi!  I'll be right down.
paula		So, what do you think?
marian		Well, once you're inside, it's nice.
paula		You don't like where I live?
marian		Well, when I walked up the block, I ... well, my word!
paula		That's New York.  It looks rundown, but it's safe during the day.  You'll get used to it.
paula		You take the M-15 bus all the way to ... 79TH Street.  And then you take the crosstown bus to 5TH Avenue, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art is right there.  You can't miss it.
marian		I wanted to ask you something.  Those motorcycles across the street ...?
paula		Uh-huh?
marian		... What are they all doing there?
paula		That's the Satan's Disciples' New York headquarters.
marian		 The motorcycle gang?  Don't they deal drugs and rape young girls?
paula		I've never had any problem with them. People say it's the safest block in the East Village.  I just hope their motorcycles don't keep you up at night.
biker		Oh, Marian ...
paula		 You didn't leave the house all day?
marian		Would you look at those strawberries. They made the best jam.  Here are some more pictures of the farm. Crops were unbelievable this year.
marian		Plenty of rain.  Your dad would have been happy with that.
marian		I just can't seem to focus on anything these days.
paula		 That's why it's good you came to visit me.
marian		 How are you doing sweetheart?
paula		I'm good.
marian		Dating anyone?
paula		No, I'm working too much, I don't have time.
marian		What about the fellow in those pictures?
paula		What pictures?
marian		You know ...  ... whoops!
paula		 Mother!
marian		Well, they were right out in plain view.
paula		Behind the books.
marian		But I was dusting.
paula		 I was seeing Aaron and there were some ... complications.
marian		He seemed quite taken with you.
paula		I don't want to talk about it.
marian		 You know, you never tell me anything.
paula		That's not true.  Besides, I don't want you dusting.  I want you to see New York.
marian		Excuse me.  Could you please turn your motorcycles off?  They're so loud, I can't sleep.
disciple prospect		You're just chilling, huh?  Not on this block, do you understand?
marian		Oh, no.
disciple prospect		What's this, huh?
kid		I ain't got shit on me.
disciple prospect		What is that?   You're chilling, man? Well, then maybe we need to warm things up for you, man.  How many times do we got to tell you?  You don't listen and you don't learn and that's the problem. That is the problem.
marian		My daughter lives here and I'm her mother and I've lost my keys.
marian		Hello?  Hello?
disciple		Roast him!
kid		 All right all right all right.
marian		 Her mother has lost her keys and is stranded on the street with the Satan's Disciples ... When she comes back, would you tell her to come home as quickly as she can? ... Thank you.
marian		Oh, please, don't hurt me.
disciple prospect		I just need to use the phone, lady.
marian		Oh, let me get out of your way then.
disciple prospect		What happened?  Did you lose your keys?
marian		 Have a nice day.
disciple prospect		Washing machine repairman.
paula		Maybe you should lay low tomorrow.  I'm going to see if I can get off early and maybe we can take the ferry cruise. Okay?
paula		 Three left.
paula		 Okay?  Does that sound like a plan?
marian		Who is it?
marika		It's Marika.  Is Paula there?
marian		She's at work.  I'm her mother.
marika		Oh.  I thought today was Saturday.
marika		I'm sorry.  I had a wretched night.
marian		Oh.  You need a cappuccino.
marika		And there was this number on my phone bill that I didn't recognize.  Calls made at three and four in the morning.  So, I called the number ... and a woman answered.  And I ... I hung up.  So, then I followed him.  Just like in the movies.  And I found out that he has a wife and a little girl living in Brooklyn.  We had been going together for almost a year.
marian		 Our pastor in Sioux Falls was caught with his wife's sister.
marika		 Really?
marian		Oh, it was such a big scandal.
marika		What happened?
marian		Poor man had to leave town.  And I hear that other women came forward.
marian		You know, you ought to come out to South Dakota some time and meet my son, Steve. He's single.
marika		What does he do?
marian		He's an organic farmer.
marika		 Thank you, Mrs. Peterson.  You have a very reassuring voice.
marika		I wish they wouldn't come and go in packs, then they wouldn't be so loud.
marian		I wonder what they do in there?  Don't they frighten you?  They all look so ...
marika		... Manly?
marika		You know, probably none of them had a mother like you.
marian		Excuse me, sir.  I just wanted to thank you for helping me get into my building yesterday.
disciple prospect		Yeah, sure, no problem, you're welcome.
marian		My daughter lives across the street from you people and she tells me that you keep this area safe.  Is that true?
disciple prospect		We like to think so, yeah.
marian		And you don't deal drugs?
disciple prospect		Who told you we deal drugs?
marian		I'm just concerned about my daughter.
disciple prospect		You don't have to worry.  She's going to be fine.  We're law-abiding citizens just like you.
marian		What about yesterday?  Kicking that poor boy?
disciple prospect		 That poor boy's a crack dealer from Alphabet City.  We do not allow his kind on this block.
disciple prospect		Is there something else I can do for you?
marian		Well, I'd love to see inside your club.
disciple prospect		 You want to come inside?
marian		Well, if you're not holding a meeting or anything.
disciple prospect		Her daughter lives across the street and she was wondering ...
head disciple		What?
disciple prospect		She's curious ...
head disciple		What the hell ...  Come on in.
head disciple		 You watch your step here.
head disciple		Hey, guys.  This here is, uh ...
marian		 Marian.
head disciple		 Marian!
head disciple		 Marian's daughter lives across the street and she was a little worried about her.
marian		You know, this isn't so bad.  It looks like our kids' rooms when they were growing up.
marian		Could use some cleaning.
marian		Well, I'd better be going.  It was nice meeting all of you.
head disciple		You know, if we can do anything for you, Marian, you just let us know.
marian		 At night, your motorcycles are so darn loud, I'm not getting much sleep.  Now, I'm going home in a few days, so ... could I ask you to keep them quiet?
head disciple		 Well, we'll, uh, see what we can do, Marian.
marian		Thank you.
paula		Hello.
paula		Don, this is my mother.  Mom, this is my boss, Don Palmer.
marian		 Oh, it's so nice to meet you.
marian		 I met the Satan's Disciples today.
paula		Mother, I ...
marian		 My daughter lives right across the street from the Satan's Disciples' clubhouse, and I was so worried about her ... so, I went over and introduced myself. And they were the nicest people.
marian		I had a wonderful time.
marian		And they were so friendly those young men.  Though I do think they should shave their beards and ... and get some nicer clothes.
marian		What do you say ... we take a subway uptown and see a play tonight?
marian		What's wrong?
paula		Mom ... I mean, it's amusing to imagine such a thing, but ... how many of those pills have you been taking?
marian		 Oh, that has nothing to do with it.
paula		No, no, it's my fault.  I've been pushing you too hard to do things on your own.
paula		The, um, other night, I got up to get a glass of water and you were standing by the window talking to daddy.  I called out to you, but you didn't answer.  You remember?
paula		New York is a ... it's a strange place in the summertime.  The noise, the warm air, it's ... easy to imagine things.
paula		Now, you know you didn't go into the clubhouse, did you?
disciple prospect		Yo, man!
paula		Mom, I need to talk to you.
marian		 If it's about the bikers, dear, I don't want to talk about it.
paula		No, I had a dream about daddy.  Do you think I'll ever meet anyone like him?
marian		Oh, I hope so, dear.
paula		You know that guy in the pictures you saw?
marian		Aaron?
paula		Yeah ... turned out to be a real jerk.
marian		I'm sorry.
paula		It's unusually quiet tonight, isn't it?
marian		Mm hmm.
paula		I think you should consider coming out and staying with me longer.
marian		Oh, I don't want to be in the way. You've got your career and everything.
paula		You wouldn't be in the way.  I like having you around.
marian		Dear, I was thinking.  Why don't we go to Paris next year?  I've never been.  Your father, God bless him, wasn't much for traveling.
paula		I'd love to.
paula		Here you go.  I think you should talk to Dr. Byrne when you get back about how much Valium he's prescribing.  Okay?
marian		At my age, I'm going to take any pill that makes me feel better.
paula		Mother!
marian		I can make my own decisions.
paula		I love you, Mom.  I have to run.  You remembered to call the limousine service, right?
marian		Mm hmm.
paula		 Well, bye.  And have a safe trip ... and ... Paris in the spring!
marian		 Goodbye, sweetheart.
disciple prospect		All right?
****Dialogues from script :My_Week_with_Marilyn.txt****

commentator		"Returning to England are Britain's acting royalty Sir Laurence Olivier and Lady Olivier, better known as stunning Gone With The Wind star Vivien Leigh. Sir Laurence has added a new string to his bow with the announcement that he is to direct and star in a screen version of Terence Rattigan's stage play The Sleeping Prince with none other than Hollywood siren Marilyn Monroe. When the world's greatest actor romances the most famous woman alive, we can be sure that sparks will fly. Now, now Lady Olivier, don't worry - any romance is strictly for the camera!" As OLIVIER and VIVIEN smile for the photographers, we -
kenneth		... and this is one of Carracci's earlier works and one is able to see the emergence of his now famous Baroque style, which is clearly rooted in the tradition of high renaissance and antiquity... COLIN pauses briefly and hurries towards them. Throughout the scene there is a sense of his urgency and desire to go. The whole thing should be played at breakneck pace. KENNETH beams affectionately.
kenneth		Colin! Come in. Have you met James and Anna? Two very brilliant pupils. He has the avuncular air of a benign academic, affable and a little eccentric. COLIN smiles hurriedly at the students, no time to waste.
colin		I'm leaving for London now, Pa.
kenneth		Ah, yes. Well, bon chance, dear boy... He puts a friendly arm around COLIN's shoulder and starts to walk him back to the door.
kenneth		I can always get you a research position at the V&A when you've grown up a bit and got this film idea out of your system... COLIN's smiles but before he can reply JANE CLARK whirls into the room, a ball of energy, talking nineteen to the dozen.
jane		Kenneth, you might have told Cook we were another two for dinner. What is everyone supposed to eat? Cabbage soup? Oh, Colin, darling, there you are...
colin		I'm off now, Mama.
jane		Off?
colin		My job interview, remember..? But she is already continuing her journey. COLIN smiles hurriedly at KENNETH, who gives him an affectionate wave as COLIN dashes after his mother. She leaves the Library.
jane		Can't you stay for dinner? There's nothing to eat but I'm sure the conversation will be charming.
colin		I don't want to be late in the morning. As COLIN hurries after JANE he is nearly run down by an elderly GARDENER with a lawn mower, and has to take lightning evasive action. JANE doesn't notice.
jane		I'm sure they won't mind. You'll be a famous film director in no time. I know your father's put in a word.
colin		I wish he hadn't done that. I can manage on my own. She stops so abruptly he nearly slams into her. JANE looks around the garden with a frown.
jane		I have to watch Jenkins like a hawk. One more of his murderous prunings and we'll lose the tea roses for ever. And she's off again, with COLIN still following. He can't help smiling at the madness of it all.
jane		Now go and have a lovely time, darling. We're always here when you're ready to talk your future. COLIN wants to protest but before he can get the words out JANE sees a YOUNG GARDENER walking at the side of the house with a wheel barrow. Her face lights up.
jane		Mullins! Be an angel - find Cook and ask her how many pork chops we need for tonight. Then bring the car round. I must get to the village before the shop shuts... She dashes away after the GARDENER, turning back as an afterthought to blow a kiss at COLIN as she goes. COLIN smiles, then pauses for a moment to look at the house. We can sense both his affection for it but more pressingly his need to get away. He gets in, puts the car in gear and the Bristol pulls out of the drive and across the moat. In the last rays of the sun, the countryside looks magical, but Colin only has eyes for the road ahead.
vanessa		You're not in Mr. Perceval's diary.
colin		Larry told me to come. She pauses dubiously, then reaches for her telephone. We hear a man answer in an office down the hall, his voice carrying irritably.
vanessa		I have a Mr. Colin Clark here. He says Sir Laurence sent him. She stresses the proper name in disapproval of Colin's familiarity.
perceval		Well, what do you want?
colin		A job on your Marilyn Monroe film.
perceval		Oh really, what as?
colin		I want to work on the production side. He smiles with as much charm as he can muster. PERCEVAL isn't impressed.
perceval		There are no jobs yet. We don't start shooting for eight weeks.
colin		May I wait?
perceval		What?
colin		Until there's a job.
perceval		For eight weeks?
colin		Something might come up. PERCEVAL is distracted as the telephone rings.
perceval		Terry? Larry wondered how the script was coming...
perceval		There are no jobs.
colin		I'll come back tomorrow morning. Just in case.
perceval		It's a free country. He sounds as though he rather regrets it.
vanessa		Are you going to sit there all day?
colin		If I have to.
vanessa		You're very determined.
colin		I'd do anything to be in the film business.
vanessa		Anything?
vanessa		You can start by making me a cup of tea. White, two sugars.
vanessa		You can answer the telephone while I'm at lunch, if you like. She winks. COLIN grins. The phone rings. He picks it up.
colin		Laurence Olivier Productions...
colin		He's at Notley until the end of the week. Can I take a message?
colin		Vanessa asked me to...
perceval		Oh, did she? Why didn't you put that call through?
colin		There didn't seem any need to bother you. But if you want me to transfer every single one... PERCEVAL looks at him grudgingly.
perceval		Use your judgement. He hesitates and looks back.
jane		Colin, darling! How are you getting on?
jane		How exciting. Let me see... it's Sloane 2965. Ask him if he's coming to Saltwood for the bank holiday.
colin		I will. Mama, you're an angel.
perceval		That was quick.
colin		I had a bit of luck. PERCEVAL looks at him shrewdly.
perceval		Am I supposed to be impressed? Did Mummy and Daddy help? Don't think they can do the job for you. The only way you'll get on in this business is through bloody hard work.
colin		Yes, sir. COLIN leaves.
olivier		Do you know, Hughie, it is simply impossible to get Marilyn Monroe on the telephone? The darling girl spends the entire day asleep. But great beauty has its way... He laughs, but then notices VIVIEN's less than enthusiastic response. Seeking refuge in some distraction he notices COLIN hovering by the sofa.
vivien		You remember Colin, darling. You met him at the Clarks' party.
colin		You said there might be a job on your film. OLIVIER has no recollection of this and fumbles in his pockets to cover his confusion, bringing out a packet of cigarettes and offering them to COLIN with breezy charm.
olivier		Have a cigarette. Keep the pack. He turns quickly to PERCEVAL.
perceval		The House Committee are threatening to withhold Miller's passport. They say he's a communist. No Arthur, no Marilyn.
olivier		I'll have a word with the American ambassador. I'm taking him to see Vivien in South Sea Bubble on Thursday... now, tell me, Hughie, are Terry's rewrites in? He puts an arm around PERCEVAL's shoulders and they disappear together into Perceval's office. VIVIEN lingers behind, smiling radiantly at COLIN who looks dumbly at the packet of cigarettes in his hand. He now sees they are called "Oliviers". VIVIEN wrinkles her nose in amusement.
vivien		They named them after Larry. The first actor since Du Maurier to have his own brand and they pay him an absolute fortune.  I'm afraid they're rather ghastly. She cups Colin's cheeks with her hands and studies him in mock awe.
vanessa		I suppose he's all right. VIVIEN's eyes sparkle. OLIVIER emerges from the office with a handful of script pages and VIVIEN looks at him slyly, getting her own back for his tactless over-praise of Marilyn's charms as she strokes COLIN's cheek.
olivier		Let's try to find him something to do, Hughie. COLIN grins in triumph. VIVIEN smiles at him.
vivien		You will take care of my precious Larrykins, won't you? She flirtatiously offers up her cheek for COLIN to kiss. COLIN's smile falters as he sees PERCEVAL looking at him grimly.
perceval		Arthur Jacobs, Miss Monroe's publicist is flying in tomorrow. He wants to see the house she'll be staying in. Find something suitable.
cardiff		Exactly - we need to tone her down a bit.
perceval		How the hell do you tone down Marilyn Monroe?! COLIN laughs. He immediately regrets it. Both men turn to look at him. PERCEVAL turns off the projector and gazes at him stonily.
perceval		Marilyn Monroe's publicist is flying in tomorrow. He wants to see the house she'll be staying in. Find something suitable. COLIN nods eagerly, anxious to get out. He is already at the door when PERCEVAL barks at him again.
perceval		And leave the bloody tea. COLIN had forgotten the tray. He blushes furiously, puts it down and hurries out.
colin		We'd pay a hundred pounds per week for 18 weeks.
colin		That's a pity. I'll have to tell Miss Monroe to look elsewhere, then. COTES-PREEDY double takes.
colin		It's Marilyn Monroe in the film. COTES-PREEDY smiles transparently.
colin		Good morning, Mr. Jacobs. I hope you had a pleasant flight.
jacobs		Where's the fucking car?
jacobs		Jeez, do you Brits actually read this stuff? He winds down his window and simply throws the whole lot out into the lane. The pages billow out in a great cloud behind the speeding car, landing in the pretty hedgerows and on neat front lawns. COLIN gapes in astonishment. Welcome to Hollywood.
jacobs		What is this place? A brothel? COTES-PREEDY's face falls.
jacobs		Jesus. And I thought you Brits had taste.
colin		It's very near Pinewood.
jacobs		All right. We'll take it.  But ditch the wallpaper. It's given me a migraine.
olivier		News travels fast.
jacobs		That house was perfect for Marilyn.
perceval		We can't use it now.
colin		Yes we can. I knew Cotes-Preedy wouldn't be able to keep this quiet. They stare to him in surprise. He looks at them boldly.
colin		When you asked me to find a house for Miss Monroe I took the precaution of finding two. The other one, Parkside, is much better and the owner is very discreet.
perceval		But now we have two expensive houses when we only wanted one.
colin		I thought someone else on the production might want it.
perceval		Oh, did you? There is a dangerous moment when things could go either way. COLIN has gambled everything in a bid to impress them.
jacobs		I guess Milton could use it. It's near the studio, near Marilyn. OLIVIER looks at COLIN, then bursts out laughing.
olivier		What are we paying you, boy? He glances at COLIN with amusement.
colin		Nothing...
colin		Colin Clark. Sir Laurence Olivier Productions.
perceval		The set decorators will have it all sorted out in no time.
jacobs		Marilyn hates red. And blue.  And green.
perceval		What about white?
jacobs		I'd have to clear it with her. OLIVIER glances mischievously at Colin.
olivier		Beige, then. Beige is rarely controversial. JACOBS considers this, unaware that Olivier is teasing him.
jacobs		I guess that's okay. She's never said nothing about beige. Paula will need the room next door.
colin		Paula?
jacobs		Strasberg. Marilyn's acting coach. OLIVIER looks at him darkly. JACOBS shrugs.
olivier		Stanislavski and the Method are perfectly fine in the rehearsal room but they don't belong on a film set. Time is too tight. I'm sure Marilyn understands. He turns and walks away. JACOBS frowns uncertainly.
jacobs		Who the hell is this Commie Stan Slavski?
orton		I don't know why Hugh Perceval sent you here. There's nothing I can do for you.
colin		Why not?
orton		Are you in the union?
colin		No...
orton		Then you can't have a job on the film.
colin		How do I get in the union?
orton		By getting a job on the film.
colin		But you just said I couldn't have a job on the film unless I was in the union.
orton		Exactly. It's called a closed shop. COLIN looks at him helplessly. ORTON relents a little.
colin		A third?
orton		Third Assistant Director.  You do know what the job is?
colin		Assisting the director?
orton		Christ, no! That's the last thing you do. Lesson One. The third's job is to do whatever the fuck I tell him. ORTON walks to the door, then looks back.
orton		Colin! COLIN jumps as ORTON glowers at him.  ORTON  Lesson Two. You don't shit on your own doorstep. Got it? 
colin		Got it. But he sneaks a look back at LUCY as he goes.
orton		Where are you staying?
colin		My father's place in the Albany.
orton		You can forget that. Lesson Three. The Third always stays nearby, not in some bloody palace in London.  Book a room at the Dog And Duck down the road. It's a bit rough but you'll get used to it. He grins, enjoying himself.
perceval		I'm sure you understand the sensitive nature of the job, Superintendant?
roger		No need for the title. I'm retired from the force.  Something about looking after a cinema actress?
perceval		Not just any actress. Marilyn Monroe. He gets no reaction from the stolid ex-policeman.
roger		I've never had much time for the pictures.
perceval		Excellent.  For the next four months you never leave her side, day or night. There will be crowds.
roger		That doesn't bother me. PERCEVAL pauses awkwardly.
perceval		Her behaviour is reputedly a little... erratic.
roger		She drinks?
perceval		Amongst other things.
roger		Pills? PERCEVAL leaves a tactful pause.
perceval		It would be useful if you could keep us informed of her... domestic situation.
roger		You want me to spy on her? Perceval and Roger understand each other perfectly.
perceval		Just the odd early warning if you know she's going to be late on set. That kind of thing. Smith takes this in his stride; he seems wholly immune to the glamour of the movies.
jacobs		You need to speak to the Coca-Cola people, Larry. They're crazy to be involved with Marilyn. PERCEVAL and COLIN meet them coming the other way.
perceval		Good news. The House Committee have decided Miller isn't a communist after all. 
jacobs		Of course he is. All those pain in the ass New York intellectuals are reds. OLIVIER rolls his eyes behind JACOBS back. COLIN grins.
perceval		It means Marilyn will be flying in next week on schedule.
jacobs		She'll have to be met.
olivier		Naturally, Vivien and I will be there to greet her. But let's keep it low key, shall we?
jacobs		Don't worry. I've got it all under control.
olivier		It is a deep happiness to me to be translating Terence Rattigan's magnificent play to the screen... A voice suddenly rings out from the back of the previously attentive crowd.
reporter		The plane's landed! As one, the entire crowd turns away from Olivier and rushes towards the plane. Suddenly abandoned, OLIVIER and VIVIEN look momentarily startled before VIVIEN glances at him with a half-smile.
vivien		It seems we're not top of the bill anymore, darling.
reporter		There she is! Marilyn! The REPORTERS surge forward. COLIN follows their collective gaze. She looks exactly as she should. The radiant smile, the platinum blonde hair, the sexy wiggle. The most famous film star in the world, so much herself it is almost unreal. Walking through the crowd MARILYN smiles easily, whereas MILLER looks stern and a little dazed by the sudden flurry of attention. Flashbulbs pop as the POLICE struggle to contain the crowd. MARILYN puts her arm around MILLER, who grins blankly. The flashbulbs burst in front of them, a solid wall of dazzling light.
reporter 2		Marilyn, this way..! ARTHUR JACOBS observes the chaotic scenes with obvious relish, grinning towards ROGER and COLIN.
jacobs		Beautiful. You're looking at tomorrow's front page, boys. ROGER looks at COLIN.
roger		We have to get them to the hall. COLIN barges his way through the scrum behind ROGER and briefly finds himself directly in front of MARILYN. For a moment he is transfixed by her beauty and charisma but she doesn't even see him as she follows the commanding ROGER obediently, tugging Miller along behind her, leaving Colin in her wake.
olivier		It's my genuine pleasure to introduce a woman who needs no introduction.
reporter		How do you like being married, Marilyn?
marilyn		I like it a lot.
reporter		Is this third time lucky?
marilyn		You bet it is. Arthur's the greatest man I ever met. OLIVIER smiles tolerantly, mildly put out at this. MARILYN takes off her sunglasses and blinks. She takes MILLER's arm and looks at him adoringly. He bites down savagely on his unlit pipe.
reporter		Marilyn, are you planning to see the sights?
marilyn		I'd love to see the little fellow with the bow and arrow in Piccadilly Circus. There is a appreciative laughter from reporters.
reporter 2		Is it true you want to be a classical actor now?
marilyn		I want to be the best actress I can be.
reporter 2		There's a rumour you're going to be in The Brothers Karamazov on Broadway.
marilyn		I'm considering it.
marilyn		I'll be playing Grushenka.
reporter 3		Can you spell that?
marilyn		Sure. Can you? There is laughter at the reporter's expense.
reporter		So would you say you're an intellectual now?
marilyn		My husband is. She looks adoringly at Miller, who smiles vaguely.
reporter 2		What's your definition of an intellectual, Marilyn?
marilyn		I guess you could look it up in a dictionary. This time the laughter is emphatically on MARILYN's side. One of the reporters turns to VIVIEN.
reporter		Vivien, you created the part of Elsie Marina on stage. Do you have any advice for Marilyn?
vivien		I am sure if Miss Monroe needs any advice she'll get it from her director. I hear he's terribly good. The reporters laugh with her and OLIVIER smiles graciously. But as she smiles at him we detect just a flicker of jealous hurt in her eyes. OLIVIER intervenes quickly to continue his prepared speech of welcome.
olivier		In The Sleeping Prince we have discovered the perfect vehicle for Miss Monroe's luminous and justly celebrated talent... He stops as a REPORTER shouts over him.
jacobs		Marilyn, is it true you wear nothing in bed except Chanel No
marilyn		As I'm in England let's say I sleep in nothing but Yardley's Lavender.
vivien		Are all your press conferences like that, darling?
marilyn		Well, that was quieter than some. Vivien smiles at the wry joke. ARTHUR JACOBS watches the proceedings with an eagle eye.
jacobs		Okay, let's get a snap of the newlyweds. Smile, Arthur. It's not a firing squad. As the group breaks up, MILTON GREENE, handsome and dark- haired, now approaches OLIVIER and COLIN.
milton		This is some place you found. He glances at the house. Olivier smiles generously.
olivier		You have my new assistant Colin to thank for that.  This is Milton Greene. You must be very nice to him. He owns half of Marilyn Monroe Productions.
milton		Forty nine per cent, Larry. GREENE  offers them a tired smile. OLIVIER produces one of his branded packets and offers a cigarette to Milton.
olivier		Have a cigarette.
milton		I don't smoke. If he notices the "Olivier" name he doesn't show it. OLIVIER looks mildly put out.
olivier		Milton - Marilyn and rehearsals. Let's talk.
milton		Sure. And the studio wants a new title. OLIVIER escorts Milton away. MILLER and MARILYN are now being photographed on their own. ROGER moves over to JACOBS and murmurs discreetly in his ear. JACOBS nods and moves in to end the session.
jacobs		The boys at the gate are getting restless.
miller		Let's give them two minutes and then we're done. ROGER waves to the POLICEMEN, who open the gates. The PRESS come pouring in like a mob of revolutionaries storming the Bastille.
vivien		Marvellous, isn't she? I suppose you're quite smitten. COLIN looks at her shrewdly, sensing he is being tested.
colin		She's all right. A bit common.
colin		But she's only been married three weeks.
vivien		Oh, Colin, I thought you were a man of the world. She gives him an arch smile and leans in intimately.
colin		I'm sure he loves you very much. There is a flash of sudden anger in her expression.
vivien		Oh, don't be such a boy! COLIN looks shaken and she touches his hand in contrition.
colin		Of course. Everyone does. There is a wintry bleakness in her face for a second.
vivien		I'm 43, darling. No one will love me for much longer. Not even you. He goes to protest but she stills him with a finger to his lips, her smile quickly restored.
colin		Colin Clark. I booked a room. BARRY takes a dusty ledger from beneath the bar, spins it around for COLIN to sign.
barry		What brings you up this way?
colin		I'm here working on a film. The LOCALS look up from their pints, unimpressed.
barry		What film's that?
colin		It's called `The Sleeping Prince'. The darts player, ANDY, doesn't turn. His aim remains steady.
andy		Sounds lousy.
barry		Ignore, Andy - not a film fan - are you, Andy? ANDY doesn't look away from his game.
andy		Can't be bothered. COLIN tries to impress.
colin		Marilyn Monroe's in it. I'll be working with her.
barry		Oh, will you now? The regulars grin unkindly into their pints. ANDY doesn't look away from his game, as he offers laconically:
andy		The Queen and Prince Philip popped in for a pint earlier. Pity, you just missed them. There are supportive snorts of derision from the LOCALS. COLIN takes it on the chin. BARRY hands him a key.
barry		The room's three quid a week, first week in advance. You're in number two. COLIN takes the key and his bag, just as BARRY adds, with perfect deadpan timing:
wattis		What a wonderful adventure, Dame Sybil.
sybil thorndike		Such a lark! I long to see her. COLIN stands by the door. OLIVIER looks at his watch and shoots him a questioning glance.
colin		Miss Monroe? The door opens sharply and a small, bohemian looking woman in her 50s stands staring at him. This is PAULA STRASBERG.
readthrough		He glances beyond PAULA to where MARILYN sits by the mirror, her reflection framed in the lights. She wears little or no make-up. PAULA looks at him sharply.
paula		But Marilyn is not ready. She's preparing. MARILYN glances up at COLIN in the mirror and smiles with unexpected simplicity.
marilyn		Excuse the horrible face. She finds her dark glasses on the dresser and puts them on.
olivier		Marilyn, here you are, everyone is so excited to meet you... He gestures to the company.
sybil thorndike		How lovely you are. Here, I kept a place for you. PAULA bursts forward, steering Marilyn away instead to an empty seat on the other side of the rectangle of tables. She looks at RICHARD WATTIS, the actor occupying the seat next to the empty one.
paula		I have to be next to Marilyn! The startled WATTIS gets up graciously and troops all the way around the table to the seat next to SYBIL THORNDIKE.
paula		She likes me by her side.
sybil thorndike		What a good idea! I wish we could all bring a friend. One does get so terribly nervous. It's just like the first day at school, isn't it?
olivier		Welcome dear Marilyn, to our little fraternity.  We may seem a little strange and quaint to you at first, but I hope that in time you may come to find your method in our madness. Pleased with his over-contrived rhetorical flourish, he gives Paula a pointed look. She glowers back, obscurely sensing that she has been insulted in some way. MARILYN also looks up in confusion at Olivier's well intentioned but clumsy joke. Oblivious to her reaction, he opens his script with a sentimental flourish.
marilyn		Gee, Mister Sir, I could listen to your accent all day. There are private grins amongst the actors. OLIVIER smiles kindly.
olivier		You are amongst friends, my darling angel. Just plain Larry will suffice.  When you're ready..? Flustered, MARILYN looks at her script.
paula		Remember why you're in the embassy, Marilyn. What does the Grand Duke want from Elsie? She thought there were going to be a lot of people here and it's just her. OLIVIER waits patiently.
olivier		It's your line, Marilyn.
marilyn		Oh, let's see... "Oh, and am I what you'd call new hat?" 
paula		Locate the experience, Marilyn. Look for the memory that helps you. Remember when you went to that party at Chaplin's house and you were the only guest? How did that make you feel? This time OLIVIER stares at PAULA.
olivier		It is only a readthrough, Paula.
paula		Marilyn has to begin finding the character.
olivier		The character is on the page.
paula		The words, maybe. Not the character. RICHARD WATTIS whispers to PAUL HARDWICK.
wattis		She's half cut! DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE frowns with regal disapproval and smiles warmly at MARILYN.
sybil thorndike		Aren't we going to have fun?
olivier		We can't have two fucking directors!
milton		Marilyn wants Paula.
olivier		Why? She's got me!
milton		Paula is costing us two and half thousand bucks a week. We might as well use her.  Listen Larry, accept Marilyn on her own terms and you'll be okay.
olivier		Dear Christ, what have I got myself into?
colin		Come out with me tonight.
lucy		I'm working.
colin		Tomorrow night, then.
lucy		I'm washing my hair.
colin		Your hair's lovely. She stops to look at him, attracted but cautious.
lucy		Look, I have two rules. One, never touch the talent...
colin		Everyone has a lot of rules around here.
lucy		... and two, never go out with thirds.
colin		Why not?
lucy		Because they're all randy little buggers who just want some fun during shooting.
colin		I'm not like that. She looks at him sceptically.
sybil thorndike		How kind of you to meet us. Dear me, you do look cold.
colin		They're ready for you in make-up Dame Sybil.
sybil thorndike		How exciting! Don't you love the first day of a new production?
colin		I don't know, Dame Sybil. I've never had one before. DAME SYBIL gazes at him with wistful sadness.
sybil thorndike		Oh, to be young again! She blows him a kiss and the car rolls in through the gate. Almost immediately OLIVIER's chauffeur driven Bentley appears.
olivier		Marilyn here yet?
colin		Not yet.
orton		What the fuck's going on? I thought you had a contact in her house.
colin		I do...
orton		Well bloody use him, then.
roger		She hasn't come down yet. Neither has Miller. They're playing trains. COLIN stares at him blankly.
colin		She's... getting into character.
olivier		She's kept Dame Sybil Thorndike waiting in full costume for two hours. It's simply not fair. The door finally opens and MARILYN emerges, with PAULA on one side and MILTON on the other. In her figure-hugging shimmering white sheath of a dress she is ravishingly beautiful. Her hair is like a halo of light around her head. No one can take their eyes off her. Slowly, all work on the set stops. MARILYN walks to the set, acutely aware of the scrutiny of the crew. She smiles nervously, then suddenly hesitates, feeling the weight of everyone's attention. Anxiety flits across her face. She whispers something to PAULA and bolts back towards her dressing room. OLIVIER stares after her in shock.
paula		She wasn't happy with her make- up. OLIVIER loosens his collar irritably and glances at ORTON.
olivier		Right, Mr. Orton you wanted me to check the back projection. Please join us, Mr. Cardiff. He stalks away, followed by Cardiff and Orton.
sybil thorndike		Isn't she pretty though?
colin		Would you like to sit down, Dame Sybil?
sybil thorndike		How kind of you, Colin. Yes, why don't we all sit down? Colin sees her chair by the camera and goes innocently to fetch it. But as he picks it up he is confronted by a stern looking crew member in overalls.
trevor		Are you a member of NATTKE?
colin		What?
trevor		That chair is a prop. Props are NATTKE. If ACT members are going to do NATTKE jobs, I'm calling my men out. Every eye is suddenly on Colin. Taking his shock for stubbornness TREVOR turns to the set and bellows.
sybil thorndike		I'm sure we're all good union members here. There's no need to fall out over something so trivial.
trevor		It might be trivial to you, Dame Sybil, but it's my livelihood. He's not in the union.  Put the chair down. COLIN stares at him, frozen.
sybil thorndike		I rather think you've made your point. Solidarity is the important thing here. When unions fall out, it's only management that benefits. TREVOR pauses, not at all sure about this, but then shrugs magnanimously.
sybil thorndike		I was on the picket lines in 1926, you know.
orton		Didn't they teach you anything at Eton? Now fuck off and see if you can get me a bacon sandwich without starting World War III.
denys		Camera running.
orton		Very quiet, everyone...
denys		Speed. The CLAPPER LOADER clicks the clapperboard.
clapperboy		Twenty two, take one.
orton		Action!
marilyn		Gee. I forgot my line. I'm sorry.
olivier		Cut. SYBIL THORNDIKE smiles cheerfully.
sybil thorndike		It's so easily done, isn't it? I'm sure I went wrong somewhere there too. Shall we have another go, Larry?
sybil thorndike		Didn't I have a line somewhere there, dear?
olivier		Cut.
orton		Action!
orton		Check the gate.
focus puller		 Gate's good.
olivier		Print. There is a near-audible sigh of relief around the set. SYBIL THORNDIKE smiles.
sybil thorndike		That was perfect, Marilyn. You're Elsie to the life! MARILYN smiles awkwardly, not really believing her but SYBIL carries on with complete conviction. SYBIL THORNDIKE  Perhaps we could practise our lines together later? You'd be doing me such a kindness. At my great age it's just so hard to make them stick! Why don't you come for tea tomorrow? In fact Sybil is word perfect every time, and everyone knows it. But it is a kind and tactful gesture. MARILYN's face lights up.
marilyn		Can I?
olivier		She's impossible. I should have cast Vivien.
colin		If anyone can make her great, it's you. You're a genius.
olivier		Oh, yes. The world's greatest living actor, so they say. OLIVIER looks at him, wanting to be reassured. He fumbles for a cigarette with shaking fingers and COLIN hurries to light it. He smiles wryly.
marilyn		I just can't figure this movie out.
paula		You were wonderful. You are the most gifted actress I have ever known. You were superb, Marilyn. You were divine.
marilyn		He was angry with me, I could tell.
paula		You were great. You are a great, great actress. All my life I have prayed for a great actress I could help and guide. She stops abruptly and gets down on her knees in the corridor in front of Marilyn. COLIN stops awkwardly, his path blocked.
marilyn		Come on, Paula, get up.
paula		Not until you admit you were great. MARILYN smiles, her mood slowly lightening.
marilyn		Oh, okay. I guess I was. COLIN glances at her, seeing his chance to help.
colin		You really were very good, Miss Monroe. MARILYN smiles vaguely. PAULA gives him a fierce look - COLIN moves past quickly.
lucy		Are you sure you can afford all this?
colin		Oh, it's all right.
lucy		It must be costing a week's wages.
colin		It's worth it. LUCY can't help being charmed.
lucy		You're not the average third, are you? Most of them would be happy with a swift half and a grope in the pub car park.
colin		I'm not living off my parents, if that's what you mean. I want to make my own way, no matter what.
lucy		By making eyes at Vivien Leigh?
colin		Who told you that?
lucy		Word gets around.
colin		Vivien's a friend of my father's.
lucy		So there's nothing in it? You and Vivien? He smiles mysteriously and leans in to kiss her. She avoids him coolly.
waiter		You'll be signing on your father's account, sir? COLIN blushes violently.
colin		Certainly not. I settle my own bills. The WAITER nods discreetly and leaves. LUCY looks at COLIN with a teasing smile.
colin		I was always going to pay, you know.
lucy		Of course you were. He looks at her, but there is no hint of mockery in her smile and he is grateful.
lucy		Do you think Marilyn is beautiful?
colin		Not compared to you. LUCY laughs, COLIN looks hurt.
lucy		You don't have to try so hard to be charming. You're nice enough as it is. Well, you could be.
colin		So they say.
lucy		She married Miller on the rebound. The papers are calling them "The Hourglass and the Egghead".
colin		Which one is which? She bursts out laughing. Her eyes sparkle and she looks captivating in the glistening lights. He goes to kiss her and this time she doesn't stop him.
lucy		Wait a while, crocodile.
colin		I really do like you, Lucy. She looks at him shrewdly.
lucy		Maybe. She hears heavy footsteps in the bedroom above.
lucy		Sorry, Daddy. We were just going over tomorrow's schedule. COLIN and LUCY share a small, private smile. He takes his cue and stands up.
colin		Yes, I should be off. Colin Clark. Pleased to meet you, Mr. Armstrong. He offers the surprised MR. ARMSTRONG a confident handshake.
sybil thorndike		Colin, dear, I thought you looked cold so I bought you this. She hands him a bright red woollen scarf. COLIN is touched.
colin		Thank you, Dame Sybil.
sybil thorndike		Film sets and rehearsal rooms are the coldest places on earth. He smiles as her car drives away. He wraps the scarf around his neck and looks up and down the road again.
olivier		She should be on time, like everyone else.
milton		She is a star.
olivier		I'm a fucking star! He looks around in frustration.
milton		This is Marilyn you're talking about.
olivier		Marilyn, darling you are an angel, and I kiss the hem of your garment, but why can't you get here on time for the love of fuck?
marilyn		Oh... you have that word in England too? She looks at him in surprise. She looks sedated, not quite there. PAULA leaps protectively to her defence.
paula		Marilyn has to prepare properly. She has to find in herself all that lies under the surface. Acting isn't just a case of putting on a costume or some ludicrous false nose. OLIVIER gives her a freezing look then takes Marilyn's hand, leading her forward like a child.
olivier		You must apologise to Dame Sybil. MARILYN reddens with humiliation as he takes her arm.
marilyn		I'm sorry...
sybil thorndike		 My dear, you mustn't concern yourself. A great actress like you has many other things on her mind. A radiant smile spreads slowly across Marilyn's face as the older woman's words sink in.
marilyn		You think I'm a great actress?
sybil thorndike		None of the rest of us truly know how to act for the camera. But you do. It is a rare gift. She looks sharply at OLIVIER. SYBIL THORNDIKE  This poor girl hasn't had your years of experience. She is in a strange country, acting a strange part. Now, are you helping or bullying? OLIVIER looks aghast at being so roundly rebuked. COLIN looks on, startled.  CUT TO:
miller		That one's pretty damn good. You knocked it out of the park. MARILYN glows at his praise.
milton		When Marilyn gets it right you just don't want to look at anyone else. OLIVIER frowns. For all his greatness as an actor he will never be a film star like the maddeningly instinctive Marilyn. And the injustice of it is like a stab through his heart. At the back COLIN only has eyes for the screen. He watches MARILYN's image, enthralled. Until now he has taken Marilyn entirely at Olivier's valuation, but as he watches her on screen he begins to see things differently.
olivier		We've only been shooting for four days and we're already two weeks behind. COLIN can't resist blurting out a comment.
colin		Why not only show her the good takes? Then she might feel better about herself. He looks self-conscious as they both turn to stare at him.
milton		The kid's right. She could use the confidence.
olivier		I believe it's traditional for the producer of the film to watch rushes. Besides, she's an experienced actress. She should learn from her mistakes.
colin		They just upset her.
olivier		Not half as much as they upset me.
orton		I'll do that. You go and find Marilyn's script. She thinks she left it in her dressing room.
colin		Your script...
marilyn		I found it. Calmly she takes the towel from her hair and wraps it around herself. She smiles quizzically.
colin		David wants to know if you're ready for the extras in the ballroom scene.
lucy		Tell him he can start sending them up. Women first. They kiss again. He pulls away.
lucy		Since when do you work for her?
colin		Larry asked me to help out. She smiles sardonically, teasing him, but a little hurt.
lucy		Well, of course you must do what Larry says.
colin		Next Friday instead? She shrugs in agreement.
marilyn		Gee, it's quiet.
colin		It's Saturday. Early closing. But they're expecting us. She stops to window shop. MILTON lowers his voice to COLIN.
milton		No one's recognised her.
colin		At least she can shop in peace.
milton		Marilyn's a star. Stars don't even pee alone. He looks around anxiously. But then a PASSER-BY suddenly narrows his eyes and takes a second look. His face lights up and he shouts -
roger		My God, she'll be torn apart...
miller		Get her out of here. COLIN and ROGER hurl themselves into the crowd doing what they can to keep the excited fans at bay. They manage to force a path to the car, drag the door open and bundle MARILYN and MILLER into the back. MARILYN is pinned against the door and COLIN has to put his arm around her shoulders as he helps her in. He hurls himself into the front, with Milton running alongside the moving car to dive in beside Marilyn. People run alongside, hammering wildly on the windows in violent hysteria. MILTON does his best to put a cheerful gloss on the chaos.
milton		Jeez, Marilyn, they really fucking love you. As COLIN looks in the rear-view mirror he sees MILLER shaking his head in dazed horror as MARILYN slumps half-collapsed into the seat beside him.
miller		Madness. Someone's going to get hurt. COLIN shifts his gaze to her in the mirror and his eyes meet Marilyn's. He sees - or imagines - a terrible sadness before she quickly replaces her dark glasses.
olivier		Cut. The line is "Gee, this is all right too, isn't it". It's a tiny word, my darling, but it matters. Let's go straight away. MARILYN smiles vaguely. HAIR and MAKE-UP rush to do last minute checks.
denys		Camera running.
soundman		Speed.
denys		Mark it. The clapperboard clatters down. Take two. WATTIS and MARILYN come in again on their cue.
olivier		Cut. Nearly there, but Terry did work so very hard on this and we must try to get it right for him. Straight away, please. Take three.
olivier		Cut.
marilyn		Can't we just drop it?
olivier		The point is that you have already admired the downstairs hall in an earlier scene. Now you are admiring this room as well.
marilyn		Oh, sure.  Paula! OLIVIER looks startled. PAULA comes scurrying across. MARILYN appeals to her, turning away from OLIVIER.
olivier		Then she should pretend to believe it. PAULA bristles at this insult to her husband's work.
paula		Pretend? We're talking about the difference between the truth and artificial crap.
olivier		We're in absolute agreement, Paula. Acting is all about sincerity. And if you can fake that, you're off to the races. PAULA only stares at him in disgust. Thoroughly alarmed, MILTON intervenes. 
milton		Maybe we should try for another take.
paula		Marilyn needs time to give a great performance. You should give her as long as it takes. Chaplin took eight months to make a movie.
olivier		Eight months of this? I'd rather kill myself. Throughout all this MARILYN herself looks lost. COLIN watches her as she feels the crew's irritable collective gaze. Flustered, she flutters her hands in a calming gesture, then goes to the side of the set to lean on a bar put there for her to rest on . PAULA accompanies her. MARILYN looks up at her in anguish.
marilyn		I can't do this. I can't. PAULA looks at her adamantly.
paula		You can do it. You can't fail. You will have more pain, you will suffer more but you will create. All you need is time. MARILYN looks at her, desperately wanting to believe it.
olivier		(Under his breath to
olivier		Cut. A look of near-panic creeps into Marilyn's eyes at her inability to remember the line.
olivier		Cut. What's the matter now? He takes her arm and whisks her away to the side of the set, lowering his voice, trying to conceal his exasperation with a honeyed tone.
marilyn		I don't know who Elsie is. I can't act her if I don't know who she is!
olivier		Elsie is all in the script
marilyn		I can't find her. She's not there.
olivier		But you have her precisely, you know her inside out. I'm in awe of your gift. We all are.
marilyn		She's not real.
olivier		Why not simply rely on your natural talents?
marilyn		Are you saying I don't need to act? OLIVIER is bewildered by her inability to appreciate her own natural talent - as he sees it. He looks at her in genuine anguish.
olivier		Marilyn, you are the most attractive woman in the world. I'm simply suggesting you be yourself.
olivier		 All you have to do, dear Marilyn, is be sexy. Isn't that what you do? MARILYN flinches as though slapped. Tension ripples through the set. COLIN watches in dismay.
marilyn		I want Lee.
olivier		You've already got Paula, for heaven's sake. I'm the director. Speak to me.
paula		I am only Lee's representative.
olivier		It's five in the morning in New York.
marilyn		 I WANT LEE! 
olivier		"O, now, for ever Farewell the tranquil mind/Farewell content/ Farewell the plumed troop and the big wars/That make ambition virtue O, farewell/Farewell..."  Paula's not an actress. She not a director, not a teacher. Her only talent is buttering up Marilyn.
milton		It would be worse if she wasn't around.
olivier		You know what would make Marilyn Monroe a real actor? A season in rep. They wouldn't stand for this kind of nonsense at the Hippodrome in Eastbourne.
milton		You have to be patient with her.
olivier		Trying to teach Marilyn how to act is like teaching Urdu to a badger. MILTON gives him a look but says nothing. Instead he picks up his bag and opens it. It is stuffed with bottles of pills. He takes one of them, checks the label and puts it in his pocket.
milton		I better go see her. She'll need something to help her calm down. COLIN holds the door for him as he goes out.
olivier		 Pills to sleep, pills to wake up. Pills to calm her down, pills to give her energy. No wonder she's permanently ten feet underwater.
colin		Maybe she's scared.
olivier		We're all scared. It's part of being an actor.
colin		But you have the training to deal with it. OLIVIER turns from the mirror to survey him.
olivier		I wouldn't buy the little girl lost act if I were you. Though heaven knows it's tempting. He sighs wistfully.
colin		Are you sure they won't mind?
roger		Help yourself. They can spare it.  Marilyn's okay. She's taken some pills and gone to bed. He frowns darkly.
colin		You mean Miller?
roger		 The others. They're terrified their cash cow will slip away. He smiles grimly and raises his beer bottle.
colin		Good morning, Miss Monroe. She is hunched in the back, her hair in a scarf, her face protected by her large sunglasses with PAULA by her side. She doesn't look up.
olivier		It's nearly lunch time.
milton		She isn't feeling the part.
olivier		It's a light comedy. How much feeling can it possibly require?
milton		Give her a few minutes...
olivier		She can't hide in her bloody dressing room all day.
milton		Oh, yes she can.
paula		It's Colin. COLIN waits a moment then PAULA opens the door wider. PAULA  Come in. Marilyn wants to see you. COLIN stares at her in surprise.
marilyn		How old are you?
marilyn		You remind us of the young king in the movie. Kind of honest and innocent.
marilyn		What's your job on this picture?
colin		I'm the third assistant director. Just a gopher really. Go for this, go for that...
marilyn		You're Larry's assistant too. He shrugs awkwardly.
colin		He was worried about you.
marilyn		Are you spying on me?
colin		No! Of course not. Why would anyone spy on you? She sighs, and looks away.
marilyn		Colin? Whose side are you on? COLIN stares at her. She looks utterly beautiful and vulnerable in the shadowy light. There is only one answer anyone could give.
colin		Yours, Miss Monroe. She rewards him with a brilliant smile, her whole face lighting up.
marilyn		Call me Marilyn. He is suddenly overwhelmed by a rush of sympathy. She looks so lost and vulnerable. Perhaps he means it. Perhaps he is on her side now.
wattis		Marilyn's got a new boyfriend. Larry will get jealous.
hardwick		You can say that again. He gives a camp laugh. COLIN tries to shrug it off with a lightness he doesn't feel.
colin		Nothing happened.
wattis		You were in there for ten minutes at least. Plenty of time for a kiss and a cuddle. 
colin		Paula was with us the whole time.
wattis		The mind boggles, dear. COLIN smiles but his expression freezes as he looks up to see LUCY nearby. She has heard every word of the exchange.
miller		I dreamed last night I could hear singing. And then I realised it wasn't a dream. There was a male voice choir serenading Marilyn under our window. At two in the morning. It's a circus. A freak show. OLIVIER smiles but MILLER looks dazed.
olivier		That won't help Marilyn.
miller		 You know what she loves to do most? Sleep. It's what she lives for. Sleep is her demon. He pauses for a second.
olivier		About her? He looks up and nods slowly.
miller		She took them the wrong way. He leaves a long, uneasy pause.
olivier		But you do love her? Your new bride and all that? MILLER plays with his whisky.
miller		I can't work. I can't think.  She's devouring me. Forgotten in the shadows, COLIN listens attentively to every word.
vivien		Hello, Colin darling. You look like Horatio defending the bridge. Are you going to let me in?
vivien		I hope Larry isn't making you all work too hard. I know what a dreadful slave driver he can be. She sees ORTON and takes his hands.
orton		Just doing my job. Tough as he is, he melts visibly. She moves on to JACK CARDIFF, the lighting cameraman, looking at him in mock misery.
vivien		I'm getting old, Jack. I need you to work your miracles on me.
cardiff		You're more beautiful every year, Vivien. She laughs and turns to COLIN, looking at him severely.
vivien		Now, you are looking after Larry like I told you?
colin		I'm doing my best... VIVIEN glances away to see MARILYN standing nearby, awkward and excluded. She has come straight from make-up and wears only a towelling robe, slippers and curlers in her hair.
vivien		Darling Marilyn! She kisses her on both cheeks and holds her hands.
marilyn		Oh, but everyone says you were a wonderful Elsie on stage.
vivien		But I'm too old to play her in the film. Larry was quite brutal about that. You see, the truth is all that matters to him. That's why we all admire him so very much. She glances at OLIVIER with a fluttering laugh. He smiles back with a haunted look in his eyes.
vivien		I didn't think she would be so beautiful. She... shines on that screen.
olivier		You shouldn't upset yourself. You are ten times the actress she will ever be.
vivien		If you could see yourself. The way you watch her...
olivier		There's never been anything between Marilyn and me. She laughs hysterically.
vivien		Only because she didn't want you.
olivier		You're imagining things.
vivien		Do you think I'm a fool? You didn't think the little tart could resist the great Laurence Olivier. She looks at him venomously, a dangerous, unbalanced hatred seething in her expression. VIVIEN  I hope she makes your life hell!
olivier		Vivien..! She storms out. After a beat, COLIN tentatively enters. OLIVIER looks at COLIN in muted apology.
milton		Marilyn won't shoot today. She's gone back to Parkside. She's upset about Arthur leaving England.
olivier		He's only going to visit his children.
milton		You don't leave Marilyn alone. She can't handle it. She thinks everyone's going to abandon her. The phone rings. OLIVIER picks with a sudden burst of optimism.
olivier		Perhaps she's come back.  Yes?
olivier		Oh, Roger. What's up?
olivier		Yes, he's here.  It's for you. Puzzled, COLIN takes the phone as OLIVIER stares at him.
colin		Roger? CUT TO PARKSIDE, where, to Colin's astonishment MARILYN comes on the line .
milton		What the heck?
olivier		Why is Marilyn on the phone to my third fucking assistant? COLIN looks around helplessly.
colin		Yes, I'm sure I can do that. CUT TO PARKSIDE. MARILYN smiles.
olivier		Well? What did she want?
colin		She wants to see me.
milton		He shouldn't be talking to her. He's just a kid. Supposing he says something?  Why the hell didn't she call me? His angry - and jealous - frustration is in stark contrast to OLIVIER, who looks at COLIN with a new interest, wondering if there is anything in this odd situation that can work to his advantage. He smiles calmly.
olivier		I'm sure Colin knows what he's doing. Don't you, Colin? There is a warning as well as approval in his tone.
roger		Miss Monroe said for you to wait. She won't be long. He looks at COLIN dubiously as he goes out. COLIN is nervous and not quite sure what to do with himself. He looks at the drinks in their decanters on the sideboard and is suddenly desperate for some Dutch courage. He finds the brandy and picks it up -
colin		I was just... checking you've got everything you need. She walks to the sideboard, standing only a few inches away from him. He can't take his eyes from hers. He drops his gaze, only to find himself staring at her breasts. He looks up again sharply but not before she notices. She takes the decanter from his hand.
marilyn		Here, let me. She pours some brandy into a glass and gives it to him.
colin		No.
marilyn		Good. Because I like you. Colin doesn't know what to say. MARILYN gazes at him.
colin		I'm only the third. Just a messenger, really.
marilyn		But you know what's going on. You can see both sides of the situation. He shrugs in helpless agreement.
colin		There's no Mrs. Colin.
marilyn		So we can talk as long as we like? He nods uncertainly. She frowns.
colin		I'll tell you what's wrong. It's agony for him because he's a great actor who wants to be a film star, and agony for you because you're a film star who wants to be a great actress. And this film won't help either of you. He stops, breathless, knowing he has gone to far. She stares at him, wide-eyed with surprise. Horribly self- conscious he takes a too large swig of his brandy, reddens and coughs. She laughs.
marilyn		Are you sure you can handle that? You don't look old enough to drink.
colin		I'm 23, Miss Monroe.
marilyn		It's Marilyn.  I'm 30. I guess that makes me an old lady to you.
colin		Seven years is nothing. She smiles then sits opposite him.
marilyn		Do you know I've been married three times already? How did that happen?
colin		You were just looking for the right man.
marilyn		They always look right at the start. She smiles wistfully. Her presence is overwhelming. The silence stretches for a second, pregnant with strange possibilities. Suddenly the phone rings, making him jump. Automatically he picks it up.
colin		Hello?
milton		Colin? Is everything okay? What did she want?
colin		Everything's fine. Miss Monroe just had... some large packages she needed handling... He looks at MARILYN's voluptuous figure. MARILYN looks back innocently and mouths the word "packages". She giggles. He turns crimson with the effort of trying to suppress his own laughter but MARILYN isn't helping. She teasingly makes shapes in the air of just how large the packages might be. He covers the phone, agonised, before they both collapse in irrepressible laughter. COLIN finally pulls himself together.
milton		Let me speak to her, Colin.
colin		She's tied up right now. This only sets MARILYN off again. She howls with laughter and COLIN can't help joining her.
milton		What's going on? Colin!  Let me talk to her, damn it!
colin		I'm sorry, Milton. I have to go. He hangs up quickly. They both laugh helplessly. MARILYN smiles.
marilyn		Let's walk in the garden. See if we can find any more reporters in the bushes. She giggles. COLIN's heart contracts as she casually takes his arm.
marilyn		I didn't know it was so pretty out here.
colin		You should get out more. See the sights.
marilyn		I am the sights. She giggles again, her mood lighter.
colin		I don't think he'd mind.
marilyn		I wanted to be an artist. To grow as an actor. I was so proud to be working with the great Olivier.  Now he thinks I'm the enemy. She looks at him innocently. COLIN hesitates.
colin		He doesn't understand your kind of actor. He's hated the method ever since Vivien worked with Elia Kazan. It's all too new and strange. You're the future, and it frightens him.
marilyn		Every time I walk into the studio I feel this sense of doom come over me. He looks at me like he's smelling a pile of rotten fish. And the crew hate me. Paula is the only person I can trust.  Except for you now, maybe. She looks at him, her eyes huge. COLIN feels his senses swim as he stares into them... ... and then ROGER suddenly appears on the steps.
roger		Phone call for you, Miss Monroe. It's Mr. Miller. MARILYN goes back up the path towards the house, glancing back briefly at Colin.
marilyn		Goodbye, Colin. Thanks for telling me the truth. COLIN stares after her. It is a second before he realises that ROGER is gazing at him sternly.
roger		You'll be leaving now, I expect.
olivier		I don't care if he fucks her sideways. Perhaps it'll calm her down.  Oh, hello, boy. He smiles cheerfully. 
colin		I didn't spend the night with her. We just had a chat.
milton		I heard them chuckling. OLIVIER offers COLIN a lewdly suggestive grin.
olivier		Perhaps if Colin is very diplomatic Marilyn is more likely to behave herself.
colin		She just wants a chum, that's all.
milton		A chum? Jesus Christ, what is this, Goodbye Mr. Chips? Grow up, kid. He barges out of the room, slamming the door behind him. OLIVIER checks the effect of his Grand Duke in the mirror and sighs abruptly.
olivier		I thought working with Marilyn would make me feel young again. But I look dead in the rushes. Dead behind the eyes. He gazes at himself thoughtfully.
soundman		What was Marilyn like then, Col?
hardwick		Going over her lines with her, were you?
soundman		Will she be in today or is she too tired? It is all good-natured stuff but COLIN feels strangely protective, not so much on his own behalf as Marilyn's.
colin		She was just being friendly.
wattis		I'll bet. There are hoots of laughter. COLIN retreats to a corner only to find RICHARD WATTIS pursuing him.
colin		Oh, fuck off, Dickie. You've never slept with a woman in your life.
wattis		I know a Femme Fatale when I see one, love.
orton		Three minutes, ladies and gents. Three minutes. It has just dawned on COLIN that he has missed his date with LUCY. Before he can react he is jerked violently behind the scenery and pushed up against the wall by an angry MILTON.
milton		Arthur Miller called me. He's not happy with you.
colin		He doesn't even know who I am.
milton		Marilyn must have said something.
colin		Maybe she was trying to make him jealous... ORTON turns around frowning furiously at the voices behind the set. MILTON pushes COLIN off the set ahead of him.
milton		Listen, kid, I've known Marilyn for seven years. I fell in love with her, just like you've done. COLIN is about to protest but MILTON ignores him.
colin		I don't need your advice. And I'm not in love with her.
milton		Okay, have it your way.  You don't see Marilyn again, you don't even talk to her. She is completely off-limits to you. Got it?  CUT TO:
lucy		I waited for you on Friday.
colin		Oh, God... I'm sorry... I forgot... I've just been so busy.
lucy		Of course there isn't. Marilyn Monroe fancying you? Come on. COLIN is put out. Up to now he has never fully confronted the possibility of Marilyn wanting him, but he doesn't like the idea being dismissed so lightly. Lucy sees it and her eyes widen in surprise and hurt. Before she can respond MARILYN herself coming towards them in her gown, her hair up in towel, surrounded by PAULA and her MAKE-UP people. She offers him a dazzling smile.
marilyn		Hi, Colin. COLIN smiles, self-conscious. MARILYN stops and frowns, looking at Lucy.
colin		Of course not. You know how crews like to gossip. His voice trails off lamely as he realises he is repeating what he has just said to Lucy. MARILYN smiles.
marilyn		Too bad. You look cute together. She walks off with her retinue. There is a long pause. COLIN looks up to see LUCY staring at him in dismay. There are sudden tears in her eyes, which she wipes away angrily.
lucy		I thought you were different.
colin		Lucy, I really like you. We've had such fun...
lucy		And now it's time to set your sights a little higher. I get it.  Who do you think you are, Cary Grant? She shoves the rack of clothes back towards the wardrobe department. Part of him knows he should go after her, but in the end he just stays where he is. He can't help feeling an unworthy sense of relief.
roger		Get in. COLIN looks at him in confusion. The studio doors open and MILTON emerges. He glances darkly at COLIN and ROGER.
milton		Any problem, Roger?
roger		Just dropped by to take Colin out to lunch. COLIN looks surprised. MILTON notices. COLIN stubs out his cigarette and hurries to the passenger door.
milton		You're not taking him to Marilyn? That would drop us all in a whole ocean of shit.
roger		Oh, no, sir. MILTON sees a bulky blanket on the back seat.
milton		What do you have in there?
roger		Just a picnic. We've been looking forward to it, haven't we, Colin? COLIN looks at him, bemused. He gets in quickly. MILTON frowns but shrugs and walks off with a wave.
milton		Okay, well, have a nice time boys. Inside the car COLIN looks at ROGER.
colin		Is she okay? In the same moment MARILYN herself erupts from under the blanket in the back.
colin		Oh, Jesus - She laughs, looking wonderfully naughty.
marilyn		Roger and I decided to take you out for an adventure. Didn't we Roger?
colin		Oh, God. If Milton sees me with you... I'll be sacked... He tries to scramble out but MARILYN hauls him back gleefully.
marilyn		No one can sack you, Colin.  Except me, of course. She pats the seat next to her.
milton		What the hell? He peers into the back window. MARILYN screams and buries herself back under the blanket. COLIN scrambles to get over into the back seat while ROGER stamps on the accelerator and the car roars off.
marilyn		Do you think he saw me? COLIN can't help laughing. He finally tumbles into the back seat with MARILYN as the car speeds away. She scoots up to make room for him.
marilyn		This is how I ought to feel every day. COLIN smiles. Impulsively MARILYN hugs him.
colin		We have today, anyway. One day to do whatever we like. We can go back to real life tomorrow.
marilyn		Only one day?
colin		Well, maybe the weekend.
marilyn		Or a week? He grins. She takes his hand, walking contentedly at his side.
colin		We could go to Windsor Castle, if you like. MARILYN's face breaks into a smile of pure delight.
roger		Detective Chief Superintendant Smith. I'm escorting this lady and gentleman for the day. They'd like to look around the castle. As the policemen see MARILYN their eyes widen.
policeman		Christ, is that..? He stares in disbelief. ROGER smiles.
roger		Well, it's not Diana bloody Dors, is it?
policeman		 Does she know anyone here, sir? We need to write down a contact name in the book. ROGER looks stumped at this. He turns to Marilyn.
roger		You don't know Her Majesty, by any chance?
marilyn		We met at a movie premiere. She said my dress was pretty.
policeman		I'm not sure that quite...
policeman		Name?
colin		Clark. Colin Clark. The POLICEMAN retreats into his box. We hear him talking on the telephone. ROGER looks at COLIN. He shrugs sheepishly.
policeman		He says to go straight up the hill, sir. You'll be met at the door.
morshead		Colin, my boy! Come in, come in. Forgive the dust. He smiles at MARILYN, showing no sign whatever of recognising her.
marilyn		Gee, I'd love to read all these books some time.
morshead		Luckily one doesn't really have to. A lot of them just have pictures in. He finds a portfolio on the table and opens it.
marilyn		She's beautiful.
morshead		She was the daughter of one of the King's courtiers, nearly 400 years ago.
marilyn		I hope I look that good when I'm
morshead		And these are all by Leonardo Da Vinci.
marilyn		I've heard of him! Didn't he paint that lady with the funny smile? She looks at him, wide-eyed, playing up to her image as the dizzy blonde. In fact she knows exactly who Da Vinci is, and MORSHEAD is tactful enough to acknowledge it gracefully.
morshead		The Mona Lisa.
marilyn		Do you have that one here too?
morshead		Alas, that one got away. He closes the portfolio and takes MARILYN's arm briskly.
marilyn		Really?
morshead		Oh, yes. Why, she was only saying to me the other day, "what must it be like to be the most famous woman on earth"? He shares a sly smile with COLIN. He knows exactly who Marilyn is and is enjoying every second of her company. He leads her out, with COLIN trailing in their wake.  MORSHEAD  Some of the rooms are very opulent but I think there's something you might like better than all that.  CUT TO:
marilyn		Look, Colin. COLIN kneels at her side.
morshead		You mustn't let me keep you. I'm sure you're longing to be on your way.
marilyn		Shall I be "her"? She jumps up onto a step and strikes a pose - hip out, shoulders back, bosom thrust forward, the classic Marilyn "look". The delighted crowd bursts into cheers. COLIN stands proudly nearby, content to watch Marilyn being a star, basking in the certain knowledge that she will be leaving with him. One of the spectators turns to him.
spectator		Are you somebody, mate?
marilyn		This isn't a school, it's a palace! COLIN smiles.
colin		Eton is 500 years old. It was founded by King Henry VI.
marilyn		It's like walking through history.
colin		Take that room up there. They stop as COLIN points up at a window.
colin		That's where the boys were sent if they didn't work hard enough. Where we were whipped. MARILYN looks at him in shock.
marilyn		Whipped?
colin		Beaten. She looks appalled.
marilyn		I'd never send my kids away.  How long were you here?
colin		Five years. But I was sent to boarding school when I was eight.
marilyn		Why?
colin		That's what we do in my family. She smiles at this, looking at him shrewdly.
marilyn		It seems to me that you've had most things pretty easy.
colin		In one way, yes. But when you're brought up in a house of over- achievers, it's hard to make your own mark. She looks at him, sympathetic but pushing a little harder.
marilyn		So how are you going to do it?
colin		Maybe it will be in films, but if not, there are so many possibilities out there.
marilyn		Sounds pretty good to me. She smiles warmly, liking him a lot more for his openness. We sense their relationship has moved quietly to a different and deeper level. But before either of them can say anything a SCHOOLBOY turns the corner in his Eton uniform.
schoolboy		Marilyn! It's Marilyn Monroe!
marilyn		Work hard, boys! I don't want anyone whipping you! A gawky young teenager near the front shouts out cheekily.
boy		You can whip me anytime, Marilyn! MARILYN laughs in delight. There are cheers as COLIN escorts her away.
marilyn		Hurry up, slow poke.
colin		But we haven't got any... He stops in mid-sentence as he sees MARILYN unbuttoning her blouse and throwing it off carelessly.
marilyn		Oh my gosh! It's freezing!
marilyn		This is great.
colin		What if a boat goes past? We could be arrested.
marilyn		Don't worry. Roger will fix it. Oh, darn it... She holds her head and he looks at her with concern.
colin		What's wrong?
marilyn		I have something in my eye. He swims across to her, very aware of her naked body under the water. She holds her head up to him.
colin		I can't see anything.
marilyn		Get closer. She tips her head back. He looks deep into her eyes - and suddenly she grabs him and kisses him on the lips. Before he can respond she laughs playfully and swims away.
colin		Let me warm you up. She snuggles into him gratefully, her teeth chattering. He rubs her naked back briskly, her thin blouse the only barrier between their bodies. Slowly his embrace becomes more sensual, his hands slowing, stroking rather than rubbing, his face buried in her hair, his arms pulling her
marilyn		Don't spoil it. She looks at him, her expression knowing but sweet.
roger		Time to go home, I think, Miss Monroe. She smiles, a little sadly, then gets up, walking past him as she puts on the rest of her clothes. ROGER averts his eyes respectfully and waits for COLIN. The two men look at each other for a second.
marilyn		Hi Milton. She smiles sweetly.
olivier		You spent the day with her. What frame of mind was she in?
colin		She was fine.
colin		Don't start, Dicky.
wattis		You won't get any sympathy from me, dear. Frankly I wouldn't care if Marilyn dropped dead tomorrow.
colin		She's trying her best.
wattis		She's Marilyn Monroe. This is her life. Pills, booze, sex, more pills.  God, it must be wonderful! COLIN doesn't laugh. WATTIS looks at him sympathetically.
milton		Marilyn's not well.
colin		But she was wonderful yesterday. MILTON looks at him for a long moment, masking his hostility in barbed politeness.
milton		I don't know what you did to her, kid, but she got nervous. I had to give her some pills to calm her down.
colin		She doesn't need pills! She just needs someone to care for her.
milton		Someone like you? COLIN reddens. MILTON shakes his head patronisingly.
colin		I told you, I'm not in love with her!
milton		You kissed her.
colin		She said that?
milton		Spare me the bullshit. I know everything. COLIN stares at him, feeling hopelessly out of his depth.
colin		Roger? What's the matter?
colin		Is she dead?
roger		She's asking for you. She's sick. I think she might be in a coma.
colin		How can she be asking for me if she's in a coma?
roger		Just bloody get dressed!
paula		She hasn't made a sound for over an hour.
roger		We should break down the door.
colin		How many pills did she take?
milton		Oh, Jesus, who knows? I wasn't counting. COLIN knocks gently.
colin		Marilyn? There is no reply.
roger		That's her window. He points with his torch. The window is open. COLIN shins up the ladder while ROGER holds it.
colin		I'll open the door once I'm inside.
colin		Marilyn? A shaft of moonlight reveals MARILYN lying naked across the bed, her body partly covered by the sheet. Half empty pill and champagne bottles are scattered all over her dresser; there is also an old photograph in a silver frame of her mother Gladys.
marilyn		Oh hi, Colin.
colin		Are you okay? Everyone was worried about you.
marilyn		Phooey. She pats the sheets at her side and settles down sleepily on the pillow.
colin		It's me. She's fine but I'm going to keep an eye on her. I'll sleep on the sofa.
colin		 You can all go to bed now.
marilyn		Colin? What are you doing here? MARILYN sits up, the sheet clutched to her chest, her expression panicky and disoriented. COLIN hurls himself off the bed.
colin		I came in through the window... He realises this doesn't sound reassuring.
marilyn		The window? Is there a balcony, like in Romeo And Juliet? How romantic.  But I'm not sick. What makes them think that? She reaches instinctively for the pill container on her bedside table.
colin		Please don't take any more pills. She frowns, clutching the pill bottle in one hand. He reaches out and prises it gently from her grasp. As he puts it back on the side he glances at the framed photograph. COLIN  Who's that?
marilyn		My mom. Her expression softens as she looks at the picture.
colin		Abraham Lincoln?
marilyn		I don't know who my father is so it might as well be him. Why not? I can pick any father I want. She smiles, then looks at Colin wistfully.
colin		Yes, I do.
marilyn		And a mother and father who still live together?
colin		Yes.
marilyn		And do they love you?
colin		I'm sure they do. He nods. She smiles sadly.
marilyn		You're lucky. Her eyes fill with tears. She looks up at him anxiously.
colin		Yes. She reaches for the pills and pours three or four into her palm. COLIN gently takes her hand and takes two of them away. She smiles, not objecting as he settles her back gently on the pillow.
marilyn		I'm not Greek. She smiles, teasing him. He smiles back. She takes his hand, looking at him in appeal.
colin		Mr. Miller loves you. She stares at him, her face going blank with misery.
marilyn		I found his notebook. It said I'd let him down.
colin		Writers scribble all kinds of things. It doesn't mean anything. She looks at him, her eyes full of pain.
marilyn		He wanted me to find it. It said he should never have married me. That I was unpredictable and a woman-child, flighty and self- centred. He's left me, Colin. Why do the people I love always leave me? She looks so wretched, so completely baffled, that COLIN responds with sudden passion.
colin		I'll never leave you. She smiles and embraces him gratefully. She sighs.
marilyn		All people ever see is Marilyn Monroe. As soon as they realise I'm not her, they run. He lies down next to her, taking her awkwardly in his arms. She sighs sleepily.
colin		I don't want to.  I love you, Marilyn. She stares at him and tears gather in her eyes again. They stare intently at each other, their mood fragile, touched with both sensuality and a longing for something less tangible. MARILYN leans forward and kisses him gently. The embrace grows in passion and they kiss properly, hungrily. He kisses her eyes and her face and she sighs happily. He wants her more than he has wanted anything before.
marilyn		What's the matter? Don't you want to make love?
colin		Maybe we should just be friends.
marilyn		Okay. Friends. She wraps herself around him, curling up so their bodies cradle each other like spoons in a cutlery draw. As she buries her head in his neck he feels her breasts against his back. She curls against him.
colin		Who's Johnny?
marilyn		Johnny Hyde. My agent, back in the old days. He was thin, like you... Her voice is blurred and drifting with sleep. With her body warm against him COLIN's resolve nearly snaps but he is clear eyed now and determined.
colin		Marilyn? She mutters softly in reply.
marilyn		"I found a dream and lay in your arms the whole night through... I'm yours no matter what others may say or do... She has never sounded so happy or carefree. COLIN smiles.
olivier		Morning, boy.  Christ, you look rough. He looks at him thoughtfully, then shrugs.
colin		Oh, I'm pretty sure she'll be in this morning. OLIVIER gives COLIN an odd look.
orton		Cut it there! MARILYN is as happy as we have ever seen her. She seeks out COLIN amongst the crowd and beams at him. Half the crew, including OLIVIER, notice the look. COLIN blushes self- consciously but we can feel his pride.
olivier		Whatever it was you did to her, boy, keep doing it. OLIVIER grins slyly and COLIN doesn't bother to protest. The phone rings. OLIVIER picks it up.
paula		From the first moment all I have felt is Olivier's loathing and contempt. He thinks I'm unnecessary. Me, her drama coach, surrogate mother, nursemaid. On call 24 hours a day to help her act, dole out pills, bolster her ego, keep her sober enough to work.  No me, no Marilyn. He is taken aback by her passion. She smiles bitterly then walks on. COLIN hesitates. She looks back briefly.
marilyn		You think I can act, don't you, Colin?
colin		Of course I do. You were wonderful today. PAULA looks at MILTON, then moves between them busily.
paula		Marilyn's tired now.
marilyn		I want him to stay with me.
milton		What would Arthur say if he knew Colin was here? A flicker of terror crosses MARILYN's face. COLIN turns on them angrily.
colin		You heard what she said. She wants me here.
paula		You have no idea of your position in the world, Marilyn. You are the greatest actress there's ever been. Not just actress. The greatest woman of this or any time. I love you like a daughter. COLIN is surprised to see tears in her eyes.
marilyn		I'm so tired of feeling scared. Life is so shitty. I hate it. It hurts too much. COLIN looks at her, his heart breaking at her anguish.
colin		I'm here now. I'll look after you. She gives him a wry look, teasing but thoughtful.
marilyn		Good old Colin. Looking after me, looking after Larry, looking after Vivien. Always putting everyone before yourself. There is an edge to this. He gazes at her, shaken, but she smiles and touches his face gently. He gets on the bed, fully clothed, to fold her in his arms.
marilyn		It hurts! It hurts, Colin! She is doubled up, clutching her stomach, sweating and frightened. COLIN sees a dark red stain on the sheets.
roger		The doctor's coming. COLIN turns the handle but the bathroom door is locked.
colin		Marilyn, unlock the door.
colin		I won't. MILTON gives him a sharp look but he no longer cares about anything except Marilyn. There is a shuffling sound and the door is unlocked. At the same moment PAULA comes rushing in, hair awry, gown flapping, a wild look in her eye.
paula		Marilyn! Marilyn, my baby, what has Colin done to you?
colin		I haven't done anything. She's just... got a stomach ache. He reddens with embarrassment. ROGER coughs.
roger		I think he means her monthlies.
paula		What will Arthur say if she dies?
colin		She's not dying, for Christ's sake. The HOUSEKEEPER now appears at the door with an elderly man at her side. He nods briskly.
connell		I'm Dr. Connell. Is the patient in there?
paula		Please save her... it's Marilyn Monroe. You can't let her die. CONNELL calmly extracts himself from her grasp.
connell		Perhaps you'd all like to give us a little privacy? As COLIN shepherds the others out MILTON turns on him bitterly.
milton		Happy now, kid?
connell		Who's in charge here? MILTON, PAULA, ROGER and COLIN all step forward as one. CONNELL gives them a wry look and shrugs.
paula		She'll be safe with me.
connell		Well, goodnight then. COLIN holds the door open as he gets in.
colin		Was she really pregnant?
connell		I think that's a private matter between Mr and Mrs. Miller. He looks at COLIN with cool disapproval, then closes the door and drives off. COLIN stands watching, shivering in his shirtsleeves.
marilyn		We have to say goodbye now, Colin. Arthur's on his way back. When this film is over I'm going to settle down and be a good wife to him. I'm going to learn to make Matzo ball soup as good as his dad's. She smiles wistfully at the fantasy.
colin		I don't want to forget. He struggles then suddenly bursts out passionately.
marilyn		What do you want to do? Marry me?
colin		Why not? You could come and live at my parents place. You'd love it. It's a castle, like in a fairy tale. We wouldn't even have to live together. You could have your own suite of rooms... He is close to tears, suddenly looking very young. She looks at him with a sad, sweet smile. He shakes his head stubbornly, taking her hand in passionate appeal.
marilyn		This is what I've worked for my whole life. I couldn't just give it all up.
colin		Why not, when it drives you crazy? Her eyes widen in surprise. A flicker of nervous insecurity dulls her expression.
marilyn		You think I'm crazy?
colin		I didn't mean that. I just meant you could be happy.
marilyn		I am happy. I got everything I ever dreamed about. She smiles tentatively, but he sees a terrible fear in her eyes. He looks down, realising with a cruel stab of pain that Olivier was right. There is no way back. She doesn't want to be rescued. He finally looks up, smiling despite the tears in his eyes.
colin		Of course you're happy.  You're a star. The biggest star in the world. She smiles, reassured. He drags himself off the bed and goes to the door, pausing for a second as he looks back.
marilyn		Well, maybe just a wink. Once in a while. He smiles, looks at her just once more, and then goes out. As the door closes we see Marilyn's smile fade to be replaced by a bleak, frightened expression.
colin		They're ready for you on set, Sir Laurence.
olivier		Marilyn?
colin		She's just arrived.
olivier		Only an hour late. Not bad by her standards. He smiles, then stands up, straightening his uniform.
sybil thorndike		First love is such sweet despair, Colin. She touches his cheek gently and smiles, perhaps lost in a long ago memory of her own, before retreating quietly into the darkness at the back of the set.
orton		Very quiet, studio! Going for a take. The big overhead lights switch on with a series of heavy clunks.
denys		Camera running! Speed!
orton		Cut! Okay boys and girls, that's a wrap! There is a smattering of applause from the crew. MARILYN leaves the stage.
milton		If you'd all like to step this way, you'll find something I think you'll like. MILTON indicates a trestle table at one end of the studio, loaded with gaily wrapped parcels. He ushers the crew over.
jacobs		It's been a lot of fun, kids. See you at the Academy Awards. He goes out, grabbing a discarded bottle of booze from the dustbin as he goes. COLIN watches all this in shocked silence. He looks at the label on his own small parcel, which reads simply "To Colin, with thanks, Marilyn".
colin		Aren't you going to throw yours away?
lucy		Of course not. It's from Marilyn Monroe. He smiles. She shrugs and turns to leave.
colin		 Lucy? She turns back to look at him.
lucy		I'm washing my hair. He nods, accepting this as no more than he deserves. She goes but then stops to look back at him.
colin		 A little.
lucy		Good. It needed breaking. There is no malice in her response, just an awareness that he is older and wiser now, and perhaps a better man for the experience. He nods, accepting the rebuke.
olivier		"You do look, my son, in a moved sort/As if you were dismay'd: be cheerful, sir./Our revels now are ended.
colin		Prospero.
colin		You should tell her that.
olivier		Oh, I will. But she won't believe me. That's probably what makes her great. It's certainly what makes her so profoundly unhappy. He smiles wryly.
colin		I thought you hated all that Royal Court stuff.
colin		Run it again, please. The lights go down. MARILYN's face appears on the screen, laughing and happy. It is another sequence, the one where Marilyn does her sweet, uninhibited little dance , a performance both sexy and yet touchingly innocent. HOLD on COLIN for a long moment, gazing at her image in the darkness, then -
marilyn		Buy a girl a drink? COLIN doesn't turn. He recognizes the voice and smiles.
colin		Can I get another one of those please, Barry? BARRY for once is silent, pours a pint. The regulars try not to stare.
marilyn		I didn't want to leave without saying goodbye.
colin		As if I could.
marilyn		Everyone else on the picture wishes they could.
colin		Everyone else doesn't understand. She smiles, touched.
marilyn		Be a gentleman and walk me to my car?
colin		What's that for?
marilyn		That's for being on my side; and remember, when you see me wink, that's for you. ROGER walks around the car and looks over at COLIN.
roger		 He gets into the car and we stay on COLIN as he watches it pull away. BARRY comes to the doorway of the pub.
barry		Was that really Marilyn Monroe?
colin		No - just a good friend of mine. BARRY walks back into the pub, leaving COLIN alone, staring at the vanishing car. And then the sun swallows it as it drives into the English countryside.  FADE TO:
colin		Any messages? THE SECRETARY pushes a piece of paper at him.
secretary		It's probably just someone having a joke. COLIN looks down at the message. There is a Los Angeles phone number and then the name - Marilyn Monroe.
colin		 Did she say anything?
secretary		She just asked you to call.  It is a joke, isn't it? COLIN stares down at the paper.
colin		Probably.  Book a call as soon as you can. Los Angeles,
operator		Your call to Los Angeles. We hear the crackle of the international line. He waits anxiously as the ringing continues.
marilyn		  "I found a dream and lay in your arms the whole night through, I'm yours no matter what others may say or do. Be light of heart and fancy free, that's the way to start, there will be nothing to lose till you lose your heart..." The fragile voice hangs in the air for a second, then slowly drifts away to nothing.
****Dialogues from script :Mystery_Men.txt****

bierce		No one can deny the horrendous nature of Mr. Frankenstein's crimes, but in the twenty years he has been with us, I have never seen a patient turn his energies to more productive use.
bierce		Just look at his accomplishments... three volumes of poetry, two rock operas, a sculpture garden, four romance novels... and who can forget his touching portrayal of Billy Bigelow in our all-psychotic production of "Carousel"...
bierce		Directed by our own Doctor Anabel Leek.
casanova		Twenty years ago I was a lost soul. Loveless...  I'm sorry!  I'm SO SO SORRY!
casanova		 And don't be afraid of the dark...
casanova		 Boom.
casanova		Those gas leaks can be murder.
casanova		I'm home.
big red		Who said crime don't pay?
big red		And what if he rats on us?
big red		Stick a brick in his Pampers and dump him in the lake.
raja		Not so fast, gentlemen--and I use the term loosely... Unhand that youngster...
shoveler		Or you're mulch.
big red		What are you guys supposed to be... superheroes?
furious		We ARE superheroes!
big red		Really?  Did you mother make those costumes?
big red		This is our territory.  Beat it.
furious		Over YOUR dead body.
big red		0ooooo, he's scary.
big red		A fork!
raja		And there's plenty more where that came from.
big red		GET 'EM!
red eyes		Crush him, Mikey!... Mash him!... Mush him!
furious		 Is that all you got?
red eyes		He wants more!... Squish him!... Finish him off!
furious		 Your mother!
red eyes		IT'S CAPTAIN AMAZING!
red eyes		We give!... We're sorry!... We had terrible childhoods!  
raja		Nice work, Captain.
amazing		 Hi. Dawn.
dawn		 Looks like you've done it again, Captain.
amazing		It's what I do.
cop 1		Okay, show's over. Move it. On your way.
raja		Wait a minute, Officers. You don't understand-- we're superheroes, and we just busted up this gang.
cop 1		Really?  Let me guess-you're Towel Head and he's...  Captain Pooper Scooper!
cop 1		Hey!  Move it!
cop 2		Get a life!
cop 1		And leave crime fighting to the real thing!
cop 1		Wannabes.
cop 2		Pathetic.
raja		 He doesn't miss a trick, does he?
furious		What a jerk--and like nobody knows who he really is!
shoveler		Oh don't start that again--
furious		LOOK!
furious		He's Lance Hunt!  Just take off the glasses-- and it's him!
raja		There's a vague similarity.
furious		A vague similarity?  IT'S THE SAME GUY!
shoveler		 0h, who gives a damn who he is? I can't take this anymore.  Night after night we're on the streets, busting our humps--and for what?
raja		We take the licks and he gets the chicks.
shoveler		How long do you have to chase a dream before you realize it's not gonna happen?
furious		We need a break, that's all! Nobody'd ever heard of him until he busted Casanova Frankenstein!
raja		But look at him... and look at us.
shoveler		The camera loves him.
raja		I lost another fork tonight.  She's getting suspicious, I know it.
furious		So why don't you just tell her!
raja		I can't.
furious		Why not?
raja		 Because I can't!  Okay?  She wouldn't understand!
shoveler		Leave him alone.  She's his mother, not yours.
furious		We had an off night, that's all.
shoveler		So when are we gonna have an on night?
waitress		Hi.
raja		You're... new.
waitress		It's my first night.  My name's Monica.
monica		You guys going to a costume party?
raja		We're superheroes.
monica		Really?  Like Captain Amazing?
monica		Are you famous?
raja		Not yet.
monica		So you're like... struggling superheroes?
raja		We prefer to think of ourselves as unsung... I am the Blue Raja, Master of Silverware... 
monica		Wow.
raja		And these are my associatiates, the Shoveler.
shoveler		Hi.
raja		And Mister Furious... His anger is his power.
monica		 Really?
raja		Usually a superpower is a magical endowment or a great skill.  In his case, it's entirely emotional.
monica		So what can I get you?
raja		Burgers all around.  Rare. (meaning Furious} Raw.
raja		She likes you.
shoveler		Definitely.
raja		Ask her out.
furious		Nah.
raja		Roy, when was the last time you had an actual date?
furious		 And then they dump you.
raja		So you're chicken?
furious		Doesn't it piss you off the way the when you really want to talk to somebody you can't think of anything to say!
monica		I guess... Are you always so angry?
furious		Only when I'm awake... You busy after work?
furious		Want to go out and get drunk?
furious		Or talk?
monica		Not tonight. 
raja		Maybe you should try a more romantic approach.
furious		 Like what?  Cutting off my own ear?
raja		Or flowers.
furious		See ya tomorrow.
shoveler		Hey, when are you guys gonna clean this place up?
tracy		When you're on TV.
lenore		Save any babies lately?
tracy		Faster than a speeding turtle--
butch		More powerful than a deodorant--
lenore		Look, snoring in his chair--
all		It's... Supergut!
lucille		 Rough night, Eddie?
mother		Jeffrey!
raja		Oh hi, Mom.
mother		What are you doing in the silver drawer?
raja		Looking for... the TV Guide.
mother		It's on the television.
raja		Of course.  I'm such a fool... Thanks, Mummy. Go to bed.
furious		Amazing?  What's so amazing about him?  I'd be amazing, too, if I'd inherited two hundred million bucks... or two bucks... or two cents...  Who am I kidding?  Dreams don't come true.
furious		Where's he going? 
amazing		 Uh-huh.
casanova		I hope you enjoy these cigars.  I had to kill a dozen Cubans to get them.
casanova		Have you considered my offer?
casanova		I got it.
casanova		I knew you'd cone.  I left that skylight open for you.
amazing		I know you did.
casanova		I knew you'd know.
amazing		I know you knew I'd know.
casanova		But did you know I knew you'd know I'd know?
amazing		Of course.
amazing		I'd hate to waste a good bullet on a piece of scum like you, Tony.
amazing		The jig is up, Casanova.  I've spent six months watching you, and know exactly what you're up to.
casanova		Really?
amazing		I know that you're recruiting your old henchmen...
amazing		I know who your girlfriend really is...
amazing		And I know the terrible revenge that you plan to inflict on this city.
casanova		I guess you know just about everything, don't you, Lance?
amazing		Um-hmm.
casanova		Except for one little thing.
amazing		 And what's that?
casanova		That I've hot wired the city's entire power supply through that catwalk.
amazing		What--?
boss		YO! CAPTAIN SOMINEX!  Get your shut-eye at home, or you'll be a full time superhero!
anthony		It's all within your power.  The only thing that's in your way is YOU!
raja		Easy for you to say.
sally		Hey, Roy!
sally		How many times I gotta tell you about this?
furious		Sally, that's a Herkimer Battle Jitney!  They don't make 'em like that anymore.  It's a classic!
sally		It's a hunk of junk.  I want the iron.  Do it!
radio announcer		...and continues to deny any knowledge of the incident... In local news, millionaire Lance Hunt has apparently disappeared...
radio announcer		Members at his household told police that the playboy philanthropist failed to return home last night after "going out for a walk". Police say they have no reason yet to suspect foul play, but a search is under way...
furious		I saw him go in--and he didn't come out!
raja		But we don't know for sure it's the same guy.
shoveler		Hey, look.
casanova		Well, Don, I've done some terrible things in my life, but now I'm cured, and I just want to give back something to my old home town... That's why I'm using what's left of my fortune to build...
don		You've changed, haven't you?
casanova		Oh yes.
furious		No he hasn't.
furious		 Let's go.
raja		 Wait!... Look!
raja		This is bad.
shoveler		Who are they?
raja		The Disco Boys.
furious		The who?
raja		The most vicious gang of thugs this city ever produced.  Twenty years ago they were Casanova's personal bodyguard.  But after he was busted they crawled into the woodwork.
furious		Well they've crawled back out.
shoveler		We may be getting in over our heads here.
raja		This looks like a job for Superman--
shoveler		Or Batman--
raja		Or both.
furious		Don't you guys get it?  If Captain Amazing is still in there, we can rescue him--and get on TV! 
casanova		Everything's going exactly as we planned.
anabel		 Not quite.  You haven't announced our engagement yet.
casanova		It must have slipped my mind.
anabel		Your mind is so slippery.
casanova		Don't worry, Pootchkie.  My womanizing days are over.  You're my Lady Macbeth, my Imelda... my Nicole. 
raja		Don't crunch the leaves.
shoveler		Sorry.
raja		Be a Mohican. 
furious		Wait.  I hear something.
raja		I'm soaked.  Oh great.
furious		Shhh.
shoveler		Be a Mohican.
raja		Shut up.
furious		Come on.
raja		Uh-oh.
raja		Oh I'm sorry.  We must have the wrong house.
casanova		Hi there.
casanova		Superheroes.
casanova		 Why bother?
monica		Here you go. 
raja		Ow.
monica		Maybe you guys ought to forget this Superhero stuff and join Kiwanis or something.
fussy custorer		Miss!
raja		Maybe she's right.
furious		 Are you serious? This is the break we've been waiting for!
shoveler		What are you talking about?
furious		What have the famous superheroes got that we don't?
raja		Agents?
furious		Archenemies!  Casanova isn't just a criminal-- he's a supervillain. Stopping him could be our ticket to fame, fortune--and babes!
shoveler		And it would be the right thing to do.
furious		 Yeah yeah--and that, too.
raja		But there's only three of us, and he's got the entire brotherhood of evil at his disposal.
furious		Then maybe it's time for us to form our own brotherhood... 
shoveler		I'm liking this.
furious		I say we send out the word--and summon all of the unsung superheroes we know!
raja		 Yeah, but... who do we know?
furious		Well... there's the Spleen.
raja		Do we have to?
shoveler		I got this cousin.  He's a real doofus, but he claims he can become invisible.
furious		Have you ever seen him?
shoveler		How could I see him if he's invisible?
raja		And there's the Sphinx.
shoveler		The who?
raja		He's a legendary masked Mexican crime fighting superwrestler and master of the machete.
furious		Sounds good.
raja		No one's sure that he actually exists, but they say he can be contacted by leaving a message on a crumpled up napkin at the Tacky Taco down by the bus station.
shoveler		Get outta here.
furious		You sure that's how you spell it?
shoveler		Yeah.
furious		So, let me get this straight.  You have the power to become invisible.
invisible boy		Yes.
raja		But... only when no one is looking.
invisible boy		Yes.
furious		If someone looks at you, you immediately become visible again.
invisible boy		Yes.
raja		So you're only invisible... to yourself?
invisible boy		No.
our heroes		 No?
invisible boy		If I look at myseif, I become visible.
raja		So you're only invisible, when abuolutely no one is looking at you?
invisible boy		Yes.
furious		So how do you know that you've ever been invisible?
invisible boy		I just know.
furious		Look, kid, we've got a lot of heroes to interview--
invisible boy		 I know I haven't got it entirely worked out yet, but I've always dreamed of becoming a superhero... Weren't you guys ever a kid? Didn't you ever need someone to just give you a chance?
spleen		Boy I can't tell you how thrilled I was when you guys called--You gonna eat that pickle?  I've always dreamed of being a member of the a real superhero team--and to have friends--real friends--I mean guys I could live with--sleep with--die with--eat with...
spleen		I love mustard.
invisible boy		So what exactly is your superpower?
spleen		Well, when I was a kid I grew up on Love Canal- -remember that?--and my brothers and I used to go swimming in it--make Kool-Aid out of it-- stuff like that.  Anyway my brothers all died, but I lived, and I grew all these like weird organs that have never been seen in humans before.  So now I can do things like this!
spleen		Cool, huh?
spleen		Sorry, sorry.
shoveler		Hey, why don't you just put a cork in it?
spleen		I tried that once.  The cork melted.
shoveler		There's just not enough of us.
furious		But we know they're out there. Hundreds--maybe thousands of lonely, unknown superheroes, who desperately need a cause...
raja		And a social life.
shoveler		Yeah, but how do we get to them?
spleen		Obscene phone calls?
monica		Why don't you throw a barbecue? 
spleen		Come on in!  The water's great!
butch		 Great picnic, Dad.
roland		Are these guys real superheroes?
lenore		They think so.
roland		But where's Captain Amazing?
spleen		Hey, these pool mints are delicious!
raja		Maybe there was traffic.
furious		Who are we kidding?  No one's gonna show. We're living in a fantasy!
invisible boy		Come on, guys--we're fighting against evil.
furious		Good or evil, what's the difference?
shoveler		There's a big difference.
furious		I used to believe that.  Now I'm not so sure.
raja		Roy, remember, it is all within your power. The only thing that's in your way... is you.
furious		Oh shut up.
invisible boy		They're here!
their leader		Hey, man, is this the superhero wingding?
raja		This is it.  Come on in!
superheroes		All right!  Party!  
raja		I am the Blue Raja, Master of Silverware.
their leader		I am Squeegee Man, and these are my compadres, the Invincible Dudes!
invincible dudes		Whoa!  Brews!  Party!  
raja		Would you mind filling out these forms; names, addresses, description of superpowers, that sort of thing.
invincible dudes		Sure, dude.  No problem.  
raja		Actually we lied about the babes, but there's plenty of burgers.
invincible dudes		That's false advertising!... We came all the way from South Champion, man!  We coulda gone plinking!... We coulda gone bunqee jumping!
squeegee man		No babes.  No peace.
squeegee man		Let's trash the place!
invincible dudes		Yeah!
furious		If you're a superhero, what's your power?
squeegee man		I am Squeegee Man.  Touch my squeegee... and you die.
furious		Can you fly?
squeegee man		No.
furious		Wanna bet?
invincible dudes		Let's get out of here!... That dude's crazy!
raja		Who are you?
bowler		I'm the Bowler.
shoveler		The Bowler?  I remember him from when I was a kid.  He was killed years ago.
bowler		I'm his daughter.
shoveler		Look, honey, being a superhero... it's a guy thing.
bowler		Really?
bowler		Good ball.
bowler		If it could zip up its own bag, then you'd be impressed, right?
furious		Hey... Can I buy you a beer?
bowler		I thought you'd never ask.
bowler		And then one day, he didn't come home.  The police said it was an accident.  But cargo containers don't just fall on people.  He was murdered... After that I fell apart.  I dropped out of school, became a mud wrestler, married and divorced a jerk.  When my mother died I hit bottom... but then, when I was cleaning out her attic, I found my father's old bowling bag and costume, almost like he'd left them there for me... and I knew what I had to do.
shoveler		So who killed him?
bowler		The Disco Boys.
furious		You know something? Those guys are really starting TO PISS ME OFF!
shoveler		But there's still only six of us.
furious		SO WHAT?
bowler		That's two more than the Fantastic Four.
furious		Half a Dirty Dozen!
spleen		Twice the Three Stooges!
invisible boy		And only one short of the Magnificent Seven.
raja		And you can't count Horst Buckholtz anyway.
bowler		He was cute though.
raja		But they all had one thing we haven't got.
spleen		Girlfriends?
raja		A name.  All the great superhero teams have got a fabulous name.
bowler		How about... the Savage Six?
raja		The Inscrutable Six?
spleen		The Six Pistols?
shoveler		The Exterminators!
invisible boy		The Obliterators!
raja		The Eradicators!
bowler		The Emasculators!
spleen		Wait--I got it!... The Spleen Team.
furious		To hell with a name.  Let's get to work.
furious		Let's say hello.
casanova		Nice car.
furious		What did you do with Captain Amazing?
casanova		Captain who?
bowler		I'm his daughter.
furious		'SCUSE ME!
tony		Waste him!
furious		Shall I check your oil?
furious		Looks fine.
furious		NICE CAR!
casanova		 That boy's got talent.
shoveler		To us!
raja		Whatever our name is.
shoveler		Even his snores smell bad.
bowler		But she's your mother.  You gotta tell her.
raja		I can't.
invisible boy		Dad thinks all this superhero stuff is a stupid waste of time.
shoveler		But he plays golf, right?
invisible boy		Yeah.
raja		I'm her only son, and she always had such high hopes for me. Medicine.  Law.
bowler		But you're a superhero.
raja		The cape.  The turban.  She wouldn't understand.
bowler		I know... My girlfriends all dumped me after I put on the mask.  They thought I'd lost it.
raja		But in fact... you'd found it.
shoveler		This is your dream... and you can't ever give it up.
invisible boy		I wonder what he dreams about?
shoveler		We don't want to know.
bowler		It's late.  I'm headin' home.
raja		Me, too.
bowler		 Come on, Junior, it's a school night.
furious		Anybody up for a little White Castle?
furious		Disco sucks.
furious		You're the Sphinx.
sphinx		And you are a fool.
sphinx		You call yourselves superheroes? A rooster fights more intelligently than you!  You have shown yourself to your enemy and revealed your powers to him--and what have you accouplished for this?  You have destroyed his car. Brilliant!  If you want to survive you must fight like a wolf pack--not like a six pack!
sphinx		The wolf is cunning.  He knows that stealth is his greatest weapon, and he always fights as a team... 
sphinx		Casanova Frankenstein is a a master of evil. You will need more than shovels and dessert forks to stop him... What else have you got?
furious		 So what else has Superman got?
shoveler		He's got the fact that he's Superman!
bowler		Bullets bounce off him!
raja		Firepower costs money.
invisible boy		Anybody got any?
shoveler		We didn't think this through very well.
bowler		 My father had this friend... He was an inventor...
shoveler		Are you sure he's still lives here?
raja		Are you sure he's still alive?
bowler		He was the last time I saw him.
shoveler		When was that?
bowler		I was eight.
heller		Yes!
bowler		Doctor Heller?
heller		 Yes!
bowler		It's me... Elizabeth.
heller		Elizabeth!  Little Elizabeth!  Why you're so... middle aged!
bowler		Thanks.
heller		How's your dad?
bowler		He's dead.
heller		Oh that's right--they squished him...  Heck of a guy.
bowler		Doc, these are my friends.  We're superheroes, and we need your help.
heller		Well, I give to the United Way, and I feel that sort of covers--
sphinx		Doctor, we need your weapons.
heller		 My weapons? You need my weapons?
heller		The military establishment has never understood me.  They won't return my phone calls, much less field test anything.  But I knew that someday I'd get my chance, and now... here you are! 
raja		But, Doc... where's the machine guns?
shoveler		The bazookas?
invisible boy		The lasers?
heller		You don't need that junk!  You see, for thousands of years mankind has been immolating, disemboweling, and exploding itself.  Why? Because we have this built-in screwed up need to go to war! 
heller		Now here's a beauty!  I call it the Shrinker!  I developed it after years of studying the worst dry cleaners I could find.  It instantly shrinks fabrics to half their size.  Anyone caught in its spray is immediately immobilized by their own clothing!
furious		Let's get out of here.
bowler		Hey, Mister Bad Mood.
bowler		 Catch.
heller		He's got the air cannon!
furious		Doc, you're a genius! 
heller		I know.
furious		 Okay! We got the firepower!  I say we throw it into the car, drive over to Casanova's house, and kick some ass!
sphinx		No.
sphinx		We are not yet ready.  Now we must learn to fight together... as one thing.
raja		Twenty years ago all the major hoodlums of this city were united into one great brotherhood of evil, and Casanova was their king.
shoveler		Crime was rampant.  It wasn't safe to stay in your home.
bowler		Much less go outside.
shoveler		Then Captain Amazing appeared.
raja		He busted Casanova and sent the crooks packing.
shoveler		And this has been a pretty nice place to live ever since.
furious		 But now Casanova's back!  And we're gonna sit around here all night eating pizza and telling stories! Hey, lets toast some marshmellows!
sphinx		The wise snake coils before he strikes.
furious		 And a skunk stinks!
sphinx		You drink too much.
furious		When are you going to take off that mask?
sphinx		 When I am sure I am among friends.
raja		Roy--
furious		 Go dance with your mother, Jeffrey!
sphinx		Your rage is a very great power, but it blinds you to your heart.
furious		My heart died a long time ago.
sphinx		It is not dead.  It is hiding.
furious		Blow it out your bean hole, Pancho!... And to hell with the rest of you!... Look at you. Bunch of rejects.  I didn't need you before-- and I don't need you now! 
bowler		Has he always been like this?
mother		 Oh this place looks great.
mother		Now honey, you just wait in the car.  Mommy and Daddy will be right beck.
little furious		Pow!  Bang!  Wham!
mother		It's nice and cool in here.
father		 Barkeep, a couple of cold ones.
bartender		And here's a banana for your monkey.
bartender		Couple more?
father		You bet.
little furious		Mommy!  Daddy!  Mommy!  Daddy!
mother		OH MY GOD!
mother		Oh my God!  Oh my God!  Oh my God!
furious		Hi.
monica		Alone tonight?
furious		Every night.
spleen		 Bug repellent?
spleen		 Kid!
dawn		...still no sign of millionaire Lance Hunt, and now, in an unrelated story, another one of Champion City's leading citizens has apparently disappeared. Captain Amazing has not been seen or heard from in a week. Authorities believe that the hard working superhero may just be taking a well deserved rest.
don		Cancun perhaps?
dawn		Sounds good to me, Don.
furious		 Monica... I was wondering if--uh-maybe we--I mean you and I--could-uh--you know--get a--I mean have a...
monica		Date?
furious		Yeah.
monica		I get off work in fifteen minutes. Walk me home?
furious		Sure.
monica		That was easy. 
casanova		Honey, our ship's come in.
disco boy		Just give me the word.
anabel		 Where are you going?
casanova		Head hunting.
monica		I admire you.
furious		Why?
monica		Being a superhero, wanting to save the world. It's so... unselfish.
furious		It is?
monica		Most people just want to make money or be famous or something.  But you risk everything, just to help people.
furious		 I wouldn't mind being famous.
monica		Who wouldn't?
monica		I've never been able to figure out what to do with my life, which is why I guess I'm still a waitress.
furious		Nothing wrong with being a waitress.
monica		What's your real name?
furious		Roy.
monica		Have you always lived here?
monica		Me too... I love this stupid old town.  It's noisy.  It's smelly. It's falling apart.
furious		It's home.
monica		Yeah.
monica		I've thought of leaving, going to Chicago or New York, but...
furious		What have they got that we ain't got?
monica		Champion's going to bounce back, and I want to be here when it does.
furious		Me, too.
monica		You don't seem very angry right now.
monica		You know what?  Underneath all that anger I think there's just a little boy who wants everyone to love him.
furious		I just want to be a superhero.
monica		That's what I mean... 'Night, Roy.
casanova		Going my way?
casanova		Take it easy--take it easy.  I just want to have a little chat... That was quite a number you did on my car.  You've got a lot of violence in you... and I like that in a guy.
casanova		You know what the difference is between good and evil, Roy?
casanova		Evil is more fun.  When you want something, you just take it, and if somebody gets in your way, you kill them... You seem like a very frustrated guy, Roy.  Unhappy. Unfulfilled. What is it that you've always wanted, always desired?  Because whatever it is, I can give it to you... Fame?  The easiest of all.
casanova		I'll let you in on a little secret, Roy.  In two days this entire city will belong to me, and there's not a damn thing your little pals can do about it.  It's the perfect time to switch teams... So what do you say?
furious		 You're nuts.
casanova		 They always call the great ones nuts.
furious		And the nuts always call themselves great.
casanova		 Are you with me... or against me?
furious		Against.
casanova		Too bad.  PLUG HIM!
casanova		WAIT!
furious		 Thanks for reminding me which team I'm on.
casanova		You're dead.
furious		So are you!
anabel		Be careful with my baby.
guard 1		Freeze!
guard 2		Hands up!
guard 2		What are you two doing here?
guard 1		Not talking, eh?  That can be fixed.  Turn around, start walking up the hill--
guard 2		And no funny business.
spleen		 Pinch 'em.
invisible boy		Whatever was in that crate... is from Russia.
furious		I was wrong... I need my friends.
sphinx		Amigo.
furious		Casanova said that in two days the entire city would belong to him... and there wasn't a thing that we could do about it.
bowler		What did he mean?
furious		I dunno.
shoveler		Maybe it's time we checked that place out.
raja		But how do we get in?
furious		 We just become like the wolf... who wears the sheep's clothing.
raja		So where's the art?
furious		He hasn't stolen it yet.
shoveler		This place is built like a fortress.
furious		Because thats what it is.
raja		What's that?
furious		 Come on.
raja		 Oh my God... Every crook in the city is here.
casanova		Excuse me.
casanova		 Monica... Beautiful name.  It suits you.
casanova		I hope you won't take this the wrong way, but I couldn't help but notice... that you're a dead ringer for Veronica Lake in "The Blue Dahlia".
monica		Really?
casanova		Are you an actress?
monica		Just a waitress.
casanova		You underestimate yourself.
casanova		You know I'm writing a play--it's just a little Broadway thing, but thure's a part in it that I think you'd be perfect for.
monica		Really?
casanova		I'd love to hear you read it. Could you stick around after the luncheon?
monica		Sure--I guess.
casanova		Terrific.
casanova		What are you three doing here? This is invited guests only.  Out.
raja		That was too close.
shoveler		But we gotta find out what's going on in there.
furious		Hey.
furious		It's me.
monica		What are you guys doing here?
casanova		Thank you all for coming.  I hope you enjoy the cigars.  I had to kill a dozen Cubans to get them.
casanova		Twenty years ago, this town was yours!  AND I WAS YOUR KING!
casanova		 But they called me a psycho, and they put me away.  For twenty years I rotted in my cell, painting watercolors, writing haikus--just waiting for the day I could take my revenge. Well, brothers, that day has come!
casanova		They thought I was crazy? Well the joke's on them--because tonight at precisely midnight--on the twentieth anniversary of my tragic arrest-- every man, woman, and child in this city is going to turn into a RAVING PSYCSOTIC!  Mothers will murder their tots!  Old ladies will strangle their cats!  Children will bump off their babysitters!
italian ice		You're outta your mind!
casanova		I beg your pardon?
italian ice		Nobody could drive a whole city crazy.
casanova		Tell you what, Ice.  I'll mke you a friendly little wager.  It I can't do it... you can blow my brains out.  If I can, I'll blow out yours.
italian ice		Done.
casanova		 Honey, give the boys a taste.
crooks		That was great!... What the hell was that?... How did you do that?
casanova		Tonight, at midnight, that sound will be amplified across this entire city.  Murder and mayhem will reign supreme!  And Champion City will be ours again!  This will be our castle! And I will be our king!  And there's no one to stop us!
casanova		Don't worry, fellas...  I killed him... and I've had him stuffed.
amazing		 Oh, my abs are killing me!
monica		What could have made such a horrible noise?
heller		 He's got the Psychostridulator.
all		The what?
heller		Ten years ago the Kremlin's top secret Psychiatric Warfare Division developed a prototype for a weapon that emitted a fluctuating alternative frequency noise that produced a violent psychotic reaction in any mammal within hearing distance.  But when the old Soviet Union fell the stridulator and its brilliant inventor, Doctor Kopov, disappeared.
shoveler		This Kopov, what happened to him?
heller		Not him... her.
bowler		Did she look like that?
heller		Yes.
spleen		 Maybe it won't work.
furious		It works.
heller		A village in Siberia was wiped out when a cleaning woman switched it on by mistake.
monica		We've got to warn the city.
shoveler		How?
raja		No one will believe us.
bowler		They'll think we're just a bunch of weirdoes.
furious		 We know what we gotta do.
raja		We're outnumbered twenty to one.
shoveler		It's suicide.
furious		Maybe.  But this isn't about living or dying. It's about good versus evil, and we're good, whether we like it or not... Maybe we look a little funny...
furious		And smell a little funny.  We're not bulletproof and we can't fly. But we're superheroes--and that means doing what's right- -even when it's impossible... This is our city- -these are our friends, our famlies--and if we don't save them, nobody will!  So I say we take a ride up that hill, blast our way in there, destroy that Psycho-whatchamabob-- and teach those deviants a lesson they'll never forget!
sphinx		Now you're talking.
bowler		Sounds good to me.
raja		Let's do it.
shoveler		And we'll take a bunch of 'em with us!
monica		I just want you guys to know--I may not be a superhero, but I'm with you--and I want to help!
all		Oh that's great... Thanks, Monica...  
bowler		We could really use some coffee--
shoveler		And some sandwiches--
spleen		With mustard!
monica		 Sure.
raja		But that place is huge and we don't know where this psycho thing is--
bowler		Or even what it looks like.
heller		And he must have it well hidden.
furious		We'll just have to get lucky.
furious		Go do what you gotta do.  We'll meet back here at sunset... Do or die.
all		Do or die.
sphinx		Victoria o morte.
sally		HEY!
shoveler		Baby, if I don't make it... find yourself... a normal guy.
lucille		I don't want a normal guy.
mother		Jeffrey, YOU THIEF!
raja		Mother... it's not what you think!
mother		And why are you wearing that silly costume?
raja		 Because... I'M A SUPERHERO!
raja		Oh, Mother, I'm sorry.  I know how much you wanted me to be a doctor or a lawyer with a family--but it's just not who I am!
mother		But... the silverware?
raja		I use it... to fight evil.
mother		 Jeffrey... this is wonderful.
raja		 It is?
mother		I always knew that you were special.
raja		You did?
mother		Ever since you were a little boy...  Come with me.
mother		This is for you.
mother		Your Great Great Grandmother's wedding silver.
raja		Bitchin'.
furious		Try it again!
furious		Come on, baby... Come on, baby... I SAID COME ON!
bowler		Mon Capitan, it's for you. 
furious		Hello?
monica		 It's me.
furious		Monica, where are you?
monica		At the Frankenstein Center.
furious		Are you nuts?  Get out of there!
monica		I'm going inside.
furious		What are you talking about?
monica		Listen, Casanova may be a supervillain, but he's got a weakness, and I'm it.  Maybe--just maybe--I can trick him into showing me the location of the whatchamathing.
furious		He's a psycho!  He'll kill you!
monica		Just shut up and listen.  Hold off the attack as long as you can.  If I can discover the location I'll call you--
furious		And what if you get killed?
monica		Then at least I will have died trying, right?
monica		Roy... We might never see each other again, so I'd better tell you now...  I think you're wonderful.
furious		 What?
monica		Bye. 
furious		Monica!
monica		Could you tell Mr. Frankenstein that Monica is here?
guard		Sure, doll.
bowler		 Hey... you okay?
furious		Sure.
monica		Hi.
casanova		I thought you'd chickened out on me.
monica		Just wanted to... powder my nose.
monica		How 'bout giving me "the tour"?
casanova		Why not?
casanova		Big, isn't it?
casanova		Don't worry.  It's not activated.
monica		Who's the artist?
casanova		Me.
furious		Listen.  He's lonely... and he doesn't care who knows it.
furious		We're all the same really.  Our songs, our dreams, our seeds are all just a brave attempt to live forever. 
sphinx		He is in love.  His anger is gone.
raja		Oh no.
shoveler		Great timing!
furious		Has Monica called?
casanova		This is where I come to... be alone.
monica		Oh, look at that view.
heller		Snap out of it!
bowler		Get on to yourself!
shoveler		 GET MAD!
furious		But I just don't feel it.
raja		He's turned into a completely normal person!
furious		Normal.  What's normal?  Does normal exist? And if it did, how would we know it?
furious		You know, Eddie, that was really uncalled for.
monica		I'm chilly.
spleen		Look!  Your favorite sunglasses! 
bowler		Your Roy Rogers coffee mug! 
shoveler		Your Spiderman Pez dispenser! 
furious		Okay, you win.  I'm pissed off. I'm seriously peeved.
casanova		Come here.
monica		I'm not that kind of girl.
casanova		Then why are you here?
monica		Curiosity.
casanova		 Remember the cat.
anabel		What are you doing all alone in the dark?
casanova		Fantasizing... about you.
casanova		I thought you were done?
anabel		One last tweak.
raja		If this doesn't do it, nothing will!
bowler		It's working!
furious		This music is just SO BEAUTIFUL!
shoveler		It's time.
raja		With or without him, we gotta go!
anabel		Our guests are waiting.
casanova		I'll be down in a jiffy.
monica		I'd better go.
casanova		You're a spy.
monica		 What?
casanova		I saw him walk you home.
monica		Who?
casanova		Roy.
casanova		Don't be afraid... I never hit a lady...
monica		Stay away!
casanova		Or you'll what?  CAN ME?
casanova		That bitch!
furious		But she still might call!
shoveler		Are you coming or not?
furious		I'll drive.
shoveler		Not a chance!
monica		Come on, guys... Pick up...
casanova's voice		What's the matter...
casanova		Nobody home?
shoveler		Here we go!
shoveler		We've got lift off!
raja		May the forks be with us!
raja		First is good.
casanova		I want her alive.
guards		Yes, Mr. Frankenstein.
little boy		Daddy, what is that thing?
father		I don't know, son.
drunk		A Herkimer?  Those yuppies will drive anything.
sphinx		Amigo, we need you.
invisible boy		Just GET MAD!
casanova		Fellas, this is woman without whom I would have gone sane. 
guard 1		What the hell is that?
guard 2		Looks like... a Ford Dumpster.
guards		HEY!
shoveler		Hang on!
casanova		It's showtime.
guard		Mr. Frankenstein, we're being attacked.
casanova		By whom?
shoveler		Come on, baby!
bowler		Do it, big boy!
shoveler		Atta, girl!
bowler		Atta, boy!
casanova		Well kill them.
shoveler		Where am I going?
raja		 Through there!
shoveler		Right.
shoveler		No good!  She's dead!
furious		Cover me!
shoveler		With what?
raja		Not bad for a normal guy!
sphinx		Amigos!
all		Do or die!
heller		Wait!  Look!
heller		Laser eye... and it's a humdinger.
raja		No problem.
shoveler		Doc, there's got to be a way.
monica's voice		It's up here!  It's up here!
furious		 Monica!
monica		ROY!  THE PSYCHO THING IS--!
casanova		Thanks, Roy!  She's just my type. You can have her back... when I'm done!
heller		He'll never make it.
bowler		Think positive.
invisible boy		 I can do it.
casanova		 Some girls just know how to die.
anabel		You two timing psychotic bastard.
casanova		Darling, you've got the wrong idea.
anabel		 Do I?
casanova		I was only strangling her... I've killed hundreds of women. It doesn't mean a thing.  Pootchkie, you're over-reacting. This is our night.  It's what we've lied for... cheated for... murdered for.  She's just a plaything, a trifle... You're the only woman who's ever meant anything to me. I adore you.  I worship you.  I want to make you my bride.
casanova		There's just one thing...  I don't need you anymore.
casanova		Don't worry, Darling.  I never hit a lady.
bowler		Heads up!
invisible boy		Guys, I did it! I did it!  I'm invisible!
invisible boy		Can you see me?
all		Yes!
invisible boy		Nuts.
shoveler		Kid, turn that thing off!
invisible boy		HEY! CREEPS!
shoveler		This is it!  DO OR DIE!
casanova		And the light goes out...
casanova		Roy... What took you so long?
casanova		Let me guess... Bullets don't hurt you.
furious		They hurt... BUT THEY DON'T STOP ME!
casanova		Smarts, doesn't it?... Shall we dance?
disco boys		Help!... Get me out of this! 
casanova		Roy, you're making this too easy.
bowler		 Daddy says hello.
casanova		Let's change the tune.
casanova		WHAT A RUSH! 
furious		 Is... that... all you got?
furious		Nice dancing with you.
furious		Monica...
monica		You're beautiful when you're angry.
raja		Mama!
raja		I'm home.
don		Few details have emerged...
kids		Dad!... Dad!... You okay?... You hurt?
shoveler		 I'm okay--I'm all right.
lenore		I'll hold your shovel, Dad.
butch		You want a soda, Dad?
shoveler		 Okay.
roland		Nice work. Dad.
shoveler		Thanks, Roland.
roland		You really are a superhero, aren't you?
shoveler		And that's when the engine blew up.
kids		Whoa...
butch		What did you do?
shoveler		Well...
doc heller		So you're never actually conscious of range or trajectory?
raja		Heck no.  I just chuck 'em.
dawn		It's been twenty-four hours since the deadly psycho-sonic attack and bloody shoot-out that left Casanova Frankenstein and dozen of the city's top hoodlums dead... But tonight the question remains... Who were these heroic mystery men who saved our city?...
bowler		Could have been anybody.
raja		Wait a minute... That's it.  That's our name. We're... the Mystery Men.
bowler		Hey, do I look like a Man?
shoveler		Well we can't call ourselves the Mystery People.
spleen		 Mystery, Mystery Man... I want to be a Mystery Man...
bowler		Eat your mustard.
furious		It doesn't matter what we call ourselves.  We know who we are.
raja		Yes, Obie-wan.
invisible boy		Hey... he's gone.
raja		"Until you need me again... Adios."
shoveler		I miss him already.
furious		Amigos, duty calls.
patron		Miss... who are those guys?
monica		 I don't know.
****Dialogues from script :Napoleon_Dynamite.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Nashville.txt****

wade		 You want a ride into town?
sueleen		You bet.
sueleen		Got me an audition tonight.
wade		Well, you just remember, if you can't kick front, kick back, 'cause at least you're kicking... Ten minutes, okay?
sueleen		I've just been waiting for the right spot to sing in... I'm so nervous...
sueleen		I'm good, though. There ain't but one Sueleen Gay -- I don't mean to be conceited, but really it's true. I've been taking special coaching lessons from Zeke Willard -- he's just wonderful. Teaches you how to phrase; that's really important. And breathing. Well, you know all about that. Anyway, I wrote this song.
sueleen		Oh, listen, I really do go on. Here's your check. Sure has been nice talking to you.
bud		Sorry. He sees a tape recorder and gets upset.
bud		He's my father.
opal		Haven Hamilton is your father? Can you arrange an interview?
haven		Who the hell is playing piano? Get that hippie out of here... He's got a tin ear. I asked for Pig, dammit. I'm moving on 'cause I gotta get to the airport. When you get my backups straight, then we'll talk about cutting this tune here.
opal		Excuse me, sir. I'm here putting together a film. I would like to ask some questions.
haven		Foreigner?
opal		I'm from BBC television.
haven		Where the hell is that?
haven		Linnea.
linnea		How you doing, Haven?
haven		oh, fine. Couldn't be better.
tom		You ladies got room for a spare?
stew		Sure.
green		Joan?
green		Glad to see you. Ester'll be glad, too.
green		I'1l get your bag.
glenn		Am I late?
norman		Late!  Oh, Jesus!
haven		Delbert, how are you?
reese		I'm fine. This here is John Triplette. Triplette, like you to meet the Honorary Mayor, Haven Hamilton.
haven		Good to meet you.  Bud, have them move the horses.
triplette		Pleasure
reese		Where is she?
haven		Still inside the plane posing for pictures and signing autographs. She's got a new album cut again. She'll be down in a minute. But she'll be late for the Opera if she doesn't hurry. Bud, get the plane on the walkie-talkie.
bud		They don't seem to be answering. The ambulance boys are here, though. Barnett always expects them to get there like a shot. That thing only goes a hundred fall bore with the sirens going.
haven		Thank you, Bud.
haven		Bud, tell them to move the horses. Promised this strip would be spic and span.
reese		Listen, we'll go get the car and come back. This'l1 be going on for a while.
haven		You bet. She's probably talking to somebody about their sick child. You know how she is.
norman		Hi.
bill		Hi, Norman.
norman		Sure is nice to see you all again. I never thought I'd see you again after the last time.
bill		Oh, Norman, you worry too much.
mary		Norman, how are you?
norman		Fine. Just fine.
norman		Sure have missed you all, though. Oh, where's Tom?  Isn't he with you?
bill		Don't worry about old Tom.
voice		Have you thought about your future and what America needs to examine...
attendant		How long was she out?
barnett		Not too long. But she keeps passing out.
barbara jean		 Just give your manna that vitamin E. Makes a world of difference.
haven		Here she is again.
attendant		Okay, let's get her to the wagon.
green		Eater's been asking for you.
green		She's been in the hospital two weeks yesterday.
green		 It's hard to say. Doctors thought she'd come home a week ago. All it was was appendix.
green		Did an exploratory and according to them, she needed an overhaul.
green		What did you say?
green		I see... Well, those doctors are real miracle workers.
green		Maybe you can look after me a little.
pearl		We had these two city boys come in last week. One or them said his Ford truck had cut off his foot. The other one said that wasn't true. Then the first said he looked just like Eddie Black when he said that...
haven		Bud, would you be sure to get the oil changed?
bud		Ya... where do you want me to take it?
pearl		Do you remember Eddie Black? He had those blue eyes.
haven		Where you always take it. There's nothing special about this time.
pearl		And they started pounding on each other. But the one without the foot was strongest.
haven		Bud, you're going to have to show up at the hospital tar me I gotta get back to that session.
bud		Okay. Anything you want me to say?
haven		Say I had to get back to the session. ~ God -- All school did for you, you can put in a thimble.
pearl		The cops came through and broke it up. I finally just had to call Chet and say, 'Chet, get over here. There are two old bays here breaking up the furniture...'
wade		Is that what you're going to sing?
sueleen		No -- That's exercises. My coach says you have to do exercise because the vocal chords are muscle and need to be stretched. Every time you stretch them, the middle part sets stronger. That's the place where I sing.
wade		You think I got any kind of a voice?
sueleen		You sure do it loud.
wade		Is that good?
sueleen		It's not bad.
wade		You think I should take lessons?
sueleen		If you're serious. Being serious is real important.
wade		You serious?
sueleen		Wade -- I've been working toward this audition for years.
wade		Well, honey, I sure hope it comes your way then.
sueleen		You think it will?
wade		Sure thing.
tom		You did, huh?
tom		 Too long.
tom		 All his life.
tom		Me, too.
tom		You having any fun?
tom		That's the most important thing -- to have -- fun
tom		Long enough to have fun.
triplette		What do you think of him?
reese		Hal? Well, Hal and I have been friends for a long time.
triplette		You go to school together?
reese		No, we never did that
triplette		Oh --
reese		We're connected by a relative. One time, one of his aunts married one of my uncles. That was a long time ago, though. How'd you come to work for him?
triplette		Well, I really think he's got a chance.
reese		You do?
triplette		Oh yea -- There has never been a better time for something new.
reese		He ain't really new.
triplette		He is to a lot of people.
reese		He was a good Judge, but that was a long time ago.
triplette		You know, I'll bet you he makes it with a majority.
reese		Where are you from?
triplette		Southern California.
reese		You always live there?
triplette		Spent time in Arizona. Why?
reese		Well, I admire your optimism, and I just wondered if it was regional. You ever see any movie stars?
triplette		I know a couple.
reese		No kidding -- Wait till I tell Linnea. Who?
triplette		Ah... Peter Finch.
reese		Who?
triplette		Peter Finch -- he's English.
reese		I never heard of him. Name somebody else.
triplette		Ryan O'Neal.
reese		You really do?  ~ God -- How come you know them?
triplette		Oh, you meet them at parties and stuff.
reese		I'll be damned. Boy, if you could get Ryan to say something about Hal Phillip Walker, wouldn't that be something?
triplette		Well -- maybe. Let's see what happens here.
reese		I'll be dammed.
opal		Have your children been deaf since birth?
linnea		Yes -- yes, they have. It was a real shock at first, especially since my daddy's a preacher, but Delbert and I have been blessed by their being here.
opal		When did you start singing?
linnea		When I was little, in church.
opal		Isn't it unusual for you to be working with a black choir?
linnea		Yes, it is --
opal		Well, can you tell me why?
linnea		It just is.
opal		 How long have you been with them?
linnea		About three years.
opal		And before?
linnea		Just my church and my boys. We all had to go to school and learn hand talking. I just thank the Lord they can see.
opal		Do you ever do any writing?
linnea		No, I don't.
opal		Are you a close friend of Haven's?
linnea		No, mostly his wife's. She's in Paris, France, right now. My husband Delbert is real friendly with him. Delbert's in law. Does work for him.
opal		Do you like him?
linnea		He's a member of our congregation.
star		You got the money?
albuquerque		Right here.
star		Well, don't lose it. Last time I gave you twenty-five dollars, you lost it.
albuquerque		Well, that just happened that time.
star		Well, it better not happen again.
star		You lost twenty-five dollars once before that, too, near Christmas time -- I remember that real well now. December 9th, to be exact.
albuquerque		You got a real good memory, Star.
star		I remember when I just saw you. Skinny Winnifred. Jesus, you were skinny.
albuquerque		 What do you have to buy?
star		Feed, mostly. Thought we'd get something for the kids.
albuquerque		Okay by me - I'd sure like to see that Opryland.
star		What?
albuquerque		Grand Old Opera --
star		I hate that music.
albuquerque		I know that, Star.
norman		Oh, my God!
bill		Norman, just sit there and don't puke.
albuquerque		Hey, mind if I walk with ya?
albuquerque		You a musician?
kenny		No.
albuquerque		Do you have people in Nashville?
kenny		No -- Just coming to Nashville, that's all.
barnett		I don't care. I pay you people twenty-five bucks an hour and keep you working steady. Now either go on or turn around. But move.
mary		Don't worry, Norman. There's no blood. Nobody's hurt.
albuquerque		Hurt my foot...
star		Have you seen a woman about so high?
kenny		No.
star		She had on high heels?
kenny		No.
star		Need a ride?
doctor		Barbara, I'd like to talk to you and Barnett alone.
barnett		Anything you say.
barnett		Doctor says you'll have to go on out now
triplette		Excuse me, Barnett, how's she doing?
triplette		I'm sorry. I feel as if I know you. I'm John Triplette... a friend of Del Reese... I was at the airport. I just wanted to introduce myself. I'm a great fan of hers. If there's anything you need, just give me a call. I'm at the Sheraton South.
barnett		She's going to rest now.
triplette		Okay, I just wanted to see if I could help out at all.
barnett		I appreciate your concern, but she has to rest, so you can go on home.
triplette		Oh, sure.
barnett		What do you really want?
triplette		Not a thing, Barnett, really. I need a little information. But, ah, it can wait.
barnett		You bet.
triplette		Okay. Thanks.
doctor		Well, it's exhaustion, pure and simple, and you're going to have to take a rest or you're going to be in big trouble.
barnett		She has to be at the opera tomorrow night and then she can go home.
doctor		She's not going anywhere, Barnett. This is precisely what I'm talking about. She is collapsing. She cannot go on without a rest or she will have to stop altogether for a long time.
barbara jean		Well, I have to go:  It's too late to be replaced, and, besides, I just can't do that. Those people get disappointed. They've come in from all over, you know, and this Miss Foxy who's been writing to me for years is going to be there from Michigan.
doctor		You cannot leave this bed until I say so. The two of you have to understand that. Barnett, you've got to stop this dovetailing and give her some rest. You don't need to make that much more money.
barnett		It's not the money. The friends and neighbors love her and they want to see her. We got a debt to the public.
doctor		Well, they are not going to see her tomorrow night, and I suggest you get on the phone and make the necessary arrangements.
tom		We just got a gold record.
opal		Do they have a show to give it to you?
tom		No  Hell, some secretary in New York just hands it to you. Only this one kept dropping it out of the box.
opal		Did it break?
tom		Dent it a little. Boy -- just she couldn1t even find it. She had a hamburger on her desk that looked three weeks old.
opal		How long have you been together?
tom		Probably a little too long.
opal		Do you study at all?
tom		Depends on what I'm studying.
manager		When do you need her?
delbert		Monday night.
manager		You want her to sing, too?
sueleen		I can do benefits
manager		 How much?
delbert		Twenty dollars for her and ten for you.
managzr		Well, do you want a blonde?
delbert		How does she look?
manager		You know... blonde.
delbert		Okay, I'll get you your money.
manager		I can only give you fifty a week here and ten bucks for the benefit.
sueleen		Money's no object.
manager		You go here Monday night and be there at eight sharp and look flashy you know what I mean?
manager		Are you sure you know what you're doing?
sueleen		Hundreds of times.
manager		Well, there's a couple of girls in Printers Alley if you got any questions. I know I've seen that G- string stuff for sale someplace around.
sueleen		Don't you worry about Sueleen Gay.
manager		That's for sure. At the airport - that's where it was. At the airport, there in one of those gift shops... Anyway, you better take a break.
sueleen		Thanks. You are just a wonderful person.
linnea		Hello.
tom		Linnea?
linnea		Yes. Who's this?
tom		I'm here.
linnea		Who is this?
tom		Tom. You remember?
linnea		 I'm not sure. Where?
tom		Remember, about a month ago, your church choir cut a record?
linnea		Yes.
tom		Well, I met you that afternoon in the control room and we...
linnea		Oh, Tom, of course. What are you doing in Nashville?
tom		I'd really like to see you.
linnea		Or course. You should come over to the house. The boys would love to meet you.
tom		 That's not quite what I had in mind.
linnea		Well...How have you been?
tom		Well, they removed my heart last week, but I'm doing fine except my nose fell off. Looks a little funny.
tom		Look, I find you attractive and I want to see you, so I'll call you when I get to my place.
wade		Hey, what are you doing?
albuquerque		Just fixing this strap here
wade		I know what you're doing. I've done it too long not to know. But if you're going to hunt down food, get enough so you won't have to do it again right away. Peanut butter's good. Man can last a long time on peanut butter.
wade		 Tommy Brown, you are the whitest nigger I have ever seen.
barnett		Let's go --
tommy		I don't think Norman's done yet.
barnett		We've heard enough. Come on.
wade		Hell, you're whiter than that old boy up there.
wade		Where the hell are you going, Oreo cookie?
star		Hey, there - You seen my Winifred?
kenny		No.
star		You got a place to stay?
kenny		No. Probably stay at a motel tonight.
star		 You in music?
kenny		No.
star		Get in.
green		You should have stayed. Ester's been wanting to see you.
nurse		Who are you?
opal		Come on back to bed.
tom		Yeah, you bet. You're really terrific. You know what I mean?
opal		Come on.
tom		Just a minute.
tom		Hiya. Listen, is Linnea there?
tom		Hi.
tom		Listen, 1'm sorry I didn't call a little sooner. I sorta got tied up. Listen...
tom		Who is this?  It's Tom.
tom		What do you mean?  You said you wanted to see me.
tom		What the hell is going on?
tom		I would like to talk to...
green		Yes, air.
kenny		Yes, sir.
green		Can I help you?
kenny		Yes, sir. I need a room
green		I think we can do that. Come in.
green		Green's the name.
kenny		Kenneth Fraser. Glad to meet you...
green		My wire's been in the hospital so things might be a little dusty, but the sheets are clean and the bath's down the hall.  You're in music, I guess, aren't you?  'Cause my niece sings most of the day. That won't bother you, will it?
green		I didn't think it would. She's calling herself L.A. Joan this- week. Last week it was Dakota. Guess if you have to change your name a state's as good as anything.
kenny		She sure sings nice.
green		My wife and I think so, but we're family. Your family's always good or bad depending on how you look at your family. What do you do, pick or sing?
kenny		Oh... a little of both. Just thought I'd look around at Nashville for a while.
green		When you run out or money, 'cause you will here, you can go sing at Bishop's Pub. They let you pass the hat. All these kids do that. Most every place doesn't want to bother with you.
kenny		I'm not really a musician.
green		Well, don't be shy. I got the address here. Anytime you need it. Room's twenty-five dollar! a week and you can have breakfast with me if you like.
kenny		Suits me.
kenny		Listen, do you know anything about cars?
green		A little. What do you need?
green		 Get ready. We're going to the hospital.
green		we're going.
engineer		You'll have to stand closer to the mike.
engineer		You've only got time for one more take, unless you've got another twenty-five dollar!.
albuquerque		Oh, don't you worry. You sure done your best. It'll be fine. I just know it.
engineer		Okay, you're on.
albuquerque		Hi... This here is Albuquerque speaking. You don't know me yet but ya will after I sing you this song that I've wrote called...
engineer		Okay, come in the booth. You'll have to wait for the disc.
nurse		HI. Look at those flowers. Did you grow those.
green		Ester and me did;  My niece picked then. She's just here from California.
nurse		That's good,  I've never seen anything so healthy.
nurse		You sit there for a moment and let me see if she's sleeping.
green		 Excuse me. Are you in music?
glenn		No.
green		Well, neither am I. But my niece is.
barnett		Wake up. You'll sleep the day away.
barnett		I called Connie and she said not to worry, She'll fill in for you.
barbara jean		I see.
norman		Sorry I'm late.
mary		You're not.
norman		Where's Bill?
mary		Sleeping.
norman		Where are you going?
mary		Out.
bud		He got killed at a turkey shoot.
opal		Your brother?
bud		Yes. I was in my Sophomore year at Harvard.
opal		Harvard?
bud		Business School so I can run Haven's business.
opal		What is a turkey shoot.
bud		You go out in the woods and shoot targets -- Whoever shoots the most wins a live turkey
opal		How in the world did he get shot?
bud		Some guy was drunk and hit him. Accident. Haven almost killed him.
reese		Sorry to bother you, Bud.
bud		Yes, sir. Like you to meet Opal.
reese		Need to have you check these out before he goes on that Walker benefit.
bud		Sure thing. Put them here... I'll take them.
reese		Thanks... I'll... go say hello to your mom.
bud		She's in Paris.
reese		Oh... Well... Have you heard from Barnett?
bud		Not yet.
reese		Let me know when you do, all right?
bud		You bet.
reese		I'll just be in here.
opal		Do you know Barbara Jean?
bud		Sure do. Good friend of Haven's.
opal		Haven's not going to talk to me.
bud		Sure he will.
opal		Hi.
triplette		Hello.
opal		I'm Opal.
triplette		Oh yes, I'm John Triplette.
opal		I'm gathering information about the characteristics of music people. I just finished a documentary on Gandi.
opal		The architect  His buildings are drippy. You know, like sand and castles. Then I got this assignment. They want to start in two weeks.
triplette		Why?
opal		Why?
triplette		What?
opal		What? Oh. A film.
barnett		Where'd you get the cake?
triplette		Someone gave it... Here, you want this... I'll...
haven		No.
haven		A little worried. Fine, though.
announcer's voice		Ladies and gentlemen, Haven Hamilton.
haven		We want to send special wishes to Barbara Jean who is in the Baptist Hospital. She collapsed yesterday morning at the plane christening. Send your prayers and letters to Baptist Hospital, Nashville, Tennessee. Barnett said she wept because she couldn't be here with you friends and neighbors. But your faith in the great Almighty will bring her back here just to be what you want her to be... And her good friend, Connie White, has given up some time with her own mother, who is sick with a kidney disorder, to fill in and send her warmth to you wonderful friends and neighbors so you won't be too disappointed after this message from teeth-sticken, good, gooey clusters.
albuquerque		I know it's here somewhere. I had it when I walked in, but you weren't here. My name's Albuquerque, and I'm here cutting a record. My people said it would be all right.
policeman		Sorry, miss. No pass, no entrance. Your people should have given you a pass.
albuquerque		They did. I know I'll find it here.
albuquerque		Sister Connie... Connie. Hi, I saw you out there. I just think you're so beautiful. What do you think?  I can't find my pass. I'm here cutting a record, you know, and these policemen here...
connie		I'm so glad you come for a little while, and thank you.
albuquerque		I could just sit where I was. I wasn't bothering anybody. That guy asking everybody questions made more noise than I ever did. You saw me there. You signed this program.
man		Miss Connie, you're next.
connie		Oh, honey, I gotta go. Thanks for coming. You read what I wrote you now.
albuquerque		I did. You said, 'your friend, Connie.'
intercut with		SEQUENCE IN OPERA:
barbara jean		Would you turn that off
barnett		What's wrong honey.
barbara jean		I don't want to listen to her sing -
barnett		Don't feel that way, honey.
barbara jean		Then why are you listening to her -
barnett		Well, I have to go thank her for filling in and it's nice to know the tune she sang.
barbara jean		You have to what?
barnett		Go to the King Of the Road and thank her.
barbara jean		Well here, why don't you take her some of these flowers while you're at it.
barbara jean		Maybe you'd like to work out something with her, too... Split us up... Her on the road and me in town or in the hospital --  Barnett!
barnett		What the hell is wrong with you? Huh?
barnett		Wait a minute. You're not going nutsey on me, are you?  Huh...? You're not going to have one of those nervous breakdowns or anything, are you?
barbara jean		A... No... No, I'm just... I'm really fine... I just.  don't want you to think I'm giving up or anything like that...
barnett		I'll just take these on over to her. Show her your appreciation.
barbara jean		Sure... you go on and do that.
barbara jean		 Barnett?
barnett		I'll tell her thank you, for you.
barbara jean		 Barnett?
barnett		What?
barbara jean		Bye, bye.
barnett		Bye. bye.
barbara jean		 I just get so afraid sometimes. Then I get more afraid. : Just want you to hold me.
green		Hello.
green		Am I disturbing you?
barbara jean		I'm really all right, Barnett. Don't you worry really... I just don't want you to leave me that's all.
barbara jean		Oh, my God.
green		Oh, honey, I didn't mean to scare you.
barbara jean		How did you come in here?
green		Well, my wife, Ester's down the hall. I saw Barnett leaving and I was just talking to Ester about your being here.    She loves you so much, I just had to come down and say hello. We've been following you since you were a girl. Well, I just scared you to death. I didn't mean to do that.
barbara jean		Well, I guess you caught me at a weak moment.
green		You'll have to speak up.
barbara jean		 I said, I've been real tired.
green		Eater  says she doesn't see how you do it.
barbara jean		 What's wrong with her.
green		Oh just about everything, I guess. Those doctors started on an overhaul and don't want to quit. They keep taking things out. She's going to come home an egg shell. Tough, though.. She's tough.
barbara jean		What did you say your name was?
green		Green.
nurse		Well, Mr. Green.
green		Hi, Sherry.
nurse		How'd you get in here.
barbara jean		It's fine. We were just talking about Vitamin S.
green		I'll go on. Ester'1l be very glad.
barbara jean		You remember what I said about the Vitamins.
linnea		Hello.
woman's voice		Linnea?
linnea		 Yes.
woman's voice		You sound different. Is that really you?
linnea		It's me. What is it?
woman's voice		Can you make a rehearsal in the morning...?  Courtland wants to...
linnea		What time?
woman's voice		Eight-thirty in the chapel.
linnea		I'll be there.
norman		Maybe she's at the Opera.
bill		Why the hell would she be there?
bill		You know goddamn well where she is.
bill		Bastard
mary		Stop it!
bill		Tom!
triplette's voice		No, ah, Bill?
bill		What?
triplette's voice		I'm with ABC-TV. Like to come up and talk to you for a minute if I could.
bill		Sure.
triplette		Hi. I'm John Triplette.
bill		Hi. Come on in. Mary!
triplette		Hello. John Triplette.
mary		Hello.
triplette		Glad to meet you.
bill		You want anything?  A drink?
triplette		Oh, no, listen, I don't want to take up too much of your time.
bill		Don't you worry. We're just having a quiet Sunday at home.
triplette		Well, I'm here putting together a show. It's a benefit really.
bill		Whose?
triplette		Hal Phillip Walker.
mary		Oh, no.
triplette		He's pretty well known down here.
bill		He's pretty well known all over.
triplette		I was wondering if you'd like to be in it. It's going to be televised and...
bill		What's he running for?
triplette		President.
mary		 President?
bill		When is it?
triplette		Wednesday at the park. We've got a lot of names coming in...
mary		For him?
triplette		Yes.
mary		Well, we can't. We're registered Democrats.
bill		National television?
triplette		ABC.
bill		How much?
triplette		Minimum.
mary		We can't support him  We're registered Democrats.
bill		It's an appearance. It has nothing to do with support. I don't even like him.
mary		Bill, he's a crazy man.
triplette		Well, he- expressed a particular wish to have you on.
mary		What for?
triplette		You're real favorites of his.
mary		You're kidding.
bill		How come?
triplette		First you have to understand how much he admires you.
triplette		You sing for people and that's what he's about. He wants to help people. Especially now, you know.
bill		Where'd he ever see us?
triplette		 D.C.
bill		D.C.?  Tammany Hall?  He came there?
triplette		Sure thing.
mary		What National TV...?
triplette		You're doing some recording here, aren't you?
mary		An album.
triplette		Might be good for you.
bill		We'll sing.
triplette		You don't know how pleased he'll be.
mary		 What!
bill		Okay.
triplette		Okay.
tom		Come on in.
tom		How's your stomach?
norman		Pretty good. Sure was surprised to hear from you. You talk to Bill?
tom		Not yet. Listen, Norman, I want...
norman		They're looking all over for you. Do you have a copy of the album.
norman		You know Bill is really mad at you.
tom		Oh?
norman		I mean...
tom		Mary?
norman		You know, I've got my own act now. I'm going on tour.
tom		Good...
norman		Listen, Tom, I have a tour to drive.
kenny		Mom?
kenny		Nashville.
kenny		The car broke down.
kenny		Well, I got to Nashville. That's pretty far.
kenny		I feel really good.
kenny		I'm in a rooming house with Mr. Green.
kenny		I don't know his first name.
kenny		No. No, they're white. He's got a nice dog.
kenny		Fungus?
kenny		I don't think so.
kenny		How do you know if they do?
kenny		 Does their hair fall out?
kenny		Listen. Maybe I should go...
kenny		I want to get the dog off my bed.
kenny		Okay. I'll be talking to you.
kenny		Bye.
kenny		I have to try to get my car running.
kenny		Well, okay...
linnea		This your first time?
linnea		You're from out of town?
albuquerque		Yes. I'm cutting a record.
linnea		We have a Bible study meeting tonight if you'd like to come.
albuquerque		Is there food?
linnea		No.
albuquerque		Well, I just wondered 'cause being from out or town I wouldn't be able to make anything.
linnea		No, those are socials you're thinking of... Saturday's usually.
minister		This is your first time, isn't it?
albuquerque		Yes sir. I'm from Tallahassee.
minister		I see.
albuquerque		And I want you to know I round Jesus today, right here.
minister		Bless you. I hope we see you again, then.
norman		Now in the cemetery Roy already has his stone, it's a fiddle... right as you drive in you can see it in front there.
triplette		Oh?
norman		Lot of them do. Fans start chipping at them, though.... Johnny cash has a $100,000 fence around his house. Well, the fans are stealing the rocks right out of it. Haven Hamilton has a $700,000 fence. It has spikes.
norman		That house over there is where I live. The one with the red truck. My aunt drives the school bus. 600 kids a day.
norman		Some black folks wanted to paint this car once. I didn't let them. They also wanted me to kiss the bride. I declined.
norman		In the city of Nashville, there are a total of hundred and twenty millionaires some of them inhabit these beautiful home sites to make Nashville known as the Athens of the South. Here on the right you see the home of Haven Hamilton's mother. He built it for her after his Daddy passed away three years ago of lung cancer. Haven contributes time and money to the cancer foundation, now. You can see some of his records handing there in the living room.
norman		Look, now you can see it.
norman		He got that one in 1962. Song called 'Smokey Heart.'
opal		You weren't really going to drive off?
opal		My name's Opal. What's yours?
opal		You going to Nashville?
opal		Good. I came out here to meet some underground singer. They say she only writes in those trees over there.
opal		She never came. I'm trying to gather some information about the characteristics of music people for English television. I started in San Francisco. Some friends were making an anti-war film about 'Nam, you know, and I just love marine movies. It is really the consummate art form, all those parts of the puzzle to make the whole. All that energy being collective, you know what I mean?
opal		I've been all over the United States now except for Maine and Vermont.
opal		What did you say your name was?
star		Star.
opal		Star - oh! that's a fantastic name. Almost as good as Opal. I changed my name in Taos. This man that was really into low budget movies said my eyes were opalistic.
opal		I'm going to make the consummate documentary as soon as I finish gathering information. You know it's so nice not to feel oppressed in a society that is male oriented.
star		Are you in music?
opal		No, I told you that.
kenny		What the hell?
joan		What's this?
kenny		Replacement party.
joan		Who's that?
kenny		A guy named Walker. Amazing person. He's developed a huge following.
joan		How do you know?
kenny		Well I've been following him around Just listening to him --He says he can really win -- I bet he can too - -
joan		You must really like him.
kenny		Well, he's really amazing.
joan		I haven't gotten into politics yet. I'm still into music --except for you. You're into politics.
kenny		Ah, hello. My name is Kenneth Fraser... And I'm here from Terre Haute, Indiana. Ah, listen ... somebody stole my handles.
kenny		Oh, well, thanks. Ah, oh, maybe you know where...
kenny		Do you carry door handles?
kenny		Nash.
kenny		Sixty-three.
kenny		Sure. Ill take it. I'll call back on the handles.
kenny		Hey, when do they come on?
kenny		Oh.
kenny		He does and the PHONE RINGS. Hello?
kenny		No, but I can give him a message.
kenny		Oh my God!
kenny		I thought you were at the hospital with your uncle!
kenny		Listen, your Aunt Ester just died. I'm... sorry... Listen, I really Feel bad now about last night...We had no...
joan		I'm in a hurry, gonna see this great group record at Woodland.
kenny		I mean, Mr. Green was so nice to me. He took me in and...
joan		I don't really know what you're talking about.
kenny		 I've got to get a hold of Mr. Green.
joan		Hope you don't mind me coming. I just love your music.
tom		Howdy.
bill		Where the hell have you been?
tom		You guys been having any fun?
bill		Where are you going?
tom		To the bathroom.
bill		Hat!
mary		Hi.
tom		You look terrific.
bill		Hey!
tom		It's the den mother.
bill		Come on, dammit. They want to check levels.
bill		Where is he!
nurse		The doctor is out of town.
barnett		I know that and don't you worry, I'm going to get her right into bed.
nurse		She must rest.
barnett		I have this release form signed by the floor doctor.
barnett		Yes.
barnett		She's fine.
triplette		Well, I just thought I'd call.
barnett		Well, you did and she's fine. Thanks.
nurse		Well, I don't know.
barnett		I have a nurse waiting for her in the bus.
barbara jean		Who brought these?
nurse		I don't remember seeing those.
barnett		Somebody brought them. Come on, honey, let's go.
barbara jean		Well, thank you all so much. You tell the other ladies thank you.
nurse		Well all right.
reese		How is she?
barnett		A little slow, but she'll be fine.
reese		Have you talked to Triplette?
barnett		Who the hell is he?
reese		He's lining up talent for Hal Phillip Walker.
barnett		Who the hell is he?
reese		He's going to run for president.
barnett		Third party?
reese		He has that sign with the tree.
barnett		What does he want?
reese		Barbara Jean.
barnett		What!
reese		That's what he wants.
barnett		You know better than that.
reese		It's on National television, Barnett.
barnett		I don't care. She's always been neutral in politics and that's not going to change.
reese		Well, how about the shopping center?
barnett		Yes. She's pretty rested up.
reese		Okay, then we'll see you there.
barnett		Okay.
barnett		Okay, come on, honey. How are you feeling?
green		You going today?
barbara jean		 Thank you-- Yes, I am.
green		I'll tell Ester, she'll be thrilled I saw you again.
barbara jean		 You get her those Vitamin E right away.
green		 I got them right here.
green		Bye, Bye.
green		Where have you got her hidden today?
nurse		Mr. Green?
green		Yes, ma'am. How are you today?
nurse		Didn't you get?... How are you?
green		I'm fine. Can I go up?
nurse		Let me see if I can get the doctor hold on one second.
green		You want me to wait?
nurse		No. Mr. Green, I don't know how to tell you this -- your wire passed away -- I thought they'd called you at home.
green		What?
nurse		 Your wire Ester - she passed away.
nurse		If you'll wait Just a minute I'll get everything from the business office.
glenn		 My mamma used to know her... They lived next door to each other... she said she was always nursing the sick animals.
glenn		I really learned all about her from my Momma -- She's been saving this scrap book about her since she got to be famous.
glenn		The one thing she said to me when I joined was "When you're doing your travels you be sure you see Barbara Jean. You don't have to say anything about me but you be sure you see her."  So that's what I've been doing. Now I'm going to hitch a ride so I can see her in Memphis.
glenn		You give my test to your wife1
nurse		Mr. Green, the doctor is on his way and the business office has your bill ready.
linnea		Hello.
tom		Wow!
linnea		What?
tom		Who is this, right?  I called you last night.
linnea		Oh.
tom		I've got a gig tonight.
linnea		Oh?
tom		End of Church Street. Next to a grocery store.
linnea		Doesn't it have a name?
tom		I can't remember. In out/out in, something like that. Around eight.
sueleen		Hi, I'm Sueleen Gay.
triplette		I'm John Triplette. Excuse me. I got all caught up in looking at you. You'll be fine.
sueleen		Oh, why thank you.
triplette		May I see your costume?
sueleen		You like it?  Listen, where is the pianist?  I need to go over this with him.
sueleen		You all didn't say what you wanted to hear.
sueleen		Someday I'm gonna be a star like Barbara Jean.
triplette		Sueleen, you're prettier and probably sing better. Besides, she is unusually sick. And tonight you have the opportunity to work in front of some grateful gentlemen.
triplette		Have you ever done this before?
triplette		Well, it's not too hard. You'll sing whatever it is you want to sing. They'll applaud like crazy 'cause I can tell them that you're really something and then the piano and drum will give you a little fanfare and you can sing and take off your clothes or not sing. It really doesn't make much difference, really. But since you've never done this before, singing might help.
triplette		Now this is to raise funds for someone who can help people who are less fortunate than yourself. The more you take off, you see, more money we can raise.
sueleen		 I see.
triplette		I know that you are an artist and I am sure you are very religious.
triplette		Well, this is for people who have a kind of religious belief in the way they live.
sueleen		Don't you think they'd just love another song instead?
triplette		Now, Sueleen, you know that's not what we talked about right here in this very room.
announcer		We're ready to striiippppp... for cash, gentlemen. The time has come to dig deep. Our little Sueleen in going to dig deep for you.
reese		Here we are, Sueleen.
reese		Sueleen... Sueleen Gay.
sueleen		Oh, no.
reese		Wait a minute!  I want to look at you. C'mon.
sueleen		Oh, please, Oh, God.
reese		C'mon! I Just wanna look...
reese		Good. I wanna look really good. You know what I mean? Do you?  Huh?
reese		Oh.
sueleen		It'll be okay... It'll be okay... I know it'll be fine...
wade		I was in prison for twenty-eight years.
linnea		Oh.
wade		Premeditated murder.
linnea		Oh.
wade		Just got out. Had me thirteen lawyers. Missed the electric chair twice. .. Been out three months. Are you heavy?
linnea		I'm not sure...
wade		I'm forty-six. Do you like to go up or down?
linnea		What?
wade		High?  Do you ever get high? A walk on the wild side. Ever do dust?
wade		All I need is fifteen minutes a night.
linnea		Fifteen minutes?
wade		Sleep. That's all I need. Don't want to waste no time sleeping. You married?
linnea		What...?  0h, yes.
wade		Not me. Ain't never loved anybody. Ain't never been married. Won't either.
tom		Good evening. Thanks. I used to be part of a group. You remember?
ton		Well, they're here, Bill and Mary. We're cutting a record here. So far, they've done all the work. It's an accident they're here. I've been hiding from them for days now, right?
bill		You bet your sweet ass.
wade		You know who that is?
linnea		Yea.
wade		I see.
tom		I'd like to sing a new song for you. I threw away a good one I wrote yesterday. maybe it was the day before -- anyway.. Let's go here, 'I'm Easy.'
wade		Love, that's a word that's been overused. I'll say I sure like you. Maybe...
bill		Listen, we're suppose to sing on TV day after tomorrow. At the park...
tom		National?
bill		Yes. Percy Warner Park'.
mary		Where are you staying?
tom		Is that for that Walker guy?
bill		Yes, but we're just singing.
mary		Sue was trying to get hold of you.
tom		Come on. He's a crook.
bill		What crook?
wade		I'm a Roman Catholic. You're Baptist, I bet. Catholic means universal, everything, know what I mean?
wade		I'm a scholar of the Bible as well and we're all going to answer to God. Have you read the book of Revelations?
wade		You ever read the 'Apocalypse Unsealed?'
tom		I'm not coming anywhere near that place. He's a rotten guy.
mary		That's not true.
tom		He's a politician.
bill		He saw us at Tammany Hall.
tom		The Hell he did. Look, I'll see you in the morning.
mary		Really?
tom		You bet. Nine, right?  But count me out of that other thing.
wade		My mother. died in '72. They told me after. They said they couldn't find me before, so they told us after.
linnea		What?
wade		They said go see the chaplain.
linnea		I'm sorry but I have to go.
wade		 I'm a hundred years old and when I'm two hundred, I'll die.
barnett		Well, for heaven's sake. You're just about everywhere, aren't you?
thiplette		I came out to see how you all were doing.
barnett		I think I should tell you I know why you're here. The answer is no ... we don't get involved in politics.
triplette		 Well, that's not entirely true, Barnett. At least not according to Haven.
barnett		Haven? Hell,' we've been playing poker together since we were fourteen.
triplette		I guess that's why he thought you right want to help out.
barnett		He knows better.
triplette		Well, it's probably because it would help him.
barnett		How is that?
triplette		Everybody likes to be as good as their word.
barnett		Whose word?
triplette		His Word.
barnett		His word? Are you telling me Haven promised you something?
triplette		That's pretty close. He's going to be on the bill. Why not put Barbara Jean on with him?
barbara jean		Barnett..
barnett		Get her feet up.
barnett		Okay, honey.
barbara jean		Oh, Barnett, I'm so sorry.
barnett		Honey, it's okay... How do you feel now?
barbara jean		All those people...
barnett		Don't worry, I'll take care or it
barbara jean		You're so good.
barnett		She's fine now, folks. Just too soon after the hospital, I guess.  She won't be able to continue and she's in the bus crying her eyes out, because she doesn't want to disappoint the people who love her the most.
triplette		Come on, come on. You don't want to waste your energy on that fool.
glenn		She's frail. You never saw anybody so frail. I've seen her breathe hard just standing still, dammit. You're selfish. Worst selfish I've ever heard. What if she died?  Would you like that?  You'd probably say she faked it so they could make money. Well, you're just dumb.
triplette		We could invite them to the park.
barnett		What?
triplette		They can come to the concert in the park.
barnett		I said 'no!'
barnett		 You can see her tomorrow at Percy Warner Park...
barnett		Triplette, I want to talk to you.
barnett		I got trapped and you know it, so let's have some rules.
triplette		Absolutely. Listen, Barnett, I understand your position.
barnett		No, you don't, so don't say you do. Bunch of damn liars. What do you get out or this?
triplette		Nothing; Barnett. It's my job.
barnett		Your job, huh.
barnett		She will not appear on the stage or support that Walker guy and you can't have any of his signs up while she sings. She'll be on first and out of the park before he shows up. There will be no pictures, no questions, no answers or tying her name up with his now or in the future to come. Any money she makes will go to the President of the United States.
barnett		We'll see you tomorrow. I'll send her three songs over this afternoon. She'll be done about ten minutes after she starts and Walker better not show up till she's through. Now, get out of here.
man		Barnett?
barnett		 What?
man		Well, Barnett, I have this terrific song I've been working on. It would be a natural for Barbara Jean. Like you to take a look at it.
barnett		I'm very busy right now.  Get me Haven.
man		It'll just take a minute. Here, I'll even hold it for you.
barnett		I don't know where you got this, but something tells me you stole it and I hate thieves.
barnett		Aren't you an engineer...?  I know you -- Don't you work at one of those cut a record places...? Twenty-five bucks a shot, isn't it? Usually their last twenty-five...
mc		Thank you, Mr. Berguan. And now we bring you, 'Albuquerque.'
albuquerque		Hello, everybody. My name is Albuquerque.
albuquerque		I'm going to sing a wonderful tune.
mc		We'd 1ike~to announce the winner of tonight's contest. Albuquerque, How about some applause for a darling little lady
albuquerque		Oh, I'm not through.
mc		That's all, folks.
mc		Here is the twenty dollars first prize money and a seat in the grandstands and now let's turn the show over to Al Allen in the race stand.
al		Congratulations to Albuquerque and welcome, everyone, to the Memorial Race for Billy Apple, who died a week ago in a wreck at this very track, and we want you to know his last words were, 'Are the other fellows all right?'
al		Want you all to save a dime every day and next Saturday we'll take up a collection and give it all to Billy Apple's wife. Share. Their four kids will sure miss their daddy. Want to announce Bob Trilltree is out of the hospital now. Hope you'll be back with us soon. All right, would you stand, please?
al		This is for Billy Apple. Okay, ladies and gentlemen, let's pick ourselves a winner.
star		Winifred.
albuquerque		Hi! Star.
star		Winifred, the kids want you home and so do I.
albuquerque		I won first prize.
star		Come on.
tom		You're really terrific, you know what I mean --LINNEA rolls over and faces him.
linnea		I have to go.
tom		Wrong.
linnea		I have to go. He sighs.
tom		I know.
tom		Stay.
linnea		I can't.
tom		Car pool?
tom		When did you think it would happen?
linnea		I'm not sure.
tom		I knew when I first met you.
linnea		Oh.
tom		How old are you?
linnea		Older.
tom		Thirty?
linnea		Well...
tom		I'm twenty-eight
linnea		Oh.
tom		Older than thirty?
tom		Terrific!  Who was that black guy? A friend of yours?
linnea		That's unkind.
tom		Come on, you ever been attracted to a black guy?
tom		 Just a minute.
tom		I'll talk to you tomorrow.
linnea		That's what you said before.
tom		I know. Goodbye.
tom		Maybe you better keep that.
green		Sure... you're a fine boy, Ken, you really are.
kenny		Okay... you get to sleep. I'll see you in the morning. Good night.
green		Good night,
green		I guess she's not coming...
glenn		Listen, could you give her this for me?
triplette		Sure thing.
glenn		Thanks.
barnett		They screwed up. You go on after the choir.
announcer		Ladies and gentlemen, Miss Barbara Jean...
barbara jean		I want to thank you for all your good wishes. You are so important to Barnett and me. Now I want to sing a special song for all our soldier boys.
haven		Barnett!  My God, Barnett  I'm shot!
triplette		She's... oh, my God... there's blood here...  Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what to say.
barnett		Have your friend Triplette take you to the hospital.
walker		What'd she do, faint again?  I'm getting tired of waiting in the car.
****Dialogues from script :Natural_Born_Killers.txt****

mickey		What kind of pies do you have?
mabel		Apple, pecan, cherry, and key lime.
mickey		Which do you recommend?
mabel		The key lime is great, but it's an acquired taste.
mickey		I haven't had a key lime pie in ten years.
mabel		When ya had it, did ya like it?
mickey		No, but that don't mean much. I was a completely different person ten years ago. Let's give key lime a day in court. And a large glass of milk.
mabel		 Should I make that two pieces?
mallory		Nada, Rosey.
mabel		 It's Mabel.
mallory		Whatever.
mabel		Hey, what the hell do you think you're doin'?
mabel		 She ought not be doing that. That's for Jerry's kids, not rock 'n roll.
mickey		I can't take her anywhere.
earl		Goddamn this sumbitch is runnin' hot. Y'all go inside. I'm gonna check 'er out.
sonny		Good God almighty. What the hell is that?
otis		That's a bitch outta hell, son.
sonny		Take a run at 'er, kiddo.
sonny		Miller, Mabel.
mabel		Comin' up.
sonny		 That's some sweet piece of meat, ain't it?
mickey		Her name's Mallory.
otis		Hells Bells! Don't stop now sugar. I'm just getting warmed up.
sonny		Hey, I think she's sweet on you.
mickey		Just because my woman's mopping up the floor with your buddy is no reason for you to join in.
mickey		Honey.
mickey		 Pick one.
mallory		Eanie, meanie, minie, moe, catch a nigger by the tow. If he hollers, let him go. Eanie, meanie, minie, moe. My mom told me to pick the best one and you are it.
mabel		NO!
mallory		When you tell people what went on here, tell 'em Mickey and Mallory Knox did this. Understand?
captain squeri		Send Scagnetti in here.
scagnetti		You wanted to see me, Capt'n?
scagnetti		This is bullshit. I'm a detective. You want an errand boy, call Jerry Lewis.
scagnetti		Jack Scagnetti. You wanted to see me?
mcclusky		Congratulations on the Curtis Fox case, Scagnetti. You put an end to a nightmare. The ladies of this city can get to sleep again, and they have you to thank.
scagnetti		Thank you, sir.
mcclusky		Dewight McClusky of the California Prison Board. Take a seat please.
mcclusky		 This is damn good reading. I'm surprised Hollywood hasn't found you. This would make a better movie than that 'Serpico' shit.
mcclusky		I think you'll find that good reading as well. Mickey and Mallory's file. You familiar with them?
scagnetti		Who isn't?
mcclusky		You been followin' the news coverage?
scagnetti		They've been separated since their incarceration in a couple of penitentiaries---
mcclusky		Susanville, Soledade.
scagnetti		They've killed a shitload of inmates and guards---
mcclusky		Five inmates, eight guards and one psychiatrist all in one year's time... Very good. You do keep up with the headlines.
mcclusky		Look, our situation in a nutshell is, no prison wants 'em, no prison will take 'em. I'm even talkin' hellholes, where the warden's as hard as a bar of iron. No one wants those fuckin' assholes behind their walls, dealin' with 'em day in, day out.
scagnetti		I can appreciate that.
mcclusky		So can we. So the solution to our little problem is we had them deemed crazy. And we're shippin' 'em to Nystrom Asylum for the criminally insane.
scagnetti		Lobotomy Bay?
mcclusky		You've heard of it?
scagnetti		So, how do I fit into this scheme?
mcclusky		The public loves you Jack...You don't mind if I call you Jack, do you?
scagnetti		By all means.
mcclusky		You're a celebrated cop. Twenty-six years on the force, a best-seller out on paperback...
mcclusky		A modern day Pat Garret. A hell bent lawman with a deadly axe to grind with maniacs.
mcclusky		You're a breathing icon of justice and that's why you were chosen to deliver Mr. and Mrs. Knox. We, the prison board we, knows that once you get them on the road if anything should happen, an escape attempt, an accident, fire, anything...Jack 'Supercop' Scagnetti would be there to look out for his public's best interests.
scagnetti		I see.
mcclusky		You write the script Jack, call it, 'Showdown in Mojave: The extermination of Mickey and Mallory', whatever... Have we found our man?
mcclusky		Pete, open it up! I'm comin' through with a visitor!
mcclusky		Well, Jack, I'll tell ya, in all my years with the penal institution, and I'll tell ya that's no small number, Mickey and Mallory Knox are without a doubt the most twisted, depraved group of fucks it's ever been my displeasure to lay my eyes on. I mean, those two rat shits are a walkin' reminder of just how fucked up our system really is.
mcclusky		Mickey's better half herself. Mallory Knox. This little lady drowned her father in a fish tank.
mcclusky		While the two together burned her mother alive in her bed.
mcclusky		Because they wouldn't give them their blessing for marriage.
mcclusky		Ain't love grand. That's a good one.
mallory		I don't owe you an explanation! I don't owe you shit! I'm not here for your entertainment. If I don't tell you what you wanna hear, what are you gonna do? Throw me in jail? I'm already there, you stupid pigfucker. You gonna give me some more time? I've already got life. What else you got to threaten me with? Death? I'd like to see you fuckin' try. I haven't met one motherfucker here who's shown me shit!
mcclusky		Here she is...you know her, you love her, you can't live without her...Mallory Knox.
mallory		 99 years is a long, long time. Look at me, I will never be free, I'm a long time woman...
mallory		 Been workin' on the road now. Been workin' by the sea. Been workin' in the cane fields. and I wanna be free...
scagnetti		Jesus Christ!
mcclusky		Don't worry about it. She does that all the time.
wurlitzer		You duckin' me Dewight?
mcclusky		Hey, Phil, how the hell are ya?
wurlitzer		 This son of a bitch is chairman of the prison board, but it's like pullin' teeth to get him down to a prison.
mcclusky		The only reason I'm here now is to set him straight, and I'm on the next flight out.  Jack, this is the superintendent of the jail. Phil Wurlitzer. He's the man who's got the power of the pen here.
wurlitzer		Pleased to meet ya, Jack. I read your book. I'm impressed. Good work on Curtis Fox.
scagnetti		Thanks.
mcclusky		From now on, you'll be dealin' with Phil. He can answer all the questions you got about the arrangements. I'm gonna be bidding you good luck and adieu in about twenty minutes. My flight back to Sacramento leaves LAX in a hour.
wurlitzer		And I want you to know, we'll all cry a river when you're gone.
scagnetti		What's the travelling arrangements?
wurlitzer		Well, Mickey and Mallory can't be together. So, we'll put you on one of our prison busses and you'll take Mallory first, then you'll come back for Mickey.
scagnetti		And where do you keep Mickey?
wurlitzer		We got his stinkin' ass in the deepest, darkest cell in the whole place. But it just so happens that right now he's got a special visitor.
scagnetti		Who?
wurlitzer		Wayne Gayle.
scagnetti		 Wayne Gayle!
wayne		 Testing one...two...three... testing...one...three...over, over, over, Mickey Knox meeting.
wayne		 Showtime.
wayne		Hello Mickey. We've never been introduced, but I'm Wayne Gayle. I don't know if you've ever heard of me or remember me. I was one of the reporters outside the courthouse during your trial---
mickey		Everybody knows who you are. You're famous.
wayne		I could say the same thing about you.  I want to thank you very much for seeing me...
wayne		I have a television show. It's very popular. Every week we do a profile on a different serial killer. You don't mind if I call you a serial killer, do you?
wayne		The episode we did on Mickey and Mallory was one of our most popular ones.
mickey		Did you ever do one on Wayne Gacy?
wayne		Yes.
mickey		Whose ratings were higher?
wayne		Yours.
mickey		How 'bout Ted Bundy? Ever do one on him?
wayne		Yes. Yours got the larger Nielson share.
mickey		Good...yuppie piece of shit.
wayne		What I'd like to do---
mickey		How 'bout Manson?
wayne		Manson beat you.
mickey		Yeah, it's pretty hard to beat the king.
wayne		We've been waiting to do a follow up episode on you for a long time. And that time has definitely come.  I feel it's apparent to anyone who's hip to what's going on that the prison board has thrown the constitution straight out the fuckin' window. You and Mallory may be killers, but you're not insane. You belong in a prison, not in an asylum. The prison board is blatantly railroading you into a hospital for the sole purpose of turning you into vegetables. Now some people are saying, 'So what?' I am not one of those people. If we avert our eyes while they do this to you, we give them permission to do it again whenever they see fit. Today they wipe clean your mind because they feel your actions are dangerous, tomorrow they wipe clean my mind because they feel what I say is dangerous. Where does it all stop?
wayne		My problem Mickey, is that you don't exactly inspire empathy. I'm all alone on this. I need your help. I want what the prison board is doing to be the focus of our follow up episode. Now I have interviews with chairman of the prison board Dewight McClusky about this issue. And I'm tellin' ya, Mickey, he looks bad. The two psychologists they used for their psychiatric kangaroo court won't talk to us, which always looks bad. I have an interview with both the judge of your trial, Bert Steinsma, and the psychologist and author, Emil Reinghold, both of which discount the notion that you're insane. You put that all together, and what the state is doing becomes obvious. But the network isn't satisfied. They feel the show needs another element. It needs you. In order to put the show on the air, I need to get an interview with you. You haven't talked to the press since your trial. Now, a few days before you get transferred to an asylum, you grant an interview on television with Wayne Gayle. We're talkin' a media event here. Every son of a bitch out the with a TV set's gonna tune in to see that. We'll make their motives so blatant, we'll shame 'em into dropping the whole thing. At least for a little while, the publicity would keep them from just giving you and Mallory lobotomies. Well, whatta ya say?
mickey		Have you talked to Mallory about this?
wayne		She won't even see me, Mickey. Now you're not supposed to know anything about what's going on with her, but I'm gonna tell ya somethin'. Since you two've been sentenced, Mallory hasn't spoken one word.
mickey		She doesn't talk?
wayne		Not to anybody. She sings.
mickey		She sings? What does she sing?
wayne		Songs. 'He's A Rebel', 'Leader Of The Pack', 'Town Without Pity', that Dusty Springfield song 'I Only Want To Be With You'. That's what I hear anyway. Her behaviour was the main thing the doctors' report used against you. So even if she would see me, which she won't, I couldn't put her on camera anyway. If I ask her, 'Mallory, are you insane?' And she starts singing 'Dead Skunk In The Middle Of The Road', that blows our whole case.
wayne		Wait a minute, Mickey, I need an answer.
wayne		 Just think about it. But don't think too long.
mickey		I remember every meal we ever ate. I remember your cooking. I especially remember your casseroles. I remember watching David Letterman.
mickey		I remember driving fast...faster, man, fast behind the wheel of the Coupe de Ville.
wayne		 'After taking a few days to reflect on your offer, I've come to the conclusion that you are one hundred percent correct. A national TV interview would be very advantageous to both Mallory and I. The only obstacle is they're shipping me out to the funny farm in four days. However, that is your problem and not mine. I feel confident you'll manage. Here's to us making television history. Sincerely, Mickey Knox.'
wayne		Am I a God or what?
wayne		Drink up! This is a celebration. This is the day we received word we were gonna make television history. We're gonna have the first sit down, in depth interview with the most charismatic serial killer ever, one day before he's being shipped to a mental hospital for the rest of his life. This is one of those golden moments that happens maybe only four times in a lucky journalist's career. This is Wallace with Noriega, this is Elton John confessing his bi-sexuality to the Rolling Stone, this is the tearful reporting of the Hindenberg disaster, this is Truffaut setting the record straight on Hitchcock, this is a Robert Capa photo, this is Woodward and Bernstien meeting Deep Throat in an underground parking lot, this is John Reid reporting 'The Ten Days That Shook The World', this is the hippies' bloody palms at Kent State, the Maysles brothers at Altamont, this is the Nixon/Frost interviews...
roger		This is Raymond Burr witnessing the destruction of Tokyo by Godzilla.
scott		What's the schedule, mein fuehre?
wayne		We got tonight and tomorrow to get our shit together. The day after that they're shippin' Mallory. That's when we do the Mickey Knox interview, 'cause the next day he goes.
scott		Would the network really not run it without the interview?
wayne		Are you kidding? The last thing they expected was Mickey Knox to get up close and personal. They wanted a follow up episode and would've taken anything I had given them. I'm not gonna tell Mickey Knox that. I'm gonna make him think his grey matter depends on it. When I told Woody and the brass about this coup, they practically shit a brick. I'm talkin' an adobe brick. They want to expand the show to a hour, and they want it on immediately.
roger		How immediate is immediately?
wayne		Next week's episode.
roger		We don't got enough footage for a hour follow up.
scott		 What he said.
wayne		Rape and pillage the first episode, just change the order a bit. Those sons of bitches out there ain't gonna know the difference. All that shit is just filler for the interview anyway. We film a new intro. Show some old footage from the first episode so the get a brief history of Mickey and Mallory. We introduce a new angle... what the prison board is up to. We see some of that new shit, then the rest of the show is the interview. Now what's so fuckin' hard about that? Oh, Julie make a note: I need Woody to get me thirty seconds of the 'Live at Five' broadcast to promote next weeks show. We'll do a feed right from the jail while we're wrapping up with Mickey.
wayne		You too Scott, Betacam and a remote, keep it simple.
scott		Betacam with remote and two-way comm link. Got it.  How about the interview...What camera do you want to use?
wayne		I see...high contrast sixteen millimetre black and white, and I mean black and white, where the black's black and the white's white. This is for posterity, so fuck video. Film! Film! Film!
wayne		So Unruly Julie's comin' with me and planning the interview.  You two go down to the editing bay, take the old footage and the new footage, put it together, and see what we got. Get it into shape so when we finish the interview, we can just stick it in.
scott		When do you want the assembly?
wayne		Tomorrow.
wayne		At that point I'll ask him if he believes in God. If he says yes, I'll ask him what he thinks God would make of his actions. And is he worried about burning in hell? If he says no, I'll say, 'Well, Mickey, what do you believe in?' And hopefully he'll say something like a live round of ammo, the expression on the face of a man he just split up the middle, Mallory's eyes, sex, drugs, and rock 'n roll. He's bound to say something provocative.
wayne		Okay, boys, let's have it.
scott		Well, basically, what we did was put part of the old show on first...
roger		But we changed the order around so it wasn't super obvious...
scott		Then we added the new shit to the tail...
roger		So we film the interview, and we can just slap it on at the end.
wayne		Okay, let's see it.
wayne		Hello. Welcome to 'American Maniacs'. I'm your host Wayne Gayle. And this is
wayne		To some the fastest distance between point A and point B. To others a beautiful stretch to the American landscape. But to Mickey and Mallory Knox, it was a candy land of murder and mayhem.
wayne		And they were finally apprehended here at this Circle K in St. Paul, Minnesota.
wayne		Mickey and Mallory's idea of an armed robbery was a little different than most. It was an assault, actually.
bishop		Well. I knew that Mickey and Mallory kill everybody when they're through, except for one clerk. There were a couple of people in the store then, and I was working with Stevo. And I like Stevo, you know? But I was thinking, what could I do to make them pick me to be the clerk that gets to live?
mickey		Money! Money! Money! Fast! Fast! Faster! Faster! Faster than that!
wayne		Sick, isn't it?  After killing numerous people, the would always leave one clerk alive. One clerk...to give them the money, and tell the tale of---
dale		This '68 Cadillac Coupe De Ville pulled up about three spaces away. Gerald came walking out with our coffee and---  my bear claw. When the driver of the car asked him something, Gerald started giving him what looked like street directions. When he finished, the driver waved him 'thanks,' brought up a shotgun and---
wayne		Apparently bored with banditry and murder, the two outlaws proved what renaissance psychopaths they really are. To break up the monotony in between bank jobs, or what have you, they started butchering whole households at random.
wayne		Unfortunately, the story didn't end with their capture. It just became more surreal. Their subsequent trial turned into a sick circus...
wayne		The Mickey and Mallory Knox murder trial was so event filled it made the crime spree that took place before pale by comparison. The first point was the decision of Mickey's to act as his own council. Now this in itself is not unheard of, for instance, Ted Bundy acted as his own council as well. What was unexpected was how well Mickey's performance would be.
judge steinsma		Mickey was surprisingly effective. When I was told I was to be the judge of this trial and then I was told Mickey Knox would be handling his own defence, I got a headache that lasted five days. But at first I breathed a sigh of relief. Mickey showed up very prepared, and proved to be an excellent amateur lawyer.
wayne		Judge Steinsma said that Mickey showed up very prepared and proved to be an excellent amateur attorney.
bisbing		Oh, that's rich. Well, considering that Mickey Knox turn his court into a mockery and personally made him look like a fool, I'd say that's very benevolent of Judge Steinsma. As far as Mickey being an excellent amateur lawyer, maybe I'm old fashioned, but when I went to law school, we were taught the object was to win the case, which I did.
wayne		The nation caught fire to Mickey and Mallory fever, Mickey and Mallory mania, if you will, as the merits to Mickey's talent as a defence attorney became apparent. Law students from all ends of the country converged on Los Angeles as legal history took a new course. But that was only the lemon next to the pie. And that pie is you, the American people. That pie is the way the strangely charismatic, and make no mistake, they are charismatic, Mickey and Mallory have captured the public's interest, fear, and in some cases, admiration.
wayne		What do you think of Mickey and Mallory?
chuck		Hot.
jeff		Hot.
steve		Totally hot.
chuck		Mickey and Mallory's the best thing to happen to mass murder since Manson.
steve		Forty-eight people known. They're way cooler than Manson.
wayne		What do you think of Mickey and Mallory?
morgan		Well, he's just...I dunno... charismatic.
page		They're so romantic.
intense cop		I'm here to watch the judge give those two shit asses  should be revering. You know why Mike Jerome Griffin is a hero? I'll tell ya why. Because he was killed in the line of duty. Do you want to know how he died?
wayne		Yes.
intense cop		I'll tell you. Mike Jerome Griffin was killed in the line of duty by those two anti-heroes.
wayne		Tell me, Mr. Vossler, how many days of the trial have you attended?
russell		Ahhh yesss, I've been fortunate enough to attend two days. Law history in the making. I've been a participant.
wayne		And you being a Harvard law student, what is your opinion of Mickey Knox's performance?
russell		Ahhh, Mickey's pistolero savvy in the courtroom trial rivals, dare I say conquers that of master Melvin Belli. He's like a magnificent loose cannon, firing point blank in the prosecutor's face. It is my anticipation---
wayne		You're talking about a man and a woman who killed innocent people.
steve		Don't get us wrong...
chuck		We respect human life an' all.
jeff		It's a tragedy.
steve		But...if I was a serial killer, which I'm not, but if I was, I'd be like Mickey.
marvin		They're like that crazy mother in the first Dirty Harry movie. Member that crazy ass mother? They're like him. Mickey and Mallory be doin' some cold-blooded shit. When I hear about some of the shit they be doin' on TV, I say 'Damn, that's fucked  up.'
page		 We sit in the courtroom all day and try to catch Mickey's eye.
wayne		What do you think of Mickey and Mallory?
simon		I admire them.
norman		I do, too.
wayne		 But how can you say that?
simon		They're mesmerising.
norman		Hypnotizing.
simon		Have you seen 'Pumping Iron?'
wayne		Yes.
norman		Then you've seen the scene where Arnold Schwartzenegger is talking to Lou Ferigno.
wayne		Yes.
simon		Through the power of the simple word---
norman		And a snake-eye glare.
simon		---and a snake-eye glare, Arnold was able to totally psyche out any confidence Ferigno had.
norman		He squashed him mentally before physically defeating him.
simon		He had the edge. The mind's edge.
norman		Mickey and Mallory have that edge.
simon		Only on a much grander scale.
norman		They've hypnotized the nation.
simon		Schwartzenegger was the king of the edge before they came along.
wayne		You say this and yet...you two are both victims of Mickey and Mallory.
simon		Yes.
norman		Yes.
wayne		How can you say that you 'admire' them?
norman		It's like this, Wayne. Two people are standing in a dark room waiting for the other to attack. These two people can't see each other, yet they know they're there. Now, they can either stand in the dark room forever waiting until they die of boredom, or one of them can make the first move.
wayne		Why can't they just shake hands and be friends?
norman		They can't because neither knows if the other is a deranged senseless killer like the Knoxs. So, you may as well make the first move.
wayne		And they made the first move?
norman		Unfortunately, yes.
simon		But you see, that's okay, Wayne.
wayne		Why?
simon		They passed the 'edge' along to us.
wayne		How so?
simon		By taking away our legs. Now we have to fight harder to get ahead than anyone else you'll find in this gym. Probably the whole city. They gave us the fighting spirit. Before this happened I was content. Now I'm pissed off. Now I'm half a man and I've got to work like the devil to get whole again.
wayne		But you'll never be whole again.
simon		Never is a very long time, Wayne. A word only the weak use. I'm not a sore loser. Even if I don't have a leg to stand on, I'm going to get up and fight this world until I'm on top again.
norman		That's the Mickey and Mallory way.
simon		That's the way of the world.
norman		They're shocking the world into remembering the primal law.
simon		Survival of the fittest.
wayne		One last question. Usually Mickey and Mallory kill all of their victims. Why did they let you two survive?
norman		They had us tied down during one of their house raids, you've seen the headlines, and they were taking a chainsaw to our legs before they were gonna kill us.
simon		Just for fun, I guess.
norman		And then Mallory stops Mickey and says, 'Hey, these are the Brothers Hun.'
simon		Mickey stops sawin' on my leg and says, 'Oh my God, I'm your biggest fan!'
norman		Apparently, they've seen all our films.
simon		They were especially influenced by 'Conquering Huns of Neptune.'
norman		So, Mallory calls 911 and they took off.
simon		They actually apologized.
wayne		The couple proved so popular that a motion picture glamorizing their exploits was made...
movie mickey		I'm gettin' off this minimum wage train. Break my back for you and throw away my youth for nothing. when I'm thirty, have a big wall drop down in front of me called the future. Realize I've been doin' time in a burger flippin' jail.
movie mickey		Listen to me Jimmy-dick, I want cash, lots of it, cars, fast cars! And I want it now! Not later, now! I wanna wail, baby, wail!
movie mallory		I need ya, Mickey. I gotta have ya. I'm no good for no one else. when I'm with you, I burn, baby. Burn like blue flame.
movie cop		When society catches up with you, I'd hate to be in your boots.
movie mickey		Let me telly ya about society and its boots. It uses those boots for steppin' on people like me and her!
neil pope		It is my belief that Mickey and Mallory Knox are a cultural phenomena that could only exist in our sexually repressed society. A flower that could only bloom amidst a grotesque fast food culture. A what I tried to do with 'Thrill Killers' was trace the root of the problem all the way down the vine to the original bad seed. Yet amidst the violence and murder and carnage, you've got the structure of a Wagnerian love story.
movie mallory		Mickey, honey, listen to me.
movie mallory		I can't go. I'm too fucked up.
movie mickey		I'm not saying it's not gonna hurt, but--
movie mallory		I can't run with you, Mickey! I really want to. If I could, I would, but I can't. I gotta stay here. But you can still get out of here.
movie mickey		No fuckin' way! No fuckin' way!
movie mallory		If they stay, they'll catch you, and they don't have to catch you---
movie mickey		No fuckin' way!
movie mallory		Mickey, you're wasting time!
movie mickey		I don't give a damn if a million United States marines, all whistling the halls of Montezuma, are gonna come marchin' down this alley any second. There ain't not fuckin' way in hell I'm leaving you. And that's that!
movie mallory		Mickey, my love, if you leave me, they'll catch me and take me to the hospital. If you stay, you'll make 'em kill you. Then it'd be like I killed you. I could bear anything, but I couldn't bear that. So please, please, for me, my handsome husband, run for your life.
movie mickey		I can't do it. You're my wife, you're my partner. A fella doesn't run when his partner can't run with him. Mallory, my angel, if I could of left ya, I'd of left ya a long time ago.
movie mallory		Well, hell, if you won't leave, give me a gun so I can go out shooting.
movie mickey		Sit tight. I'm gonna make it a little tougher for 'em.
movie mickey		 Time to get naked and boogie.
movie mallory		Mickey!
movie mickey		Yeah baby.
movie mallory		You made every day like kindergarten.
movie mickey		Mallory!
neil pope		It was dramatic license, no doubt. But I felt an operatic love story needed an operatic ending. The two of them kill for each other. They offer the death of their victims to each other like other lovers offer flowers or bon bons. So what more natural, what more organic, what more poetic than Mallory offering her death to Mickey? It's where it's been leading since day one. We worked it in the movie by using a what if they escaped situation. I think it works beautifully. You'd be surprised. People come up to me at the end of the movie in tears.
jessie		One thing about Mickey for sure, he's definitely a man who has his moments. It was wild playin' him. It was one of those get-it-out-of-your-system performances.
buffy		I didn't play Mallory, the murderer. I didn't play her as a butcher. I played her as a woman in love, who also happens to murder people. I didn't want her to be at arm's length from the audience or myself. If you play her as this wild maniac, the audience never has to deal with her. If you see a decapitation in a movie, you just say 'Oh wow, a neat special effect.' Because you can't relate to a decapitation. It doesn't mean anything to anybody because it's not personal. Decapitations don't fall into most people's realm of life experiences. But if you show somebody in a movie getting a paper cut, the whole audience squirms. Because everybody can relate to a paper cut.
buffy		I tried to, but she wouldn't see me. But I read some letters she wrote to Mickey before the murder spree. They helped me out a lot.
jessie		Yeah, I visited him when he was up in Susanville. He's a little cerebral for my taste, but all in all, we got along.
wayne		Can you shed some light, Doctor Reinghold, on why the public has taken a pair of sociopaths so close to their bosom?
london boy		You take all the great figures from the States...Elvis, Jack Keroac, Bukowski, James Dean, Jim Morrison, Angela Davis, Jack Nicholson, Jim Thompson, Martin Scorcese...add a bloody pale of nitro and you got Mickey and Mallory. They're like rebels without a cause, except they have a cause. Only nobody knows what it is.
london girl		 Their cause is each utter!
french boy		 They are super cool!
wayne		And as to almost give this whole misplaced admiration scenario a cherry on the top, the rock band Redd Kross entered the charts last week at number 13 with their song 'Natural Born Killers, The Saga of Mickey and Mallory.'
wayne		The third wicked twist to this story is Grace Mulberry.
transient		Did ya watch your brother get stabbed up?
wayne		How do you feel about Mickey cross- examining you?
wayne		Mickey, how do you feel about cross- examining Grace Mulberry?
mickey		I'm keen with anticipation.
mallory		I ain't never had so much fun.
cute reporter		Do you have any regrets?
mallory		Not a one.
mickey		Yeah, I always regretted we never got around to looking up my old history teacher, Miss Bainbridge. Now there's a big bad bitch not good for herself or nobody.
black reporter		What's your favorite pastime?
mickey		You mean aside from what I'm being tried for?
mickey		Oh, I'd say watching TV.
reporters		What's your favorite show?
mickey		'Have Gun Will Travel.'
cute reporter		Do you have anything to say to your fans?
mickey		 You ain't seen nothin' yet.
wayne		 No, apparently we had not seen everything. Grace Mulberry gave her tearful testimony. Then it became Mickey Knox's turn for cross- examination.
cut to:		 COURT SKETCHES: An artist SKETCH of Mickey cross-examining Grace on the stand.  BISBING  Grace was every bit as terrified, every bit as haunted. But she felt her brother Tim and her five girlfriends were counting on her.
mickey		That's one helluva story, Miss Mulberry.
grace		Yes it is.
mickey		Grace...I hope you don't mind if I call you Grace...
mickey		Grace. I'd like to talk to you about your late brother Tim, if you feel up to it.
mickey		Grace...I hope you don't mind if I call you Grace...
mallory		Naw, she don't mind.
mickey		Grace. I'd like to talk to you about your murdered brother Tim, if you feel up to it.
mickey		Miss Mulberry?
grace		More or less.
mickey		More or less...
mickey		What do you mean by that?
grace		Well, he's my older brother. When we were growing up, there were times we could of very well done without each other. But when it counted, we were close.
mickey		I'd like to talk about Tim's martial arts abilities. How long had he been studying?
grace		He started when he was in the seventh grade, so that would make it nine years.
mickey		When you study the martial arts, they give out belts that come in different colors to signify what level you're at in your training. Am I correct on that point?
grace		Yes you are.
mickey		What was the color of Tim's belt?
grace		The style of fighting that Tim studied didn't believe in belts.
mickey		Is that a fact? Well then, Grace, could you tell us what form of martial arts it was that Tim was schooled in?
grace		Tim studied several styles, but his favorite was Jeet Kune Do.
mickey		Jeet Kune Do...Now I did some research on that form of fighting, and I found out that Jeet Kune Do was a style developed by Bruce Lee. Did you know that?
grace		Yes, I did. That's why Tim studied it. Because it was Bruce Lee's fighting style.
mickey		Now, while I freely admit total ignorance on the subject, I have heard of Bruce Lee. And I was under the impression that Bruce Lee was one of the, if not the greatest fighter in the history of martial arts.
grace		That's what Tim said.
mickey		So, I think it would be safe to say that anybody who studied the fighting style that Bruce Lee, arguably the greatest martial artist of all times, developed for nine years, that would be a fella who could defend himself. Would you describe Tim that way, Grace?
grace		Yes, I would.
mickey		Point of fact, weren't Tim's hands registered as lethal weapons?
grace		Yes, they were.
mickey		That means his hands are considered a weapon like a gun or a knife. Am I correct on that point?
grace		Yes, you are.
mickey		Yet, in your testimony just now, you described that Tim...
mickey		And his trained martial artists kicks had little to no effect.
mickey		Then, after shrugging off four blows to the head like I was Superman, I lifted Tim-nine-years-of-Jeet-Kune-Do-Mulberry off the ground and threw him across the room.
mickey		Then I took...
mickey		...this knife and proceeded to tear him limb from limb. And this man, whose hands are lethal weapons---
bisbing		Objection, defence is intimidating the witness with the murder weapon.
grace		 I don't know how you did it, but you did it!
judge steinsma		Mr. Knox! The knife!
mickey		How do you think a human being could possibly be capable of doing something like that?
grace		 I don't know!
mickey		Now...I don't believe that Grace. I think you have a definite opinion on how I was able to do those things you described. Now, I'm going to ask you again. And I want you to remember you are under oath.
grace		 You're not human.
grace		I thought about it a lot. And the only thing I could figure is that you're not human.
grace		You're a vampire, or the devil, or a monster, or cyborg, or something like that. But you're not human.
mickey		 Thank you. Grace, there is one other thing...
grace		 What...
mickey		You're right.
mallory		Show off.
mickey		No further questions your honor.
wayne		Was there any vengeance on your part with your unique sentence?
judge steinsma		Yes, unquestionably. After they did what they did in my court, and judge worth his robe will tell you the same thing. It couldn't help but affect my decision. That's why they have judges. We're supposed to be fair to a fault, but when it's showtime, we have to make a decision. That's why we don't just input all the facts into a computer for the appropriate punishment. I couldn't give them the death penalty. See, California hops back and forth on that issue. Mickey and Mallory went to court when it was out of favor, which is actually good because it leaves more room for imagination. Anybody can give somebody the chair. When you have someone who deserves to die and you can't kill them, you have to be creative. And if the bastards had let it stand, it would of been the perfect sentence. It hit 'em right where they lived. Far more punishing than the death sentence.
wayne		Would you please describe for our viewers what your sentence was?
judge steinsma		Well, in a rogue's gallery of killers, Mickey and Mallory are very unique. I've seen a lot of killers in my day and they're a very cold lot. They have no more feelings about taking a person's life than squashing a tiny bug. It's all the same to them. Well, Mickey and Mallory were that 'kill 'em to watch their expression change' attitude personified. Except with each other. And, since they lived only for each other, I wanted to attack that, at its very root. So, in a nutshell, my sentence was double life for each without any possibility for parole. That would be fairly standard in their case. The twist I added was that the husband and wife would have no contact or correspondence with each other for the rest of their lives. And they would never receive any word or information about the other. So, basically once the cell door slams shut, Mickey and Mallory will completely disappear from each other's life. They'll never know when the other dies. But alas, the best laid plans of mice and men...
wayne		Why are Mickey and Mallory being moved to an asylum? And who made the decision?
mcclusky		The prison board made the decision. A board of which I belong. We're the who. The why is simple. Mickey and Mallory are mentally ill and need to be under a doctor's care, where hopefully they'll receive the help they need.
wayne		Mickey and Mallory were deemed competent in a mental examination before their trial. I'm confused. What's changed?
mcclusky		Well, since that time, they've killed one person during their trail. And since their incarceration, they've killed one psychologist along with several guards and inmates.
wayne		When they were found competent before, they had already killed fifty people. Other than the fact they're a disciplinary problem, which frankly shouldn't surprise anyone, I still don't see where this situation is any different then it was before. So, I ask you again, Mr. McClusky, what's changed?
mcclusky		What's changed, Mr. Gayle, is our minds. We felt they were competent a year ago. A year has passed, sir, a year where they were under close observation, day in and day out, and their behaviour has led us to believe we were wrong.
wayne		Who is we?
mcclusky		The prison board and the doctors who examined them.
wayne		Were any of the doctors who made the first evaluation on the Knoxs mental state asked to re-examine them?
mcclusky		Using the same doctors is not common practice.
wayne		I take it by your answer it was a whole new team?
mcclusky		Now that you bring it up, yes. They were different men. I hadn't really thought that much about it. Since many psychiatric opinions are, by a rule, sought out for this kind of situation. What do you think normally happens? The Knoxs are assigned a family psychologist that takes care of them throughout the rest of their lives? The state doesn't work like that.
wayne		So, in your opinion Mickey and Mallory are not insane?
wayne		Good work, my brothers. Fan-fuckin'- tastic! I think that interview stuff's too long, we can lose some of that. Keep the girls, keep the long hairs, keep the Hun brothers, keep the black guy, keep the movie shit, and keep the cop at the donut shop. Lose the rest. And cut the interview with the prison board fellow before that. Cut it after I ask, 'I take it by your answer it was a whole new team.' Don't even let him answer. Fuck him. Then cut to me talking about the two chicken shit psychiatrists and straight in Dr. Reinghold laughing.
scott		Okay.
wayne		Children, we have a show.  You two get some long well overdue sleep. 'Cause tomorrow, bright and early, county jail and then journey's end...Mickey Knox.
mickey		There's this Italian guy, a French guy, and a Polish guy. And they're all talkin' about how they fuck their wives---
mickey		...You know, I'm gonna just rip off your dress and squeeze your titties. Then Little Red Riding Hood whips out her .357, sticks it in the Big Bad Wolf's face and says, 'No you're not. You're gonna eat me...just like the story says.'
mickey		 ...Fairy boat! I knew things were good in here, but I didn't know we had our own Navy.
mickey		...So this guy wants to take little Johnny's sister to the drive-in. But the mother says, 'Only if you take little Johnny along---'
mickey		...And the Polish guy says, 'That's nothing. When I get through with my Hanna, I get up, wipe my dick on the curtain, and she hits the roof!'
mickey		No...please...thank you...you're too kind...no...please...
wayne		 How's it working, Scotty?
roger		Where the fuck's the chocolate cream filled? Did anyone get my chocolate cream filled? If you did, it's mine.
roger		I pointed at a chocolate cream filled. You saw me do it, didn't you?
wayne		You were there. Did you see him put it in a box?
roger		At the time, I was too busy explaining to Scott the finer points of film.
wayne		 You can't be serious?
roger		 I'm as serious about that as I am about going back to the donut store, and dipping that stupid Mexican's head into the batter for forgetting my chocolate cream filled. Gimme that other box.
wayne		Huh uh. This dozen is for Mickey.
roger		That dumbass probably put my chocolate cream filled in there by mistake.
wayne		Roger, no.
roger		What's the big deal? Take out my chocolate cream filled, put one of these roasted coconut---
wayne		Roger, do you understand what the word 'no' means? It's important we establish a rapport. Something as simple as a dozen donuts can mean the world to somebody who hasn't had a donut in a year.
roger		So you're giving a man who butchers whole families, little babies included, my chocolate cream filled?
wayne		Okay, guys, we're here. L.A. County Jail. Julie, just park in the front.
roger		Wayne---
wayne		Roger, I'm starting to get pissed. Just drop this fuckin' donut shit, and gather your gear.
wayne		 Here's the welcome wagon.
wurlitzer		Hello, Mr. Gayle. I'm Phil Wurlitzer. We talked on the phone. It's a pleasure to meet you.
wayne		Same here. Let me introduce my crew. Scott...Roger...and Unruly Julie ...this is...I'm sorry. What's your title again?
wurlitzer		I'm the superintendent here at L.A. County Jail. Me and my deputies are who you'll be working with while you're here.
wayne		That sounds great. Look, I don't want any of this to intimidate you. This is not going to be a big deal. This is going to be very easy.  I need to talk with Mr. Wurlitzer. You guys get your equipment ready, power up the van and confirm a transmission code for the remote. Julie come with me.
wayne		The main thing I need is a big room, shut off from the population, so we can get some privacy...with a few electrical outlets.
wurlitzer		 This is just for an interview, I was on the set of 'Dukes of Hazzard' once. It was a much bigger deal than this. They had a crew of maybe seventy-five people.
wayne		We're gonna be talking over here. But I want enough freedom so if I wanna get up and move around, we can.
wayne		Take him and walk him over this way.  Then maybe take him to the window.
wayne		 Little shit like that. I don't wanna have to feel I gotta stay in the chairs. We're after a cinema verite, anything can happen, truth twenty-four times a second kindda feel.
wurlitzer		And when it's lunch time, they don't just go to McDonalds. They got cooks there servin' great food. Swedish meatballs...
wurlitzer		How's everything coming, Mr. Gayle?
wayne		Everything's coming along just fine. Phil, I wanted to know if I could have a small word with you.
wurlitzer		By all means.
wayne		You met the kids I have working for me? Great bunch, aren't they?
wurlitzer		Oh yes, indeed. Top flight.
wayne		Scott, genius cameraman, Roger, magician with sound. Unruly Julie, I could sooner do without my arm than Unruly Julie.
wurlitzer		Is that her real name?
wayne		Just a little nickname. Yep, they're my kids and they're all I need. After working together these past coupla years, we're like well-oiled machinery. No, more like a Formula race car. No, scratch that one, too. What we're really like is a Swiss watch. Small, intricate, compact...it shouldn't work as well as it does, but it does. Because of the craftsmanship, the expertise, and the artist's loving hand.
wurlitzer		I see.
wayne		Now, Phil, I don't know if you've ever been on a set before---
wurlitzer		 Ya know, I was.
wayne		 Really?
wurlitzer		I was on the 'Dukes of Hazzard' set about eight years ago.
wayne		 Well...small world. Well, then, you know firsthand how Hollywood does things. Lights all over the place, generators, a hundred and fifty crew members---
wurlitzer		Oh, that 'Dukes of Hazzard' show, there was probably ninety-five people there, maybe more.
wayne		See what I mean? It's a funny business, isn't it?
wurlitzer		It sure is.
wayne		They got a asshole over here.  ...you're not going to relax, a trust won't develop, we'll be talking a each other instead of to each other, there will be no chance for intimacy.
wayne		That's why my crew is only three...an invisible three.  Which brings me to what I wanted to talk to you about. I have to get Mickey Knox to relax...Mickey Knox to share what he's never shared before... Mickey Knox to open doors which 'till today have been closed. Well, how can we expect him to do that when we got Los Angeles County Sheriffs up the walls.
wurlitzer		 Well, just what the hell do you expect me to do?
wayne		Lose 'em.
wurlitzer		Mr. Gayle, do you have the slightest idea how dangerous Knox is?
wayne		Mr. Wurlitzer, I assure you, I am very familiar with Mickey Knox's career.
wurlitzer		Since he and his wife have been in custody, they've killed---
wayne		Don't recite the fact to me. I'm sure I know 'em better than you do.
wurlitzer		Well, let me let you in on one more fact you obviously don't know. If I were to take my men away, Mickey Knox would snap your neck like a twig.
wayne		One...I can take care of myself. I grew up in a tough neighbourhood, and I've handled some pretty rough customers in my day. Mickey Knox doesn't scare me. Two...I'm a journalist, and I'm prepared to take that risk. Three...it ain't gonna happen. Believe me when I tell you, it is in Mickey Knox's own best interest to play this game according to Hoyle.  But seriously, Phil, look at this.
wayne		 We got one...two...three...four ...five...six...seven...eight. I mean Jesus Christ, Phil, that's too much. Let's lose some of these guys.
wurlitzer		Wayne, if it was anybody else---
wayne		Phil, I'm just scared he's gonna clam up on me with all these sheriffs all over the place. They hate him. He hates them. What kinda intimacy am I gonna create with all this hate in the air. Even you and I feel it.
wurlitzer		What are we talking about?
wayne		Two guys?
wurlitzer		Okay. I'll take two guys off.
wayne		No, no, no, no, no, no, I mean only two guys.
wurlitzer		I can't do that. Five guys.
wayne		Three.
wurlitzer		I'll cut it in half. Four guys, but that's it.
mickey		Now what you're supposed to say is: 'Five minutes, Mr. Knox.'
scagnetti		Beautiful day for a drive, isn't it?
scagnetti		It's a long trip to Bakersfield. Long and hot. Ever been to Bakersfield?
scagnetti		See, I've been there twice. And I'm not lookin' forward to goin' back. But I'm in and out. You, on the other hand, sweetheart, are gonna spend the rest of your life there. Now that's what I call cruel and inhuman punishment.
scagnetti		Course you're not gonna give a shit. 'Cause when the good doctor's get through givin' you the zap...  ...You won't know where the hell you are. They'll just put you on a window sill, and water you every other day.
wayne		 And when he gets here, its no dick'n around time. Make him up, clip a mike on him, then leave him alone. I don't want you talking to him. I don't want you getting in his face. I want you hiding behind your gear. You are invisible.
wayne		 Okay, break.
wurlitzer		Okay, boys, lets start undoing him.
mickey		 Okay now, before we get started here, there's a few things we have to get clear about.
wayne		All right, Mickey.
mickey		Let's discuss it when I'm unbound.
bingham		Turn around and face the wall!
scagnetti		Wait outside for a second, fellas.
bingham		We're not supposed---
scagnetti		Don't worry about it.
scagnetti		Want a smoke?
scagnetti		C'mon, I already lit one for you. I know you smoke.
scagnetti		I was reading the file on you. You know what it said during your trial, whenever they put you on the stand, no matter what they asked, your answer was always the same...'I love Mickey.' It also says that when they gave you a polygraph, 'I love Mickey' was the only thing you said that registered as the truth.
scagnetti		Who are you supposed to be? Squeaky Fromme? Is that it? Is Mickey your Charles Manson? Is Mickey Jesus? Is that the attraction? Or does he just got a big dick?
scagnetti		That's it, isn't it? Mickey's got a big donkey dick.
scagnetti		Can you remember the last time you fucked? Huh? What I want you to do is close your eyes and remember... remember the last time ol' Mickey gave you the high hard one. Are ya thinkin' about it? Good. Remember it. Don't ever forget it cause it ain't never gonna happen again. Cause when they get through with all that electroshock shit they got lined up for you two, Mick's dick ain't gonna be worth shit.
scagnetti		Look. You're gonna sit here for a couple hours while I finish up the arrangements. The reason they picked me to be your chaperone is they know I won't hesitate to put a bullet in you.
scagnetti		So, during our journey, if any wild hairs spring up on your ass, you'd better slap a muzzle on 'em! Fuck with me, bitch, even a little bit, you're gonna get accidentally shot! Comprehende?
scagnetti		She broke my fucking nose! That bitch broke my nose!
scagnetti		 She broke my nose.
washington		I'll fix it.
scagnetti		Hold her, boys.
scagnetti		I want this filled before we leave.
mickey		 How come you never talk?
roger		She was born without a tongue.
mickey		 Sorry.
wayne		So we got a deal. Four deputies---
wurlitzer		And me.
wayne		Why don't we make it three deputies and you?
wurlitzer		Why don't I have Mickey thrown back into his cell and we can forget the whole thing?
wayne		Chill out, Phill. Four deputies and you, I can live with that. We're about ready to go here, so let's get rid of these other assholes.
wurlitzer		Don't call my men assholes.
wayne		I didn't mean they were assholes. I mean if they're leaving, get 'em outta here.
wayne		Okay, Scotty, we're stuck with four of these assholes. Now I want to create the illusion that this is just Mickey and I chewin' the fat all by ourselves. So make sure you don't film these assholes. I don't want to see 'em on film ever. Oh, and 'Live at Five' slated our spot as human interest which means we'll go live at just after five-thirty.
wurlitzer		This asshole's tryin' to tell me what I'm gonna do in my jail. Fuck him! This nanderfuck doesn't know what he's dealin' with here, but we do. And if shit happens, he ain't gonna be responsible, we are. So keep your shotguns out, your fingers on the triggers, and be ready to fire at a moment's notice.
roger		Say something.
mickey		 What?
roger		Anything.
mickey		 I stand amid the roar Of a surf tormented shore, As I hold within my hand Grains of the golden sand-- How few! yet how they creep Through my fingers to the deep, While I weep--while I weep! O God! can I not save One from the pitiless wave? Is all that we see or seem But a dream within a dream?
mickey		 How was that?
roger		Ah...fine. Let me make an adjustment here, and we'll be ready to rock 'n roll. Oh...uh, the dumbass at the donut place put a chocolate cream filled I asked for in your box.
mickey		There's a chocolate cream filled in there?
roger		Yeah. Ya see, I ordered that special.
mickey		Tough titty, it's mine now.
roger		Look, I'll trade you.
wayne		Roger, enough with the fucking donuts! What did I tell you. Stop bothering Mickey, and get behind your nagra.
roger		 Fine. Roger, what the hell are you doing? You're bothering the serial killer.
wayne		Sorry about that.
mickey		Don't worry about it.
wayne		We're about ready to go here. Are you ready?
mickey		Let's do it.
wayne		So, Mickey, tell us what you do for fun.
mickey		Aside from the obvious?
wayne		 Yes. Aside from the obvious.
mickey		Okay, let me see now. What do I do for fun?  Sorry out there in TV land. I'm just sittin' here lookin'' at these deputies smokin' up a storm, and it's really doin' it to me.
mickey		Much obliged. What do I do for fun? Do you want to know what I do for fun or what I did for fun?
wayne		What? Oh, aaahhh, what you did for fun for starters.
mickey		What I did for fun for starters.  No, scratch that. Let me think of something else. In fact, why don't we come back to that question. Ask me something else.
wayne		Do you miss Mallory?
mickey		Of course, I miss Mallory. She's my wife. I haven't seen her in a long time. What a stupid question.
wayne		Then was it worth it?
mickey		Was what worth it?
wayne		Was massacring all those people worth being separated from your wife for the rest of your life?
mickey		Do you think up these questions or the girl with no tongue?
wayne		No, Mickey, I can't let you get away with that shit. Answer the question. Was it worth it? You haven't seen, heard, or smelled Mallory in a year. Was it worth it?
mickey		Was an instant of purity worth a lifetime lie? Yeah, it was.
wayne		Excuse me, did you say an instant of purity? What was the instant of purity? The bodies you left behind on your bloody trail?
mickey		That's only part of it. I mean, it's a big, big, big part. But it's only the chorus, it's not the whole song.
wayne		 Please explain to me, Mickey, where's the purity that you couldn't live without in five year old Danny Millhouse's blown off head? Where's the purity in forty-eight people who are no longer on this planet because they met you and Mallory? What's so fucking pure about that?
mickey		Where the purity comes into play---
mallory		 Love is a hurtin' thang, and it leaves a fiery sting.
wayne		You just said an instant of purity was preferrable to a lifetime lie. I don't understand. What's so pure about forty-eight dead bodies?
mickey		You'll never understand. Me and you, Wayne, we're not even the same species. I used to be you...then I evolved. From where you're standing, you're a man. From where I'm standing, you're a ape. I'm here...I'm right here... and you...you're somewhere else, man. You say why? I say why not?
wayne		Tell me about the purity.
mickey		 It's not that easy, Wayne. Donuts and a smoke only get you so far. You're gonna have to do your job.
wayne		 Okay...okay...I'll buy that. We'll move on and come back later.
mickey		I'm sure we will.
wayne		Describe Mallory.
mickey		Describe Mallory? Okay. She's pretty, she's got blonde hair, two eyes, two feet, two hands, ten fingers...
wayne		Don't play dumb with me, Mickey. You know what I mean. Describe Mallory.  What's in here?
mickey		That's indescribable.
wayne		Well, riddle me this, Batman. How do you feel about the fact that you're never gonna see Mallory again?
mickey		 Says who?
wayne		Says the United States of America.
mickey		 When have they ever been right?
mickey		Hey, just like Soupy Sales.
mickey		...one night I was asleep, and a noise wakes me up. I thought, 'Oh shit, somebody's broken in.' I didn't own a gun, so I go into the living room with a fucking umbrella. Okay, it turned out to be nothing. God made the noise. Who knows?
scagnetti		 How's it goin'?
wurlitzer		 Shhhh! I wanna hear this.
wurlitzer		What the hell happened to you?
scagnetti		You should see the other bitch. What time you got?
wurlitzer		Two-thirty. Shhh...
mickey		But I came to the direction I need a gun. Do, the next day I started off early for work, and I'm gonna stop by a gun shop and pick up a little home protection. I walked into the place and had never seen so many guns in all my life. So, I'm lookin' around, the this really nice sales guy comes up to me. His name was Warren. I'll never forget his name. He was really nice. Anyway, Warren showed me all these different models of guns. Magnums, automatics, pistols, Walters. And I ask to see a shotgun. He brings me a Mossberg pump action shotgun. As soon as I held that baby in my hands, I knew what I was gonna do. It felt so good. It felt like it was a part of me. They had a mirror in the store. I looked at myself holding it, and looked so fuckin' good, I immediately bought it. Bought a bunch of boxes of ammo. Turned my car around, drove to Mallory's house, we took care of Mallory's parents, packed up the car, and we were off.
mickey		Everybody thought I'd gone crazy. The cops, my mom, everybody. But you see, they all missed the point of the story. I wasn't crazy. But when I was holding the shotgun, it all became clear. I realized for the first time my one true calling in life. I'm a natural born killer.
wayne		Okay, let's cut it.
wayne		 Did ya get that?
scott		It's gonna be beautiful.
wayne		Super cool.  This is great stuff. How ya doin'?
mickey		I could go for a Coke.
wayne		 Could I get a Coke for Mickey?
wurlitzer		I'm not running out and getting that piece of shit a Coke.
wayne		Fine.  What's around here?
deputy sheriff		There's an In and Out Burgers about a block away on Olive. It's walking distance.
wayne		Okay, Julie, take everybody's order. I'll have a double double with cheese, french fries, and a large Coke.
wurlitzer		Are you all set?
scagnetti		Yeah. Bus is all gassed up and ready to roll.
wurlitzer		I assigned you Bingham and Washington to go along.
scagnetti		Yeah, we met. They're good men.
wurlitzer		They're real Goddamn good. They'll be there for when ya need 'em. Where are they?
scagnetti		Waitin' in the lounge.
wurlitzer		How 'bout Mallory?
scagnetti		Coolin' her jets in a holding cell.
scagnetti		Nothing for me. I'm leavin'.
wurlitzer		Me, neither. I don't eat meat.
deputy sheriff		Capt'n!
wurlitzer		Yeah?
deputy sheriff		They need you. Emergency!
wurlitzer		 For the love of Pete...okay...okay ...okay. Mobilize the men. I'm on my way.
mickey		I'll have a four by four. That's four patty burgers. Now they don't have that on the menu, but if you order a four by four, they'll know what you're talking about. A large Coke and two orders of fries.
mickey		You guys wanna hear a joke I heard?
mickey		Now, I'm no comedian, but it's pretty funny. It's a Little Johnny joke. Now in the joke, Little Johnny can't talk. And Little Johnny's teenage sister asks her mother if she can go out on a date.
mickey		The mother asks, 'Where's he taking you?' The sister says, 'The drive-in movie.' The mother tells her she can only go if she takes Little Johnny with her. She says okay. They go to the drive-in, they come back. The mother gets Little Johnny and says, 'Okay, what happened? Where did ya go?'
mickey		Mother says, 'The drive-in movie. What did they do?'
mickey		'They kissed. What else?'
mickey		'He felt her up? What else?'
mickey		 'They took off their clothes? What else?'
mickey		'They did it? What were you doing?'
mickey		Looks like we got a Mexican standoff.
scagnetti		Slide the shotgun over here, put your hands behind your head, put your forehead on the floor.
mickey		Or what? You'll wound me? I can blow you in half and you know it.
scagnetti		I've never wounded anything in my life. I got you locked right between the eyes.
mickey		If you don't drop that toy, I'm blowin' you in half on three. So, if you got me locked, take the shot. One...
mickey		Three!
scagnetti		Hold it! Don't shoot!
mickey		Open the chamber. Empty the shells.
mickey		Toss it.
mickey		Now put your hands behind your head.
mickey		Did you ever see 'Eldorado?'
scagnetti		What?
mickey		You guys stay on your bellies.
roger		Yes, sir.
mickey		I am the most dangerous man in the world.
mickey		 I'm the law breaker.
mickey		Donut, get your camera. See if it's broke.
wayne		Let me check on Scott. He's hurt bad.
mickey		Scott's dead. And unless you wanna play follow the leader, shut up and do as you're told.
mickey		How is it?
roger		Not good.
mickey		Do you have a back up.
roger		It's video.
mickey		Even better. Wayne call your station, tell 'em we're going live a little early today. Make it happen!
wurlitzer		I want two men stationed in that tier, and I want men with rifles all along the walkway.
wurlitzer		Where do the air ducts lead?
wurlitzer		We turn it back on. The machines go back on supplying us with the cover noise we need. Smithy, do it.
wurlitzer		Jonesy, are the sharpshooters in place?
wurlitzer		You sure?
wurlitzer		Never say you think when you know, or you know when you think.
wurlitzer		 Bergman, you in place?
wurlitzer		 Pass this to your team...the second they get a lock on a blue, they're to take the shot. Do you understand?
wurlitzer		What do you think, Pitney? How much Explosives do you think that they really have in there?
wurlitzer		Take a wild stab!
wurlitzer		The entire wing?
wurlitzer		Jesus...
chavez		Good afternoon, I'm Tony Chavez and this is a KKTV Special Report. At this moment we are receiving preliminary reports of a hostage--  I...I'm sorry. I'm being told that we're now taking you live to L.A. County Jail where Wayne Gayle is standing by.
wayne		This is Wayne Gayle reporting live from the Los Angeles County Jail, where you can tell from the bloody carnage behind me that the final chapter in the book called Mickey and Mallory has not yet been written.
mickey		Thank you, Wayne, but our little movie just underwent a title change. It's now called 'The Escape of Mickey and Mallory.' Starring me, you, Mallory, and special guest accomplice, Jack- fucked-up-fingers-Scagnetti.  Okay, Donut, move in for a close up. I want this for prosperity.
scagnetti		 She's in the holding cell, on this floor.
chavez		Ladies and gentlemen, in case you have just tuned in, it appears that a hostage situation involving Mickey Knox is developing presently at the Los Angeles County Jail. We have seen that he is armed and apparently there has been some loss of life. We will try to re-establish contact with Wayne Gayle and bring you more on this late breaking story. Please stay tuned.
mickey		Okay, Jack, this is what we're doing. Stand behind me, put your back against mine and extend your arms behind you.
mickey		Now if I feel your back move away from mine, you're gonna be ripped apart. Got it?
scagnetti		Yeah.
mickey		Okay, Wayne, step forward.
mickey		Keep comin'. Put your solar plexus against the barrel.
mickey		Grab his arms.
mickey		Either one of you two move, it's gonna be shotgun city. You understand?
mickey		You ready, Donut?
roger		Ready.
mickey		Wagons, hooaaa!
mallory		 Whataleeatcha, whataleeatcha dodaleedo, dodaleedo. Whataleeatcha, whataleeatcha dodaleedo, dodaleedo. Simplest thing there isn't much to it. All ya gotta do is dodaleedo it. I like the rest, but the best part I like is Whataleeatcha, whataleeatcha dodaleedo, dodaleedo, do quack, quack.
mickey		 Honey, I'm home.
mallory		 It's taken you so long to come to me.
wurlitzer		Wait a minute, Bailey. Where's the list of the hostages?
wurlitzer		Keep on it, son.
wurlitzer		 Alvarado, Issacs, Julian, Martinez, Newendyke, Olvera, Pool, Ramos, Schmidt, Spivey, Walsh, Westerguard...
wurlitzer		What is it Napalatoni?
wurlitzer		What do you mean he's loose?
mickey		Okay, we're going out that door, and we're gonna march down the hall and right out of the building.  Donut said something about a news van.
wayne		Yeah, we have a van.
mickey		Where's it parked?
wayne		Out front.
mickey		Let me have the keys.
wayne		Mickey, can I talk to you alone?
mickey		No.
wayne		This is crazy. You can't escape like this.
mickey		Probably not, but we're gonna give it the old college try.
wayne		We'll all be killed.
mallory		Exciting, isn't it?
mickey		Now, when we get out there, you do what we say or it's curtains. If we say move, you move. If we say left, you move left. If we say right, you move right. If we say mole, you dig a hole. Got it?
mallory		Are we in a big hurry?
mickey		You got something you want to do?
mallory		Yeah.
mickey		By all means, knock yourself out.
mallory		Thanks. Roll 'em, Donut.
mallory		You! Stand up!
mallory		You probably thought it was pretty funny, didn't ya?
mallory		Can you remember the last time you fucked with me? Close your eyes and remember...Are ya thinking about it? Good.
mickey		We're sending out a hostage. Don't touch him!
mallory		Mickey!
mickey		Don't stop!
duncan		Please don't kill me! Don't kill me...
mickey		 This way.
mickey		 Where does this lead?
mickey		Where!?!
duncan		Th-- the ground floor.
mallory		Is that the front door?
mickey		Let's go.
mallory		Back off or I'll blast him! Back off or I'll blast him! Back off or I'll blast him!
wayne		Don't shoot. I beg you, don't shoot! Please, please, please...
wurlitzer		Now Mickey, Mallory, just let me say---
mallory		Shut up! Don't talk, I don't wanna hear it!
wurlitzer		You have to know---
mallory		I said shut up...
mallory		...and I mean shut up!
mickey		Think...think...think...
mallory		Look, lover boy, we're not getting outta here. So I say the hell with going back to our cells. Let's do a Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. Run down these stairs shootin', go out in a hail of bullets, but take as many of those motherfuckers with us as possible.
mickey		We'll do that when all else fails.
mallory		Hasn't it?
mickey		We still got a few tricks up our sleeves.
mickey		You married?
duncan		Oh, I don't wanna die...
mickey		Are you married? Do you have kids?
mickey		Good. People, we're goin' all the way to the front door. Now, the only way we're gonna get there is if they don't want to kill you two more than they want to kill us.
mickey		Now, say I tell those guys down there if they shoot or make a move, I'm killin' Wayne Gayle. And they shoot or make a move anyway. Now say by some freak accident, you didn't die, you live though it. What would you do?
wayne		What would I do? Me and my network would sue the entire Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department for flagrantly disregarding my safety. I'd go straight to my buddy, the mayor, and make sure everyone of those son of a bitches down there ends up on the unemployment line. In fact, I'd sue every man down there personally. I would make it my life's ambition to bring the LA County Jail to its knees. I would do expose after expose on the brutality, and the conditions, and the inhumanity that exists here.
mickey		That's what I thought. You tell them that. When we go down those stairs, I want you to scream what you just told me. 'My name is Wayne Gayle! I am the star of American Maniacs watched every week by'-- how many people?
wayne		On average forty million.
mickey		'Every week by forty million people. I am a respected journalist.' Have you won any awards?
wayne		Are you kidding? The Golden Globe, The Edward R. Murrow award...
mickey		'Respected journalist'-- On your knees...
mickey		 ...'Winner of the Golden Globe and the Edward R. Murrow award among others.' Tell 'em the name of your personal lawyer, his firm, his address, and phone number. Tell 'em about the mayor and the unemployment lines. You getting the idea?
wayne		Yes.
mickey		Say it. Scream it. All the way out the front door and into your van. And if you stop screaming, I swear to God I'll blow your head off.
wayne		Got it.
mickey		You! What's your name?
mallory		Duncan...Homolka?
wayne		 My name is Wayne Gayle! I am the star of 'American Maniacs', watched by forty million people every week! I am a respected journalist, winners of the Golden Globe, the Edward R. Murrows Award among others! If anybody puts me in danger, my network will sue The Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department. My estate will sue every officer personally who fires. The network's law firm is Rowlands, Davis and Sinclair...
mallory		 Make a path!
wurlitzer		How far do you think your gonna get?
mickey		Right out the front door.
wurlitzer		That'll never happen.
mickey		It is happening.
mallory		Don't stop!
wurlitzer		 I will personally hunt you down, blow the head off your fucking-whore-wife, and plant your sick ass in the ground all by myself.
mickey		 Another day perhaps, but not today.
wayne		This is Wayne Gayle. I'm wounded and my crew, Roger and Scott, are dead. This may be out of sync 'cause we are shooting with a wild camera and a standard recorder we found in the van. Mickey Knox's plan worked. We walked out the front door, into my news van and made our getaway. When we were followed by patrol cars, Mallory Knox killed Deputy Sheriff Duncan Homolka and tossed his body out of the back. Mickey told authorities over my police band that I would surely be next if they didn't give up the pursuit. They took Mickey at his word and called off the pursuit. Why helicopters weren't employed, I don't know. My only thought is it all happened too fast for arrangements to be made. We've just pulled off to the side of the road to do this interview. Tensions run high--
wayne		Without any further ado, Mickey and Mallory...
wayne		Mallory, what did you think of Mickey's plan? Did you think it would work?
mallory		It wasn't 'till we got on the ground floor that I totally realized they weren't gonna shoot unless we shot first. When we got out of the stairwell, I remember thinking, 'Oh my God. This might work.' But Mickey knew it would work all along. There wasn't any doubt in his mind. It's not like there was and he just didn't show it. He knew it would work.
mallory		I wondered how long it would be before we'd get to be alone together. And I wondered if I could wait that long.
mallory		Haven't you been listening to a fuckin' word I said? ...Oh, I'm sorry. Can I say fuckin'? I can't, can I?
mallory		We had nothing to do with that riot. That riot was just -- whatchmacallit --
mickey		Divine intervention.
mallory		What he said. We didn't know jack shit about and riot. It just happened. It was kismet. We didn't even know those people. How are we supposed to organize a riot when we've been in fuckin' isolation for the past year? Just bleep out the fucks and jack shits.  I mean, it's not like we care. If they wanna say we masterminded the whole thing, let 'em. It won't exactly keep us up at night. But you said you wanted the truth, and the truth is we were just lucky.
mickey		C'mon, c'mon, let's hurry this up.
mallory		Well, now me and Mickey are gonna take it easy. Just enjoy each other's company, stop and smell the roses, notice the color purple, stuff like that.
mallory		Well, back in slave times they had a thing called the underground railroad. And we got a whole fan club out there just waiting to be conductors.  So, you kids out there, keep the faith. Cause Mickey and Mallory will be comin' to your town real soon.
mickey		Okay, that's enough. End of interview. We gotta move.
mickey		Oh, we're gonna do a little wrap up, all right. But it won't be you starin' in the camera, looking dumb, and acting stupid. Instead, you're gonna be starin' down the barrels of our shotguns and we're gonna be pullin' the triggers.
wayne		That's a joke right?
wayne		Just wait one fucking minute.
mickey		I said I'd give you a interview. Now unless I'm mistaken, we just did a interview.  We did an interview, didn't we?
mallory		Looked like an interview to me.
mickey		I said we'd give you an interview. I never said we wouldn't kill you.
wayne		Wait! I don't know, but I kinda felt during this...this whole escape that a kind of bond--
wayne		 ...developed between the three of us. We're kindda in this together, don't ya think?
mickey		No. Not really.
wayne		Don't touch those triggers! Please. I think I've already proven that a live Wayne Gayle is much more better that a dead...Way-- Gayle. I was your passport out of jail, not Duncan Homolka. But me! I'll be your passport outta---
mickey		Just save your breath, Wayne. We hate you. If anybody in the fuckin' world deserves to die, it's you.
wayne		Wait! You can't kill me. Mickey and Mallory always leave somebody alive to tell the tale.
mickey		We are.  Your camera.
mickey		 Let's make a little music, Colorada.
wayne		NO!!!
****Dialogues from script :Never_Been_Kissed.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Neverending_Story.txt****

****Dialogues from script :New_York_Minute.txt****

drew's pov		The puppy squeezes through the hedge, wiggling its bum to extricate itself. A SIX-YEAR-OLD GIRL picks it up, hugs it close: SIX-YEAR-OLD GIRL Where are you going, Jelly Bean? CUT TO:
another angle		REVEALS -- at the opposite end of the hallway, Parker and Drew aren't the only ones watching. A PAINTER with one lazy eye, ROGER, pauses with his roller and carefully peeks around the corner. MRS. LO BIANCHO It's the New York Kennel Club, Emile, not the New York Knickerbockers. Please call the caterer and cancel the beer. 
parker's pov		The hallway's empty. But The Emperor, feeling frisky, leaps from her arms into the hallway, then turns TO face her. Come on. Let's play!
drew's pov		The Detectives appear above her.
****Dialogues from script :Newsies.txt****

newsies		A Musical Feature Film
newsies		FADE IN:
kloppman		Ink's wet, the presses are rolling, the papers are stacking -- rise and shine, make a dime, no news without the Newsies -- etc. Jack jumps out of his bunk and shakes the BOY below.
jack		Wake up, Crutchy -- The World is waitin'.
racetrack		THAT'S MY CIGAR...
snipeshooter		YOU'LL STEAL ANUDDER. The boys begin to wake,                          KID BLINK yawning, stretching,                HEY BUMMERS, WE GOT WORK TO DO complaining as they hit the floor: pants pulled                         SPECS on, suspenders hitched             SINCE WHEN DID YOU BECOME up, boots laced tight.               MY MUDDER? CRUTCHY AH, STOP YOUR BAWLIN' ALL WHO AST YOU! MUSH, cross-eyed and skinny with big ears and lisp, play- fully pushes the NEWSIE so he falls on his hammock.
newsie		Hey, whattaya?
mush		How'd you sleep, Jack? JACK On me back, Mush.
crutchy		Jack, this look like I'm fakin' it? He hobbles towards Jack on one crutch.
jack		Who says you're fakin' it?
crutchy		The streets are fulla fakes these days -- it's hurtin' the rep of genuine articles like myself. I gotta find me a new sellin' spot, where they ain't used to seein' me. Jack smiles; Mush taps Crutchy on the arm... sings. MUSH TRY BOTTLE ALLEY OR THE HARBOR
racetrack		TRY CENTRAL PARK IT'S GUARANTEED JACK TRY ANY BANKER, BUM OR BARBER Jack rinses his face, takes                  SKITTERY             * special care adjusting his      THEY ALMOST ALL KNOWS HOW TO red bandana.                      READ KID BLINK I SMELL MONEY
crutchy		YOU SMELL FOUL
mush		MET THIS GIRL LAST NIGHT          * CRUTCHY MOVE YOUR ELBOW
skittery		FOR A BUCK I MIGHT
chorus		AIN'T IT A FINE LIFE CARRYING THE BANNER THROUGH IT ALL
crutchy		 Who ya sellin' wit, Jack?
jack		Ain't decided yet. Jack spots a passing wagon and helps Crutchy on board -- he and Mush jump on for the ride and they all move off --
david		Les, hurry up, willya? Why do I gotta be saddled with you?
les		Why do I gotta be saddled with you?
david		Come on -- They'll run out of papers!
kid blink		And I'll keep my eye on you, too, sir. OFFICER Get moving! Blink and the boys race into an alley --
racetrack		AIN'T THEY AS PRETTY AS A PITCH'A 
racetrack		Jack -- whattaya know, whattaya say. Got a hot tip on a nag in the fourth at Sheepshead -- sure                         * t'ing!                                                   * JACK Your last sure t'ing's still                             * runnin', Racetrack.                                      * MUSH                                      * We heard it!                                          *
kid blink		Say, Cowboy -- I hear Medda's breakin' in a new act at the vaudeville tonight -- ya interested? 
crutchy		Stupid question.
kid blink		That an echo? Or is the Crip followin' ya again? CRUTCHY  Yeah? How'd you like it if a crip cracked your head?
jack		Better choke it, Blink -- 'fore you need another patch. KID BLINK Hey, who ya sellin' wit, Jack? CRUTCHY Not wit you! JACK Nothing personal, Blink, but...
jack		IT TAKES A SMILE AS SWEET AS BUTTER CRUTCHY THE KIND THAT LADIES CAN'T As Jack sings, the boys             RESIST listen carefully. They all respect his opinion.                       RACETRACK IT TAKES AN ORPHAN WITH A STUTTER
jack		WHO AIN'T AFRAID TO USE HIS... KID BLINK ... FIST
mush		SINCE YOU LEFT ME              I GOTTA FIND AN ANGLE CRUTCHY I AM UNDONE                    I GOTTA SELL MORE PAPES
all		MOTHER                         PAPERS IS ALL I GOT LOVES YOU                      WISH I COULD CATCH A BREEZE SURE HOPE THE HEADLINE'S HOT GOD                            ALL I CAN CATCH IS FLEAS SAVE                           GOD HELP ME IF IT'S NOT MY SON                         SOMEBODY HELP ME PL --
newsie group #1		SEE THE HEADLINE                HITCHED IT ON A TROLLEY NEWSIE GROUP #2 NEWSIES ON A MISSION            MEET'CHA FORTY-FOURTH AND SECOND... NEWSIE GROUP #1 KILL THE COMPETITION            LITTLE ITALY'S A SECRET NEWSIE GROUP #2 SELL THE NEXT EDITION           BLEEKER'S FURTHER THAN I RECKONED NEWSIE GROUP #1 WHILE WE'RE OUT THERE           BY THE COURTHOUSE NEWSIE GROUP #2 NEAR THE STABLES NEWSIE GROUP #1 ON THE CORNER CARRYIN' THE BANNER IS          SOMEONE BECKONED AND I... THE...
newsie group #2         *		NEWSIES ON A MISSION            MEET'CHA FORTY-FOURTH AND SECOND... NEWSIE GROUP #1         * KILL THE COMPETITION!           LITTLE ITALY'S A SECRET.
newsie group #2         *		SELL THE NEXT EDITION           BLEEKER'S FURTHER THAN I RECKONED NEWSIE GROUP #1         * WHILE WE'RE OUT THERE           BY THE COURTHOUSE... NEWSIE GROUP #2         * CARRYIN' THE BANNER IS          NEAR THE STABLES... THE... NEWSIE GROUP #1         * ON THE CORNER...
david		Watch it, willya? What do you think you're doing!
jack		 Runnin'.
boots		Ride 'em, cowboy!
weasel		You know my name -- it's Weisel. Mister Weisel to you. How many?
jack		Don't rush me -- I'm perusin'                          * the mercandice... Mr. Weasel.                          * The Newsies love it as Jack deliberately takes a paper, turns and scans.  Seeing Les staring at him, Jack winks. Les smiles back, fascinated. Jack turns back to Weasel with a fifty-cent piece. JACK The usual. Weasel grabs for the coin -- Jack flips it out of his            * grasp and onto the counter. The Newsies whoop. WEASEL Hundred for the wiseguy -- next!                       *
weasel		Ya got ya papes -- move outta here.                    * DAVID I paid for twenty -- you only gave                     * me nineteen! 
david		I want that other paper. The Delanceys start for David when suddenly Jack steps                 * up, slams his hand on David's papers, closes his eyes                  * and does a flip-count. The expert.                                     * JACK Nineteen, Weasel. An honest mistake -- on account of Oscar                            * can't count to twenty with his                            * shoes on.                                                 * Weasel glowers -- but wants to get back to business.         He backhands Morris who looks surprised. WEASEL Next! JACK Hold it.   Race -- spot me two-bits. Race flips him a coin.     Jack slaps it on the counter. JACK Another fifty for my friend here. DAVID I don't want another fifty -- ! JACK  Sure you do. Every newsie wants more papes.
david		These papers are yours, I don't                           * take charity from nobody! I don't                         * even know who you are --
les		 Les. This is David, he's my brother. He's older.
jack		Sixty-forty.   Or I forget the whole t'ing. David reluctantly offers his hand. Jack spits in his palm and shakes. Les whoops and they move off, Jack already being the mentor -- JACK The name of the game is volume, Dave. You only took twenty papes -- why?
david		Bad headline...? JACK First t'ing you gotta learn -- headlines don't sell papes, newsies sell papes. We're what holds this town together -- without newsies, nobody knows nuttin'! They move away from Newsie Square as above them, the GOLDEN DOME OF THE WORLD BUILDING glistens in the morning sun.
seitz		Just the Newsies, Chief, I'll --
seitz		Creating the World, Chief.                             *
pulitzer		This paper's losing money because there's too much fat, inefficiency -- not because I'm fighting to                         * make us number one! Well, we're going to cut costs, maximize profits -- and still beat the socks off Hearst --  I want to know how by tonight.
jack		Some newsies got corners, see -- same spot, same customers. Me,                         * I like to keep moving, enjoy the life of the big city. I spot an opportunity, I sell a pape. That's the advantage of being an independent businessman, instead                       * of workin' for wages.                                  *
david		Paper, mister? Without breaking the kiss, the man kicks out at David who jumps away. Shaking his head, Jack whispers something to Les, who rushes over to the Lovers, still kissing.
les		 Extry -- 'Runaway Carriage Crushes Cop!'
les		He gimme a dime! He said I should go far away and keep the change!
david		What -- ?   Where's that story -- ? JACK  Page nine -- thank you, sir. Nextry, 'Thousands flee in panic -- '
david		 'Trash fire near immigration building frightens seagulls -- ?'
jack		'Terrified flight from flaming inferno!' Thank you, much obliged -- 
les		Buy me last pape, mista...?
jack		Mine taught me not to starve. So we both got an education.
david		You just make things up -- like those headlines. JACK I don't do nothin' the guys who write this stuff don't do. It ain't lyin' -- it's just improvin' the truth a little. Les comes running back, wiping his mouth, with a quarter. LES The guy gave me a quarter! Quick, gimme some more last papers! DAVID  Hold it -- I smell beer! LES The guy bet me I wouldn't drink some -- that's how I made the quarter!
jack		Hey, no drinkin' on the job -- it's bad for business. What if somebody called a cop or somethin'?
jack		Beat it -- the bulls! He races off. David, confused, races after him, Les looks very worried as he runs with David --
les		Just for one little sip of beer -- ?
les		 One sip! I didn't even swallow it! Jack leads them into the doorway of --
snyder		You young miscreant! Wait'll I get you back to the Refuge!
david		The Refuge -- ? 
david		I'm not crossing that! Anyway, I don't think they're chasing us --
les		You were in jail...?   Why?
jack		I was starvin'. I stole some food. DAVID  Yeah, food. My name's Kelly, Jack Kelly, like I told you. Think I'm lyin'? DAVID You have a way of 'improving the truth.' Why was he chasing you?
jack		Because I escaped. LES 
jack		This is David and Les. And this is the greatest star of the vaudeville stage today, Miss Medda Larkson, the Swedish Meadowlark. MEDDA  Welcome! JACK Medda also owns the joint.
medda		 I won't. I promise.
medda		This kid is good. Speaking as one professional to another, I'd say you got a future.
jack		Okay if we hang here awhile, Medda? 'Til a little problem outside goes away?
medda		As long as you like -- now the lark must warble. Hey, you --  -- give my guests whatever they want.
medda		 'MY LOVEY-DOVEY BABY'... etc.
jack		That's Sante Fe -- out in New Mexico? Soon's Pop finds us the right ranch, they're sendin' for me. LES  Then you'll be a real cowboy...
david		Why don't we divvy up at my place...? You can meet my folks...
david		Jack -- let's get outta here -- ! The boys move away, Jack looking back at the beating. JACK Maybe tomorrow we get a decent headline.
esther		 My God...! What happened?
david		He's just sleeping, Momma --
mayer		You made all this selling papers...? 
mayer		Esther -- maybe David's partner would like to stay for dinner. Add some more water to the soup. ESTHER  Mayer...! Mayer laughs, joined by Sarah and David -- and finally Esther herself as she waters the soup. Jack stands drinking in the family's warmth.
mayer		That many...? JACK More when the headline's good.
sarah		What makes a headline good?
jack		 'Scuse the language there, uh, maybe I'm talkin' too much...
mayer		 You talk fine, Jack -- Sarah, get that cake your mother's been hiding in the cabinet! ESTHER That's for your birthday tomorrow! MAYER I've had enough birthdays!    This is a celebration! David leaps up to fetch silver; Sarah gets a luscious chocolate cake from a cabinet -- DAVID It's only the beginning -- the longer I work, the more I'll make -- MAYER You work only until I go back to the factory! Then you go back to school, like you promised.
les		 'Gimme all ya got, baby...'
jack		How'd your pop get hurt? DAVID The factory. An accident.  He's no good to them anymore so they just fired him. He's got no union to protect him.
mayer		David?   Time to come in now. Jack looks in at the warm family tableau: the lullaby, Sarah reading to Mayer. David, going in, sees his friend's expression. DAVID Why don't you stay here tonight...? JACK I got my own place... but thanks.                      * Your family's real nice, Dave.                         *                                           * Like mine.                                             * David nods, climbs in the window.                                 * DAVID See you tomorrow. Carryin' the banner.
jack		 Carryin' the banner.
jack		SO THAT'S WHAT THEY CALL A FAMILY MOTHER, DAUGHTER; FATHER, SON GUESS THAT EVERYTHING YOU HEARD ABOUT IS TRUE 
kloppman		You missed your supper, boys.
racetrack		Then we didn't miss much, did we?                     * 
jonathan		Actual income, as well as projected income, against actual operating costs, as well as projected operating costs, produce a reduced marginality of profit which in turn --
pulitzer		Seitz!   What in blazes is he talking about?
seitz		Says you need to make more money, Chief. 
pulitzer		Then Hearst undersells me and I'm in the poorhouse. Brilliant.
jonathan		Not the customer price -- the price to the distribution apparatus. Exasperated, Pulitzer looks to Seitz for a translation. SEITZ You mean the Newsies...? Charge the Newsies more for their papers? Bad idea, Chief. JONATHAN Very well. My next proposal -- salary cuts, particularly those at the very top -- PULITZER Wait. What  do the Newsies pay now -- fifty cents per hundred papers? If  you raised it to sixty cents --
jonathan		A mere tenth of a cent per paper --
pulitzer		-- then that, multiplied by forty thousand papers a day, seven days a week -- well, it would pay some of the bills around here.
seitz		Chief, if you do this, every Newsie we got will head straight for Hearst.
seitz		What about the other papers -- ? PULITZER If we do it, they'll all do it. It's only a tenth of a cent -- nobody gets hurt! It's good for the Newsies -- an incentive, make 'em work harder, sell more papers! Now get me Hearst on that contraption. Seitz sighs and reaches for the phone.
jack		Awright, pipe down! Don't you see it's a gag? Just Weasel bein' a weasel. Joke's over, Wease. Gimme a hunnerd. He plops fifty cents on the counter.      Weasel's grin gets weaselier as he slides it back.
weasel		Hunnerd'll cost ya sixty, Cowboy. JACK I ain't payin' no sixty -- WEASEL Then move outta the way -- JACK You bet -- I move right over to the Journal.
racetrack		It's the same at the Journal -- we checked -- it's the same everywhere! JACK Why the jack-up, Weasel? WEASEL Why not? It's a nice day. Why don't you ast Mr. Pulitzer? He whacks the bell with his cudgel; the Delanceys stir threateningly. WEASEL If you ain't buyin' papes, clear out! World employees only on this sida the gates. JACK It stinks here anyway -- let's go!
kid blink		They can't do that to us -- RACETRACK They can do what they want -- it's their stinkin' paper -- BOOTS Ain't we got no rights -- ?
crutchy		Sure -- we got the right to take it in the t'roat!
racetrack		It's a rigged deck -- why waste time kiddin' ourselves? They set the price, we gotta pay it -- MUSH We got no choice! So let's get our lousy papes while they still got some -- JACK Nobody's goin' anywhere -- they ain't gonna get away with this! EVERYBODY What can we do -- 
les		Stop crowding him!    Let him think!
jack		One thing for sure. If we don't sell papes, then nobody sells papes. Nobody comes through those gates 'til they put the price back where it was. 
jack		Yeah, a strike -- good idea, Dave.
david		 No, I didn't mean -- we can't strike, we're not a union --
jack		We go on strike, we're a union, right? Keep it comin', Dave --
david		Nooo! Stop and think, willya?     You can't just rush everybody into this!
jack		Dave's right again! We gotta think this through! Old man Pulitzer and Hearst and all them other rich geezers, they run this city. Do we really think a buncha streetrats like us would have a chance against people like them? 
les		Strike!
david		Uh... they can't treat us like we don't exist... SONG:   "THE WORLD WILL KNOW"   APPROXIMATE TIME: 3:30. JACK PULITZER AND HEARST THEY THINK WE'RE NOTHING ARE WE NOTHING? NEWSIE NO! DAVID If we stick together like the trolley workers, they can't break us up. JACK PULITZER AND HEARST THEY THINK THEY GOT US DO THEY GOT US? NEWSIES NO! 
boots		What's to stop someone else from sellin' our papes?
jack		We talk to 'em. RACETRACK Some of 'em don't hear so good. JACK Then we soak 'em.
david		No! JACK WHAT'S IT GONNA TAKE TO STOP THE WAGONS? ARE WE READY? NEWSIES YEAH! DAVID No! We can't beat up kids in the street! It'll destroy what we're trying to do! JACK WHAT'S IT GONNA TAKE Jack's not listening now.          TO STOP THE SCABBERS? CAN WE DO IT?
newsies		YEAH! JACK WE'LL DO WHAT WE GOTTA DO UNTIL WE BREAK THE WILL OF MIGHTY BILL AND JOE 
all		AND THE WORLD WILL... JACK Jack and the others jump       PULITZER MAY OWN THE down from the wagon and with   WORLD BUT HE DON'T OWN US! David and Les following, move across the square.                     ALL PULITZER MAY OWN THE WORLD BUT HE DON'T OWN US! JACK PULITZER MAY CRACK THE WHIP BUT HE WON'T WHIP US! The Newsies answer back.                    ALL PULITZER MAY CRACK THE WHIP BUT HE WON'T WHIP US! Crossing the square, as                       ALL they move towards the gates,   AND   THE WORLD WILL KNOW singing up to Pulitzer's       AND   THE WORLD WILL LEARN office in the dome at the      AND   THE WORLD WILL WONDER top of The World Building.     HOW   WE MADE THE TABLES TURN 
all		AND THE OLD WILL FALL The Newsies interlock arms           AND THE YOUNG STAND TALL forming a chain of                   AND THE TIME IS NOW resistance and solidarity.           AND THE WINDS WILL BLOW AND OUR RANKS WILL GROW AND GROW AND GROW AND SO THE WORLD WILL FEEL THE FIRE AND FIN'LLY KNOW!
jack		Bumlet, Specs, Skittery take Queens; Pie Eater and Snotty, the East side -- Snipeshooter, go with 'em; okay, who wants Brooklyn? Spot Conlon's territory?
denton		What's going on? DAVID They're going in to present our demands to Pulitzer. DENTON What demands? 
denton		I'm Denton, New York Sun.   What's your name?
david		 David...
denton		David.  As in David and Goliath?  You really think old man Pulitzer's going to listen to your demands? DAVID He has to.
jack		 Real hoity-toity --
les		That's when they threw us out. DENTON Doesn't it scare you going up against the most powerful man in New York? JACK  My name really gonna be in the papers? DENTON Any objections?
jack		Not as long as you get it right -- Kelly, Jack Kelly. And, Denton? No pictures.
boots		Spent a month there one night.
david		This Spot Conlon... is he really as bad as they say...?
spot		So I'm hearin' things from little birdies in Harlem and Queens and all over. They're chirpin' in my ear: 'Jackie-boy's Newsies are playin' like they're goin' on strike -- '
david		 We're not playing -- we are on strike -- it's --
spot		What's this, Jackie boy?   Some kind of walkin' mouth? 
spot		So they told me. And what did they tell you? David looks nervously at the circling henchmen. DAVID That... they're all waiting to see what Spot Conlon does. That you're the key...  That Spot Conlon is the most respected and... famous... newsie in New York... and probably everywhere else...
david		And... if Spot Conlon joins the strike, they'll join and we'll be unstoppable so you gotta join and ... well... you gotta... He trails off.    Spot nods, turns to Jack.
spot		You're right. Brains.  But I got brains, too -- and more than half-a-one. How do I know you punks won't run the first time some goon comes atcha with a club? How do I know you're in it to win?
spot		Not good enough, Jackie-boy.   You gotta show me.
jack		Maybe you lost your guts, Spotty- boy --  Show me this strike ain't just some kids do-or-dare, then we'll talk.
racetrack		So where's Spot Conlon?
kid blink		Without Spot and the others, there ain't enough of us... MUSH Maybe we're movin' too soon, maybe we ain't ready -- SKITTERY Definitely should put this off a coupla days, definitely -- PIE EATER Hey, Jack -- you ready?   I'm ready! He's swinging a picket sign.
jack		At least somebody's got the right idea. PIE EATER Who else is ready for stick-ball? He tears the sign off the stick and swings it like a bat. JACK Who we kiddin' here. Spot was right. Just a game to these guys...
crutchy		Hey, Jack -- get a loada this!
david		OPEN THE GATES AND SEIZE THE DAY As David sings,                 DON'T BE AFRAID AND DON'T DELAY the others join in.             NOTHING CAN BREAK US They stand waiting,             NO ONE CAN MAKE US arms interlocked, as            GIVE OUR RIGHTS AWAY the gates begin to              ARISE AND SEIZE THE DAY         * open...
david		NOW IS THE TIME                            GROUP TO SEIZE THE DAY              NOW IS THE TIME TO SEIZE THE DAY DAVID SEND OUT THE CALL                          GROUP AND JOIN THE FRAY             SEND OUT THE CALL AND JOIN THE FRAY DAVID WRONGS WILL BE RIGHTED IF WE'RE UNITED ALL LET US SEIZE THE DAY DAVID FRIENDS OF THE FRIENDLESS SEIZE THE DAY                              GROUP FRIENDS OF THE FRIENDLESS SEIZE THE DAY DAVID RAISE UP THE TORCH AND LIGHT THE WAY                          GROUP RAISE UP THE TORCH AND LIGHT THE WAY ALL                   * PROUD AND DEFIANT WE'LL SLAY THE GIANT LET US SEIZE THE DAY
jack		The House of Refuge... my home- sweet-home... 
david		How can you be sure they sent Crutchy here?
jack		Whattayasay, Tenpin.   You got a new guy, Crutchy --
tenpin		The gimp?   I'll get him for ya.
jack		That's Tenpin -- s'posed to get out last Christmas but Snyder keeps tackin' more time on his sentence --
david		 Be quiet -- they'll hear you --!
crutchy		Hey, whattaya hangin' around here for? That Dave up there? Hiya, Dave!
david		You mean it's true --? Crutchy hears something and quickly shushes them: Jack disappears from the window; Crutchy slumps into a bunk and pretends to sleep -- just as Snyder comes into the room. Utter silence --
jack		Crutchy won't last in there... I seen stronger guys than him not make it.
david		What was he doing at the Refuge? JACK Runnin' for governor. Showin' his concern, like all pols during elections.
david		Teddy's not like other politicians. He's the biggest hero in the country. JACK Anyway, he's there. I see his fancy coach waitin' for 'im, so I sneaks on top of it. Teddy gets in and he's wavin' goodbye, and all the guys are wavin' goodbye, and Snyder's wavin' -- 'Good-byeeee, Colonel Roosevelt!' So just as we're goin' out the gate, I stands up and --  He's governor now. I don't understand how he could see that place and not do anything -- JACK He only seen what Snyder wanted him to -- good food, everything the city pays for that Snyder usually steals.
david		I'll bet if he just knew -- I mean, he's a hero -- JACK Last year he was a hero.   This year he's a politician.
weasel		Okay, 'newsies' -- you check the funny papers this morning?
denton		Why don't you stop this -- ? COP  You better move along, mister... Denton turns, picks up something -- a large camera and tripod. He moves off quickly --
spot		So, ya showed me! Now I'll show you what Brooklyn can do --! The Thugs retreat from the merciless slingshots -- Jack rallies his Newsies and leads a screaming charge as the Thugs hurry behind the gates, closing them. Jack and Spot spit in their palms, shake hands as -- 
skittery		NOW IS THE TIME TO Jack leaps on a loose horse, pulls David up                      ALL and they lead an impromptu    SEIZE THE DAY victory parade. RACETRACK The police fade away;         SEND OUT THE CALL AND Spectators who have watched it all begin to                    ALL applaud. Many throw           SEIZE THE DAY coins, bills, or show other signs of support...                        BUMLETS WRONGS WILL BE RIGHTED ALL SEIZE THE DAY PIE EATER WHEN WE'RE UNITED
all		SEIZE   THE   DAY SEIZE   THE   DAY SEIZE   THE   DAY SEIZE   THE   DAY SEIZE   THE   DAY SEIZE   THE   DAY SEIZE   THE   DAY SEIZE   THE   DAY
david		 'Their leader is a child of the New York streets with a red bandana and a golden tongue, Jack Kelly -- ' JACK Where's it say that...?
spot		Stop t'inkin' about yaself and let 'im read!
snyder		You know this boy...? CRUTCHY Him?   Nah.
snyder		 This brain of mine, always makin' mistakes. Got a mind of its own. He hobbles out quickly.    Snyder looks at him, eyes narrowing.
jack		We got money, Medda.      Some, anyway. 
david		We'll take a collection at the door. We'll pay whatever you ask.
medda		It's not the money. I depend on the papers. They write good things about me, the customers flock here like sheep. They give me the pan, I'm the one who gets sheared. DAVID You're afraid of them, too...
jack		Medda's gotta look out for herself same as anybody. We'll find another place. DAVID How can they make a whole city afraid? We're the ones putting our necks on the line -- all we need is for somebody to have the guts to stand up and show them we're not alone! MEDDA They have the power to destroy people...
david		They can't destroy you if you fight them -- only if you let them own you! MEDDA  You are so young... She looks back out at the stage; Jack pulls David away. Then --
medda		Got to be on Monday night.   I'm dark on Monday nights.
medda		Don't thank me. Thank Mr. Wisenheimer Guilt-maker of 1899 there.
kloppman		Can I help you? The figure turns -- Snyder smiles his smarmy smile.
snyder		Do you have a 'Jack Kelly' registered here? I wish to see him.
snipeshooter		Unusual name for these parts.                  SKITTERY I knew a Jack somebody once. Prob'ly not the same guy. RACETRACK You mean Jack Kelly -- ? Behind Snyder, they see Jack bouncing in the front door. Racetrack tries to signal him -- RACETRACK -- He was here but he put an egg in his shoe and beat it. Jack sees Snyder -- but instead of running back out the door, he can't resist mocking him behind his back. The Newsies snicker; Kloppman is dying. SNYDER I have reason to believe he's an escaped prisoner. Possibly dangerous. KLOPPMAN Oh, dear me... dangerous? My files are in the rear -- this way, please. 
racetrack		 Give to the Newsies strike fund, mista?
jack		Didn't wanna disturb nobody... anyway, it's like the Waldorf out here... great view, cool air --
sarah		It's all getting so big. The family's very worried about the boys. And you, too.
jack		Your mom and pop are worried about me...?
sarah		 The whole family...
jack		 Not that I been there or nothin'. SARAH Guess your parents wrote you about it. Bet you can't wait to see them again.
jack		 Sure... big family reunion. Soon's I get the dough for train fare.
sarah		David said you spent all your money to rent the theater.
jack		Not that I blame you -- me bein' such an interestin' guy and all --
sarah		 Are you...?
pulitzer		A fugitive from one of your prisons, Mayor -- a convicted thief who's been at large for some time under the alias of 'Jack Kelly.' His real name is...?
pulitzer		By the way, Mayor, I'm having a few friends for cards that night -- newspaper friends, Willie Hearst, Gordon Bennett. Perhaps you'll join us -- we can talk about the coming election. 
mayor		Chief, when you arrest this Kelly, you'd better go in force -- in case some of his misguided friends should start any trouble. As they go, Pulitzer picks up his magnifying glass and examines the leaflet. We CUT AWAY as he stares through the glass so he seems to be looking at --
jack		Hey, Denton -- sit down front! You're the guest of honor!
denton		 The only working press. As usual.
david		As long as you keep writing about us, they're gonna know we exist.
pulitzer		You know the boys, Mayor -- Mr. Bennett of The Tribune, Mr. Taylor of The Times, of course you know Mr. Hearst -- and this is a new member of our little group, Mr. Gammon, who just came back from Europe...
jack		Carryin' the banner! AUDIENCE  Carryin' the banner! The noise threatens to blow the roof off the theater as we see --
racetrack		Whatta we s'pose to do -- kiss 'em? JACK I personally wouldn't go that far, Race. SPOT  Any scab I see, I soak 'em -- period! DAVID That's just what they want you to do -- so they can say we're just thugs -- SPOT I don't care what they say -- some of us ain't made to just take it! I say anybody hurts us, we hurts them worst! Who's with me?
medda		Hiya, Newsies -- what's new? They roar; Racetrack's on his feet -- RACETRACK Hey, Medda, anytime you're off to the races, remember -- I got all the winners! MEDDA You're all winners here tonight, Racetrack. Just being with you makes me feel kinda extra extra. MUSH  I'm dead, I'm in Heaven -- somebody gimme a harp! MEDDA But you never know what life will bring. Over the years, I've developed quite an outlook --
kid blink		Oooo, lookout for that outlook! MEDDA And all kinds of people are always asking my advice, well, for instance -- 
mush		Lookit me, I'm a bird, I'm flyin', I'm flyin' --
kid blink		It's a beautiful, Medda, I tellya, I never heard such beautiful!
boots		 Thank you, Boots. Would you keep it for me? For luck? Boots beams happily as she moves to --
medda		I'm afraid so, Race...
medda		YOU WIN SOME, YOU LOSE SOME, MY DEAR ALL IT'S HIGH TIMES, HARD TIMES SOMETIMES THE LIVIN' IS SWEET AND SOMETIMES THERE'S NOTHIN' TO EAT BUT I ALWAYS LANDS ON MY FEET SO WHEN THERE'S DRY TIMES I WAIT FOR HIGH TIMES AND THEN I PUTS ON MY BEST AND I STICKS OUT MY CHEST AND I'M OFF TO THE RACES AGAIN I PUTS ON MY BEST AND I STICKS OUT MY CHEST AND I'M OFF TO THE RACES AGAIN!
denton		I'm Denton of The Sun. I've heard about your work with young people. I wonder if you'd agree to an interview? Snyder blinks at him, glances at his watch, then lowers his police whistle, smiling modestly.
on stage		David tries to move to Jack to warn him but Race and the others have formed a chorus line and drag him into it. David shouts over the song -- DAVID Jack -- you've gotta get out of here! Snyder!  Is it Snyder as in 'snide'? Furious, Snyder blows the police whistle for all he's worth. Instantly police burst in from every door -- all converging on Jack. Immediately he leaps off the stage into the arms of several boys below -- then fights his way out the front door --
boots		Try to reach the skylight -- ! Cops leap for Jack's legs as he rises above them heading up into the flies. He hangs on, thrusts one fist into the air and shouts -- JACK Carryin' the banner!
medda		Run, David, hurry --
david		They got Jack -- MEDDA You can't help him if you're in jail, too! You were right, David -- you've got to keep fighting them -- always.  Now go. Please. David looks at her, very moved, then goes. She turns back to her theater -- the sounds of the melee sweep over her. She watches, tears welling in her eyes...
bailiff		Awrise, awrise, court is now in session, Judge E.A. Monahan presiding.
snyder		This boy's real name is Francis Sullivan; mother deceased; father a convict in the state penitentiary --
jack		-- Like demandin' you give us the food you steal from us -- SNYDER -- Followed by an additional six months for an attempted escape -- JACK  -- Last time wasn't no attempt, remember, Snyder? Me and Teddy Roosevelt wavin' bye-bye -- SNYDER -- Therefore, I ask that he be returned to the House of Refuge -- JACK -- For my own good, right, Movealong? -- and for what Snyder kicks back to ya -- SNYDER -- And that the court order his incarceration until the age of twenty-one --
monahan		So ordered.   Next.
spot		 You bummers is givin' me a headache.
david		Where you goin'? We need you.
spot		Nachally  Spot Conlon is needed wherever  -- which right now is Brooklyn.   Some of my boys is worried,  I must give ear to their concerns  -- 
denton		Because it never happened.
david		Denton, what's happened -- you get fired or somethin'?
denton		They could've blackballed me from every paper in the country. I'm a newspaperman, I have to have a paper to write for. He looks at David; hurt, betrayed, angry; wishes there was more he could say. He hands him something from his coat. DENTON This is the story I wrote about the rally. I want you to read it at least. He hands it to David and   goes. David returns to the others, angrily crumpling   the story and hurling it onto the table. The boys look    puzzled; Les, still eating the sausage, picks up the   story and looks at it curiously.
david		That's where we saw Crutchy... He starts to throw up the rope when Boots hisses from the corner, beckoning furiously. They hurry over and peek around the corner to see --
jack		 Sorry to see you ain't doin' so good, Joe.                                             *
pulitzer		People think wars are about right and wrong. They're not. They're about power. You know what power is? JACK Heard of that, too.   I don't just sell ya papes, Joe.   Sometimes I read 'em. Pulitzer ignores the impudence, continues quietly. PULITZER Power means that I could see to it that you serve your full sentence at the Refuge. Or I could pull strings and have you free tomorrow. It means I could give you my pocket change -- and you'd have more money than you'd likely ever earn. JACK You bribin' me, Joe? Thanks for the compliment, but I ain't got the power to stop the strike -- PULITZER I disagree. You're the spirit of the strike, without you, they'd fall apart in a few days.
jack		Ring for my coach, willya?   It's past my bedtime --
pulitzer		Shut your mouth and listen !  You're going to do exactly as I say --
jack		I told ya... I can't call off the strike.
pulitzer		I'm not asking you to. All I ask is that you return to your old job -- as Newsie for the The World. JACK And be a scab? Forget it -- PULITZER For a few days. Then the strike ends -- and it will end, boy, make no mistake -- and you can go wherever you want to buy a ticket. Free and clear, with money in your pocket... and no one chasing you. Jack is silent, troubled.    Pulitzer pushes a buzzer. PULITZER You go back to the Refuge. Think it over in your cell. Let me know in the morning.
david		Jack! 
jack		You go to jail, what happens to your family? You don't know nothin' about jail! Thanks for what you done, but you gotta get outta here --
david		I don't understand -- JACK I don't either -- I don't understand nothin' no more! Jack pushes David down the street.
jack		Just go! 
cut to:		128B   INT. HOUSE OF REFUGE                                           128B
jack		SANTA FE MY OLD FRIEND I CAN'T SPEND MY WHOLE LIFE HIDIN' YOU'RE THE ONLY LIGHT THAT'S GUIDIN' ME TODAY Jack looks up as the serving panel opens and Crutchy peers through, offering him something furtively: a boiled potato. CRUTCHY Snitched it offa Snyder's plate when I was servin' him -- the biggest one!  Guess what I done to his sauerkraut.
jack		 So what's it git'cha?
crutchy		Anudder three months, prob'ly. But you can't let 'em beat'cha, right, Jack?
jack		We was beat when we was born. Crutchy, concerned, hears something and closes the panel.
david		Nobody sells a pape today -- we're hurtin' them and they know it! Remember -- no soakin', no hittin' -- etc.
spot		Look... I'm seein' t'ings... tell me I'm seeing t'ings -- ! David and the others look in disbelief -- walking with the scabs is Jack, wearing a tight new suit, flanked by Weasel and other goons. As Jack moves past, staring straight ahead, the chant dies...
racetrack		What's he doin' with the scabs...? KID BLINK It ain't happenin'... it can't be happenin'... MUSH Hey, Jack -- it's me, Mush, lookit me -- look, willya?
boots		Where'd he get them clothes -- ?
weasel		 Mr. Pulitzer picked 'em out hisself. A special gift to a special new employee. Only not so new, huh, cowboy? SPOT He sold us out! Ya dirty scab, I'll murder ya -- !
weasel		I'm gonna be lookin' for you, wiseguy --  -- or maybe you'd like a nice new suit of your own.
les		 That's it. He's spyin' on 'em. He's gotta be.
esther		That hand is not ready to work.
sarah		 What is this?
les		Hey -- I'm saving that!
mayer		There.   You see? Mayer smiles and goes.     Sarah moves to David with the stained papers. SARAH It's Denton's story. 'The Dark Truth: Why Our City Really Fears the Newsie Strike, by Bryan Denton. Last night I saw naked force exercised against mere boys, the Newsies, who earn at best a few pennies a day. I wondered why so much, against so little -- '
kloppman		He will only be a minute.   Please, no trouble.
racetrack		Dear me, what is dat unpleasant aroma -- ?  Go on, take a shot -- I bust your scab face, ya yellow-livered,                           * rotten stinkin' piecea garbage!                         *
weasel		You try any tricks, and I go straight to Mr. Pulitzer.  Will you be requirin' anything else? Then I bid you good night.
weasel		Sleep well, cowboy...? Jack ignores him, moves off with his papers. The Delanceys pass by; Morris grinning at him, bouncing a club in his hand. OSCAR Come wit' us, cowboy -- we're gonna fix your pal Davey today -- fix 'im so's he can't walk no more. MORRIS Shuddup!
sarah		Les, come on -- you're supposed to be helping me today. LES  I'd rather be soakin' scabs.
morris		Where's ya brudder, tootsie? Where's little Davey...?
morris		Ya better run, cowboy -- we're tellin' Weasel! You'll be back in the Refuge by supper time!                                 OSCAR Yeah, run, ya lousy coward -- run! But they're the ones running. David, catching his breath, looks at Jack, beginning to understand. DAVID Couldn't stay away, huh.                                    *
jack		Guess I can't be somethin' I ain't. DAVID A scab...?                                                  *
jack		Nah.    Smart.                                              *
david		Without you, the strike's falling apart...
jack		I got no choice. I stay here, they lock me up 'til I'm twenty- one.
sarah		Denton's story. JACK Denton looked out for hisself just like I gotta do -- so save it. SARAH Just listen! 'The men who run this city are terrified of the Newsies strike -- because other child laborers in the factories and sweatshops are hearing the message of the Newsies leader --' LES That's you!   He's writin' about you!
sarah		'In the voice of Jack Kelly, these children hear strength and pride. Most of all, they hear hope...'
denton		' -- And that is what terrifies the powers-that-be, for they know our city thrives on the shame of child labor. Therefore, Jack Kelly's voice must be stopped, whatever the cost... 
jack		All them sweatshop kids are listenin' to me...?
david		 What happened to the ace war correspondent? DENTON This war'll do for now.
sarah		Whatever happens, it's Jack's decision. He's the one in danger. They look expectantly as he stares off, deep in thought. LES Jack...?   You thinkin'...? JACK Yeah... I'm thinkin' of Newsie Square full of kids...
david		 They still think I'm a scab...
les		I'll tell 'em you was a spy! 
jack		Whattaya need to start a paper? Writers, right? So we got Denton. What else?
les		Advertisements!  A printing press. And no paper or printer is going to defy Pulitzer. The others look discouraged; Jack's thinking again.
jack		Les. Go set me straight with the Newsies, okay? Tell 'em to meet us later at the World Building.
jack		So happens I know a guy with a printing press.
jack		They're  right above us -- and if Weasel  catches us, it won't be just me  they'll throw in the slammer  -- They can barely hear over the DIN of the PRESSES.
sarah		What -- ? JACK I said shhhh! -- or we all go to jail! The others shush him hastily; MUSIC BEGINS as they go into --
david		THERE'S SOMEBODY THERE.
sarah		WHERE? JACK STAY CALM!
david/sarah		BUT -- 
jack		DON'T YOU BUMMERS GET WHAT I'M SAYIN' THIS AIN'T HIDE AND SEEK THAT        * WE'RE PLAYIN' ONE FALSE STEP AND THEY'LL BE IN HERE ONE STRAY HAIR, THEY'LL KNOW WE BEEN HERE QUESTIONS -- IT'S TOO LATE FOR 'EM ANSWERS -- WE CAN'T WAIT FOR 'EM WE'RE AT THE POINT OF NO RETURN
les		NOT THAT I CAN SEE. David tosses some candles to Sarah; she lights them                    DAVID for Denton as he works.        NICE CATCH. SARAH THANKS. Jack finds a roll of newsprint.                                  JACK THAT OUGHTA GO THERE.                *
sarah		BRING THOSE OVER. 
sarah		TOO LOUD!   SOMEONE'S OVER US!
all		SHHHHHHH!    Papers -- "THE NEWSIE NEWS" -- start rolling off the press as they examine it proudly.
denton		I thought you'd feel that way, Governor Roosevelt. TEDDY ROOSEVELT  Until now!
pulitzer		 Kelly's down there. He should be back in jail.
seitz		 Those kids got out a pretty good paper, Chief. PULITZER Too good! Those illiterate guttersnipes couldn't have done this on their own. Somebody's behind this, trying to pull a fast one... JONATHAN Mr. Hearst on the line, sir. Wants to know if you've read the Newsies' paper? Pulitzer glowers in suspicion at the telephone. MAYOR I'm not taking the heat for this -- you've got to talk to them -- settle it --
pulitzer		Tell Hearst I'm busy!  I'll settle it all right -- once and for all.
seitz		It's time to talk. 
pulitzer		You're going to listen to me, boy -- JACK I'd like to, Joe --  -- but I can't hear ya. PULITZER We had a deal -- you broke it. You're going back to jail. JACK Maybe. But you can't put every kid in that square in jail. They ain't goin' away, Joe. PULITZER Neither am I. I can wait them out. It won't be me that's hurt. JACK You sure about that?
jack		It ain't about money, Dave -- if Joe gives in, that would mean nothin's like us got power. He can't let that happen -- no matter what it costs him. Right, Joe? PULITZER I'm about to show you what power really is... He slams the window shut; CROWD NOISE abruptly DROPS --
pulitzer		I have the police outside waiting to arrest you -- DAVID You lousy double-crossing -- ! PULITZER -- then I'll deal with that rabble in the street. He's crossing to a buzzer on his desk; Jack, thinking fast, snatches up a copy of the Newsies News.
jack		Ya got me, Joe -- but tell me one thing, willya? How'd ya like our paper -- nice printin', ain't it? Right off the presses of one of New York's greatest newspapers --
pulitzer		All the papers have an agreement... we print nothing about the newsies. Whose press did you use?  It was Hearst, wasn't it...!
pulitzer		I knew it. Whoever helped you print this lying rag is trying to break the strike, get the jump on the rest of us. Well, you're going to expose this backstabber to the other owners -- in exchange, I'll call off the police.
pulitzer		 All right, all right -- just say the traitor's name. It's Hearst, isn't it? Say it! Say the name of the scoundrel whose press you used so I can make him the disgrace of the newspaper world! Say his name, damn you!
jack		We just wanna say, 'Thanks, Joe.'  And Hearst and them other owners? Maybe they don't have to know. Depends.
pulitzer		Perhaps we can resolve our... small differences. David digs out their demands and prepares to read.
seitz		With pleasure. You're fired. WEASEL Come again...? A tomato hits him in the face; he turns to see Les wiping tomato juice off his hands.
les		He said, you're fired. Triumphant, Jack hoists Les over his shoulders:
jack		The strike's over -- we beat 'em! 
les		 The bulls! Jack -- the bulls! Jack sees several police shoving through the crowd toward him. He quickly deposits Les -- turns to run and sees -- -- Snyder right in front of him, hands behind his back. Jack spins away and right into the arms of --
jack		What're you talkin' about -- who come chargin' in?
crutchy		Who?   Your pal! Him!
elegant coach		parked across the square. A Rough Rider opens the door and a man leans forward -- a glimpse of silk hat and walrus mustache as Teddy Roosevelt raises his walking stick in salute to Jack across the square.
jack		Think he could drop me at the train yards?
jack		It's now or never, Racetrack.
racetrack		Won't be the same without ya. Give ya even odds on that. He shakes; the others crowd around. David looks on, left out for the moment; Sarah and Les beside him.
kid blink		See ya in the funny papes, cowboy -- JACK Yeah, Blink, keep ya eye peeled. MUSH  -- think   of me.
crutchy		Don't wanna alarm ya, Jack, but what I hear, out West ain't like New York at all -- it's fulla bulls, for one t'ing -- not cops, neither, but big ugly animals with horns and -- JACK 
jack		Maybe that's what scares me... Suddenly, the emotions are too much for him -- he turns, runs across the square, not looking back, racing towards the coach. Les starts after him -- David catches him, holds him, as he and Sarah watch --
les		Comin' down the chute!
****Dialogues from script :Next.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Next_Friday.txt****

craig		 Here I come!
craig		What's the matter?
debo		Craig!  Get out the car, boy!  This the rematch!
craig		Daddy, punch it!
debo		You know I'mma find you!  You can run ya' can't hide!
craig		You fake ass Suge Knight!
craig		 Ya'll making me look like a punk.
craig		What's that smell?
craig		 I do.
craig		Smells like you didn't fall in no mud.
craig		All damn.
craig		It's alright.
craig		Why they got to have the loudest house on the block!
craig		You coming in?
craig		Hey, Pops, I'm grown.  Can't nobody get me in trouble no more.
craig		What's crackin'?
uncle elroy		Hey, Debo, heard you running from a ass- whippin'?
craig		Naw, it ain't like that.
uncle elroy		If you see that boy again, bite off his ear off like Mike Tyson.
craig		Alright, I'll remember that.
uncle elroy		You know me?  I would've shot his big ass.  Hey, Willie, how's it going?  Still steppin' in dog shit every day?
uncle elroy		Don't worry 'bout nothin', big bro.  He in the best fuckin' hands in Rancho Chocomunga, baby!  This my world, you just a nigga late paying rent.  Ain't that right, nephew?
craig		I'll remember.
uncle elroy		Send Betty my love.  I'mma take these in the house for you, man... and when you finish with this cat, come inside.  I got something to show you.
craig		Thanks, Unc.
craig		I know, that's when Uncle Elroy cussed out everybody, and threw up in Aunt Faye's backseat.
craig		I know, we had a good time.  But ever since you guys moved out here, it seems like we've lost touch.
craig		Who is that?
craig		They ever let you hit the switches on that Cadillac?
craig		This you?
craig		Must be nice.  I wish we won the lottery. Come up on a million dollars like ya'll.
craig		This my baby.  I feel like a new nigga in this car.  I get mo' phone numbers rollin' this, than I ever did on the bus.
craig		Excuse me?
craig		Yeah, I'm 'bout it.
craig		What kind of activity?
craig		Nice to meet you?
craig		Man, this a cool house.
craig		Yeah.
craig		Oh, yeah, where you work at?
craig		Thanks for reminding me.
uncle elroy		Craig, I want you to meet my old lady, Suga.  Suga, this is Craig.
suga		Oooh, ba-by!
craig		Thank you.
suga		 You know, I'mma be your new auntie.  We can keep it all in the family if you want to.
uncle elroy		Okay, okay, that's enough.  Go put on some damn clothes.
suga		 Elroy.
uncle elroy		Suga.  Go ahead and get us something to smoke on.
suga		Okay.  Bye, Craig.
craig		Nice to meet you.
uncle elroy		Man, that girl's gonna kill me one day. Viagra ain't working.  My back keep going out... she don't never get enough.  But check this out.  I got to lay some ground rules.  Your my family and I love you.  You're welcome to anything you want in my home. But I don't wanna catch you in the refrigerator or in my Suga bowl... you feel me knocking?
craig		Yeah.
uncle elroy		Well, let me in.
craig		Uncle Elroy, who's that girl by Day-Day's car?
uncle elroy		Oh, that's D'Wana.  His ex.  Day-Day, the crazy bitch is back!
craig		Lay down, Day-Day.  Stop moving.
craig		I know, be still.
uncle elroy		Boy, you got you a little fatal attraction, huh?  I had two or three of them in my day.
craig		That's too much water.
uncle elroy		Help him to his feet.  Let's get him to the bathroom.
uncle elroy		Wet your eyes, boy.  Stay in there for about 20 minutes.
uncle elroy		Yeah, 20 minutes.  Trust me.  I've been pepper sprayed nine times.  20 minutes.
uncle elroy		Yeah, you gotta have a little money to live out here, Craig.  I never thought I'd be the kinda nigga to move to the suburbs.  But as soon as I got my check, I was gone.  Paid 230 thousand dollars cash on this house.
craig		You paid cash?
uncle elroy		Cash money.  They wasn't gonna stick me with no 30-year payment plan.  That's for suckas.  They got my daddy like that for a Cadillac years ago.  I got the only house on the block that's paid for. That's why I'm the king around here.
craig		It's cool, but where's the water?
uncle elroy		Don't need water.  We didn't have no pool in the projects...so none of us swim.
craig		Y'all never use it?
uncle elroy		Never...  But me and Suga can get real nasty in that Jacuzzi, though.
craig		That's okay, Unc.  I can't swim, either.
uncle elroy		Good.
ezal		I be damned.
debo		Where did Craig move to?
ezal		I don't know, Debo.
debo		What you say?
ezal		 He moved out to Rancho Cucamonga with his cousin Day-Day.
debo		Rancho Cucamonga?
ezal		Yeah.
debo		Get on.
ezal		Man, we can't ride to Rancho Cucamonga on that.
debo		Get on!
ezal		Just don't go over the curb.
craig		You straight?
craig		Just a little.
craig		What's the matter with your girlfriend?
craig		What?
craig		Restraining order?  Where the hell you meet this girl?
craig		Damn, you got a stalker.
craig		You got a restraining order on a little girl named Baby D?
karla		 Hi!
both		 HEY!
craig		Who is that?
craig		Yo know what?  I'm starting to like Rancho Cucamonga.
craig		Why?
craig		Yeah, it's bad.  And that scratch make it ugly.
craig		Hold up, Day-Day.
craig		Hey!  Hey!
karla		Karla.
craig		Craig and Karla, damn that sound pretty good together.  Where you going?
karla		To the Cucamonga shopping center.
craig		Oh yeah, why you walking?
karla		My brothers won't give me a ride.
craig		You want us to give you a ride?
karla		I don't know.
craig		What you mean, you don't know?  Just wait here.
karla		Cheeco, no!
joker		Get yo dumb ass in the back.
craig		Why not?  She was cool with it.
craig		What you mean, so?
uncle elroy		Nephew, you got perfect timing...
suga		 Come on, Craig.  Sit down right here.
uncle elroy		I know you smoke weed, right?
craig		Why you say that?
uncle elroy		'Cause your lips is getting black.
suga		Would you like a glass of wine, baby?
craig		No thank you. It's too early.
uncle elroy		Boy, I can roll a blunt better than them bitches in Havana.  I know Willie don't let'cha smoke in the house, but I'm ya uncle.  I don't care how high you get in my house.  Long as you let me hit it...
suga		Fire it up, Roy.
uncle elroy		Now I'mma show you the real "Puff Daddy."
craig		Suga.
uncle elroy		Negro, what the hell you doing to my woman?
craig		 I don't know!
uncle elroy		Suga!
suga		 Huh?
uncle elroy		What you doing to my nephew?
suga		 Craig, what are you doing to me?
craig		I don't know, I think I passed out or something.  I don't remember.
uncle elroy		Passed out?  Can't hang, huh?  Boy, I knew you was a lightweight.  Passed out on one funky ass blunt.  They don't make 'em like they used to, baby.
suga		Mr. Nasty time?
uncle elroy		Mr. Nasty time.  But take it easy on me, girl.
suga		Craig, you ain't the only lightweight around here.
uncle elroy		Make yourself at home.
craig		Hold on.
craig		I said hold on!
craig		Can I help you?
delivery guy		Nice house. Didn't expect you to answer. You must be one of those entertainers. What team you play for?
craig		I don't play for no team.
delivery guy		Come on, jerky, you can tell me.  Got a white wife, huh?  Blonde bombshell type. Remember what happen to O.J... what team do you play for?  You're not related to the Jacksons, are you?
craig		 Naw, I play for the Chocamunga Cracker Killers.  You want tickets?
delivery guy		Okay, buddy.  Don't send your entourage out here to do a 187 on me.  It's just a certified mail delivery.
craig		What is it?
delivery guy		Delinquent Property Tax Notice... I hope the Cracker Killers pay well 'cause if not, back to the ghetto you go.  Wife stays here, of course.
craig		Oh damn.
craig		 Uncle Elroy...Uncle Elroy?
uncle elroy		 Come on here, Suga...
craig		Naw, naw!  Unc, wake up!  It's me!  Wake up!
suga		 Ohhh, baby!
ezal		We gotta stop or something, man.  My ass is hurting.  This handlebar is hard.
debo		Shut up!  He still eats here every day!
debo		Here's the plan.  You gonna call over there and say you have a very urgent message for Mr. William Jones.
ezal		What urgent message?
debo		If you shut up I'll tell you.  The urgent message is...Drop everything!  Craig is in trouble.  Come quick, don't call.
ezal		That ain't gonna work.
debo		Just do it.
ezal		I don't know the number.
debo		It's on the outside of the building, now pick the phone up!
ezal		Hello...Yeah, I got an urgent message for a nigga named Mr. Willie Jones.
debo		William.
ezal		Yeah, I got a urgent message for a customer named William Jones.  Drop everything, Craig is in trouble.  Come quick.  Don't try to call.
debo		Let's go.
ezal		You too big.
debo		Keep pushing.
roach		Yo, Day-Day!  Check me out.
roach		I feel you.  I've just been practicing that one move all week.  I thought that was it.
roach		Did you see that?  That was a W.W.F. hit right there, huh, Day-Day?
craig		I walked.
craig		Yeah, ya'll got a notice today.  It came certified mail.
roach		What up, bro?
craig		I tried to wake up Uncle Elroy but he thought I was Suga.
craig		Yeah, that's why I walked down here.
roach		What it say?
craig		I don't know.  Did ya'll forget to pay it or something?
roach		What it say?
craig		See how much it is?
roach		What is it?
roach		Pinky's.
craig		Damn...how much money ya'll got left from the lottery?
craig		Okay, plan B.
roach		That was a girl on a cell phone.  She said she's outside in the parking lot waiting for you to take her to lunch.
craig		What's the matter?
roach		That the big one, huh?
craig		I ain't trying to get in it.
craig		No I'm not.
roach		I'll do it.
craig		Day-Day ain't here.
craig		I'm his cousin.
craig		Yeah, I work here now.
craig		Yes you did.
craig		I don't know... I think he went out the back.
roach		Hey, ladies.
roach		I don't know, he must've left.
craig		I thought ya'll wanted to buy a CD?
craig		Right this way.  You know damn well you don't listen to no jazz.
roach		Will do.
craig		Where you going?
roach		Yeah.
roach		Haul ass, dude.  Don't stop.
craig		You better stop running from that girl.
roach		 She moves well for a big girl.
karla		Hello, remember me?
craig		Hell yeah, I remember you.
karla		I'm sorry for what my brother did this morning.  They're assholes.
craig		It's cool.  You ain't got to apologize for your brothers.  They're big boys.
karla		I just wanted to give you this.
craig		Most definitely.
karla		Better sooner than later.
roach		Great moves, Day-Day.
craig		What happen?
craig		What you mean talk to her?
roach		 You know what he mean, dude.
craig		I'm gone.
roach		 You don't wanna know.
craig		I know we cousins and all, but don't try an' hook me up with the big little sisters.
roach		For sure.  That's how I like 'em.
craig		Not me.
roach		Negative...they vamped.
craig		Day-Day?
roach		Bummer, huh?  And Friday is suppose to be a kick-ass day.
craig		Yeah it is...the best day before the weekend.
roach		That's fuckin' poetic, Craig.
craig		What's the green stuff poking out?
roach		That's cron-don, sir.  My mom hates for me to smoke, so she made me bud-brownies. Wanna bite?
craig		Naw, I already ate.
roach		Come on, Day, try it.  For moms.
craig		It ain't a bong but, wa-la!
roach		Wo!
craig		Hey.
roach		Sorry, bro, reflexes.  How did you do that?
craig		Black magic.
roach		Weed doesn't solve problems.  It eases the mind, and the soul.  Enjoy.
craig		I didn't think you smoked bud that much.
roach		 I do.
roach		 Sorry, dude.
craig		You better open up a window or something before the smell gets out.
roach		I got an idea.
craig		That ain't gonna work.
roach		Fuck yeah.
craig		Still gonna smell it.
roach		No way.  Watch this.
pinky		Look, man, you hittin' them goddamn corners too fast.  Slow down.  I almost spilled my Hennessy on this 300 dollar suit.
roach		R-U-S-H Intensely.
craig		 This vacuum don't work.  Where's the restroom?
roach		I thought the vacuum would work.
pinky		 Don't move or I'll blow your head smooth off.
craig		I ain't trying to rob you...
pinky		Shut up!  Fo' I pump this Glock in yo' ass!  What did you do wit Day-Day and Roach?
craig		Man, Day-Day is my people!
pinky		I said shut up!  Now who sent you?
craig		Nobody!
pinky		If you say another word, it's over.  I'm not playing!
roach		You could sell your Beamer.
roach		Maybe you can ask him to loan you the money.
roach		I know.
pinky		Don't kill me.
craig		Shut up.  I been trying to tell yo' ass that... Day-Day is my cousin.  They're right there in the back.
pinky		Whatever you say, man.  I didn't see shit.  The safe combination is 34-5-27. Just take it all.
craig		Nothing.
pinky		Day-Day, is this your cousin?
pinky		Good.  You fired...and, Roach, your fired too.
roach		Why me?
pinky		I smell weed.
ezal		Debo!  Debo!
debo		What?
ezal		I can't feel my legs no more.
debo		Me neither.  How far is Rancho Cucamonga?
ezal		I don't know.
uncle elroy		Ah damn.  Damn.
uncle elroy		What?!
michael jordan		Don't nobody go in the bathroom for about 35, 40 minutes.
craig		I don't know yet.
roach		I know what I'mma do.  Go home and face the music.  My dad is gonna kick my ass for getting fired again.
craig		Sorry about today, man.
roach		Yeah, me too.  Later.
roach		My board!
joker		What the fuck you looking at?
roach		You ran over my board!
joker		So what?  It shouldn't have been in the street.
roach		Who the fuck is that, Day-Day?
roach		I'm not letting nothing go.  They killed my board.
craig		Wait.  Check'em out.
baby joker		Get down.
craig		You see that?
roach		Me neither.
craig		It's something in that hydraulic pump.
craig		Naw.  I bet'cha it's something better than air.
craig		I don't know, and it could be anything. But I just say we go take a look.
roach		I say we go over there and kick their asses.  I can take the little one.
craig		Could be.  Rather be crazy than homeless. Now all we need is a big pack of baloney.
both		Baloney??
karla		I thought you were taking me to see Mama?
joker		I'll take you later.
karla		When?  After you get all drunk and loaded?
joker		Hey!  I said I'll take your fuckin' ass later.  Now get out of here.  You're scaring our company.
craig		It's about to work, just come on.
roach		 What about the dog?
craig		That's what the baloney's for!
craig		What's the B-G's?
roach		Try an' hold it, man.  Squeeze your ass cheeks together.
craig		Look, Day-Day.  If we don't go over there and take a look, this might be the last night you got a home.  Now trust me.
craig		It is easy. You know why?  'Cause they're not expecting it. Now, Roach, you gotta occupy Cheeco. Long enough for me and Day-Day to take a good look.
roach		Dude, dogs hate me.  I don't know why. Me and K-9's just don't get along.
craig		Well get along with this one.  Go ahead of us.  Don't get seen and don't let that mutt out of your sight.
roach		Fuck, what's his name?
craig		Cheeco.
roach		 Here, Cheeco.  Chee-co, here boy.  That's a good boy.
craig		Come on, he should have'em by now.
craig		You go first.
craig		You go first.
craig		Day-Day, if you don't hop that fence I'mma throw you over.
craig		What?
craig		Me too.
roach		My baloney has a first name.  It's C-h-e- e-c-o.
craig		Wait.
craig		He's still over by Roach.
baby joker		Want me to take a look?
joker		No, keep working.
joker		Close the door.
joker		Alright, put it in that drawer.
craig		That pump was full of money.  I saw where they put it.  Stay right here, I'mma climb in and go get it.
craig		No, man, just wait.
roach		Good boy.  Nice dog.
roach		No lungs, baby.  No lungs.
joker		Fuck that.
joker		I don't want no doors locked around here. You hear me?
joker		 Good, 'cause that's how you gonna get it.
karla		What are you doing?
craig		Huh?
karla		What are you doing here?
craig		I hope you don't think I'm crazy, but I just had to come in here and show you I ain't scared of yo' punk ass brothers...and you wouldn't have be scared of 'em neither if you had a man like me in yo' life.
karla		What??  So you snuck in my room to tell me that?
craig		Yes I did.  Excuse me.
karla		Nobody.
karla		No you didn't.  Get out my room.  Go back down to your little girlfriends.
roach		...like I was saying.  A guy like me, and a dog like you, don't need this bullshit. We need to be in Maui renting jet ski to fat funks in flower shirts.  You feel me, C?
roach		Where's Craig?
roach		Why did he go in the house?
karla		You did all this for me?
craig		Most of it.  I just hate to see you in this situation.
karla		Thanks for noticing.  It used ta be peaceful before they got out.  Took over the house and caused my mother's nervous breakdown.
craig		Why didn't she put'em out?
karla		Easier said than done.  We saved up to get away from them, but they followed us.
craig		I'm sorry to hear that.
karla		I thought you came up here to see me.
craig		I did.  Is that door locked?
karla		It's locked.
craig		Make sure.
karla		You so nervous, I already locked this door.
craig		I got my cousin Day-Day waiting for me.
karla		 So what?  Let's make'em wait.
craig		I be damn.
roach		Go for it.
roach		This is a knock.
joker		You fuckin' lover boys hear that?
baby joker		Hear what?
joker		Don't fuckin' move.
joker		What the fuck you want?
joker		What?!  This look like a 7-11 or something?  Get the fuck outta here!
roach		Hold on.  A man, you broke my fuckin' board and I don't appreciate it.
uncle elroy		I don't know, I didn't leave you no damn message!
uncle elroy		Hell naw, Willie. Them fleas and tics must be sucking on yo' brain!
uncle elroy		I don't know.  Suga, go ask Miss Ho Kym if she seen them.
karla		Next time, page me first.
craig		Okay.
karla		You alright?
craig		Yeah, I'm cool.  See you later.
roach		And some rolling papers.
girls		Fine.
roach		 Hey.
joker		Shut up!  Both of you right now!
joker		I don't believe this sugar shit. Something ain't right.
joker		Keep your mouth shut.
karla		Hey, what's going on?
joker		Nothing.  What you want?
karla		Are you going to take me to see Mom?
joker		Take your car.
karla		'Take your car?'
joker		Yeah, and hurry up.
karla		Okay.
joker		If everything's alright.  We might let you leave, too.
uncle elroy		Craig, where the hell you been?
craig		Have you seen Day-Day?
uncle elroy		No.  Thought he was with you.
craig		Daddy, Uncle Elroy, I need your help.
baby joker		 Some of the money is missing.
joker		 What?!?!
roach		I don't know.
joker		It means you Miyateas are staying with us.  You know what to do.
craig		You see that?
uncle elroy		Me, too.  You think they're in there?
craig		Yup.
craig		It's a long story.  Right now we gotta do somethin'.
uncle elroy		Willie, shut up.  Yo' old ass need to get in a little bit o' trouble sometimes.
suga		If ya'll don't come back not in ten minutes, I'mma callin' the po'lice.
uncle elroy		Wait a minute.  I gotta go get my shit.
joker		Shut the fuck up!
roach		Hey, mister Joker, have a heart, bro. It's Friday.
joker		I'm hearing a lot of talking, but I'm not hearing the right words.
baby joker		Maybe the other guy took it.
joker		 Shut up!  Where's that other miyatea?
craig		That's a nice piece of heat right there.
uncle elroy		Thank you.  I only got two bullets in the mothafucka, but it's better than nothing.
craig		Come on.
uncle elroy		What about that ugly dog?
craig		He's on the other side, sleep.
uncle elroy		Shut yo' ass up.
craig		I'm not sure, but I think they're in this room.
joker		Tape his mouth shut.
roach		Yeah, brown and white relations, too.
joker		I'm sick and tired of bullshitting with you guys.  Baby brother, go get the chainsaw.
debo		Ezal!  Ezal!
ezal		Huh?
debo		We must be here 'cause we stopped.
ezal		Good, let's get out.
debo		Hey, how you get out of here.
ezal		I don't know.
baby joker		Cheeco!  Cheeco!  Here, boy!
craig		Yeah, pops!
uncle elroy		Damn, big bro.  You swung that like Sammy Sosa.
joker		My little brother went out to get my chainsaw.  I'mma show you what happens to fools who don't tell me what I wanna hear.  You ever see Scarface, mothafucka?
uncle elroy		 My back.
uncle elroy		I slip my disc, again... Oh got damn.
craig		Stretch it out.
uncle elroy		Don't move me.
joker		Where are these fucking guys?
joker		What you doing here?
uncle elroy		I lost something, nigga.  What it look like?
joker		Looks like a dead man.
uncle elroy		Boy, Day-Day, I'mma kick yo' ass for getting me into this mess and hurting my back!  I moved out here to get away from this kinda shit!
roach		Bite his ear!
uncle elroy		What 'em!  Watch 'em!
craig		Ya'll mothafuckas help me!
joker		 Say hello to my little friend.
debo		No way, Jose.  This one is mine.
roach		He's a boy, dude.
ezal		Mr. Jones, we was just playin'.  He made me do it.
uncle elroy		Wait a minute!  I live across the street!
sheriff lady		You do?
uncle elroy		Yeah.  Paid cash.
uncle elroy		When my back gets better I'mma beat the black off you, Day-Day.
uncle elroy		Sorry, my ass.
suga		Elroy, what happen?
uncle elroy		I threw my back, again.
suga		Aw, no lovin' tonight?
uncle elroy		Naw, baby, no lovin' tonight.
suga		Come on, baby, let's go in the house.
uncle elroy		For what?  We ain't gonna have no house after the auction tomorrow!
roach		Don't worry, bro, you, Suga, Day-Day and Craig can live with me and my parents. 'Til you get back on yo' feet.
uncle elroy		Thanks, Roach, but I can't accept that. We're moving back to Watts where it's safe.
uncle elroy		I don't know.
craig		I love Fridays.
roach		There he go.
uncle elroy		Don't listen to him.  How much we got?
suga		We got forty-seven thousand, three hundred and fifteen dollars.
uncle elroy		It's gonna feel good to pay my taxes.
craig		You're welcome, Unc.
uncle elroy		You didn't do nothing.
roach		Hey, guys, I'm outta here.
roach		Hey, man, the pleasure's all mine. Thanks for the dog, and the money.  Maybe my dad won't kick my ass tonight.
roach		Okay, later, bro.  Hey, Craig, nice smokin' wit'cha.
craig		You too.
craig		Nothing.
roach		Later, Mr. Jones.  Bye, Suga.
all		Bye, Roach.
uncle elroy		Hey, that George Jefferson shit works. Thanks, Miss Kym.
uncle elroy		You better take this money.
suga		You go, girl.
uncle elroy		Well, Craig, you're welcome anytime.
suga		Yeah, baby, it's a shame you leavin'. Aunt Suga gonna miss yo.
craig		Naw, I'm got live ghetto fabulous.  make sure you get that car fixed.
craig		I don't know.  Probably next Friday.
****Dialogues from script :Next_Three_Days.txt****

shooting script		August 6, 2009
lara		You know what? If you were smart you would stop talking right now.
erit		Sue me. I just know that women should never work for women.
lara		How can you say that??
erit		They're always threatened. Especially if you're beautiful and they're not.
lara		Erit, you are so full of shit.
erit		So, your boss isn't threatened by you?
lara		Because she's a bitch! --  --Not because she's a woman.
erit		And you would describe her as "attractive"?
lara		That has nothing to do with it!
erit		And there is my answer.
john		Either of you like another drink?
erit		Women should work under men, men under women. That's it.
john		 But men under men?
erit		That's fine, too.  They're used to it! Why are you laughing?
erit		 Oh please, I'd rather work under him, too.
lara		You'd rather "work under" John?
lara		So, I shouldn't take offense that you're coming on to my husband right in front of me.
erit		 Lara, if I wanted your husband I would have him.
lara		How? You couldn't possibly show him more of your tits.
erit		-- You know what your problem is?!
john		She is completely full of shit.
lara		DON'T try and agree with me now.
john		You know what? I don't even believe she is in the dental profession.
lara		Shut up.
john		I bet she can't even spell anesthesiologist. Woman's a complete fraud.
lara		We went to her office party, idiot.
john		I think she hit on me that night, too.
lara		You are completely delusional. She wasn't even hitting on you in there; I just don't like her.
john		I understand. People who look like that should not be allowed anywhere near oral surgery.
lara		You are such an asshole.
john		You're in the chair trying to stay calm; how are you supposed to do that with those things hanging over your--
lara		Hello!
jenna		Only when I dropped him down the stairs.
john		Thanks.   See you next weekend.
john		Okay, your turn.
lara		Squeeze in tight.
john		You can't do this every morning.   It is way too corny.
lara		Smile.   It's just until he's eighteen.
john		 Sweetie, you have to stop believing everything you read in a catalogue.
lara		You hate brushing your teeth; this one brushes them in thirty seconds.
john		 The lies your mother tells.
lara		 When's your last class?
john		Three, and I have papers to grade. Can you pick up Luke?
lara		After yesterday I probably don't have a job anyway. Do you think it was wrong to call her a useless cow?
john		Bosses admire that kind of frank exchange.
lara		 Did you call your father?
john		When?
lara		 "When?" Yesterday, for his birthday!
lara		You're completely impossible.
john		Mom said Happy Birthday and my father went . Made me tear up.
lara		Ever think that someone has to be the bigger person here?
john		 Remember this for the custody hearing: how Mommy is always scolding Daddy.
lara		How are you going to feel if Luke grows up and doesn't call you?
john		Now she's driving a wedge between us.
lara		I give up.
john		And now she is abandoning you.
detective quinn		Police.   Mr. Brennan?
john		Get your --
detective quinn		Touch me again and you'll be arrested.
detective collero		Lara Brennan?
lara		WHAT?!
detective collero		Lara Brennan, you are under arrest for the murder of Elizabeth Gesas.
lara		She's dead??     Elizabeth is dead??
john		 She didn't do anything!
detective quinn		I will only --
john		 She didn't do anything!
detective quinn		Put him in cuffs.
john		You okay?
luke		Not at lunch.
john		Does he take your food?
luke		No.
john		Did he say something mean?  About Mommy?
luke		Yeah.
john		Did you hit him?
luke		Yeah.
john		Good.    Where did you hit him?
luke		Near the swings.
john		Wow.    I bet that hurt.
luke		Yeah.
john		It's a toy!
lara		Hi honey. Can Mommy get a kiss?  Come on, give Mommy a kiss.
john		Rat-Bag.   Give Mommy a kiss.
lara		Is Daddy reading you my letters?
john		Every night at bedtime.
lara		What are you building?    A fort?
john		I walked him to class, gave him a kiss; he didn't even look back to wave.
lara		What did you make him for lunch?
john		Turkey sandwich, just butter and bread, no "vegetables" on it. He swore he ate his apple.
lara		Look at his friends.   And his desk. This is his teacher?
john		Miss Phillips.
lara		You may have to move to another school district.
john		Already spoke to a realtor.
lara		 How was your first day?
john		Excellent. Over half my class stayed awake. Talked to your mom.
lara		When is she coming?
john		She's having a lot of trouble with her business.
lara		It's only been a couple of years, I'm sure she'll get around to it.  Have you heard anything?
john		About the appeal? Yes, and I'm just not telling you. What did Meyer say?
lara		--Don't--
john		-- It can take months for the court to rule.
lara		I saw that woman. She was there. She couldn't have just disappeared.
john		Meyer's looking for a new investigator.
lara		Her coat snagged my purse, I felt a button pop - they must have been blind not to find it.
john		He'll go through all the evidence again.
lara		Great, because I haven't quite bankrupted us yet.
john		We're doing fine.
lara		 Can you do me a favor?
john		I don't know, I'm a little busy.
lara		I need you to run for governor.
john		-- Oh, that I can do.
lara		You can change this rule about no conjugal visits, because I don't think I can last another twenty years.
john		I know. But it's going to be fine. I promise.
lara		You think he'll ever want to kiss me again?
john		Twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty.
paula		How's Lara?
john		She's doing okay.
paula		Tell her we're pulling for her.
john		I will.
paula		They won't recycle these unless you take off the cap.  This is trash. This is recyclable.
john		Ok.   Thanks.
john		Luke!   Let's go, Toad.   Come on.
nicole		Time to go, Carrie!
meyer		John, I said my office at four o'clock. I can't leave, I'm in --
john		 I figured you had to eat.
meyer		Do you have the ruling in Brennan?
john		But what if we find the woman who was leaving the parking lot?
meyer		The PCRA was rejected. No new evidence can be submitted. Not anymore.
john		It was a robbery!   Someone stole her purse!
meyer		And if they'd used her credit cards we would have had something to argue. I'm sorry; this really...sucks.
john		So, that's it. Now we just have the Supreme Court.
meyer		John, in the last thirty years, the Supreme Court hasn't heard one murder case. No decent lawyer would even file the pleadings.
john		So, I need to find an indecent one?
meyer		No, I'm going to file it. But I need you to do something for me.
john		Anything.
meyer		I need you to look at the evidence and just forget Lara is your wife.
john		 I've seen the evidence, Meyer.
meyer		I'm not saying judge her innocent or guilty, I'm just saying look at it. He co-worker sees her leaving the scene, she has the victim's blood on her clothes, her fingerprints on the murder weapon--
john		 We went out for dinner! How do you do that after you kill somebody? She would have to be a psychopath!
meyer		-- And the fight in the office.
john		Everyone fights with their boss!
meyer		But this one ended up dead.
john		So, you never believed she was innocent?
meyer		How can you say that?
john		So, what are you saying, Meyer?!
meyer		That it no longer matters what we believe; Lara's not getting out. And you have no idea how much I hate saying that.
john		 I'll find someone to file the pleadings.
meyer		John! Come on! For Christ's sake. JOHN!!
erit		I know you won't want to hear this...
john		Thanks.
john		Lara Brennan; my wife. She was sent up here. Brennan. B-R-
duty nurse		 She can't have visitors.
john		That's ridiculous; I have to see her.
duty nurse		I'm sorry.
john		Lara!
john		My wife attempted suicide.
john		I have to see her!
john		Please.   Two minutes.
jenna		I'm sorry. He just keeps pretending he's asleep.
john		 Don't worry about it.
john		I insist.    I kept you out on a school night.
jenna		I'm not in school anymore.
john		And give a big hug to Pengui, Little Pengui, Big Turtley, Little Turtley, Kiki and Opossumy. Lots and lots of love, Mommy.  Should we write her back?
luke		...When is she coming home?
john		Soon honey.    Soon.
luke		 Can I have a quarter?
john		Can you have a quarter?
luke		Then can I have them all?
john		...Sure.
john		So, what is it about?   Julie?
julie		That belief in someone's virtue is more important than virtue itself?
john		No. I mean, yes, that's in there. But what is it about?
john		It's a course that investigates what drives men to be free, no matter the cost.
damon		Somebody else had dibs on Papillon?
john		You escaped from jail seven times.
tough guy		No smoking!!
damon		Yeah, who would want to cut short your precious life?
john		Mind if I tape you?
damon		Go for it, it can't be used as evidence. What do you want to know?
john		How you escaped when no one else could.
damon		Balls and a little luck.  No prison in the world is airtight. Each one has a key. You have to find it.
john		How do you do that?
damon		A lot of looking. Especially at things that break the daily routine. Guards get comfortable doing the same thing every day. Something happens where they have to think, adapt. 
john		The city.
damon		Where are you from?
john		...Pittsburgh.
damon		Pittsburgh is tough; so many bridges and tunnels they can block off.
john		How can they be so exact?
damon		After 9-11 Homeland Security made every city have a lock-down plan -- downtown Pittsburgh, Philly, Boston, Minneapolis -- fifteen minutes. They can do DC in under ten.
damon		And be running rolling stops on the secondary roads. They won't have your photograph yet, but they will have your description.
john		Thirty-five minutes isn't a lot of time.
damon		Then surrender. 
damon		Forget the local airports.   Leave from another state.
damon		Second: identity. It's easy to find fake papers, harder to find ones that will get you through an airport.
damon		If you have to rent a car, find a place that will take a cash deposit. They'll still run a credit check, so use a real person's name on the ID.  Third: destination.
damon		Then money.
john		How much?
damon		Enough to last at least five-six years. Run out of money and you run out of friends.
damon		But before you do anything, you have to ask yourself if you can do it. Can you forget about ever seeing your parents again. Can you kill a guard, leave your kid at a gas station, push a nice old lady to the ground because she is between you and the door? Because to do this thing, that's who you have to become. And if you can't, don't start, because you'll just get someone killed.
damon		I gave myself up. I couldn't take wondering when someone was going to come through the bedroom door.  Got what you need?
john		Yeah.
damon		What do you have in your pocket?
luke		It was already tied.
woman's voice		Mr. Brennan?
john		Oh, sorry.    Hello, Doctor.
john		I'll talk to her.
john		Hey. Are you alright?
lara		I'm fine.    I'm fine.
john		The doctor told me about the insulin.
lara		 Yeah, I forgot. It's no big deal.
john		You forgot?    For how many days?
lara		I forgot, okay? I have things on my mind.
john		--And so much to do.
lara		Oh, that's nice.
john		Why are you doing this?
lara		Can I please just watch him play? Tell me about kindergarten.
john		No.   I need you to --
lara		Fine, I won't forget again, okay?  I am just never going to walk him to school or wash his clothes or make him dinner...and I don't know how I can live knowing that. Okay?
john		Lara. Look at me. Something will happen. I promise.
lara		 What? What is going to happen? There are no more appeals, there are no more anything. Exactly what miracle are we hoping for, John?
john		Sure.
lara		Stop bringing him.
john		Come on...
lara		He hates coming here.   Look at him.
john		Lara....
lara		Please. It's not his fault. It's too hard to watch him forget me.
john		Yes.    Anything.
lara		My mother tried to send me anti-aging cream.
eugenie		You're sure that you don't want a lawn sign?
john		I'm very sure. Thanks.
copter pilot		On the left, Allegheny County Jail. Built in 1995, it is now the largest jail in the world. There have been three escape attempts. No one's made it out alive. On your right...
lyla		On the first landing, which was as small as the necessary turn of the stairs allowed, there was a niche in the column, about a yard wide, and in this niche the prince felt convinced that a man stood concealed. He thought he could distinguish a figure standing there.
john		Thanks.
john		Adderall?
mouss		Ten apiece, five for forty.
john		I need some passports.
mouss		Piss off.
mouss		You have to pay up front.
john		I can do that.
mouss		You know the Uptown on 5th Ave?
john		No.
mouss		Ask for Harv.
john		What's your name?
mouss		Just say Mouss.
john		Mouss said to come see you.
harv		He did, did he? What do you want?
john		Three passports, a driver's license, and real social security number.
harv		How do you know Mouss?
john		He babysits my kid.
harv		You have the photos on you?
john		Yes.   How much?
harv		Fifteen hundred.
mouss		I ever see you again, you lose an eye.
eugenie		You did remember I was showing the house?
john		Give me two minutes.
eugenie		It really is a great neighborhood.
grace		Oh, my lord!     What happened?
john		It was stupid, I fell off the bike.
grace		The bike that's been in our garage for two years? Put your head back.
john		Some guy made a crack about Lara.
grace		So, that's what you do now: punch everyone who thinks she's guilty?
john		What's that supposed to mean?
grace		It means it's important what YOU believe, not --
john		Really?   So, what do you believe, Mom?
grace		Why are you trying to start a fight?
john		 Where is his bag?
grace		Why are you doing this?!
john		No reason. I just stupidly thought people who loved her would actually believe she's innocent. My mistake.
grace		Stop this!
john		 Give Grandma a kiss.
luke		Does your face hurt?
john		A little.
luke		Did you hit him back?
john		No.
luke		That's okay.
john		What?
mike		I was at the bar.    I know what you are looking for.
mike		What do you need?
john		Three passports, a driver's license and social security number that can take a credit check.
mike		Thirty seven hundred.
john		That's too much.
mike		It is if you never get them. I need photos and a thousand in advance.
mike		I'll bring them Wednesday.
john		Not here.   Don't come here again.
mike		Parking lot of Don's. Eckert Street. Under the bridge; two o'clock. If I'm not there on time, leave.
john		Show me how to load it.
john		No video game.
john		I'll play checkers with you after dinner.
john		 Not tonight. Tonight, I utterly destroy you.
notary		Mr. Brennan?
notary		And just put your thumb there.
john		I'll just be a moment.
lara		 Your poor face. How could you do that to yourself?
john		I am useless without you.    I can't even ride a bike.
lara		I think it's very sexy.
john		I'm sorry we had to do this.
lara		You have nothing to apologize for. But you should have told me before this.
john		I know.
lara		I don't want you not telling me things.
john		From now on I will.
lara		 I close my eyes and I see Luke in his bedroom, you on the sofa by the Window. I won't know where to picture you anymore.
john		Hi.
paula		I was wondering if I could ask you to water my plants next week; I'm going in for an operation.
john		I hope it's nothing serious.
paula		My idiot doctor misdiagnosed me. He's blaming the lab; the lab's blaming him. But I'll be fine. Thanks.
john		Hi. It's John. Luke isn't feeling well, I'm going to take him home. I need Carl to cover my 2:30 class.
mike		You were supposed to leave.
john		I need them.
mike		You notice that guy was a cop?
john		Which guy?
mike		The one with the red light in his back window.
john		How are you doing today?
guard		Don't touch that.
john		Sorry.
major		So, you are where in here?
john		...In the middle there.
major		In the middle. Can you point to yourself?
john		 It's hard to tell.   I think that's me there. Why?
major		So that's not you there.   By the elevator?
john		 I was over here. You want to tell me what's going on?
major		You want me to tell you?
john		Yes.
major		You know what a bump key is?
john		Sorry.
major		If this was you, you might want to think about what's going to happen to your kids if both of their parents are in prison.
detective collero		-- The worst date you've ever been on? This was worse. And this guy? He really thinks he is doing great. Then he's driving me home and I know he's going to try and kiss me, so I pretend to fall asleep. I mean, I'm actually snoring, right in his car. Does that stop him?
detective quinn		Did I tell you not to date cops?
male neighbor		What's your problem? He's not home!
male neighbor		No, I'm saying you're an idiot.
luke		Can I have my cookies?
john		You hungry?    You want your sandwich?
luke		No.
nicole		Carrie!  Nicole.
john		I remember.
nicole		 Really?
john		 I remember your daughter.
nicole		She's hard to forget.  Oh, this is for you. Luke was supposed to bring it home.
john		He has his father's memory.
nicole		It's for Carrie's birthday party. Please come; I'd love to meet your wife.
john		I'm afraid she can't be there. ...It's complicated.
nicole		I understand. With me, too. Carrie, come on, time for lunch.  We're going to the cafe on the corner, would you like to join us?
john		Oh, we're pretty...you know....
nicole		Busy?
john		That's true.     And I made those cookies.
nicole		And learned how to pre-package them.
john		Which requires a considerable amount of machinery. Come on, Luke.
nicole		Do you trade off time with Luke?
john		No. Luke and I are together full time.
nicole		Wow. I guess that's why I see you so much.
john		She'd like nothing better than to be here. With him. Lara. She really misses...all this.
nicole		I guess it's all about priorities, isn't it?
john		No.  She's not like that.   She'd...  She's in prison.
nicole		Oh.
john		I don't tell most people.
nicole		I understand.
john		She's innocent. She didn't kill the woman.
nicole		...Good.   I mean, I'm sure she didn't.
john		We should really be getting home.
nicole		 Oh, okay.
john		 Thanks for the invitation.    We'll try and make it.
nicole		That would be great.
john		You want to read a letter from Mom?
luke		She didn't write that.
john		My mistake. Dearest Luke, who I love so, so much. I wish I could have walked you home today, it was so beautiful out.
luke		But what's wrong with her?
john		She's not feeling well.
luke		Why didn't she just stay home?
john		Because sometimes people get so sick you have to go to the hospital to get fixed.
luke		How do you know when you're that sick?
john		The doctors do tests.
john		You okay?
john		Luke!   Time for bed.
john		...What's wrong?
lara		I was only here through the appeal. We knew I'd be moved to a prison.
john		Muncy is the other side of the state.
john		I don't have two weeks!     I need it tomorrow!
eugenie		The title hasn't been cleared -- there is no way that --
john		How much can they give me?!
eugenie		Nothing!
elaine		What are you doing?!   You almost killed us!
john		Are you --?
elaine		Are you out of your mind?!   You don't look?!
john		I am so sorry --
elaine		Get away!     Get away from us!
john		No, it was a long shot.       Thanks.
meyer		 How's Lara?
john		She's okay.     Thanks, Meyer.
lara		What's wrong?
john		Nothing.
lara		Is it Luke?
john		No. He's fine. I had Meyer see what he could do about not getting you moved. 
lara		You haven't? YOU haven't? God, John, you are too much. Luke is having a 'hard time' because mommy is in jail for murder, not because daddy doesn't spend enough time with him! Your father was right, you don't live in the same world we do.
john		 That's nice, that the two of you talk. What world do I live in, Lara?
lara		I don't know, but it's not the real one. I am in here for the rest of my life! And you want me to believe in some fantasy that -- !
female guard		We good here?
john		Yes.   Sorry.
lara		Now you come here all long-faced, like you've let me down. What do you want me to do, make you feel better?
john		Got it.   I'm sorry.
lara		And now you're apologizing.   You really are a gem.
john		What do you want from me?
lara		Nothing. You're too perfect already. You know you never even asked me if I did it. If I killed her.
john		 Because I knew you didn't.
lara		Then you'd be wrong.
john		Shut up. I don't care what you say or how you say it. I don't believe you did it and I never will. I know who you are.
john		Thank you.
john		You think?
luke		 Girls love them.
john		Hi Mom.
grace		What are you doing here?
john		I've got class.
grace		Five o'clock at night?
john		Yes.  Bye.
john		 Back up! Get back!
alex		-- Shoot them both!
john		-- I'll shoot the dog!
alex		-- Shoot the dog!
thug		-- You shoot the dog, I'll kill you!
alex		-- You want the police here, asshole?!
john		-- Good idea!
alex		 -- Put the gun down!
john		-- Call the dog off!!   Put it away!
alex		-- Release!
john		-- Put it away!!  PUT IT AWAY!!
alex		In!   Get in!
john		 You, too!
thug		I'm not getting in there!
alex		Get in!
john		-- Give me that chair!
alex		You're dead.
david		I didn't do anything!!
alex		You brought him!
david		I didn't bring him!
john		Shut up!
john		On your knees! Hands behind your head!
david		I can't kneel!
john		On the floor!
david		That's twelve hundred dollars!  Here, take it.
john		 Where do you keep your money?!
alex		Yeah, I'm going to give you my money.
john		I'll shoot you!
alex		You won't even shoot a dog.
john		Tell me!
alex		Shoot the floor again, impress me.
john		I'm going to kill you both.
alex		No, I'm going to kill you both.
david		Give him your money!
alex		 Keep your dead bitch mouth shut.
david		Stop it!!
alex		 See? You aren't going to kill me. That was the worst you can do. So, now you've done it. Go home. I'll come find you and kill you.
john		Yeah, good shit; high alcohol content.
alex		You going to burn me out?
john		Yeah.    That's what I'm going to do.
david		Oh Jesus.    Oh Jesus.
john		Your money.
alex		 This is a meth lab, you idiot!
john		No.    It was.
alex		 My kid is upstairs!!
john		-- What??
alex		MY KID!!
david		Let me go!!
john		Get up there!!
david		The house is going to explode!
john		Is anyone up here?!
david		Don't leave me. I don't want to burn. Don't let me burn.
david		I don't want to die.   I don't want to die.
john		Hi.    What are you doing up?
george		John?    Are you alright?
john		I'm fine.
john		Hey.   Hey, buddy.
john		What do you say?
luke		Thank you.
john		Give Grandma a big kiss.
luke		I'm too tired to kiss.
john		Luke...
grace		I'll get lots of kisses next weekend.  We want to take him to the Harvest Festival in Kutztown, where they have the Clydesdales.
luke		Thank you, Grandma.
john		Bye Mom.
george		Goodbye.
john		 Let's go.
luke		 Can I carry it?
john		No.    Just what fits in your bag.
luke		....What about my pockets?
john		Daddy will just be a minute.
luke		 It's a pony.
nicole		Those aren't easy to wrap.  You know the party is at eleven, right?
john		What time is it?  Nine. Oh, I'm so sorry, I should have looked more carefully.
nicole		It's no problem.  Why don't you go give this to Carrie?
john		Oh. Actually, I can't stay.   I have to run some errands.
nicole		 We'll see you later then.
john		Thanks so much.  If....
nicole		No problem.
phone repairman		You pissed off somebody, that's for sure.
john		Put the phone down.
lara		John??
john		Remove your holsters, put them on the floor and get on your knees.
lara		 What are you doing here?
john		DO IT!!
john		Tape their hands and feet.  Do it!!
lara		You have to stop this.
john		Tape their mouths!
lara		No.   Stop.
john		Put it on.
lara		WHY ARE YOU DOING THIS?!
john		Because we have no other choice!! Put it on!  Turn around.
lara		No.
john		NOW!!
lara		No!
john		Okay. Tell your son you aren't coming.
lara		...Where is he?
john		Waiting for you. Tell him you aren't coming.
lara		How can you do this to me?
john		Push send. Tell him I'm not coming back either.
lara		John --
john		Does it look like I'm going home?! Tell him he is alone now and his mother and father aren't coming back!
lara		You son of a bitch.
john		Get out!    Get out!
lara		Where's Luke?! Is he safe?   Where is he?!
john		He's safe!
john		Back away!
john		Get back!
john		 Hit the button.
lara		 Oh please oh please oh please...
john		It'll be okay.  Look at me! Do what I say; it'll be okay; I promise.
john		Put your hair down.
lara		Why didn't you tell me?
john		You would've stopped me.
detective collero		You want to take a guess who just escaped from jail?
john		Hi.   I'm here for my son.
john		Back from where?
brenda		It's a zoo party. 
lara		What's wrong?
john		He's at the party.
lara		What party?     You said the party was here.
john		I was wrong.     She took them to the zoo.
lara		 She?
gps voice		Estimated drive time: seventeen minutes.
john		Carrie's mom. Nicole.
gps voice		Time to destination: eleven minutes.
lara		You took the wrong turn!    It's back there.
john		She'll call my parents.
lara		What??
lara		Are you out of your mind!
john		I tried!! There's no more time!! Any second now there's going to be a roadblock ahead! It might be there now!! If we don't get out now we don't get out!!
john		No, it really is fine. I can't thank you enough for taking care of him.
nicole		It is our pleasure.    Wasn't it, Carrie?
lara		Hi.
luke		Hi.
lara		Did you have a nice time at the party?
luke		Yeah.
lara		What was your favorite thing?
luke		Ice cream cake.
lara		They had ice cream cake here?
luke		At Carrie's house.
lara		Oh.   What flavor?
luke		Lots of flavors.
lara		My favorite.
john		Sure.
luke		I think we're going to the cottage.
lara		Really?
luke		I have money.
lara		Good.   Then I'll stick close to you.
luke		Okay.
news radio		-- Traffic down to two lanes at the tollbooths. And downtown is worse. Stay away from the train station if you are trying to get anywhere. Not sure what is happening but a KPGH caller says trains aren't moving and commuters are getting irate. 
lara		John?  What are we going to do?
john		 We're going to the train station.
detective collero		 Hi.
detective quinn		 You're not going to nod off, are you?
john		Stay in the car.
elderly man		Are you sure twenty dollars is enough? Ticket to Buffalo costs three times that.
john		 This thing is very good on gas.
detective collero		Every one in the state.
detective collero		 So, Ohio, Maryland, West Virginia, New York, New Jersey, Virginia, Michigan, Kentucky and Indiana?
detective collero		Captain, a lot of these places barely have fax machines.
erit		Excuse me?   You call this coffee?
detective collero		Should I stop calling and count?
detective quinn		 I got his parents!
john		 You know how many times you've lost our bags?
detective collero		So, you just decided to go for a drive, for the entire day?
grace		George wanted to see the leaves.
george		I told you.    We never spoke.
lara		I'll do this.
detective quinn		Too bad you didn't find more of it.
detective collero		That's the presidential palace.  It was all over CNN. When they deposed...what's-his-name.
detective quinn		It's starting to rain.
detective collero		I'll call the FBI.
detective quinn		You ask yourself why we found this bag and not the others?
detective quinn		Act like a cop. Grab the other side.
detective collero		You're out of your mind.
damon		Good luck.
****Dialogues from script :Ni_vu_ni_connu.txt****

monsieur dubenot		Oui, Messieurs. Moi vivant, rien ne viendra troubler la tranquillit de notre petite sous-prfecture.
auguste		Encore Blaireau, hein ?
parju		Oui, mais je l'aurai.
auguste		Ouais !
parju		Je l'aurai.
auguste		Ouais !
le gendarme		Encore un coup de Blaireau, monsieur le juge ! Voil vingt ans que a dure.
matre guilloche		Monsieur Bluette, combien de dtenus avez-vous en ce moment dans votre prison ?
monsieur bluette		Une petite douzaine, de braves garons, trs calmes.
matre guilloche		Calmes !... Mme les dlinquants sont calmes !
matre guilloche		Cette ville dort, cette ville s'encrote.
monsieur dubenot		J'aimerais mieux voir ma ville en cendres qu' la proie du dsordre.
monsieur dubenot		C'est trs bon, a...
monsieur dubenot		Depuis Henri IV...
monsieur dubenot		Oui !
parju		Monsieur le maire...
parju		Rien, monsieur le maire.
monsieur dubenot		Parfait. Tchez que a continue.
parju		Voil, monsieur le maire, je voulais vous dire.
monsieur dubenot		Quoi ?
monsieur dubenot		a, c'est du Blaireau tout pur !
parju		Oui, monsieur le maire.
monsieur dubenot		Alors, Parju, quand est-ce que vous me le coffrez, ce pistolet ?
parju		Je voudrais bien, monsieur le maire, mais c'est qu'il est malin comme le diable !
monsieur dubenot		Ah... Si c'tait lui qui ft garde-champtre, et vous qui fussiez Blaireau, y a belle lurette qu'il vous aurait pinc, mon pauvre Parju !
parju		Ah, pour a oui, monsieur le maire...
monsieur dubenot		Alors Parju ! Devant le regard autoritaire du maire, Parju se met au garde-- vous.
monsieur dubenot		De l'oeil ! Et du jarret ! Et vive Montpaillard !
monsieur dubenot		Repos !
monsieur dubenot		Bonjour.
le boucher		Bonjour, monsieur le maire...
monsieur dubenot		Bonjour.
la femme		Bonjour, monsieur...
monsieur dubenot		Bonjour, madame...
monsieur dubenot		Allons, Bluette, voyons, c'est l'heure du bridge. Les Chaville nous attendent. Bluette serre la main du maire, et ils s'loignent tous les deux ensemble.
amde		Quarante-quatre.
monsieur bluette		Mais oui.
monsieur dubenot		Deux trfles veulent dire : j'ai un carreau.
monsieur bluette		Oui...
monsieur dubenot		Et trois coeurs ?
monsieur bluette		Euh... Cinq piques... Cinq. Ils se tournent vers la grille, car Lon est maintenant tout prs D'EUX
monsieur dubenot		Ah !... Bonjour, Chaville.
monsieur bluette		Je vous en prie.
monsieur dubenot		Dites donc, dites donc...
le domestique		Oh... ben, mademoiselle !
monsieur dubenot		Oh, mon...
le domestique		Le faisan.
le domestique		Oh, pardon !
le domestique		Le faisan, madame, rti ou  l'orange ?
monsieur bluette		Mais... qu'est-ce que c'est que ce Blaireau ?
monsieur dubenot		Blaireau ?
monsieur dubenot		Oh-oh ! C'est... hein... c'est... enfin... enfin c'est Blaireau.
blaireau		Viens ici, Fous-le-camp.
monsieur bluette		Je vois... je vois... une sorte de bohme rural.
monsieur dubenot		Un braconnier... et il n'y a pas de place  Montpaillard pour les hors-la-loi.
armand flchard		Bonjour, madame la Comtesse.
armand flchard		Je vous remercie, madame la Comtesse.
armand flchard		Mademoiselle...
armand flchard		Mademoiselle, je vous ai apport une fort belle page de Schumann :  Je suis  toi .
armand flchard		A toi, mademoiselle. ARABELLA DE CHAVILLE Et bien, allons-y, mon vieux.
armand flchard		Les doigts comme des petits marteaux.
blaireau		Un petit bout pour Fous-le-camp. Le chien mange ce que lui donne son matre. Blaireau tend son verre de vin  la pie.
blaireau		Un petit coup pour Lucienne... Tiens...
blaireau		Bon, et puis un petit coup pour Blaireau, hein !
blaireau		Bon, ben, quand faut y aller, faut y aller.
blaireau		Hein, Lucienne ? Il se lve, la pie toujours perche sur son paule.
blaireau		Allez...
lucienne		T'est beau, Blaireau.
blaireau		Ah !
blaireau		Et voil, et voil, et voil.
blaireau		Oui, bon ben a va, tu l'as dj dit. Gros plan sur la pie, qui frtille du croupion.
lucienne		Trs beau, Blaireau.
blaireau		Ah... ah-ah-ah, merci.
lucienne		Il est beau, Blaireau.
blaireau		Oui, ben, mon vieux, a va, a va.
blaireau		Oui, ben je commence  le savoir.
lucienne		Il est beau, Blaireau !
blaireau		Oui, bon, mais qu'est-ce qu'il y a ? Quoi ?...
blaireau		Ah !...
blaireau		Merci, Lucienne.
blaireau		Parju !... Parju !...
blaireau		Parju !... viens ici, Parju ! Allez... Parju !
blaireau		Parju... Parju... Parju...
blaireau		Allez, bon apptit, Parju !
blaireau		C'est bien gras, a, madame !
blaireau		Viens ici, viens, viens ici. Viens l, viens l, viens, viens l.
blaireau		coute-coute-coute...
blaireau		Viens ici, Fous-le-camp ! Viens ici, mon Fous-le-camp ! Le chien s'approche de lui en trottinant.
blaireau		Viens ici, le tout petit toutou ! Allez-allez !
blaireau		Allez-allez-allez ! Allez-allez !
blaireau		C'est Blaireau !
blaireau		Hop !
parju		Ouais.
blaireau		Je ne sais pas ce qu'il a en ce moment. Je ne peux plus le tenir. On voit la main du patron qui tend  Parju un verre de bire bien mousseuse. Parju prend le verre et se rapproche un peu plus de Blaireau.
parju		Je t'aurai, Blaireau.
blaireau		Oh !... Regarde, une petite mouche...
blaireau		Oh, pardon !
armand flchard		L'amour me dvore. Trois fois par semaine, je souffre un peu moins ...
armand flchard		Ben, c'est idiot...
armand flchard		Arabella, mon amour.
matre guilloche		Montpaillard manque d'hommes.
monsieur dubenot		C'est pour moi que vous dites a ?
matre guilloche		C'est pour tout le conseil municipal.
monsieur dubenot		Ah, nous savons, Matre Guilloche, c'est le genre d'opinion qui s'tale dans votre feuille de chou, l'veil de Montpaillard.
monsieur dubenot		C'est surtout l'organe d'un un jeune ambitieux qui veut faire parler de lui.
matre guilloche		Mieux vaut l'ambition que l'incapacit.
monsieur dubenot		Il ne suffit pas de salir, monsieur, il faut prciser.
matre guilloche		Je prcise, monsieur.
monsieur dubenot		Je vous coute, monsieur. Le zoom s'arrte en plan amricain sur les deux hommes, dont les visages sont trs proches l'un de l'autre
matre guilloche		Un mot suffira, monsieur.
monsieur dubenot		Dites-le monsieur.
matre guilloche		Blaireau !
monsieur dubenot		B-b-Blaireau ?
matre guilloche		Parfaitement, monsieur.
monsieur dubenot		Mais Blaireau se soumettra o il sera bris.
matre guilloche		En attendant, messieurs, pendant que vous ronflerez sur vos courtepointes de satin, ce dvastateur de nos bois...
matre guilloche		... et de nos rivires accumulera ses dlits impunis.
blaireau		Oh !
blaireau		Parju !
blaireau		Coucou, Parju !
parju		Une couleuvre !
parju		Ae !
blaireau		Ah-ah-ah !
voix diverses		A la frache,  la frache,  la frache,  la frache !... Mes faux-filets !... Allons, mesdames...
blaireau		J'ai de la belle girolle ! Qui qu'en veut ?... Qui qu'en veut, des champipi ?... Des champipi, des champignons !
blaireau		Ah ! Bonjour madame Baquet. Je vous en mets combien ?
madame baquet		Comme d'habitude.
blaireau		Bon.
blaireau		Et voil.
blaireau		Merci. La camra remonte vers le visage de Blaireau.
blaireau		Qui qu'en veut ? Qui qu'en veut, des champipi, des champignons ! Voyez mes girolles, mesdames, voyez mes girolles. Qui qu'en veut, des champipi, des champipi, des champignons ?
blaireau		Voyez mes champipi, mes champignons ! Qui qu'en veut ? Qui qu'en veut ? Qui qu'en veut ?...
blaireau		Voyez ma belle girolle, madame. Qui qu'en veut ? Qui qu'en veut ?
blaireau		Qui qu'en veut, qui qu'en veut ?
blaireau		Qui qu'en veut ? Qui qu'en veut ? Voyez mes champipi. Voyez mes champipi... Voil un champignon.
blaireau		Qui qu'en veut, qui qu'en veut ?
blaireau		Voil un champipi, voil un autre champignon.
blaireau		Qui qu'en veut ?... Qui qu'en veut de la bonne girolle ? Qui qu'en veut, qui qu'en veut ? Qui veut de la belle girolle ? Ah, voyez ma belle girolle, mesdames...
blaireau		Qui qu'en veut ? Qui qu'en veut ?
blaireau		Qui qu'en veut ? Qui qu'en veut ? Voil... Lontine se penche vers le panier de champignons, mais Blaireau lui donne une tape sur la main. Parju s'loigne et sort du champ. Lontine chuchote  l'oreille de Blaireau.
blaireau		Mes champipi, mes champipi, mes champignons.
blaireau		Oui-oui...
blaireau		Et deux, trois, quatre.
blaireau		Boum !... Et boum !
blaireau		Ah !... Retour sur Parju, qui hoche la tte, toujours cach derrire la robe.
blaireau		Les champipi, les champipi...
blaireau		Tu veux des champignons, Parju ? PARJU Des champignons... z'aquatiques ?
blaireau		T'as perdu quelque chose, Parju ?
parju		O sont les truites ?
blaireau		Les truites ?...
parju		Les truites ! BLAIREAU Mais... mais la pche est ferme, monsieur le garde- champtre.
blaireau		Si tu veux des truites, il faut que tu ailles les...
blaireau		Et on appelle a les reprsentants de l'ordre, madame !
parju		Je t'aurai, Blaireau !
blaireau		La-la-la, la-la, la-la...
blaireau		Hein, mon chien...
blaireau		Qui qu'en veut, qui qu'en veut, qui qu'en veut, des champipi, des champignons ?
monsieur dubenot		Ainsi, non seulement vous tes incapable de maintenir l'ordre, mais vous crez le dsordre ! Hein ?
monsieur dubenot		Ah ! Ma petite Arabella, comment va monsieur votre papa ?
monsieur dubenot		Et madame votre maman ?
monsieur dubenot		Et bien, parfait, parfait...
monsieur dubenot		Allez... Allez... Vous restez l, plant comme une barrique !
la libraire		Les Sries Noires sont l.
la libraire		Bonjour, monsieur Flchard.
armand flchard		Bonjour, mademoiselle...
la libraire		Vous dsirez ?
armand flchard		Nous Deux .
armand flchard		H oui, je sais pas...
armand flchard		Ah !...
la libraire		Bien.
la libraire		Deux cents vingt.
la libraire		Il est en devanture.
armand flchard		Oh, mon billet.
armand flchard		Travaillons... mademoiselle, travaillons.
armand flchard		Nous allons attaquer aujourd'hui l'allegretto amoroso.
armand flchard		Mais  quoi pensez-vous donc ?
armand flchard		Mais pensez... oh, je ne sais pas, mais pensez...  l'homme que vous aimerez.
armand flchard		Merci beaucoup, mademoiselle. Je suis donc... une nouille.
armand flchard		Oui, enfin, c'est vite dit, a. Flchard ouvre la porte et sort de la chambre. Arabella reste assise devant le piano.
monsieur dubenot		Ah, les femmes !
monsieur dubenot		Oh la la ! Quel lapin, ce Bluette, hein ?
monsieur bluette		Elle jetait l'argent par les fentres, et moi, je le regardais tomber.
monsieur bluette		A cette poque, j'tais cousin du ministre...
monsieur bluette		C'est lui qui n'est plus ministre. Il eut tout juste le temps de me nommer  Montpaillard. Et a tombait bien. Oui, il ne me restait plus qu' devenir directeur de prison, ou aller en prison moi-mme.
monsieur dubenot		Encore une truite ?
monsieur dubenot		Lontine !
lontine		Monsieur ?
monsieur dubenot		Blaireau, naturellement ?
lontine		Ben, je croyais faire plaisir  monsieur.
monsieur dubenot		Misrable, vous n'avez pas honte. Sortez et enlevez a !
monsieur dubenot		Oh, a... Oh !... Oh-oh !... Mais j'y pense, messieurs, mais nous le tenons, notre lascar. Flagrant dlit. Quel est le tarif pour la prison ?
monsieur dubenot		Seulement. a, c'est scandaleux, mais a vaut mieux que rien. H-h ! En cabane, mon gaillard, en cabane. Allez !
parju		... organis par la Gaule Indpendante de Montpaillard, grand concours de...
parju		... de pche. Premier prix : cinq milles francs.
parju		Deuxime prix : quinze cents francs.
parju		Troisime prix : cinq cents francs. Quatrime prix : un superbe objet d'art.
parju		On peut encore s'inscrire au caf Bonino !
le coiffeur		Salut, Blaireau.
blaireau		Salut !
auguste		Bonjour.
auguste		Moi, j'y vais au fouillis dans la vase.
blaireau		Ah ! vous me faites tous rigoler, vous, avec votre fouillis.
auguste		Ben quoi, comment je ferais tourner l'eau ?
blaireau		Moi, les concours, je laisse a aux enfants de choeur.
le coiffeur		A toi, Blaireau ! Blaireau se lve, pendant que le coiffeur aide Auguste  se dbarrasser de sa tunique de protection.
blaireau		Ah-ah, non, c'est pas pour moi, c'est pour mon chien.
blaireau		Alors, bien dgag derrire... et les oreilles, comme d'habitude. Hein ?
voix diverses		Monsieur le maire... Monsieur le maire... Ah, monsieur le maire.
matre guilloche		Comment, monsieur le maire, vous faites le concours ?
monsieur dubenot		Sachez, Guilloche, que je ne nglige jamais une occasion de me rapprocher de mes administrs.
matre guilloche		Si vous tiez plus prs de vos administrs, monsieur le maire, vous n'auriez pas besoin de vous en rapprocher.
matre guilloche		Donnez-moi des hameons, du quatre.
parju		Chaque pcheur a droit  une seule ligne... flottante, tenue  la main, munie d'un seul hameon, et monte fixement sur le scion, ou avec caoutchouc roubaisien.
le candidat		Bon. PARJU Je t'inscris ?
le candidat		Oui.
matre guilloche		Monsieur Chabert.
matre guilloche		Messieurs... Je bois  la pche... sport dmocratique, symbole de la libert.. et de l'indpendance. Vive la pche la ligne !
le restaurateur		L'anne dernire, j'ai tir sept gardons de fond comme la main.
le boucher		Des ablettes !
le restaurateur		Non, monsieur, des gardons de fond que c'tait ! L'homme plus g, assis  ct du restaurateur, se tourne vers lui.
le restaurateur		C'est comme le brochet d'Auguste !
auguste		Parfaitement ! Un brochet comme a !
le boucher		Comment qu'il tait, ton brochet ?
auguste		Comme a !
blaireau		H...
blaireau		... comme a.
auguste		a va, Blaireau, c'est facile d'en prendre du poisson quand la pche est ferme.
le restaurateur		A la loyale, t'es pas plus malin que les autres...
blaireau		Ah-ah-ah-ah... Il se lve.
blaireau		A la loyale, je vous y prends tous !
blaireau		Parju !
blaireau		Parju ! Inscris-moi au concours.
parju		Un malfaiteur ? Jamais. BLAIREAU Fais attention, Parju, je vais te claquer le beignet.
parju		Des menaces  un reprsentant de l'autorit ?
matre guilloche		Garde !... Garde, inscrivez Blaireau.
parju		Ce sale...
matre guilloche		Au nom de la Dclaration des Droits de l'Homme, je vous somme d'inscrire Blaireau !
blaireau		Bravo !
matre guilloche		Cinquante-deux... PARJU Prouteau.
matre guilloche		Cinquante-trois...
parju		Monsieur Dubenot.
parju		Monsieur le maire. MONSIEUR DUBENOT Bonjour.
matre guilloche		Voil votre sac en papier, monsieur le maire. Cinquante- quatre...
matre guilloche		Et bien, Parju... cinquante-quatre.
matre guilloche		Blaireau.
monsieur dubenot		Blaireau ? Moi,  ct de Blaireau ? Ah, a jamais alors !
matre guilloche		Ah-ah, monsieur le maire, le tirage au sort doit tre respect, sinon le concours est annul.
blaireau		Aprs vous, monsieur le maire. Ils s'loignent l'un derrire l'autre. Guilloche se penche sur sa liste en ricanant.
blaireau		Ae-ae-ae-ae !...
monsieur dubenot		Chut ! Allons, voyons.
parju		Premier coup de fusil, amorage.
matre guilloche		Allons, voyons, Parju, allons !
parju		Les concurrents devront annoncer,  chaque prise, leur numro  haute voix. Il tape sur le bras de Guilloche.
parju		Deuxime coup de fusil, jetez vos lignes.
matre guilloche		Oh, mais que se passe-t-il alors ?
matre guilloche		Oh, coutez, Parju, moi, je ne m'en sors pas.
matre guilloche		Excusez ce petit incident. a vient, a vient.
blaireau		Cinquante-quatre !
matre guilloche		Cinquante-quatre ! Blaireau dcroche le poisson et le jette dans le baquet, dans lequel il a mis de l'eau. Guilloche se penche sur le baquet. Zoom avant sur le baquet, et les pieds de Blaireau. Blaireau tape nouveau par terre.
blaireau		Cinquante-quatre !
matre guilloche		Cinquante-quatre !
un pcheur		Encore !
matre guilloche		Belle pice ! Plan moyen sur Bluette et Flchard, vus de dos. Ils tirent tous les deux leur ligne en mme temps. Deux petits poissons sont accrochs au bout, mais les lignes sont emmles. Ils annoncent en choeur leurs numros, qui se confondent un peu.
monsieur bluette		Attendez... Attendez, attendez, attendes !
matre guilloche		Cinquante-quatre !
blaireau		Cinquante-quatre !
matre guilloche		Belle pice !
armand flchard		Oh, non, je crois que c'est le mien, celui-l.
monsieur bluette		Ah non... Ah non, pardon, non, c'est le mien.
blaireau		Cinquante-quatre !
monsieur dubenot		Cinquante-trois !
matre guilloche		Ah !...
monsieur dubenot		Ah ! et il est beau !
blaireau		Attention !... Et le revoil ! MATRE GUILLOCHE Cinquante-quatre !
matre guilloche		Bonjour, messieurs !
matre guilloche		Messieurs, ce n'est pas une blague, c'est de l'information.
monsieur dubenot		Bougre de sabre de bois de saperlipopette de bon Dieu de bois !
parju		Je le tiens ! MONSIEUR DUBENOT Qui ?
parju		Blaireau !
monsieur dubenot		Non ?
parju		Oui !
monsieur dubenot		O est-il ?
parju		Dans la pice  ct.
monsieur dubenot		Allons-y !
monsieur dubenot		Vous vous foutez de moi, Parju.
parju		Non, je le tiens.
monsieur dubenot		Mais comment a ?
parju		Grce au chien, il va me mener  Blaireau.
armand flchard		Au galop, mademoiselle, au galop !
armand flchard		Non ! Non ! Non ! Je ne veux plus vous entendre, hein !
armand flchard		Oh, et tant pis.
armand flchard		Non, je suis une nouille !
armand flchard		Vous tes une nouille, et nous sommes tous des nouilles !
armand flchard		Allez vous-en... l !
armand flchard		C'est a,  votre maman, voil.
armand flchard		Bon...
armand flchard		Arabella, tu veux de l'action ? Je vais t'en donner, moi. Il prend une feuille de papier sur le dessus du piano. Il commence crire. Zoom avant sur Flchard.
armand flchard		Mademoiselle... le dsespr qui vous aime... dans l'ombre... vous attendra ce soir  minuit...  ct... euh... du pressoir.  Sign :  Le ver de terre amoureux d'une toile .
blaireau		Fous-le-camp ! Viens ici, son chien !
blaireau		Oh !... Bougre de gros cochon. Tu vas me le payer... cher... mais cher...
parju		Allez... allez, cherche !
parju		Cherche !
parju		Flagrant dlit !
parju		Je le tiens.
parju		Porte  ton matre.
parju		Allez, allez, porte-lui... porte-lui le beau lapin.
parju		Porte-lui... Porte-lui... Ah ! Le voil !
parju		Flagrant dlit ! Je vais te prendre en flagrant dlit.
blaireau		Attends un peu, mon cochon, attends un peu.
parju		Je le tiens ! H h ! Je le tiens !
parju		Oh ! Oh ! Oh non... Oh !...
blaireau		Allez, allez, allez, viens ici, mon toutou, viens ici !...
parju		Je t'aurai, Blaireau, je t'aurai !
blaireau		Et voil !
blaireau		Allez ! A la revoyure, Parju !
parju		Je t'aurai, Blaireau !
blaireau		A la revoyure, Parju !
parju		Mais...
parju		Blaireau !
parju		Blaireau ! Blaireau !
monsieur dubenot		Parju !...
monsieur dubenot		Mais qu'est-ce que c'est que cette tenue ?
parju		Blaireau, monsieur le maire.
monsieur dubenot		Bon sang de sacr nom d'un chien !
parju		Chut !
monsieur dubenot		Chut ! On voit - enfin - Parju apparatre en vrai  ct du maire. Il est en maillot de corps, mais il porte son kpi et son baudrier avec sa plaque. Les deux hommes montent quelques marches de l'escalier, et on dcouvre que Parju porte, autour de la taille, une sorte de pagne de branchages feuillus accrochs  sa ceinture. Les deux hommes chuchotent. Parju secoue les mains.
parju		Oh, je l'ai rat de peu, monsieur le maire.
monsieur dubenot		Allez vous rhabiller, Parju ! Ouvrez l'oeil. Faites des rondes, Parju, faites des rondes de jour, faites des rondes de nuit... de nuit surtout.
parju		Je vais commencer par en faire une tout de suite.
monsieur dubenot		Et ne reparaissez devant moi qu'avec Blaireau menottes aux mains. Compris ?
parju		Oui, monsieur le maire.
monsieur dubenot		Allez, rompez !
monsieur dubenot		Chut !
parju		Ah, je te tiens... !
parju		Ma plaque !
monsieur dubenot		Monsieur Parju, un garde-champtre qui perd sa plaque, c'est comme un rgiment auquel on ravit son drapeau.
parju		Oui, monsieur le maire. MONSIEUR DUBENOT Coffrez-moi Blaireau au plus vite.
parju		C'tait dans le noir, je pourrais pas jurer que c'tait lui.
monsieur dubenot		Y a que Blaireau qui a pu faire le coup.
parju		Mais je vous dis...
monsieur dubenot		Ah !... Suis-je le maire de Montpaillard... ou si c'est vous, Parju ?
monsieur dubenot		Alors, je me charge du reste.
monsieur dubenot		Allo ! Prvenez la prfecture. Qu'on m'envoie du renfort.
le boucher		Ben, y parat qu'on va arrter Blaireau.
monsieur dubenot		Ils font bien les choses  la prfecture.
monsieur dubenot		Mais enfin, tout de mme...
monsieur dubenot		Ah !
monsieur dubenot		Dites-moi, ils sont avec vous, l ?
monsieur dubenot		Ah, c'est les grandes manoeuvres...
monsieur dubenot		... oui, je me disais aussi.
monsieur dubenot		Messieurs...
monsieur dubenot		... nous attaquerons  onze heures douze, heure locale.
monsieur dubenot		Allez, en avant !
armand flchard		Oh la la !
parju		Oui, monsieur le...
monsieur dubenot		Parfait. Chut !
blaireau		Je vais faire un bon petit caf.
blaireau		Mais ! Ptard de ptard de ptard de ptard ! Je suis innocent !
blaireau		Mais il peut pas, ptard de bois !
parju		Oui, monsieur le juge. Le chien aboie.
blaireau		Mais il peut pas, j'tais dans mon lit, j'ai un alibi.
matre guilloche		Peu de mots suffiront  ma plaidoirie.
matre guilloche		Indulgence ou pardon, pardon ou indulgence.
blaireau		Trs bien.
blaireau		Mais je suis innocent !
blaireau		Des mfaits ?... J'ai fait des mfaits, moi ?
blaireau		Je suis innocent ! Je suis innocent !
monsieur bluette		Ah !... Le voil !
monsieur bluette		Mon cher Blaireau, ravi de vous connatre. J'ai beaucoup entendu parler de vous.
monsieur bluette		C'est bien, brigadier, laissez-nous.
monsieur bluette		Passez devant, Blaireau.
blaireau		Mais, monsieur le directeur.
monsieur bluette		Je vous en prie, vous tes ici chez moi, c'est  dire chez vous.
blaireau		Je suis...
monsieur bluette		Permettez ?
blaireau		Je suis confus.
monsieur bluette		Je vous en prie, je vous en prie... Ils reprennent leur marche vers le perron.
monsieur bluette		J'espre, mon cher Blaireau...
monsieur bluette		... que, pendant ces quelques semaines, que le gouvernement de la Rpublique vous confie  mes soins, nous n'aurons ensemble que d'excellents rapports.
blaireau		Monsieur le directeur, je suis trs facile  vire.
monsieur bluette		Bravo ! Il le prend par le bras et ils commencent  monter les marches de l'escalier de gauche en direction de la camra.
monsieur bluette		Alors, dites-moi, cher ami, il parat qu'on a ross le garde-champtre ? Vous savez que c'est trs drle, a.
blaireau		Oui, c'est peut-tre drle, mais enfin ce qui est moins drle, c'est que je suis innocent.
monsieur bluette		Ah non ! Ah non, Blaireau ! Ne me le faites pas l'erreur judiciaire, vous cesseriez de m'intresser.
dtenu chanteur		... se donnent tous en ce charmant sjour.
monsieur bluette		Bonjour, mes petits.
dtenu chanteur		Monsieur le directeur.
monsieur bluette		Alors, mile, vos amygdales ?
dtenu chanteur		Je me suis gargaris ce matin, monsieur le directeur.
monsieur bluette		Montrez, pour voir.
dtenu chanteur		Ah !...
monsieur bluette		C'est moins enfl, hein, continuez le traitement.
monsieur bluette		De bonne nouvelles de votre femme ?
dtenu siffleur		Je vous remercie, monsieur le directeur
monsieur bluette		Alors, tant mieux. Allez, au travail, hein.
monsieur bluette		Comme vous voyez, Blaireau, mon systme pnitencier est trs simple. Plan lgrement plus loign de Bluette et Blaireau. Blaireau salue le dtenu homme-de-mnage, qui lui rend son salut. Bluette pousse Blaireau  reprendre leur marche.
monsieur bluette		Je vous en prie... J'occupe mes hommes aux travaux qu'ils exeraient avant de mal tourner.
blaireau		Ah !...
dtenu menuisier		Bonjour, monsieur le directeur, bonjour.
monsieur bluette		Bonjour, Grgory.
monsieur bluette		C'est notre petit dernier.
dtenu pdicure		Bonjour, monsieur.
monsieur bluette		C'est un excellent pdicure.
dtenu soign		Ah !...
dtenu pdicure		Et ben, voyons.
monsieur bluette		C'tait un excellent pdicure.
monsieur bluette		Bonjour, Antoine. Blaireau salue le dtenu.
dtenu tailleur		Bonjour, monsieur le directeur.
monsieur bluette		C'est notre tailleur...
monsieur bluette		Mon cher Blaireau, je n'ai pas grand chose de disponible en ce moment, mais je vais vous faire visiter, vous choisirez vous-mme.
blaireau		Vous tes trop aimable, monsieur le directeur. Bluette rit et ouvre la porte voisine de celle du tailleur.
monsieur bluette		Tenez, tenez, voici le quatorze.
monsieur bluette		Bien expos, mais c'est un peu chaud en cette saison.
blaireau		Ah... oui.
blaireau		Vous n'avez rien de mieux, vous ?
monsieur bluette		Attendez, j'ai votre affaire.
monsieur bluette		Le petit quatre.
monsieur bluette		Ah ! Mon cher Blaireau, je vous prsente Victor, notre gardien-chef.
blaireau		Enchant.
victor		Soyez le bienvenu.
monsieur bluette		Je tiens  ce que vous vous sentiez ici dans une ah... ah...
monsieur bluette		Co... comment dirais-je ?... dans une prison de famille.
monsieur bluette		Victor, Victor, le petit quatre. Hein ?
monsieur bluette		Mon cher Blaireau,  tout  l'heure, je vous laisse vous installer.
blaireau		Merci, monsieur le directeur.
victor		Je voulais vous demander. Le matin, caf noir ou caf au lait ?
blaireau		Arros. Fondu enchan.
monsieur dubenot		Elle n'a pas l'air de se laisser convaincre. CHTEAU DE CHAVILLE - SALLE  MANGER - INTRIEUR JOUR
monsieur dubenot		Et ben !
monsieur bluette		Ben non...
monsieur bluette		L'entre des animaux est interdite dans l'enceinte de la maison d'arrt. a, je...
monsieur bluette		Je dirai qu'elle tait dchire. MONTPAILLARD - PLACE DEVANT LA PRISON - EXTRIEUR NUIT
monsieur bluette		Allez, viens.
blaireau		Oh, mon toutou ! Oh, je suis content de voir le gros toutou. Oh, le petit toutou. Oh, le petit toutou.
armand flchard		C'est pas lui ! C'est pas lui !
armand flchard		Oui, monsieur le Prsident.
blaireau		Je suis innocent.
armand flchard		Oh non, oh non, oh non !
armand flchard		Arabella !
blaireau		Voil, voil !
blaireau		Les rendez-vous de noble compagnie...
blaireau		... se donnent tous en ce charmant sjour...
blaireau		... Les rendez-vous de noble compagnie se donnent tous en ce charmant sjour...
monsieur dubenot		Alors, Parju...
monsieur dubenot		... quoi de neuf ?
parju		Rien, monsieur le maire. Plus rien.
monsieur dubenot		Vous avez l'air de vous ennuyer, vous, mon bon Parju.
parju		Un peu, monsieur le maire.
monsieur dubenot		Ah ! Blaireau vous manque, hein ?
monsieur dubenot		Alors, matre Guilloche ? Fini, le Blaireau.
matre guilloche		Bravo, monsieur le maire.
monsieur dubenot		La ville n'a jamais t aussi calme.
matre guilloche		Un vrai banc de mollusques.
monsieur dubenot		Parfait, c'est comme a que je l'aime.
monsieur dubenot		Alors, monsieur Letellier, comment vont les affaires ?
le restaurateur		Calmes. Trs calmes.
monsieur dubenot		Parfait, parfait, parfait.
le client		Chef !
le restaurateur		Ouais...
le client		Alors chef... Trois crevisses  la nage.
le restaurateur		Plus d'crevisse, monsieur.
le client		Ah ?... Alors, terrine de livre pour tout le monde.
le restaurateur		Plus de livre, monsieur.
le client		Ah ?... Il tape sur la carte, et affiche un sourire gourmand.
le client		Oh !... Des bcasses flambes.
le restaurateur		Plus de bcasses flambes, monsieur...
le restaurateur		... plus rien... plus rien depuis huit jours, depuis que...
blaireau		Oui ?
blaireau		Oh !... Monsieur Bluette.
monsieur bluette		Je ne vous drange pas ?
blaireau		Oh non. Attendez...
blaireau		Tenez, un petit cigare.
monsieur bluette		Volontiers.
monsieur bluette		Oh !... Dites-moi, Blaireau, on vous soigne.
blaireau		Ben, dites, c'est bien normal, je suis innocent.
monsieur bluette		Allons, allons, allons, allons... parlons de choses srieuses. Dites-moi, hein ?
blaireau		Je bricolais.
monsieur bluette		Ah ? Et bien, parfait, vous continuerez. Dans une prison, il y a toujours de quoi occuper un homme qui bricole.
monsieur bluette		Suivez-moi, Blaireau, allons, venez.
monsieur bluette		Bonjour, mes enfants. LE DTENU AU RATEAU Bonjour, monsieur le directeur.
monsieur bluette		Venez, mon bon Blaireau.
monsieur bluette		Alors, hein ?
blaireau		Monsieur Bluette, vous aimez les crevisses ?
monsieur bluette		Oh ! Oh-oh-oh ! Si je les aime ?
blaireau		Je bricole ?
monsieur bluette		Bricolez, mon ami, bricolez.
blaireau		H, et moi ?
victor		Blaireau ! Blaireau se retourne
blaireau		Hein ?
victor		Et ben, c'est pour toi.
blaireau		Encore ?
blaireau		Un par jour ?
dtenu pdicure		Le secours au dtenus fait bien les choses.
victor		Oh, y a plus moyen, alors !
blaireau		L'toile...  Quoi ?  L'toile au ver de terre  ?
blaireau		Hmmm !...
dtenu pdicure		Oh !...
blaireau		Non.
armand flchard		Pour monsieur Blaireau.
victor		Et ben !
victor		Blaireau !
blaireau		Hein ?
victor		Encore un paquet pour toi.
blaireau		Deux par jour ?
blaireau		Protection de l'innocence . Et bien, vous voyez bien que je suis innocent ?
dtenu chanteur		Et bien, tu sais, nous aussi.
dtenu chanteur		Oh la la ! Tous les dtenus tournent la tte vers Blaireau et pousse un Oh !  de surprise. Le dtenu siffleur se met  siffler, imit par d'autres dtenus.
un dtenu		Et ben, dis donc.
dtenu pdicure		Dis-y, dis-y, que je te dis.
blaireau		Non.
dtenu pdicure		C'est un pote, le pre Bluette.
blaireau		Non, je ne peux pas lui demander a.
dtenu pdicure		Il l'a fait pour un gars qui tait  la communion de sa fille.
monsieur bluette		Mais qu'est-ce qu'il se passe, mon bon Blaireau ?
dtenu pdicure		Dis-y, allez !
blaireau		Monsieur Bluette, euh... ce soir, c'est la nouvelle lune. MONSIEUR BLUETTE Alors ?
blaireau		Alors, j'ai trois cents collets de poss, et, avec ce temps-l, ce serait du gteau.
monsieur bluette		Oh-oh, oh !... Je vous vois venir, vous. Non, Blaireau... non !
monsieur bluette		Mais vous serez rentr  minuit, hein ? C'est jur ?
blaireau		Monsieur Bluette, c'est jur.
monsieur bluette		Blaireau... Blaireau... Vous voulez pas m'emmener avec vous ?
blaireau		Mais... Mais, monsieur Bluette, soyons srieux !
monsieur bluette		a me ferait tellement plaisir.
blaireau		Je ne devrais pas...
blaireau		Regardez.
monsieur bluette		Oh, oh... C'est merveilleux.
blaireau		Chut !... Chut ! Il lui donne une tape sur le bras. Bluette met un doigt sur ses lvres. Blaireau s'loigne doucement en observant la fort alentour. Puis il dsigne une direction du doigt
blaireau		L !
monsieur bluette		Oh !...
monsieur bluette		Oh, la belle bte. De nouveau il a parl un peu fort et Blaireau lui fait signe de se taire, en lui donnant des tapes.
blaireau		Chut !
parju		Oh !...
parju		Oh !... a va plus... a va plus du tout.
parju		Quarante-six !
blaireau		Chut ! Bluette met un doigt sur ses lvres, et fouille dans la poche de son pantalon. Il passe le faisan, qu'il tient toujours d'une main, dans l'autre main pour fouiller dans l'autre poche. Puis il tapote sur toutes les poches de sa veste.
monsieur bluette		Tiens... a alors !
blaireau		Vous n'allez pas me dire que ?...
monsieur bluette		Si.
blaireau		Oh, non-non-non, monsieur Bluette, non, non-non-non !
monsieur bluette		Chut !...
monsieur dubenot		Tiens, bonsoir, Bluette.
monsieur bluette		Bonsoir, monsieur le maire.
monsieur dubenot		Alors ? J'espre que vous l'avez mat, ce sacr Blaireau, l, hein ?
monsieur bluette		Oh la la... Pensez si je...
monsieur bluette		Oh la la... Monsieur le maire, vous me connaissez hein ? Il montre sa main au maire.
monsieur bluette		Une main de... dans un gant de...
monsieur dubenot		Exactement. Il ne s'agit pas de traiter ce gaillard-l en passager de premire classe.
monsieur bluette		Oh la !... Oh la la... Pensez que je lui mne la vie dure.
monsieur dubenot		A vos souhaits.
monsieur bluette		Merci, monsieur le maire.
monsieur bluette		Oui, allons-y.
blaireau		Attention !
monsieur bluette		Qu'est-ce que c'est ?
monsieur bluette		Et bien, Victor ?
victor		Monsieur le directeur !
victor		Bonsoir, monsieur le directeur.
monsieur bluette		Mais qu'est-ce que a signifie ?
victor		Je me suis permis de les emmener au cinma. MONSIEUR BLUETTE Mais... Mais... vous tes fou ?
victor		Ah mais on est rentr dans le noir.
monsieur bluette		Ah bon ! Oui, bon... Enfin, c'est pas tout a... Ouvrez- nous.
victor		Mais oui, monsieur le directeur.
victor		Et ben, a alors...
monsieur bluette		Co... Vous n'allez pas me dire que... VICTOR Si.
monsieur bluette		Ah non ! Ah non ! Non...
victor		Heureusement que vous avez la vtre, monsieur le directeur.
monsieur bluette		Et bien, justement, euh...
dtenu pdicure		Vous permettez ?
monsieur bluette		Eh ?...
monsieur bluette		Bravo !
monsieur bluette		Allez... allez...
monsieur bluette		Dites-moi... Qu'est-ce que vous avez vu au cinma ?
victor		Arsne Lupin. Pensez s'ils taient contents.
le docteur		Oh, mais a va beaucoup mieux.
le docteur		Voyez, je vous l'avais bien dit : trois semaines de dite.
parju		Je mangerai bien un morceau, docteur.
le docteur		Ah ben, de la viande rouge. Maintenant il faut vous fortifier. Blaireau sort de prison demain.
parju		Blaireau ?
le docteur		Oh, si a peut vous consoler, il est aussi malade que vous.
dtenu pdicure		Comment a va, Blaireau ?
blaireau		Off !.. Oh, le foie...
blaireau		... norme !
dtenu pdicure		Moi, c'est...
blaireau		Ah !... Heureusement que je sors demain.
blaireau		Oh non... oh non... oh non !...
armand flchard		Pourquoi ?
armand flchard		Arabella, je veux la vrit. ARABELLA DE CHAVILLE Vous tes ivre, monsieur Flchard.
armand flchard		Mais... mais... Arabella... Mademoiselle ! Mais enfin, je... mais...
armand flchard		Et Blaireau a accept vos colis ?
armand flchard		Blaireau est une canaille, mais il est innocent.
armand flchard		C'est moi qui ai ross Parju !
armand flchard		Tenez, la preuve !
armand flchard		N'empche... L'homme qui vous aime dans l'ombre.
armand flchard		C'est moi qui les ai crites.
armand flchard		Oui.
armand flchard		Mais parce que je vous aime !
armand flchard		Je vous aime !
armand flchard		Je vous aime !
armand flchard		Je vous aime !
armand flchard		Je vous aime !
armand flchard		Oui.
monsieur dubenot		Qu'est-ce qu'il a fait ?
armand flchard		Oh oui, Arabella.
armand flchard		Oui...
armand flchard		Comment donc ?
armand flchard		En prison ?
armand flchard		Mais j'y vais.
armand flchard		Oui, Arabella.
armand flchard		J'y vais.
armand flchard		J'y vais !
monsieur dubenot		Flchard ! Flchard !
monsieur dubenot		O allez-vous ?
armand flchard		Chez le Procureur de la Rpublique avouer mon crime.
monsieur dubenot		Il n'y a pas de crime  Montpaillard !
armand flchard		C'est moi qui ai ross Parju, Blaireau est innocent.
monsieur dubenot		Qu'est-ce que vous chantez ?
armand flchard		a ne sera pas, monsieur le maire. J'expie. Il s'loigne et sort du champ. Le maire s'est arrt de marcher. Guilloche le rejoint.
matre guilloche		Mais... c'est une erreur judiciaire.
monsieur dubenot		Non ! Pas d'erreur judiciaire  Montpaillard.
matre guilloche		C'est un pouvantable scandale.
monsieur dubenot		Il n'y a pas de scandale  Montpaillard !
matre guilloche		Et bien, il va y en avoir un, moi, je vous le garantis.
le procureur		Non, non, non, non-non, non-non, non-non...
le procureur		... on ne vient pas faire des aveux juste au moment des vacances.
armand flchard		Monsieur le Procureur, le remords ne choisit pas son jour. Plan moyen sur les deux hommes, vu de ct, avec la fentre entr'ouverte derrire eux. Le procureur hoche la tte.
le procureur		Le remords ?... Et retarder mon dpart en vacances, a ne vous en donne pas, de remords ? Vous, la sant de mes enfants vous importe peu.
armand flchard		Quand dois-je me rendre en prison ?
le procureur		Parce que vous voulez aller aussi en prison ? C'est un monde !
armand flchard		Je veux coucher en prison ce soir.
le procureur		Non, monsieur, vous ne coucherez pas en prison ce soir- mme. Il ramasse un dossier sur son bureau, et le met dans un tiroir, qu'il referme d'un geste sec.
armand flchard		Bon, ben... alors quand ?
le procureur		On vous crira.
blaireau		L !
monsieur bluette		Voil. Il se lve.
blaireau		Alors a y est, je suis libre ?
monsieur bluette		Oui.
monsieur bluette		Au revoir, mon vieux Blaireau.
monsieur bluette		Donnez-moi de vos nouvelles, hein ?
blaireau		Je vous apporterai du gibier.
monsieur bluette		Allons, voyons !
blaireau		Il ne vous cotera pas cher, et  moi non plus.
monsieur bluette		Vous allez donc toujours l'intention de braconner ?
blaireau		Ah, ben, que voulez-vous, tout le monde ne peut pas tre fonctionnaire, monsieur le directeur. A la revoyure, monsieur Bluette.
monsieur bluette		Allez, au revoir, Blaireau.
blaireau		Allez.
monsieur bluette		Qu'est-ce que c'est encore que a ?
blaireau		Au revoir, Victor.
victor		Au revoir, Blaireau.
monsieur bluette		Encore une petite seconde, Blaireau.
blaireau		Avec plaisir, monsieur le directeur.
monsieur bluette		a, c'est incroyable ! Il revient vers le centre de la pice, qui est assez lgamment meuble, avec, entre autres, plusieurs fauteuils de style.
monsieur bluette		Le vritable coupable a fait des aveux complets, et s'est mis  la disposition de la justice.
monsieur bluette		Ah !
monsieur bluette		Blaireau ! Qu'est-ce que vous rpondriez si je vous apprenais que vous tes innocent ?
blaireau		Ah, je vous rpondrais que je le savais. MONSIEUR BLUETTE Et vous aviez raison, Blaireau.
blaireau		Ah !...
monsieur bluette		Je viens de recevoir une lettre du Parquet... a... euh... Vous tes innocent.
blaireau		Mais... mais qui c'est qu'a fait le coup ?
monsieur bluette		C'est Flchard... oui, c'est a, le professeur de piano.
blaireau		Oh ben a, si les professeurs s'y mettent maintenant !
monsieur bluette		Alors voil exactement ce que dit la lettre, n'est-ce pas. Aprs les formalits indispensables, on mettra Blaireau en libert le plus tt possible.
blaireau		Oui, mais enfin maintenant, je suis libre.
monsieur bluette		Oh la ! Le plus tt possible. BLAIREAU Comment ? Le plus tt possible ?
monsieur bluette		Oh a, Blaireau, je m'y engage.
blaireau		Enfin, moi maintenant, moi, je m'en vais.
monsieur bluette		Ah non.
blaireau		Comment non ?
monsieur bluette		Non. Vous avez fini votre temps comme coupable, bon. Mais...
monsieur bluette		... on apprend aujourd'hui que vous tes innocent.
monsieur bluette		Nous nous trouvons en prsence de nouvelles formalits remplir.
blaireau		Alors, comme a, c'est parce que je suis innocent qu'il faut que je reste en prison ?
monsieur bluette		La loi est la loi.
monsieur bluette		Pour tre emprisonn, il n'est pas absolument ncessaire d'tre coupable, mais, d'un autre ct, pour tre mis en libert, il ne suffit pas toujours d'tre innocent.
blaireau		C'est bon... Bluette lui tape sur l'paule.
monsieur bluette		Oh mais je... Pauvre Blaireau, va.
monsieur bluette		Un bonbon ?
blaireau		Bah !
monsieur bluette		Oui, entrez...
monsieur bluette		Ah !... Vous voil, Flchard.
armand flchard		Bof !
monsieur bluette		Et qu'est-ce que vous dsirez ?
armand flchard		Je viens me constituer prisonnier.
monsieur bluette		Ah ! Vous avez un papier ?
armand flchard		Ah... non, monsieur le directeur.
monsieur bluette		Un mot, une lettre du parquet ?
armand flchard		Mais non, je n'ai rien du tout.
monsieur bluette		Et vous vous imaginez que je vais vous coffrer comme a ? De chic ! Mais vous tes tonnant, ma parole d'honneur.
armand flchard		Comment ? Il faut une recommandation, maintenant, pour entrer en prison ?
monsieur bluette		Mais certainement.
armand flchard		Oui, toujours la faveur, alors.
monsieur bluette		coutez bien...
monsieur bluette		Oui !
blaireau		Monsieur le directeur.
monsieur bluette		Allons, bon, l'autre  prsent. Qu'est-ce que c'est encore ?
blaireau		Ce n'est pas pour vous faire un reproche, monsieur le directeur, mais je trouve que vous y mettez du temps  me relcher.
monsieur bluette		Impossible avant d'avoir reu l'ordre du Parquet.
blaireau		Alors, non seulement je fais mon temps et je suis innocent, et on ne veut pas me relcher. Ben a, c'est trop fort !
armand flchard		Oui, ben moi, c'est encore plus fort. Je suis coupable, et on ne veut pas m'arrter.
monsieur bluette		Oh !... Si on devait mettre tous les coupables en prison... ben l, on n'en sortirais plus !
blaireau		Oui, ben elle est propre, la justice.
monsieur bluette		Non, mais vous allez vous taire !
blaireau		Non, je ne me tairai pas.
armand flchard		Je veux rentrer !
blaireau		Je veux sortir !
armand flchard		Je veux rentrer !
blaireau		Je veux sortir !
monsieur bluette		Assez !... Victor !
victor		Monsieur le directeur ?
monsieur bluette		Flanquez-moi Blaireau au cachot. Quant  vous, monsieur Flchard, dehors !
armand flchard		coutez, monsieur Bluette, il faut que j'entre en prison.
monsieur bluette		Non.
blaireau		Je me plaindrai au gouvernement !
monsieur bluette		Vous tes charmant, Flchard, mais non.
armand flchard		Mais voyons...
monsieur bluette		Non.
victor		Allez !
blaireau		Non !
blaireau		Non ! Je suis innocent !
blaireau		Je suis innocent ! Oh !... Quand je sortirai, a fera du vilain ! Je suis innocent !...
matre guilloche		Cramponne-toi, Dubenot.
matre guilloche		En avant !
auguste		Je le savais qu'il tait innocent... Je le savais !
matre guilloche		Fustigeons les pouvoirs publics dcadents. Ftons Blaireau, l'innocence retrouve.
monsieur dubenot		Ah !... Mon pauvre Parju. Montpaillard n'est plus la ville la plus calme de France.
la foule		Blaireau ! Blaireau ! Blaireau !...
matre guilloche		... les passions et les haines, et rptons ces deux mots, illustrant les sentiments qui, tous, nous runissent : pardon Blaireau.
matre guilloche		Et vive Blaireau !
matre guilloche		Cette fte est pour vous, Blaireau.
blaireau		Mais il fallait pas, mais c'est trop !
matre guilloche		H, tenez.
blaireau		Mais tout a, c'est pour moi ?
les hommes		A ta sant, Blaireau !
blaireau		Mais, mais, mais je suis confus.
matre guilloche		Mais non.
blaireau		H, les gars, c'est ma tourne.
la foule		Vive Blaireau ! Vive Blaireau !
monsieur dubenot		H, h, c'est beau, le dsintressement, hein ?
matre guilloche		Vous ici, monsieur le maire ?
monsieur dubenot		Je m'amuse beaucoup. Enfin, on ne crie pas :  Vive Guilloche ! , on crie :  Vive Blaireau ! .
matre guilloche		C'est bien normal, je ne suis pas la victime.
monsieur dubenot		Oh, mais a va venir. Le prochain maire de Montpaillard ne s'appellera pas Dubenot, ni Guilloche, il s'appellera Blaireau ! H, h, h ! Beau travail, mon cher matre.
monsieur dubenot		Ah bon !
blaireau		Attends un peu, toi.
blaireau		Bon, allez, faut pas jouer avec ces choses-l. Allez.
parju		Je t'aurai, Blaireau, je t'aurai.
blaireau		Bon...
blaireau		Un... deux...
blaireau		... deux et demi...
armand flchard		Arabella, j'ai tout essay.
armand flchard		Euh... non.
armand flchard		Mais ils ne veulent pas de moi.
armand flchard		Mais, moi, je vous aime, Arabella.
blaireau		Belle fte, hein, ah, ah, monsieur le juge.
blaireau		Ah ?...
blaireau		Je vous demande pardon ?
blaireau		Ah, mais c'est pourtant vrai.
blaireau		Ah, mais voyons, pourquoi donc. A chacun sa spcialit. Vous m'avez trouv coupable, parce que vous tes juge. Mais Si vous tiez avocat, vous m'auriez trouv innocent. Oui, enfin, chacun son mtier, hein ?
blaireau		Allez, venez boire un verre avec moi, a vous remettra.
monsieur dubenot		Je sais pas ce que j'ai aujourd'hui.
blaireau		Alors, on joue au petit soldat.
blaireau		Sacr Dubenot, va !
matre guilloche		L'amour, beaucoup d'amour.
matre guilloche		A mes heures.
blaireau		Allez ! Venez trinquer avec nous, monsieur le maire.
monsieur dubenot		Quel honneur pour moi, Blaireau.
blaireau		Allez, Guilloche, venez boire un verre avec nous, quoi. Vous n'tes pas de trop.
blaireau		Allez !
blaireau		Et bien, Parju, hein-hein ? Qu'es-ce que tu dis de a ?
blaireau		Hein ?
blaireau		Parju !... Parju !
blaireau		Parju...
monsieur dubenot		Quelle popularit, hein ?
monsieur dubenot		Blaireau vous devra une fire chandelle, quand il sera dput. MATRE GUILLOCHE Dput, vous badinez !
blaireau		Voil !
blaireau		Alors, Guilloche, a roulotte ? Hein... Allez !
monsieur dubenot		Amusant, hein, ce Blaireau ?
matre guilloche		Moquez-vous, messieurs, mais...
matre guilloche		Bien sr, le peuple, c'est courageux...
matre guilloche		... c'est travailleur,
blaireau		H-h... Ben, si le vrai coupable s'en va, la fte est finie !
armand flchard		... ben, voil... Pas de prison, pas de mariage.
blaireau		... et je vais t'arranger le coup.
blaireau		Pas un mot ou je tire.
blaireau		Haut les mains !
blaireau		Alors, on aime les terreurs, les balafrs, les  gan- sessse-terre , hein ?
blaireau		Allez, embrassez vite votre grand voyou, mmm !
blaireau		Non, mais dites, pas moi, lui !
blaireau		Bon, et bien je vois que l'on n'a plus besoin de moi !
armand flchard		Arabella, vous verrez comme nous serons heureux. Ds ma sortie de prison...
armand flchard		J'irai tout de mme.
armand flchard		Arabella...  partir de ce soir, c'est moi qui dcide.
armand flchard		C'est bien entendu.
armand flchard		Bon... bon... ben alors, je n'irai pas en prison.
matre guilloche		Permettez, messieurs, que je me range  vos cts dsormais.
matre guilloche		Nous lutterons ensemble contre le cataclysme que serait le gouvernement de notre pays aux mains des Blaireau.
blaireau		Pouah ! Quelle bibine !
blaireau		Oh-oh ! Du pipi de chat.
blaireau		Oh, tiens, gotez vous-mme.
blaireau		Gotez vous-mme.
blaireau		Bon, alors, gotez-le mieux.
blaireau		Hein ? Hein ? Il racle un peu, hein ?
blaireau		Il est mme vert. Tenez, gotez celui-l.
blaireau		a, c'est du fameux.
blaireau		Bon alors, maintenant, gotez le vtre  ct. Mis  part les paroles, qui restent  vitesse normale, les jeux de scne,  partir de maintenant, sont trs lgrement acclrs.
blaireau		On fait celui-l.
blaireau		Oui, bon, nous sommes d'accord.
blaireau		Celui-l.
blaireau		Maintenant le vtre.
blaireau		Si t'tais gentil...
blaireau		Si t'tais gentil, Lon...
blaireau		Alors, si t'tais, Lon, gentil, tu me donnerais la main de ta fille.
blaireau		Mais c'est pas pour moi. LON DE CHAVILLE Ah... C'est pas... c'est pas pour toi ?
blaireau		Non. C'est pour Flchard.
le photographe		Voil, ils sont charmants. Le zoom continue, nous permettant de dcouvrir, parmi les invits, tous les personnages du film que nous connaissons dj. Seul Parju n'est pas en habit, mais en uniforme, et Blaireau ne porte pas de haut-de-forme, mais son ternel bret. Au premier plan, en bas des marches, nous dcouvrons l'appareil photo, pos sur son trpied. Le photographe va de l'un  l'autre des invits.
le photographe		Monsieur Bluette, Matre Guilloche, Parju, madame de Chaville, mademoiselle Rose.
le photographe		Voyons, monsieur Blaireau, monsieur de Chaville, monsieur le juge, monsieur le maire. Parfait !
le photographe		Attention, ne bougeons plus ! Plan rapproch sur Blaireau, debout  ct du comte, qui se penche vers lui, et lui parle discrtement.
blaireau		a n'a pas t sans mal.
le photographe		Parfait ! Ne bougeons plus.
le photographe		Un... deux... et trois...
le procureur		Monsieur, vous vouliez aller en prison ? Et bien, allez-y !
armand flchard		Mais je me marie.
le procureur		Voil, vous en prison, et moi, en vacances.
le procureur		H ! Attendez-moi !
le photographe		Oh, ben non alors, voyons !
blaireau		Oh !... Regardez-moi a. Attendez !... Il frappe sur la porte  coups de poing.
blaireau		Monsieur Bluette !
blaireau		Monsieur Bluette !
monsieur bluette		Non, non, non !
monsieur bluette		Non !
blaireau		Vous ne pouvez pas laissez cette petite femme dehors, le soir de ses noces.
monsieur bluette		Mais Blaireau, mais...
monsieur bluette		... le rglement.
blaireau		Ah, vous n'auriez pas pens  a ? MONSIEUR BLUETTE Ouais !
monsieur bluette		Mais que personne n'en sache rien, hein ?
blaireau		Personne, monsieur.
monsieur bluette		Personne !
blaireau		Personne !
monsieur bluette		Entrez, chre petite madame.
blaireau		Ouais, ouais... Oui, allez, allez...
monsieur bluette		Chut !
blaireau		a y est !
la foule		Vive les maris ! Vive les maris !...
parju		Tiens ! C'est pour toi.
blaireau		Mais je suis confus.
parju		Oui, oui...
blaireau		C'est pour moi ?
parju		Oui-oui, c'est pour toi.
parju		Je t'ai eu, Blaireau !
****Dialogues from script :Nick_of_Time.txt****

written by		 Ebbe Roe Smith & Patrick Duncan
announcer		...and points north.
gene		Lynn!  Lynn!!
gene		Lynn, don't walk ahead of me, OK?
gene		I'm serious, honey. Don't get out of my sight, all right? I want you to stay right by me. Will you do that for me?
lynn		Nods solemnly. GENE reaches the platform and gives out an exaggerated sigh.
gene		We made it.
lynn		We made it.
gene		I gotta make a phone call, Lynn. Do you see a phone?
gene		Come on, you.
gene		 Haven't you ever seen anybody kiss like that?
lynn		On TV.
gene		You never saw your Mom and me kiss like that?
gene		 Hey, it's OK to talk about her. You can talk about her all you want. You know that, don't you?
gene		So, come on. You never saw us kiss like that?
lynn		No way.
gene		How did you see us kiss?
gene		That's it? That little peck of a kiss? Oh, brother, you missed some kisses.
gene		Ooh, I'm gonna be late. I gotta call.
gene		Hello, is Mr. Conners there? I have an interview with him at twelve- thirty. Hi, Mr. Conners, this is Gene Watson. Sorry to call you at the last minute like this but... Hey, hey!
gene		Watch that! Lynn, come here!
gene		Sorry. There's some crazy kids on skates. Listen, the train just got in, I'm afraid I'm going to be a few minutes late.
gene		Great. OK, I'll get there as soon as I can. Bye, now.
gene		 Ready?
lynn		Nods.
gene		Let' s do it.
gene		Whoops.
gene		Now, see, this is why you should always wear a helmet and knee pads. You never know when you're going to fall down and go boom. Right?
lynn		Right.
gene		What?
gene		Uh, sure. What's, what's the problem? Will a driver's license do?
gene		Is this about those kids? Look, I'm sorry about that. But they darn near...
gene		Yes.
gene		Near Lompoc, north. What's...
gene		I'd like to know what...
gene		Hey! I'll take the girl. I'll take the girl!
lynn		You stole that.
gene		What is going on?
lynn		I want my daddy.
gene		Yes. It's OK, Lynn. These are our friends.
lynn		Everybody does?
lynn		Laughs.
lynn		Let me do it.
lynn		 It's loud!
ms jones		Removes a Pro Label Machine from under the seat. She begins to type in several characters.
gene		Who are you? You're not the police.
gene		You wouldn't...
gene		Get your hands off her.
gene		Yes, yes, I understand.
gene		Yes, I'm listening.
gene		You're out of your mind.
gene		I will do no such thing.
gene		Oh, my God...
lynn		Where is my daddy going?
lynn		My daddy is going to be a hero? Like Power Rangers?
little girl		Mama!
gene		Lynn!
gene		Yes. Yes, I can hear you.
lynn		 He has to say "over and out". Daddy, you have to say "over and out".
gene		Over and out.
gene		 At one thirty my little girl is dead.
cabbie		Where to, sir?
gene		The Bonaventure. The Bonaventure Hotel. Do you know where that is?
cabbie		Amtrack?
gene		What?
cabbie		You just come in on Amtrack?
gene		Uh, yes..
cabbie		Business or pleasure?
gene		Business.
cabbie		Where'd you come from?
gene		San Diego.
cabbie		Oh, San Diego? I've thought about moving to San Diego.  It's hard to make a living in this town. These short hops.  Can't make a dime on 'em. To LAX, Pasadena, then I can make a buck. These little hops cost me money.
gene		Sorry.
cabbie		'S okay. What do you think?
gene		Huh?
cabbie		Better in San Diego? More opportunity there? What?
gene		I really don't know. I don't live there. I was just visiting...a grave.
cabbie		Aw, too bad.
cabbie		Somebody close?
gene		What?
cabbie		The grave. Somebody close?
gene		Wife. Ex-wife. Almost ex. We were separated. She was thinking about a divorce.
gene		Look...I've... I've got a problem. A big problem...
cabbie		Oh, yeah?
cabbie		Jesus! Watch it, buddy!
cabbie		I'd love to hear about your problem, but the ride's over. Three-fifty.
cabbie		Three-fifty. I hope your problem doesn't have anything to do with my three-fifty.
gene		Right. Right.
cabbie		What do I want with an accountant?
doorman		I got one for the airport. You free?
cabbie		You bet.
gene		Oh, my God. Oh, no.
gene		Oh, shit.
gene		Oh, sweet Jesus...
gene		Could you tell me where the Emerald Bay Room is?
gustino		Third floor. Yellow stairwell. Follow the signs.
gene		Oh, thanks. Thanks a lot.
gustino		No problem.
brendan grant		 Whoops!
brendan grant		Nice body check.
brendan grant		You know my wife has a deeply personal reason for going after repeat drunk drivers. They are felons and they should be treated as such. A drivers license is a privilege, not a right.
gene		Excuse me, is the...thing over?
woman		Yes. You didn't miss much. The food...chicken again.
gene		Eleanor Grant is gone?
woman		Yes. Nice speech. But it's the same at all these...
gene		This says "invitation only".
gene		Where did you get these? Who are you?
eleanor grant		They-didn't hear a word I said. The mike was too low on the podium.
krista		How much did we pay for that room?
chief aide		We didn't.
eleanor grant		Somebody did.
krist		A Have Nolin pre-check the PA systems.
bodyguard		Excuse me, sir, this car is for the Governor. You can take the next one.
eleanor grant		Don't you dare, Franco. This is one of our biggest supporters.
eleanor grant		Eleanor Grant, gubernatorial incumbent. That's a mouthful isn't- it? I love saying that.
eleanor grant		Whose idea was it to have a lunch right after the brunch? I'm about to bust as it is.
krista		We'll just walk through, do a little grip-and-grin, then get ready for the press con.
gene		Governor...
gene		I need your help.
eleanor grant		What can I do for you Mr....Watson?
gene		Its'...ah...about my daughter....
eleanor grant		I think we can accommodate you.
eleanor grant		Eleanor Grant, gubernatorial incumbent.
eleanor grant		You were saying?  Your daughter....?
gene		I...
eleanor grant		Yes?
gene		She ..ahh...wanted me to... be sure to get your autograph.
eleanor grant		Of course.  I wish everything were that easy.
krista		I've got the pen if you've got the paper.
krista		How about that?
krista		Is that something precious?
gene		No, that's,..that's fine
eleanor grant		What's her name?
gene		Her name? Her name is Lynn.
krista		It's funny. I don't even keep a pad of paper with me anymore, everything's gone so electronic.
krista		If it wasn't for double A batteries I'd be in big trouble.
eleanor grant		Are you all right? Elevators make me queasy, too.
gene		The gun...
gene		It wasn't loaded. I didn't put the bullets in it.
lynn		I've done much better ones than this.
lynn		Oh, yes. I'll show you. I have much more colors at home.
huey		Having a rough day? Down at the heels as they...?
huey		 You don't see your face, you don't pay!
huey		Having a rough day? Down at the heels as they say? What you need is a shoe shine, shoe shine, shoe shine today.
huey		Take ten, take a break, take a seat, take a load off. Put the world in perspective.
huey		So, are you a visitor or lucky enough to live in The City of Angels?
gene		I'm...I'm visiting.
huey		What do you do, if I may be so bold?
gene		 I'm just an accountant.
huey		Don't denigrate yourself, my friend. Where would the government be without accountants?  They wouldn't know how hard they can squeeze us before we pop, isn't that right?
huey		Now you take tips. Time was a tip was between a man and his customer. Not any more. They've figured out what they call a formulae, don't laugh, it ain't for babies. They take your sales, see, and slap a percentile on there, figuring that somewhere between your lies and your bad luck they'll hit on the mean amount, mean meaning "in the middle", but if you ask me it means "just plain mean". Why you can have Uncle Scrooge wring a nickel over your poor out-stretched palm, or Daddy Warbucks dropping pearl stick-pins like manna from heaven, don't make no difference, they'll tax your behind according to that same figure. Doesn't seem quite right., does it?
gene		No. No, it doesn't.
gustino		Hey, Huey, how's it hangin'?
huey		It's a load, my friend, but somebody's got to carry it.
gene		I have to do something.
huey		What's that? You have to speak up.  I'm a little deaf in this ear. Between that and my wooden leg I'm a mess. Compliments of the United States Army Artillery Corps.
gene		I said I have to do something.
huey		I'll have you out of here in two shakes o'f a lamb's tail.
gene		Is within himself.
gene		Drove me crazy. There must have been one on me. I didn't add up so she left. That's what attracted me to her In the first place. She made up her mind and she did it. She wouldn't sit around waiting for...whatever. She'd do something. She'd do something.
huey		Yes, well, you know, for a quality shoe you can't beat a good wingtip. Wears like iron. You're a wise man. There ya' go. Two bucks.
huey		You got anything smaller?
gene		Keep it.
huey		It's a twenty.
gene		Keep it.
huey		Well...thanks muchly...
gene		Can I get out to Flower Street from here?
huey		Sure. Go down past the bar. Take you right out there.
gene		Thanks.
gene		Then I have time for a drink.
reporter		So where was I?
bartender		I don't know. Something about the Governor's new regime.
reporter		Oh yeah. She's dumping the Good Old Boys like yesterday's newspapers.
reporter		The white boys are in for it. When they got her elected they never thought she was gonna make the Governor's office look like the United Nations.
reporter		We're talking Custer's Last Stand here. The only minorities not on her staff are the ones still lost in the Rain Forest.
gene		 Lynn!
gene		Pool Deck?
hector		Fourth Floor. Take that escalator.
brendan grant		My wife is not interested in negative campaigning. She wants to accentuate the positive. I don't know about you but I find that refreshing.
a reporter		Have you ever thought of running for office yourself?
brendan grant		 Me?
brendan grant		I'm just a business man.
gene		What would you do in my place?
gene		There's a plot to kill the Governor. If you don't believe me, check that guy right there. He has a gun.
officer trust		So do you, Mr. Watson.
officer trust		You got this under control?
officer trust		It doesn't look like it.
officer trust		It better be.
gene		What...?
gene		He's dead?
gene		How should I...?
gene		You killed him.
tom bradley		It is my extreme pleasure this afternoon to introduce to you...
tom bradley		...a woman who can only be characterized as a one-of-a-kind.
tom bradley		An iconoclast with class...
krista		The elevator. You weren't feeling well.
tom bradley		A genuine lady who's not afraid to get into the trenches...
krista		Are you better now?
tom bradley		...and go to the mat with greedy special interests...
tom bradley		The finest Governor our state has ever had...
tom bradley		My friend and yours, Governor Eleanor Grant!
gene		My wife always said I had a problem trusting people.
krista		Well, you can trust Eleanor Samara Grant.
gene		You don't understand. I'm going to trust you. And you have to trust me.
krista		Yes, you're right, I don't understand.
gene		Look...my daughter ... she's going to die...unless you can help me.
krista		Sure, sure, I'll help you. Let me get Mr. White. I'm sure he can assist you, he's our...
gene		 No! You have to listen to me.
krista		I'm listening, I'm listening.
eleanor grant		My friends, my good friends...
gene		Please...please...you have to believe me... They have my daughter.  They want me to kill Eleanor Grant  or they'll kill my daughter.
krista		All right, let's just...let's get security in on this.
gene		No! You can't! They're in on it.
krista		I don't see how they could be in on it. They're the best. They're hand- picked.
gene		I don't know. One of them is following me. If he knew what I'd just told you they'd...
gene		Look, how did I get in here with this!?
krista		I don't know.
gene		You've got to trust me. I'm putting my daughter's life in your hands. She's only six. She's just a little girl. Please, please, trust me.
krista		It's a little hard to trust you under the circumstances.
gene		You're right, it is.  Here.
gene		Will you trust me now?
krista		I guess I'll have to. Come on, there's one person we can go to.
gene		The man following me has a walkie- talkie. If he sees I'm not here he'll call his partner. I do anything out of line and he'll send the word to kill my daughter.
krista		He'll think you're in the crowd until the end of the speech. Wait a minute.
krista		We've got about ten minutes.
gene		Are you sure?
krista		I've heard this speech a lot. Come on. We'll take care of him.  We will.
gene		But...
krista		Trust me. You asked me for help. Let me help. Trust me.
gene		Okay...
gene		Hey.
gene		I think you better put that away.
krista		I think you're right.
eleanor grant		But tragedy, if it doesn't destroy us, has a curious way of giving us strength.
eleanor grant		I doubt if I would be before you now, if I hadn't been put through that crucible of loss.
eleanor grant		And though I can never forget William and Bill Junior or the love I felt for them...
eleanor grant		I have found joy again in serving this great state. I have found love again in my second husband Brendan...
gene		Where are we going?
hall guard		Ms. Brooks ...
krista		Is he in?
hall guard		Yes, ma'am.
gene		Who is this? Are you sure we can trust him?
krista		I'm sure. It's her husband. He's her Campaign Manager.
brendan grant		What is it? Is there a problem?
krista		We need to see you, Brendan.
gene		 We have to hurry.
krista		I know. Brendan, listen to me. Someone is trying to kill Eleanor.
brendan grant		What? What are you talking about?
krista		We need people we can "trust. We only have a few moments...
brendan grant		This is...this is insane. How do you know this?
gene		I know it because I'm the one who's supposed to kill her.
brendan grant		You are!?  You brought this man here!? You brought this man to my room!?
krista		I had to. Her Security people may be involved...
mystery man		Is there a problem, Brendan?
brendan grant		There certainly is. This man says he's been hired to kill Eleanor.
gene		Not hired. They're blackmailing me.
mystery man		Who is this "they"?
gene		I don't...I don't know. Please, Mr. Grant! They have my daughter. I'm not some lunatic. Your wife is in trouble.  Someone is trying to kill her. Someone is trying to make me kill her. Please, listen...
mystery man		And on the strength of this story, you bring this man to Brendan's suite? Does that show good judgment, Ms. Brooks?  I'm just a friend of Brendan's, but it seems to me...
krista		He brought a gun onto the pool deck.
mystery man		 What?
krista		He got onto the pool deck with a gun. How did he get past her Security carrying a
mystery man		I see. Where is this gun?
mystery man		Well, is it real? Do we know anything about it?
krista		It looks real. I don't know anything about guns.
mystery man		Could I see it?
mystery man		My goodness. It certainly looks real.
mystery man		What's your opinion? You're the expert in these matters, supposedly.
brendan grant		Jesus Christ!
mystery man		Are you out of your fucking mind!?
officer trust		Somebody mind telling me...  What the hell happened!?
brendan grant		What have you done to me!? Christ almighty!
gene		No!
mystery man		Don't let him go!
gene		I killed you.
brendan grant		I'm on record. I never wanted this. I wanted simplicity; a telescopic sight, a powerful rifle, but no. What was good enough for Oswald wasn't good enough for you two. You had to get fancy. Drag some shmuck in off the street, stick a gun in his hand.
mystery man		It's academic now. She had to be killed.
mystery man		 Is he awake?
brendan grant		Oh Great. Why don't we just give him our home phone numbers while we're at it?
mystery man		Get going. You've only got a few minutes to pull it together.
mystery man		It's too late for that.
brendan grant		There is a dead woman on my bathroom floor!
mystery mam		What about it? She's Eleanor's assistant and they will have been shot with the same gun, by the same lunatic.  Some, anonymous loser who went over the edge.
brendan grant		 Only thing better would be if he were a postal worker.
officer trust		He won't be doing any work once I get through with him.
mystery man		And in a few months you're in the Governor's mansion. The people'd make you king of California if they could.
gene		I'm not stupid.. I know how this is supposed, to work.
gene		I kill her - and you kill me.
gene		Even if you don't, Her Security men will.
gene		How am I supposed to get away?
gene		How do I know you won't kill my daughter once I'm gone?
gene		And I'm supposed to trust you?
gene		Lynn!
gene		 No, please...
huey		 Take ten, take a break, take a seat, take a load off. Put the world in perspective.
huey		So, are you a visitor or are you lucky enough to...
huey		 You got a complaint?
gene		You remember me?
huey		I remember. The big tipper.
gene		Something is going to happen. When it's over you'll know what I was talking about.
huey		Oh, man...
gene		Please. Something is going to happen...
huey		What? The end of the world? Man, don't give me your mad rap. I'm not a bartender. I don't want to hear it. I raise a family doing this bullshit. Do me a favor. Get your crazy white ass out of my chair.
gene		Please...
huey		Hey, a big tip doesn't give you the right to crap in my ear. You want change?  You got it, brother. What was that you gave me, a twenty?
gene		He's deaf.
gene		He can't hear a word we're saying.
huey		Why, looky-here. My customer-quotient just got multiplied by two. What do you think of that?  You'll have to forgive me, sir. Didn't hear your approach. Fact of the matter is, I'm deef as a post. Compliments of the United States Army...  ...Artillery Corps. Can I give you a shine, sir? You don't see your face, you don't pay.
gene		One thirty. California Ballroom.
gene		Let me talk to her again.
gene		I want'to talk to her.
gene		I talk to her or you can forget about it.
gene		What are you going to do about it, shoot me?
gene		What? Walk out there and twist her arm off?
gene		It would be a lot less trouble just to let me talk to her.
gene		Yes, sweetie, it's me.
gene		I know you do, honey.
lynn		Can we go now?
lynn		To be a hero?
gene		No, honey, not to be a hero. But I want you to remember something for me, all right?
gene		He's doing it for you. No matter what anybody tells you, no matter who they are, he's doing it for you, because he loves you.
gene		Will you promise me that?
gene		All right. Kisses to you.
gene		No. Kisses to you.
huey		Just about.
huey		Two dollars, if it pleases you.
huey		Thanks for the tip.
huey		Mister, what are you dragging me into?
gene		I'm not dragging you into anything. I don't expect...
huey		Cover your mouth.
gene		What?
huey		This gorilla's watching you, is that right?
gene		That's right.
huey		Then don't let him be seeing you talking to me. I don't want him twisting my arm off.
huey		That was your kid on the walkie- talkie?
gene		My daughter. They have her in a van across the street. They say they'll kill her if I don't do something for them.
huey		In twenty-five minutes in the California Ballroom.
gene		There was a woman. She was trying to help me. I watched him murder her.
huey		What are you supposed to do?
gene		Kill the Governor.
huey		I knew I should have packed up and gone home as soon as I got that twenty. What am I supposed to do about this situation?
gene		One of them is in on it. He might even be in charge. Her Security is in on it. There's only one person I know for sure isn't in on it.
huey		Who?
gene		The Governor. If I could just talk to her...
huey		Oh, Jesus ...
gene		No way, there's nothing you can do to help me.
huey		Then why'd you drag me into it?
gene		 It's my kid. I've got to...to somehow...do right by my little girl.
gene		It's about time I did. I was one of those guys, workaholics. I worked my ass off for them - my wife, my daughter.  That's just what I thought I was supposed to do.
huey		Yeah, all right, listen...
gene		 So when she wanted a divorce...I was...I didn't know what I'd done wrong. I didn't see it. I didn't see it....
huey		Why don't you tell me about the early years some other time?
gene		I'm sorry. You understand I don't mind dying if I could save my daughter. I mean that.
huey		Yeah, now listen.  I can't mess with these shoes any more or it's gonna look funny. You go down get yourself something to drink. Make sure Godzilla there, follows you.
gene		What are you going to do?
huey		I haven't the faintest idea. Go on now. I'll get word to you.
gene		If nothing else, someone heard my story.
gene		Keep the change.
huey		Don't think I won't.
gene		I need a drink.
gene		Give me a ...a gingerale?
tv reporter		No shit. If I hear that stop the violence routine one more time I'm going to shoot somebody.
waitress		Here's your Ginger Ale, sir.
tv reporter		They're all the same.
tv reporter		You know what bothers me?
tv reporter		When they get all weepy eyed about the "ordinary citizen", the "regular Joe", the "normal American". Gimme a break. There ain't no such animal. We're a nation of two hundred forty million special interest groups.
gene		Well, I'm just a regular guy.
tv reporter		Is that right?
gene		Yeah, that's right. But I've built a good solid business out of nothing. Don't underestimate the regular guy.
bartender		Sir, you haven't paid.
gene		It's on the Special Interest at the end of the bar.
bartender		Hey, Sir, don't make me call a cop.
officer trust		Where is he? Did you lose him?
gene		 Let's all hope so.
huey		Quick, off with the shoes and pants. Trade with Gustino. The big guy's coming.
huey		C'mon, ladies. No time to be shy.
huey		Gustino! Drop 'em!
huey		And cover up them socks. Man, who dresses you?
janitor		Fue.  
huey		Meet Irene.
gene		Hi.
huey		Irene is going to help.
gene		Thank you.
gene		Where am I going?
huey		You said there was only one person you knew wasn't in on this thing.
gene		Yeah.
huey		You're going to go see her.
gene		What!?
huey		You sure she's asleep?
irene		I took up extra pillows. She take a nap before her big speech.
gene		What am I supposed to say to her?
huey		It'll come to you. See if you can stop this thing 'fore it gets started. Save us all considerable embarrassment.
huey		 Irene...?
gene		 Excuse me...
eleanor grant		Who the hell are you?
gene		No, please.
gene		Mrs. Grant, Governor...I won't hurt you.
eleanor grant		My security people are right next door.
gene		I appreciate that.
eleanor grant		One loud scream will bring them in here instantly. You won't get very far. Think it over.
gene		If I were here to hurt you I would have done it already.
eleanor grant		That's...a comfort to hear.
gene		I have a problem.
eleanor grant		Ah.
gene		Only you can help me. I'm also sorry to say, my problem is your problem, Mrs. Grant.
eleanor grant		I remember you...in the elevator.
gene		That's right.
eleanor grant		You were very nervous.
gene		It was because I had this...in my pocket
gene		I need you to listen to me. Carefully. Three lives depend on you listening very carefully to what I have to say.
eleanor grant		 Of course. But suppose we set up an appointment. I have an important speech to deliver and you're cutting into my nap time.
gene		Krista Brooks is dead.
eleanor grant		How do you know that?
gene		I saw her die. She was shot. With this gun.
eleanor grant		You shot her?
gene		No.
eleanor grant		Who did?
gene		I don't know. The only thing I know about him is that he works for your husband.
eleanor grant		What?
gene		And your husband works for somebody else.
eleanor grant		What the hell are you saying?
hector		He's gone.
hector		Hey, Gustino, what takes you so long? You need to eat more fiber.
gene		I knew you wouldn't believe me.
eleanor grant		I said I'd listen to you, not necessarily believe you. You're telling me my people are in a plot against me. You're telling me my husband wants me killed. What do you expect?
gene		I don't blame you. I don't have any proof. But nothing like this occurs in a vacuum. You can't be totally oblivious. You must suspect something. You're doing things which are making people angry. People who have been in power a long time are losing their jobs. You know them better than me. How much does it mean to them?  How far would they go to hang onto it?
gene		There's only one way to find out for sure. Try to cancel the last speech.
eleanor grant		 I'd prefer we didn't refer to it as my last speech.
gene		It's the last chance they have for me to kill you. Try to get out of it. They won't let you. They can't. Try to change the schedule and you'll know I'm right. What have you got to lose? It comes down to who you trust, them or me? Test them.
eleanor grant		I love it when pistolero's talk of trust.
gene		This? I've never even fired one.
eleanor grant		Indeed.
eleanor grant		 Franco! Franco.'
franco		What is it, Governor!? What's wrong!?
eleanor grant		I...I'm afraid I've had a bad dream, Franco.
huey		Well?
gene		I don't know.
huey		What are you going to do now?
gene		I don't know. I have to get back.
huey		What are you going to do!?
gene		This is about power and you haven't got any. There's nothing more you can do. I'm sorry. Thanks for trying.
officer trust		Get moving.
officer trust		It's time. It's time now.
lynn		Where are we going?
gene		I know what I have to do. I'll do it. Let's go.
brendan grant		Hey, El, how's the head?
mystery man		Eleanor.
eleanor grant		Lousy. And I have siesta hair. I'm thinking of canceling the speech.
brendan grant		It's an important speech.
mystery man		I'd say critical, not that it's any of my business.
eleanor grant		It's just another speech in a Tower of Babel so high that Nimrod himself would be put to shame. Cancel. Make my apologies.
brendan grant		Excuse me.
mystery man		I'll trot along. Nice to see you, Eleanor.
brendan grant		During a campaign every speech is important. This is free media exposure. Primetime news coverage that we couldn't buy.
eleanor grant		What's he doing here?
brendan grant		Who, him? Just visiting.
brendan grant		He's my friend. And he did help you to get elected, after all.
eleanor grant		Don't remind me.
brendan grant		 What happened here?
eleanor grant		Nothing. I broke a lamp.
brendan grant		Eleanor, please. I'll put it this way. This speech or a half-dozen rubber chicken-fund raisers. What do you say?
eleanor grant		Truth is, besides the headache I've come down with a little lower intestinal havoc. Make my apologies.
brendan grant		Come on, El, you're a trooper. I'll get you some Pepto, you'll make one of your patented tributes to the common person, then back to Sacramento. This is no time to lay down on the job. I don't care what the polls say, you can't afford to relax. Look what happened to Bush. Tell you what, if you want to blow off the Sacramento speech, fine. But do this one and we'll get out of the smog.
eleanor grant		All right, I'll do it.
brendan grant		That's my girl.
eleanor grant		But I want to make some changes. Get Krista in here right away won't you?
brendan grant		Aw, gee. I sent her on an errand.
eleanor grant		You sent my assistant on an errand.
brendan grant		 I've been a bad boy.
politico		Ladies, gentlemen, it is my great pleasure to introduce to you the esteemed spouse of our Governor. Let's give a big L.A. welcome to Mr. Brendan Grant.
brendan grant		Ladies and gentlemen of the press, campaign volunteers, and those of you who were looking for any excuse to take off work for the afternoon...
brendan grant		We have with us today the first woman Governor of our great state...
brendan grant		Governor Eleanor Samara Grant. What can I say about her....that won't get me in trouble when I get home tonight.
brendan grant		She's a woman who loves our great state.
brendan grant		A brilliant legislator.
brendan grant		...who will soon win her second term as the greatest Governor California has ever seen!
brendan grant		Ladies and gentlemen...
brendan grant		I am honored to present to you our esteemed Governor and my beloved wife, Eleanor Samara Grant!
eleanor grant		Thank you! Thank you all!
gene		Look out! Look out!
gene		Look out!
brendan grant		My God, he did it!
officer trust		You little son of a bitch.
eleanor grant		Are you all right, Franco?
franco		 I'd be better if they'd put sleeves on these damn vests.
lynn		Why do you keep looking at me?
lynn		I'm not a baby.
lynn		I'm not a big girl but I'm not a baby.
lynn		Why?
lynn		A surprise?
huey		Good afternoon, madam. Hello there, little girl.
huey		Just giving you the gift of a clean windshield. Only cost you a dollar.
huey		You just think you don't want your windshield cleaned.
huey		Don't be like that. Think of me as the Moses of dirty windshields leading you through the desert of dead bugs.
huey		It's already done. I've already done it. You have to pay me now.
huey		You're going to deny me a lousy dollar after I've sweated like a pig giving you the gift of a clean windsheild?
huey		I don't think so.
huey		I think this is worth a dollar.
huey		Oh, we'll have to do better than that.
huey		Gimme a dollar.
huey		There's nothing like a good wing- tip.
huey		What time is it?
gene		Lost my watch.
eleanor grant		Any comment at this time would be most premature. Please, we'll have something for you in a couple of hours. Please...
eleanor grant		I...1 would like to...thank you, Mister Wat... Gene.
eleanor grant		I would also like to apologize.
gene		For what?
eleanor grant		For not believing you.
gene		Believe me, I don't blame you.  This is the Governor, Lynn. Say hello.
eleanor grant		You have a very brave father, Lynn.
lynn		He's a hero.
eleanor grant		Yes, yes he is.
lynn		Dads are like that.
gene		Can we go now?
eleanor grant		Of course. I'll get a car to drive you.
gene		No, that's... That's OK. We don't need any help. We'll be just fine. Won't we, Lynn?
eleanor grant		Good luck.
gene		Same to you.
gene		Thanks for the shine.
huey		Thanks for the tip.
gene		 Come on, kid. I gotta make a phone call.
huey		Kisses to you.
lynn		No, kisses to you!
huey		No, kisses to you.
****Dialogues from script :Night_Time_(The_Poltergeist_Treatment).txt****

written by		 Steven Spielberg
****Dialogues from script :Nightbreed.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Nightmare_Before_Christmas.txt****

narrator		'Twas a long time ago, longer now than it seems, in a place that perhaps you've seen in your dreams.  For the story that you are about to be told, took place in the holiday worlds of old.  Now, you've probably wondered where holidays come from.  If you haven't, I'd say it's time you begun.
shadow		Boys and girls of every age Wouldn't you like to see something strange?
siamese shadow		Come with us and you will see This, our town of Halloween
ghosts		This is Halloween, everybody make a scene Trick or treat till the neighbors gonna die of fright It's our town, everybody scream In this town of Halloween
corpse chorus		This is Halloween, this is Halloween Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween!
vampires		In this town we call home Everyone hail to the pumpkin song
mayor		In this town, don't we love it now? Everybody's waiting for the next surprise
corpse chorus		Round that corner, man hiding in the trash can Something's waiting now to pounce, and how you'll scream
werewolf		Aren't you scared?
witches		Well, that's just fine Say it once, say it twice Take the chance and roll the dice Ride with the moon in the dead of night
hanging tree		Everybody scream, everybody scream
hanged men		In our town of Halloween
clown		I am the clown with the tear-away face Here in a flash and gone without a trace
second ghoul		I am the "who" when you call, "Who's there?" I am the wind blowing through your hair
corpse chorus		This is Halloween, this is Halloween Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween!
parent corpses		That's our job, but we're not mean In our town of Halloween
corpse chorus		In this town
mayor		Don't we love it now?
corpse chorus		Skeleton Jack might catch you in the back And scream like a banshee Make you jump out of your skin This is Halloween, everybody scream Won't ya please make way for a very special guy Our man Jack is king of the pumpkin patch Everyone hail to the Pumpkin King now
everyone		This is Halloween, this is Halloween Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween!
everyone		La la-la la, Halloween! Halloween! 
everyone		[applause]
witches		Cackling
clown		It's over!
behemoth		We did it!
werewolf		Wasn't it terrifying?
mayor		Great Halloween everybody.
jack		I believe it was our most horrible yet!  Thank you everyone.
mayor		No, thanks to  you, Jack.  Without your brilliant leadership -
jack		Not at all Mayor.
witch		You're a witch's fondest dream!
witch		Walls fall?  You made the very mountains crack, Jack
sally		Let go!
sally		Yes I am!
sally		No I'm not! [Sally pulls out the thread that's holding her arm on]
jack		Thank you, thank you, thank you -- very much
mayor		Hold it!  We haven't given out the prizes yet!  Our first award goes to the vampires for most blood drained in a single evening. [applause]
mayor		A frightening and honorable mention goes to the fabulous Dark Lagoon leeches
sax player		Nice work, Bone Daddy.
jack		Yeah, I guess so.  Just like last year and the year before that and the year before that.
sally		Jack, I know how you feel.
sally		I had to.
sally		Yes.
sally		Three times!
sally		You can make other creations.  I'm restless, I can't help it.
sally		But, I don't want to be patient.
zero		bark
jack		No Zero, not now.  I'm not in the mood.
zero		bark
jack		All right.  [giving Zero a rib from himself]  Here ya go boy.
mayor		Morning gents [to the band]
mayor		Jack, you home?
mayor		Jack?  I've got the plans for next Halloween.  I need to go over them with you so we can get started.
accordion player		He's not home.
mayor		Where is he?
sax player		He hasn't been home all night.
mayor		ooooo
jack		  Where are we?  It's someplace new.
zero		bark bark
jack		What is this?
jack		[gasps]
zero		bark bark
jack		Whoa!!!!
sandy claws		Ho Ho Ho Ho ho ho ho ho
jack		hmm..
clown		This has never happened before.
vampires		It's scary.
mayor		Stand aside.
werewolf		grrrr
mayor		Coming through.  We've got find Jack.  There's only 365 days left till next Halloween.
werewolf		364!
mayor		Is there anywhere we've forgotten to check?
witches		We opened the sarcophagi.
vampire		I peeked behind the Cyclops's eye.  I did!  But he wasn't there.
mayor		It's time to sound the alarms.
sally		Frog's breath will overpower any odor.  Bitter.  [coughing]  Worm's wart.  Where's that worm's wart?
sally		Coming....lunch
sally		What's wrong?  I-I thought you liked frog's breath.
sally		I'm not hungry... [knocking spoon]  Oops!
sally		Oh don't be silly.  [eats soup with trick spoon]  Mmmm, see.  Scrumptious.
mayor		Did anyone think to dredge the lake?
vampire		Ah, this morning!
zero		barks
zero		barks
vampire		Zero!
mayor		Where have you been?
jack		Call a town meeting and I'll tell everyone all about it.
mayor		When?
jack		Immediately!
mayor		[in his mayor truck] Town meeting, town meeting, town meeting tonight, town meeting tonight
jack		Listen everyone.  I want to tell you about Christmastown.
jack		There are objects so peculiar They were not to be believed All around, things to tantalize my brain It's a world unlike anything I've ever seen And as hard as I try I can't seem to describe Like a most improbable dream But you must believe when I tell you this It's as real as my skull and it does exist Here, let me show you
devil		A box? is it steel?
werewolf		Are there locks?
harleouin demon		Is it filled with a pox?
jack		If you please Just a box with bright-colored paper And the whole thing's topped with a bow
witches		A bow? But why? How ugly What's in it? What's in it?
jack		That's the point of the thing, not to know
clown		It's a bat Will it bend?
undersea gal		Perhaps it s the head that I found in the lake
jack		Listen now, you don't understand That's not the point of Christmas land
jack		Um, let me explain There's no foot inside, but there's candy Or sometimes it's filled with small toys
winged demon		Do they bite?
mummy		Do they snap?
winged demon		Or explode in a sack?
corpse kid		Or perhaps they just spring out And scare girls and boys
mayor		What a splendid idea This Christmas sounds fun I fully endorse it Let's try it at once
jack		Everyone, please now, not so fast There's something here that you don't quite grasp Well, I may as well give them what they want And the best, I must confess, I have saved for the last For the ruler of this Christmas land Is a fearsome king with a deep mighty voice Least that's what I've come to understand
jack		There's got to be a logical way to explain this Xmas thing.
jack		Hel-lo
jack		Dr. I need to borrow some equipment.
jack		I'm conducting a series of experiments.
jack		I know.
sally		Hmm.  Experiments?
jack		Zero, I'm home.
jack		Interesting reaction....but what does it mean?
jack		Christmas time is buzzing in my skull Will it let me be? I cannot tell There's so many things I cannot grasp When I think I've got it, and then at last Through my bony fingers it does slip Like a snowflake in a fiery grip
jack		Eureka!!  This year, Christmas will be ours!
mayor		Patience, everyone.  Jack has a special Job for each of us.  Dr. Finkelstein, your Xmas assignment is ready.  Dr. Finkelstein to the front of the line.
vampire		What kind of a noise is that for a baby to make?
jack		Perhaps it can be improved?
vampires		No problem!
jack		I knew it!  Dr. thank you for coming.  We need some of these. [showing picture of Santa and sleigh]
mayor		How horrible our Xmas will be.
jack		No--how jolly.
mayor		[switches face] Oh, how jolly our Xmas will be.  [gets pelted]  What are you doing here?
lock		Jack sent for us.
shock		Specifically.
barrel		By name.
lock		Lock
shock		Shock
barrel		Barrel
mayor		Jack, Jack it's Oogie's boys!
jack		Ah, Halloween's finest trick or treaters.  The job I have for you is top secret.  It requires craft, cunning, mischief.
shock		And we thought you didn't like us, Jack. [giggles]
jack		Absolutely no one is to know about it.  Not a soul.  Now-- [whispers to LS&B] And one more thing -- leave that no account Ooogie Boogie out of this!
barrel		Whatever you say, Jack.
shock		Of course Jack.
lock		Wouldn't dream of it Jack.
lock		I wanna do it
barrel		Let's draw straws
shock		Jack said we should work together Three of a kind
shock		First, we're going to set some bait Inside a nasty trap and wait When he comes a-sniffing we will Snap the trap and close the gate
lock		Wait! I've got a better plan To catch this big red lobster man Let's pop him in a boiling pot And when he's done we'll butter him up
shock		Then Mr. Oogie Boogie Man Can take the whole thing over then He'll be so pleased, I do declare That he will cook him rare
lock		I say that we take a cannon Aim it at his door And then knock three times And when he answers Sandy Claws will be no more
shock		You're so stupid, think now lf we blow him up to smithereens We may lose some pieces And then Jack will beat us black and green
barrel		He'll be so pleased by our success That he'll reward us too, I'll bet
shock		I wish my cohorts weren't so dumb
barrel		I'm not the dumb one
lock		You're no fun
shock		Shut up
lock		Make me
shock		I've got something, listen now This one is real good, you'll see We'll send a present to his door Upon there'll be a note to read Now, in the box we'll wait and hide Until his curiosity entices him to look inside
barrel		And then we'll have him One, two, three
oogie boogie		Sandy Claws..hahaha
jack		It goes something like this.  [Jingle bells] How about it?  Think you can manage?
mayor		Next!
jack		Fantastic!  Now why don't you all practice on that and we'll be in great shape.  Sally, I need your help more than anyone's.
sally		You certainly do, Jack.  I had the most terrible vision.
jack		That's splendid.
sally		No, it was about your Xmas.  There was smoke and fire.
jack		That not my Xmas.  My Xmas is filled with laughter and joy and this--my Sandy Claws outfit.  I want you to make it.
sally		Jack, please, listen to me--it's going to be a disaster.
jack		How could it be--just follow the pattern.  This part is red, the trim is white.
sally		It's a mistake, Jack.
jack		Now don't be modest, who else is clever enough to make my Sandy claws outfit.
mayor		Next!
jack		I have every confidence in you.
sally		But it seems wrong to me, very wrong.
jack		This device is called a nutcracker.
jack		Perfect!  Open it up.  Quickly!
jack		That's not Sandy Claws!
shock		It isn't?
barrel		Who is it?
behemoth		Bunny!
jack		Not Sandy Claws...take him back!
lock		We followed your instructions--
barrel		we went through the door--
jack		Which door?  There's more than one.  Sandy Claws is behind the door shaped like this.
shock		I told you!
jack		Arr!!  [making scary face at LS&B]
jack		I'm very sorry for the inconvenience, sir.  Take him home first  and apologize again.  Be careful with Sandy Claws when you fetch him.  Treat him nicely.
igor		Master, the plans.
clown		This time, this time
group		Making Christmas
accordion player		Making Christmas
mayor		Making Christmas, making Christmas Is so fine
group		It's ours this time And won't the children be surprised It's ours this time
child corpse		Making Christmas
mummy		Making Christmas
witches		Time to give them something fun
group		Let's have a cheer from everyone It's time to party
duck toy		Making Christmas, making Christmas
vampires		Snakes and mice get wrapped up so nice With spider legs and pretty bows
corpse father		All together, that and this
wolf man		Here comes Jack
jack		I don't believe what's happening to me My hopes, my dreams, my fantasies Hee, hee, hee, hee
harlequin		Won't they be impressed, I am a genius See how I transformed this old rat Into a most delightful hat
jack		Hmm, my compliments from me to you On this your most intriguing hat Consider though this substitute A bat in place of this old rat Huh! No, no, no, now that's all wrong This thing will never make a present It's been dead now for much too long Try something fresher, something pleasant Try again, don't give up
group		This time, this time
jack		It's ours!
group		Making Christmas, making Christmas La, la, la It's almost here
group		'Cause when the full moon starts to climb We'll all sing out
jack		It's Christmastime Hee, hee, hee
sandy claws		Kathleen, Bobby, Susie, yes, Susie's been nice.  Nice, nice, naughty, nice, nice, nice.  There are hardly any naughty children this year.
sandy claws		Now who could that be?
sandy claws		Huh?
sally		You don't look like yourself Jack, not at all.
jack		Isn't that wonderful.  It couldn't be more wonderful!
sally		But you're the Pumpkin King.
jack		Not anymore.  And I feel so much better now.
sally		Jack, I know you think something's missing.  But --
jack		You're right, something is missing but what?  I've got the beard, the coat, the boots --
lock		This time we really did!
barrel		He sure is big Jack!
shock		And heavy!
sandy claws		Let me out!
jack		Sandy Claws in person.  What a pleasure to meet you.  Why you have hands!  You don't have claws at all.
sandy claws		Where am I?
jack		Surprised aren't you?  I knew you would be.  You don't need to have another worry about Xmas this year.
sandy claws		What?
jack		Consider this a vacation Sandy,  a reward.  It's your turn to take it easy.
sandy claws		But there must be some mistake!
jack		See that he's comfortable.  Just a second fellows.  Of course, that's what I'm missing.
sandy claws		But --
jack		Thanks!  [took Sandy's hat]
sandy claws		You just can't...  Hold on where are we going now?
jack		ho ho ho
sally		This is worse than I thought, much worse.  I know...
sandy claws		Me?  On vacation on Xmas eve?
barrel		Where are we taking him?
sally		Where?
lock		To Oogie boogie, of course.  There isn't anywhere in the whole world more comfortable than that and Jack said to make him comfortable.  Didn't he?
sandy claws		Haven't you heard of peace on earth and good will toward men?
sally		This'll stop Jack.
sandy claws		Don't do this.  Naughty children never get any presents.
shock		I think he might be too big.
lock		No he's not.  If he can go down a chimney, he can fit down here!
oogie boogie		Well, well, well, what have we here? Sandy Claws, huh? Oh, I'm really scared So you're the one everybody's talkin' about, ha, ha
three skeletons		Ohhh
oogie boogie		Ohhh
oogie boogie		Ohhh
three bats		Ohhh, he's the Oogie Boogie Man
santa		Release me now Or you must face the dire consequences The children are expecting me So please, come to your senses
oogie boogie		You're jokin', you're jokin' I can't believe my ears Would someone shut this fella up I'm drownin' in my tears It's funny, I'm laughing You really are too much And now, with your permission I'm going to do my stuff
santa		What are you going to do?
oogie boogie		I'm gonna do the best I can
santa		Release me fast or you will have to Answer for this heinous act
oogie boogie		Oh, brother, you're something You put me in a spin You aren't comprehending The position that you're in It's hopeless, you're finished You haven't got a prayer 'Cause I'm Mr. Oogie Boogie And you ain't going nowhere
mayor		Think of us as you soar triumphantly through the sky outshining every star.  Your silhouette a dark blot on the moon, you who are our pride, you who are our glory, you who have frightened billions into an early grave.
mayor		You who have eh, devastated the souls of the living...
jack		Oh no!  We can't take off in this!  The reindeer can't see an inch in front of their noses.
sally		Whew!
vampire		This fog's as thick as, as...
cyclops		Jelly brains
vampire		Thicker!
jack		There go all of my hope, my precious plans, my glorious dreams.
zero		barks
jack		No Zero, down boy.  My what a brilliant nose you have.  The better to light my way!  To the head of the team, Zero!  We're off!
sally		Wait Jack, no!
jack		ho ho ha ha ha
sally		Good bye Jack, my dearest Jack.  Oh how I hope my premonition is wrong.
jack		ho ho ho ho ho ho he he he
jack		Merry Xmas!  And what is your name?
jack		That's all right.  I have a special present for you anyway. There you go sonny.  Hohohohehehe
jack		Merry Xmas!
jack		hohohohehehe
jack		You're welcome one and all!
sally		[over the Newscaster] Jack, someone has to help Jack.  Where'd they take that Sandy Claws?
jack		Look Zero, search lights!
jack		They're celebrating!  They're thanking us for doing such a good job.
jack		Whoa, careful down there, you almost hit us.
zero		bark
jack		It's ok, Zero.  Head higher!
oogie boogie		Are you a gamblin man, Sandy?  Let's play.
oogie boogie		Mmmm.. my, my....what have we here?
sally		[whispering]  I'll get you out of here.
oogie boogie		Ah, lovely.  Tickle, tickle, tickle.  Tickle, tickle, tickle.
oogie boogie		What?!?  You trying to make a dupe out of me?
jack		Who's next on my list.  Ah, little Harry and Jordan.  Won't they be surprised.
jack		They're trying to hit us!  ZERO!
zero		Bark
jack		Merry Xmas to all and to all a good night...
werewolf		howl!
sally		You wait till Jack hears about this.  By the time he's through with you, you'll be lucky if you...
mayor		The king of Halloween has been blown to smithereens.  Skeleton Jack is now a pile of dust.
sally		[gasp]
jack		Come on Zero.  Xmas isn't over yet!
oogie boogie		What's that you were saying about luck, rag doll?
sally		Help, help, help, help
oogie boogie		Sandy, looks like it's Oogie's turn to boogie.
sally		[scream]
oogie boogie		one 2 3 4 5 6 7 -- hahaha
sandy claws		This can't be happening!
oogie boogie		Ashes to ashes, and dust to dust.  Oh, I'm feeling weak...with hunger. One more roll of the dice oughta do it.  Haha [rolls dice] What!  Snake eyes.  [bang on table] Eleven!  Haha  looks like I won the jackpot! Bye bye doll face and sandman. Ha, ha, ha [about to dump Sally & Sandy Claus into the lava] What the...
jack		Hello Oogie
oogie boogie		Jack, but they said you were dead.  You must be double dead. Well come on bone man.
zero		bark bark
oogie boogie		oooo ooo ooo.  Pull an arm.  ha ha
sally		Jack look out!
oogie boogie		So long, Jack.  haha
jack		How dare you treat my friends so shamefully.
oogie boogie		Now look what you've done.  My bugs, my bugs, my bugs, bye bye bye
jack		Forgive me Mr. claws, I'm afraid I've made a terrible mess of your holiday.
sandy claws		Bumpy sleigh ride, Jack?  The next time you get the urge to take over someone else's holiday, I'd listen to her!  She's the only one who makes any sense around this insane asylum! Skeletons....
jack		I hope there's still time--
sandy claws		To fix Xmas?  Of course there is, I'm Santa Claus!
sally		He'll fix things Jack.  He knows what to do.
jack		How did you get down here Sally?
sally		Oh, I was trying to, well, I wanted to, to --
jack		to help me
sally		I couldn't just let you just...
jack		Sally, I can't believe I never realized...that you...
mayor		Jack, Jack!
barrel		Here he is!
lock		Alive!
shock		Just like we said.
mayor		Grab a hold my boy!
newscaster		Good news, folks.  Santa Claus, the one and only has finally been spotted.  Old Saint Nick appears to be traveling at supersonic speed. He's setting things right, bringing joy and cheer wherever he goes.  Yes folks, Kris Kringle has pulled it out of the bag and delivered Xmas to excited children all over the world!
chorus		La, la, la,  Jack's OK, and he's back, OK
chorus		Jack is back now, everyone sing In our town of Halloween
jack		It's great to be home!
sandy claws		Hohohohoho Happy Halloween!
jack		Merry Xmas!
child corpse		What's this?
cyclops		What's this?
harlequin demon		I haven't got a clue
clown		Why it's completely new
wolfman		Must be a Christmas thing
mayor		It's really very strange
chorus		This is Halloween Halloween! Halloween! Halloween!
jack		My dearest friend, if you don't mind I'd like to join you by your side Where we can gaze into the stars
****Dialogues from script :Nightmare_on_Elm_Street.txt****

tina		Just a dream, Ma...  Damn dream, is all...
tina's mother		Some dream, judging from that.
tina's mother		Hold your horses.  You gotta cut your nails or stop that kind of dreaming, Tina.  One or the other.
tina		 Oh, shit.
rope jumpers		Seven eight, gonna stay up late! Nine ten -- never sleep again!
tina		 Worst nightmare I ever had. You wouldn't believe it.
nancy		Matter of fact I had a bad dream last night myself...
rod		 Had a hardon this morning when I woke up, Tina.  Had your name written all over it.
tina		There's four letters in my name, Rod.  How could there be room on your joint for four letters?
rod		Hey, up yours with a twirling lawn mower!
tina		Rod says the sweetest things.
nancy		He's nuts about you.
tina		Yeah, nuts.
nancy		Forget it, the point is, every- body has nightmares once in a while. No biggy.
glen		Next time you have one, just tell yourself that's just all it is, right while you're having it, y'know?  That's the trick. Once you do that, you wake right up.  At least it works for me.
tina		Hey!  You have a nightmare too?
tina		I can't believe his mother let him come over here.
nancy		Right.  Well, she didn't, exactly...
glen		 See, I got this cousin who lives near the airport, that it's okay for me to stay with, right?  So I found this sound effects tape at Licorice Pizza, and...
nancy		Worked like a charm.
glen		Jesus.
nancy		Nice to have a fire.
tina		Really.  Turn 'er up a little.
nancy		Maybe we should call Rod, have him come over too.  He might get jealous.
tina		Rod and I are done.  He's too much of a maniac.
glen		He should join the Marines, they could make something out of him. Like a hand grenade.
nancy		See?  You've forgotten the bad dream.  Didn't I tell you?
tina		All day long I been seeing that guy's weird face, and hearing those fingernails...
nancy		Fingernails?  That's amazing, you saying that. It made me remember the dream I had last night.
tina		What you dream?
nancy		I dreamed about this guy in a dirty red and yellow sweater; I dream in color, y'know; he walked into the room I was in, right, right through the wall, like it was smoke or something, and just stared at me.  Sort of ...obscenely.  Then he walked out through the wall on the other side.  Like he'd just come to check me out...
tina		 So what about the fingernails?
nancy		He scraped his fingernails along things -- actually, they were more like fingerknives or something, like he'd made them himself?  Anyway, they made this horrible nose --  sssssccrrrtttt....
tina		Nancy.  You dreamed about the same creep I did, Nancy...
glen		That's impossible.
tina		What?
glen		Nothing.
tina		There's somebody out there, isn't there...
nancy		I didn't hear anything...
glen		I'm gonna punch out your ugly lights, whoever you are.
glen		It's just a stupid cat.
nancy		Then bring us back its tail and whiskers.
tina		Anyway, I don't have a cat...
glen		Kitty-kitty?  Chow chow chow?
rod		And it's number thirty-six, Rod Lane, bringing Lantz down just three yards from the goal with a brilliant tackle!  And the fans go wild!
tina		What the hell you doing here?
rod		Came to make up, no big deal. Your ma home?
tina		Of course.  What's that?
rod		Intense, huh?  So what's happening, an orgy or something?
glen		Maybe a funeral, you dickhead.
nancy		-- Just a sleep-over date, Rod. Just Tina and me.  Glen was just leaving.
rod		You see his face?  Me and Tina got stuff to discuss.
nancy		Rod...
rod		We got her mother's bed. You two got the rest.
nancy		We should get her out of here...
tina		Hey -- you guys're hanging around -- right?  Don't leave me alone with this lunatic -- Pleeeeze, NANCY!
glen		So we'll guard her together. Through the night.  In each others' arms like we always said.
nancy		Glen.  Not now.  I mean, we're here for Tina now, not for ourselves.
glen		 Why's she so bothered by a stupid nightmare, anyway?
nancy		Because he was scary, that's why.
glen		Who was scary?
nancy		Don't you think it's weird, her and me dreaming about the same guy?  You didn't have a bad dream last night, did you?
glen		Me?  I don't dream.
glen		Morality sucks.
tina		I knew there was sometihng about you I liked...
rod		You feel better now, right?
tina		Jungle man fix Jane.
rod		No more fights?
tina		No more fights.
rod		 Good.  No more nightmares for either of us then.
tina		 When did you have a nightmare?
rod		 Guys can have nightmares too, y'know.  You ain't got a corner on the fucking market or something.
tina		 Where'd you get this snotty old thing?
tina		ROD...
tina		 Who the fuck you think you are, whoever you are?
tina		 Somebody there?
voice		 Tina.
tina		Who the hell is that?
tina		Oh, shit, please God...
killer		 This is God...
tina		Nancy!  Open the door -- Nancy!
man		She's still awake.  Nancy can't hear you.
rod		T-tina!?
rod		What the hell's going ON here! Tina!
rod		Tina --
rod		You motherfucker!  I'll kill you for that!
glen		What the hell's going on!?
nancy		Oh -- jeez -- Glen!  Rod's gone ape!
glen		Rod?  Rod, you better not hurt Tina...
glen		You okay?
nancy		Yeah.  Something slippering all over here...  Tina?
glen		Oh, shit...
parker		Lieutenant Thompson.  Sorry to wake you, but --
lt thompson		I'd've canned your ass if you hadn't.  What you got?
parker		Her name was Tina Gray.  It was her home.  Father abandoned ten years ago, mother's in Vegas with a boyfriend.  We're trying to reach her now.
lt thompson		What's the Coroner got to say?
parker		Something like a razor was the weapon, but nothing found on the scene.
sergeant garcia		 Leautenant.  You know who --
lt thompson		Where is she?
sergeant garcia		I put her in your office...
parker		Looks like her boyfriend did it.  Rod Lane.  Musician type, arrests for brawling, dope --
lt thompson		Terrific.  What the hell was she doing there?
parker		She lived there.
marge		Hello to you, too, Donald.
lt thompson		Marge.
nancy		Okay.  Hi, dad.
lt thompson		I don't want to get into this now, god knows you need time.  But I'd sure would like to know what the hell you were doing shacked up with three other kids in the middle of the night -- especially a delinquent lunatic like Lane.
nancy		Rod's not a lunatic.
lt thompson		You got a sane explanation for what he did?
marge		Apparantly he was crazy jealous. Nancy said they'd had a fight, Rod and Tina.
nancy		 It wasn't that serious...
marge		Maybe you don't think murder's serious --
nancy		She was my best friend!  Don't you dare say I don't take her death seriously!  I just meant their fights weren't that serious.
lt thompson		What?
nancy		She had a nightmare about somebody trying to kill her, last night. That's why we were there; she was afraid to sleep alone.
marge		She's been through enough for one night.  You have her statement.
lt thompson		 I suggest you keep a little better track on her -- she's still a kid, y'know.
marge		You think I knew there were boys there!?  You try raising a teenager alone.
lt thompson		 See they get home okay.
marge		 Where you think you're going?
nancy		School.
marge		I could hear you tossing and turning all night, kiddo.  You've no business going to school.
nancy		I gotta go to school, Mom. Please.  Otherwise I'll just sit up there and go crazy or something.
marge		Did you sleep?
nancy		I'll sleep in study hall, promise. I'd rather keep busy, you know?
marge		Right home after.
rod		I'm not gonna hurt you.
rod		Your old man thinks I did it, don't he?
nancy		He doesn't know you.  Couldn't you change?
rod		The cops were all over my house.  They'll kill me for sure.
nancy		Nobody's gonna kill you.
rod		I never touched her.
nancy		You were screaming like crazy.
rod		Someone else was there.
nancy		The door was locked from your side.
rod		Don't look at me like I'm some kind of fucking fruitcake or something, I'm warning you.
lt thompson		Now just step away from her, son. Like your ass depended on it. I'm warning you.
nancy		No!
thompson		Jesus -- are you crazy!?
nancy		You used me, daddy!
lt thompson		 What the hell you doing going to school today, anyway -- your mother told me you didn't even sleep last night!
lt thompson		Nancy!  Hey!
teacher		According to Shakespeare, there was something operating in Nature, perhaps inside human nature itself, that was rotten -- a canker, as he put it.
surfer		 Uh, In the most high and palmy state of Rome...
english teacher		Can it.
surfer		O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams...
nancy		Tina!
hallguard		Y-you're not supposed to run. W-where's your pass -- you got a pass?
nancy		Screw your stupid pass!
hallguard		Hey, no running in the halls!
nancy		Tina?
nancy		Who are you?
man		Gonna get you.
teacher		Okay -- Okay, Thompson!  Every- thing's all right now -- Nancy!.
teacher		I'll call your mother.
nancy		No!  No, really, I'm fine.  I'll go straight home.  I'm okay.
teacher		You'll need a hall pass!
tina		Couldn't get back to sleep at all.  What you dream?
nancy		My dad here?
sergeant garcia		Lieutenant.
lt thompson		Decide to take a day off after all?
nancy		Dad, I want to see Rod Lane.
lt thompson		Only family allowed, Nancy.  You know the drill.
nancy		Just want to talk to him a second.
lt thompson		He's dangerous.
nancy		You don't know he did it.
lt thompson		No, I know, thanks to your own testimony, that he was locked in a room with a girl who went in alive and came out in a rubber bag.
nancy		I just want to talk to him.  Please, Dad.
lt thompson		Make it fast.
nancy		 And then what happened?
rod		I told you.  It was dark, but I'm sure there was someone else IN there, under the covers with her.
nancy		How could somebody get under the covers with you guys without you knowing it?
rod		How the fuck do I know?  I don't expect you to believe me.
nancy		What he look like?  You get a look at him?
rod		No.
nancy		Well then how can you say somebody else was there?
rod		Because somebody cut her.  While I watched.
nancy		Somebody cut her while you watched and you don't know what he looked like?
rod		You couldn't see the fucker. You could just see the cuts happening, all at once.
nancy		What you mean 'all at once'?
rod		 I mean, it was as if there were four razors cutting her at the same time.  But invisible razors. She just... opened up...
nancy		Rod!
rod		I probably could've saved her if I'd moved sooner...  But I thought it was just another nightmare, like the one I had the night before.  There... was this guy who had knives for fingers...
nancy		No.
marge		Nancy, don't fall asleep in there.
marge		Get into bed.
nancy		I will.
nancy		What?
nancy		Mother, for petesakes.
nancy		 Warm milk.  Gross.
marge		Nancy!  NANCY!
nancy		Mommy!
marge		I told you!  Hundreds of people a year drown like that!
marge		You okay?
nancy		Great
marge		 To bed with you, c'mon.
marge		No television, forget the homework, no phone calls.
nancy		No, Mother.  Yes, Mother. No, Mother.
marge		And no school tomorrow, either. you take a little vacation, relax and rest for a change.
nancy		Yes, Mother.  G'night.
marge		Take this, it'll help you sleep.
nancy		Right.
marge		Sleep tight, don't let the bedbugs bite.
glen		Sorry!  Saw your light on. Thought I'd see how you were.
nancy		Sometimes I wish you didn't live right across the street.
glen		Shut up and let me in.  You ever stand on a rose trellis in your bare feet?
nancy		If you don't mind.
glen		So.  I heard you freaked out in English class today.
nancy		Guess I did.
glen		Haven't slept, have you?
nancy		Not really.
glen		You look dead and rained on, if you want the ugly truth.  And what you do to your arm?
nancy		Burned myself in Englsh class.
nancy		M'god, I look twenty years old.  You have any weird dreams last night?
glen		Slept like a rock.
nancy		 You believe it's possible to dream about what's going to happen?
glen		No.
nancy		You believe in the Boogey Man?
glen		One two, Freddie's coming for you?  No.  Rod killed Tina. he's a fruitcake and you know it.
nancy		You believe in anything?
glen		I believe in you, me, and Rock and Roll.  And I'm not too sure about you lately.
nancy		Listen, I got a crazy favor to ask.
glen		Uh-oh...
nancy		It's nothing too hard or anything.  I'm just going to... LOOK for someone, and... I want you to be sort of a ...guard. Okay?
nancy		Okay?
glen		Okay, okay.  I think.
nancy		You won't screw up, right?  I mean, a whole lot might depend on it.
glen		Okay, I won't screw up.
nancy		Shhh.  Now listen, here's what we're gonna do...
nancy		 You still there?
glen		Yeah.  So?
nancy		Just checking -- keep out of sight!
nancy		On your toes, right?
nancy		Glen!!
nancy		I swear...
nancy		Glen, where are you!  Wake up! Glen!
nancy		Glen!  Glen!!!
nancy		Glennn!!!
nancy		Glen, you bastard...
nancy		 But you.  You shit -- what do you do -- you fall asleep!
glen		Oh, shit.
nancy		Yes, mother?
marge		 You okay?
nancy		 Yeah.  Just had a little dream. I'm falling right back to sleep.
marge		 Okay... You need anything, just call.
nancy		Okay.
glen		You mind telling me what's going on?
nancy		Garcia, I want to see Rod Lane again.
sgt garcia		I thought when I took the night shift I'd have peace and quiet for a change.
nancy		It's urgent, we've gotta see Rod.
sgt garcia		It's three in the morning. Your mother know you're out this late?
nancy		 Of course -- look, at least go back and look at him.  Just see if he's okay.
glen		 We have reason to think there might be something weird going on.
nancy		Dad -- what you doing here?
lt thompson		It so happens I work here, and there's an unsolved murder.  I don't like unsolved murders, especially ones my daughter's mixed up in -- what are you doing here at this hour?  You're supposed to be getting some sleep.
glen		Listen, sir, this is serious. Nancy had a nightmare about Rod being in danger, or something, and so she thinks...
nancy		I just want to see if he's okay!
sgt garcia		Take my word for it, Nancy.  The guy's sleeping like a baby.  He's not going anywhere.
nancy		This isn't your average nightmare, Daddy -- damn it!
lt thompson		Now look, Nancy, don't push it.  You've already rubbed my nose in sex, drugs and violence -- don't start throwing in insanity!
nancy		Just go back and check -- please!
lt thompson		Okay, Garcia.  What the hell.
sgt garcia		Right...  Now where'd I put the key...
nancy		Rod!
lt thompson		Gimme a hand, dammit!
sgt garcia		Goddamn loco kid -- he didn't have t'do that -- Madre dios!
lt thompson		How'd you know he was gonna do this?
minister		Ashes to ashes, dust to dust. May God be with this young man's soul.
nancy		 Amen to that much.
lt thompson		How's Nancy doing?
marge		I don't think she's slept since Tina died.  She's always been a delicate kid.
lt thompson		She's tougher than you think. Any idea how she knew Rod was gonna kill himself?
marge		No.  All I know is, this reminds me too much of ten years ago.
lt thompson		Yeah.  Well... Let's not start digging up bodies just because we're in a cemetery.
marge		 Time to go home, baby.
nancy		The killer's still loose, you know.
lt thompson		You saying somebody else killed Tina?  Who?
nancy		I don't know who he is.  But he's burned, he wears a weird hat, a red and yellow sweater, real dirty, and he uses some sort of knifes he's got made into a sort of... glove.  Like giant finger- nails.
lt thompson		 I think you should keep Nancy at home a few days.  'Til she's really over the shock.
marge		I got something better...  I'm gonna get you help, baby. So no one will threaten you any more.
nancy		But I just don't feel... ready to sleep yet.  Please, do I have to?
dr king		Don't worry, you're not gonna change into Bride of Frankenstein or anything.
marge		No, nothing.
nancy		He means, did you ever drop me on my head.
dr king		Nightmares are expected after psychological trauma.  Don't worry, they go away.
marge		I sure as hell hope so.
dr king		Everyone's got to dream. If you don't dream, you go...  All set?
nancy		No.
marge		They're just simple tests, Nan.  We'll both be right here.
dr king		Look, I know it's been fright- ening, I know your dreams have seemed real.  But... it's okay.  Okay?
marge		Please, Nancy.  Trust us.
nancy		It's not you I don't trust. It's...  Okay.  Let's do it.
dr king		How long's this been going on?
marge		Since the murder.  She was fine before that.
dr king		Not to worry.  No signs of path- ology in Nancy's EEG or pulse rate.  I'd guess what we've got is a normal young girl who just happens to have gone through two days of hell.
marge		It's just made her think... her dreams are real...
dr king		Ever hear the old Buddhist tale about the King who dreamed he was a beggar who dreamed he was a king?
marge		 Thank God.
marge		What the hell are dreams, anyway?
dr king		Mysteries.  Incredible body hookus pokus.  Truth is we still don't know what they are or where they come from. As for nightmares...  Did you know that in the last three years twenty Philipino refugees in California died in the middle of nightmares? Not from heart attacks, either. They just died.
marge		What happened?  That needle sank like a rock.
dr king		 Right now she's like a diver on the bottom of an ocean no one's mapped yet.  Waiting to see what shows up.
dr king		Okay, she's started to dream.
marge		How can you tell?
dr king		R.E.M.'s.  Rapid eye movements. The eyes follow the dream -- their movement picks up on this --
marge		What the hell's this?  She awake or asleep?
dr king		Can't be.  It never gets this high...
marge		NANCY!!!  IT'S MOM -- NANCY!!!!
dr king		Now, this is just going to let you relax and sleep, Nan --
nancy		No.  That's enough sleep.
dr king		Okay, kid.  Okay.  Fair enough.
marge		Oh my god, oh my god...
dr king		 Get the kit!
nancy		You believe this?
marge		 Where the hell did you get that?
nancy		I grabbed it off his head.
marge		She said she snatched it off his head in a dream.  Gotta go.
nancy		Go even crazier?
marge		I don't think you're going crazy -- and stop drinking that damn coffee!
nancy		Did you ask Daddy to have the hat examined?
marge		I threw that filthy thing away -- I don't know what you're trying to prove with it, but --
nancy		What I learned at the dream clinic, that's what I'm trying to prove.  Rod didn't kill Tina, and he didn't hang himself. It's this guy -- he's after us in our dreams.
marge		But that's just not reality, Nancy!
nancy		It's real, Mamma.  Feel it.
marge		 Put that damned thing down!
nancy		His name is even in it -- written right in here -- Fred Krueger -- Fred Krueger!  You know who that is, Mamma?  You better tell me, cause now he's after me!
marge		Nancy, trust your mother for once -- you'll feel better as soon as you sleep!
nancy		You call this feeling better? Or should I grab a bottle and veg out with you -- avoid everything happening to me by just getting good and loaded --
marge		 Fred Krueger can't be after you, Nancy -- he's dead!
nancy		You knew about him all this time, and you've been acting like he was someone I made up!
marge		You're sick, Nancy.  Imagining things.  You need to sleep, it's as simple as that.
nancy		Screw sleep!
nancy		That's enough!
glen		Whenever I get nervous I eat.
nancy		And if you can't do that, you sleep.
glen		Used to.  Not anymore.
nancy		No.
glen		They got a whole system they call 'dream skills'.  So, if you have a nightmare, for instance like falling, right?
nancy		Yeah.
glen		Instead of screaming and getting nuts, you say, okay, I'm gonna make up my mind that I fall into a magic world where I can get something special, like a poem or song.  They get all their art literature from dreams.  Just wake up and write it down.  Dreamskills.
nancy		And what if they meet a monster in their dream?  Then what?
glen		They turn their back on it.  Takes away its energy, and it disappears.
nancy		What happens if they don't do that?
glen		 I guess those people don't wake up to tell what happens.
nancy		Great.
glen		'Booby Traps and Improvised Anti-personel Devices'!
nancy		I found it at this neat survivalist bookstore on Ventura.
glen		 Well what you reading it for?
nancy		I'm into survival.
glen		She's starting to scare the living shit out of me.
foreman		And the other...
marge		Where's your mask and gun?
foreman		Don't bust my chops, lady. If the city found out I put 'em in without inside releases I'd loose my license.
nancy		Oh gross...
nancy		Oh, Mom...
marge		'S'mine...
nancy		What's with the bars?
marge		S'curity.
nancy		Mom, I want to know what you know about Fred Krueger.
marge		Dead and gone.
nancy		I want to know how, where -- if you don't tell me, I'm going to call daddy.
nancy		I do want to know.  He's not dead and gone -- he's after me and if I sleep he'll get me! I've got to know!
marge		All right.
marge		You want to know who Fred Krueger was?  He was a filthy child killer who got at least twenty kids, kids from our area, kids we all knew.  It drove us all crazy when we didn't know who was doing it -- but it was even worse when they caught him.
nancy		So he's alive?
marge		He wouldn've stopped.  The bastard would've got more kids first chance he got -- they found nearly ten bodies in his boiler room as it was.  But the law couldn't touch him.
nancy		 What did you do, mother?
marge		Bunch of us parents tracked him down after they let him go.  Found him in an old boiler room, just like before.  Saw him lying there in that caked red and yellow sweater he always wore, drunk an' asleep with his weird knives by his side...
nancy		 Go on...
marge		We poured gasoline all around the place, left a trail out the door, locked the door, then...
nancy		Who was there?  Were Tina's parents there?  Were Rod's?
marge		Sure, and Glen's.  All of us. But that's in the past now, baby.  Really.  It's over.  We even took his knives.
nancy		All these years you've kept those things buried down here?  In our own house?
glen		Hello?
glen		Oh.  Hi, how y'doing?
glen		I heard your ma went ape at the security store today.  You look like the Prisoner of Zenda or something.  How long's it been since you slept?
nancy		Coming up on the seventh day.  It's okay, I checked Guiness.  The record's eleven, and I'll beat that if I have to.  Listen, I... I know who he is.
glen		Who?
nancy		The killer.
glen		You do?
nancy		Yeah, and if he gets me, I'm pretty sure you're next.
glen		Me!?  Why would anyone want to kill me?!
nancy		Don't ask -- just give me some help nailing this guy when I bring him out.
glen		Bring him out of what?
nancy		My dream.
glen		How you plan to do that?
nancy		Just like I did the hat.  Have a hold of the sucker when you wake me up.
glen		Me?  Wait a minute, you can't bring someone out of a dream!
nancy		If I can't, then you all can relax, because it'll just be a simple case of me being nuts.
glen		I can save you the trouble. You're nutty as a fruitcake. I love you anyway.
nancy		Good, then you won't mind cold-cocking this guy when I bring him out.
glen		What!?
nancy		 You heard me.  I grab him in the dream -- you see me struggling so you wake me up.  We both come out, you cold cock the fucker, and we got him.  Clever, huh?
glen		You crazy?  Hit him with what?
nancy		You're a jock.  You must have a baseball bat or something. Come to my window at midnight. And meanwhile...
glen		 Meanwhile..?
nancy		Meanwhile whatever you do don't fall asleep.  Midnight.
glen		Holy shit!  Midnight.  Baseball bats and boogemen.  Unfucking real.
lt thompson		Can't sleep, thought I'd come break up the poker game.
sergeant garcia		If it was any more quiet we could hear owls farting.
lt thompson		Is quiet, isn't it?
sergeant garcia		 How's your girl?
lt thompson		She's sensible.  She'll sleep sooner or later.
mr lantz		You'd think they'd have some- thing 'bout the Lane kid hanging himself.
mrs lantz		Maybe we're all making more out of it than we should.
mrs lantz		Glen?  you all right?
glen		Whuu?
mrs lantz		How can you listen to Carson and a record at the same time?
glen		Wasn't listening to the tube, just watching.  Miss Nude America's supposed to be on tonight.
mrs lantz		Well how you gonna hear what she says?
glen		Who cares what she says?
mrs lantz		You should get to sleep soon, Glen.  It's almost midnight. Goodness knows we've all had enough of a time the last few days...
glen		I will, Mom...in a while. You guys turning in?
mrs lantz		Pretty soon.
marge		We'll go away, take a vacation. Get your hair colored nice, the way it was.  No one will ever know.  This whole room smells of coffee, y'know?
nancy		Okay.
mrs lantz		Shouldn't stare.
mr lantz		Know what I think?  I think that kid's some kinda lunatic.
mrs lantz		Shouldn't say such a thing about the poor child.  If you mean the bars, Marge's just being cautious, her being alone and Nancy acting so nervous lately.
nancy		 Hang on GLEN...
glen		Well, I'm not gonna risk sneaking out until she does.
mr lantz		Who at this hour?
mrs lantz		Hello?  It's her.  She wants to talk to Glen.
mr lantz		 About what?
mrs lantz		 What's this about, Nancy?
mr lantz		Glen's asleep.  Talk to him tomorrow!
nancy		Glen.  Don't fall asleep...
nancy		Glen?
nancy		Brilliant.  Now what if Glen calls?
nancy		I'm awake, I am awake.  This is not a dream!  I am --
nancy		 Give me the key, mother.
marge		I don't even have it on me, so forget it.
nancy		GLEEENNNNNN!
nancy		Okay, Krueger, you bastard. We play in your court.
parker		Lieutenant.  It's your daughter. Says it's urgent.
lt thompson		 Tell her I'm not here, tell her...
parker		Uh, she just saw you, sir...
nancy		Hi daddy.  I know what happened.
lt thompson		Then you know more than I do -- I haven't even been upstairs.
nancy		 You know he's dead though, right?
lt thompson		Yeah, apparantly he's dead. How the hell'd you know?
nancy		I've got a proposition for you.  Listen very carefully, please.
lt thompson		Nan, I --
nancy		Please.  I'm gonna go get the guy who did it and bring him to you.  I just need you be right there to arrest him. Okay?
lt thompson		Just tell me who did it and I'll go get him, baby.
nancy		Fred Krueger did it, Daddy, and only I can get him.  It's my nightmare he comes to.
lt thompson		Where'd you hear about Krueger --
nancy		-- I want you to come over here and break the door down exactly twenty minutes from now -- can you do that?
lt thompson		Sure, but...
nancy		That'll be exactly half past midnight.  Time for me to fall asleep and find him.
lt thompson		Sure, sure, honey.  You just do that -- get yourself some sleep -- that's what I've been saying all along.
nancy		And you'll be here to catch him, right?
parker		Lieutenant -- they're waiting upstairs.
lt thompson		Sure, okay, I'll be there. Now you just turn in and get some rest, sweetheart.  Please. Deal?
nancy		Deal.
parker		'Anything funny' like what?
lt thompson		I don't know -- but one thing for sure, I don't want her coming over here.  She's way too far gone to be able to to handle this.
cop		 What the hell did that, Lieutenant?  There ain't even a head left.
lt thompson		Goddamed if I know.  What's the Coronor say?
cop		He's in the john puking since he saw it.
marge		Guess I should'n'a done it.
nancy		Just sleep now, Mom.
marge		Just wanted to protect you, Nan.  Just wanted to protect you...
lt thompson		I know it's hard to think at a time like this, Walter, but can you think of anyone who could've done such a thing?
mr lantz		He done it.
lt thompson		Who?  Who did that?
mr lantz		Krueger.
lt thompson		Krueger?
mr lantz		Had to've done it.  No one else was in there.
lt thompson		How you know that?
mr lantz		Cause I thought Glen was gonna sneak out to see your lunatic daughter, that's why. So I locked him in his room!  Sorry.  Anyways, the door was still locked when we heard the screams.
lt thompson		 Keep your head -- this is a fucking flesh and blood killer we're talking about.
mr lantz		Like Rod Lane?
nancy		 Come out and show yourself, you bastard.
nancy		I'm crazy after all...
nancy		Help!  Hey -- Daddy -- I got him trapped!  Where are you!?
parker		 Everything's going to be all right!  Everything's under control!
nancy		Get my father, you asshole!
marge		No!
marge		Nancy -- for god's sake's run!
nancy		Daddy!  Where are you!
parker		Poor woman's got her hands full with that kid.  Maybe I better tell the lieutenant.
nancy		Hey fuckface -- can't catch me!
nancy		 Come on -- he's in here! Daddy!  Don't let him kill me too!
krueger		Ready for these?
coroner		Found you something, Donald. Should remind you of something...
parker		Hey -- your daughter's acting kinda -- !  Strange...
nancy		DAD!  GET US OUTTA HERE!
lt thompson		Oh, Jesus -- Nancy!  Hey!  We got a fire!
lt thompson		What the hell are you talking about, Nancy?
lt thompson		NANCY!
nancy		He's under there!  Watch it!
nancy		Now do you believe me?
parker		You find him?  Sir?
nancy		 I know you're there, Krueger.
freddie		You think you was gonna get away from me?
nancy		I know you too well now, Freddie.
freddy		And now you die...
nancy		It's too late, Krueger.  I know the secret now -- this is just a dream, too -- you're not alive -- the whole thing is a dream -- so fuck off! I want my mother and friends again.
freddie		You what?
nancy		 I take back every bit of energy I ever gave you. You're nothing.  You're shit.
nancy		 God, it's bright.
marge		Gonna burn off soon or it wouldn't be so bright.
nancy		Feeling better?
marge		They say you've bottomed out when you can't remember the night before.  No more drinking, Baby, suddenly I just don't feel like it any more.
nancy		Nah.  Just slept heavy.
marge		See ya.
nancy		See ya.
glen		 You believe this fog?
marge		 I believe anything's possible.
tina		Lookin' good, girl!
girls		One two -- Freddy's coming for you! Three four -- Better lock your door! Five six -- Get your Crucifix Seven eight -- Gonna stay up late! Nine ten -- Never sleep again!
****Dialogues from script :Nightmare_on_Elm_Street__The_Final_Chapter.txt****

jacob		Do you hear that?
greyhaired man		Hear what?
jacob		That noise.
greyhaired man		I don't hear anything.
jacob		Excuse me.
stewardess		Yes?
jacob		What is that sound?
stewardess		That's just the engines, sir.
jacob		No, it's different.  It's not the engines.  It's getting louder.
stewardess		We're just gaining altitude to get above some rough weather.  That's the sound of the engines speeding up a bit. Everything's fine.
jacob		Um...okay.
greyhaired man		 Look, kid.  Will you relax?  It's just the damn engines, okay?
the children		One two, Freddy's coming for you...
child		Nine ten, never sleep again!
jacob		No!
jacob		Yeah..
alice		You okay, honey?
jacob		Yeah, Mom.  I'm fine.
alice		Alright.  Better get cooking or you'll be late for school.
jacob		On my way.
jacob		Get the hell out of here!  It's coming!
woman		What's coming?
jacob		Don't you see it?
woman		See what?
freddy		Payback time...
jacob		No!
freddy		Don't worry, I have a strong stomach.
jacob		I dreamed you away before I was born! Mom said you couldn't come back!
freddy		Is that true?  Then she told you all about me, huh? Let's see what else she has to say.
alice		Run, Jacob!
jacob		Leave her alone!
freddy		You're such a momma's boy!
jacob		You fucker!
freddy		Springwood is only the beginning.  All I need from you is a ride!
sound cop		WAKE UP!
jacob		Mom...
jacob		What's going on?
karen		Free speech.  The right of assembly.
jacob		What is this place?
karen		It's a home.  A foster home.  For teenagers.  It's where you go when things get bad.  It's the place to figure out what to do next.  It's a home for kids that no one else wants.  It's MY home.
jacob		Oh...
karen		What have we ever done to you?
jacob		Lighten up, mister.
jacob		My kind?  What kind is that?
jacob		Swell.  I've just got a couple of questions for you...Do you love your parents?
jacob		Are they alive?
jacob		What's it like?
karen		Assholes.
jacob		I can think of a stronger word.  Are you okay?
karen		Yeah.  Thanks.  I'm Karen.
jacob		Jacob.
karen		Are YOU okay?
jacob		Yeah.  I just haven't had much to eat lately.
karen		Then come help me unpack.
karen		I guess the sandwich is alright, huh?
jacob		It's incredible.  Best I've ever had.
karen		You're not from around here, are you?
jacob		No.  I've been on the road for a couple of days.
karen		Do you need a place to stay?
mary		So, we have to get it fixed.
david		We don't have the money to get it fixed.
karen		What's wrong?
david		Our plumbing has a bad case of hardening of the arteries.  Who's your friend?
karen		This is Jacob.
jacob		Jacob Johnson.
david		David Ross.  My wife, Mary.
karen		They run this house.  They're helping me and three other ids get a footing in reality before they kick us out of the nest to make room for the next batch.
david		If there is a next batch.  I see the welcome wagon is back.  Was there any trouble?
karen		A little.  Jacob came to my rescue.
mary		 Where you from, Jacob?
jacob		Springwood.
mary		Springwood?  Where's that?
jacob		Upstate about a hundred miles.
david		 I know this state like the back of my hand.  I've never heard of Springwood.
karen		Jacob's a little down on his luck.  I told him he could stay here a few days.
mary		Are your parents in Springwood?
jacob		My father died before I was born.  My mother, she's dead, too.
david		You have a legal guardian?
jacob		No.
david		Been in any state or federal program?
jacob		No.
karen		Just for a little while.  So he can get his bearings.
david		Got any ID?
mary		 I think we can help him out, honey.  The budget's tight, but we can't turn down someone in need.
david		Okay.  You got three, maybe four days to rest up while we try and find a more permanent arrangement for you.  But his isn't going to be a free ride.  We're part of a community summer work project and eighty percent of the money you make goes to the house.  Everybody works - and that includes you.  Are you on drugs?
jacob		No.
david		Good.  If I catch anything stronger then an aspirin on you, you're outta here.  No arguments.  You got that straight?
jacob		Yes, sir.
david		Okay.  Dinner in two hours.  Why don't you go meet the rest of the gang.
karen		Thanks, David.
mary		I'll go fix up the spare bed in Wesley's room.
david		And take a shower, for chrissakes.
karen		Hey, guys, I got someone for you to meet. This is Jacob.  Jacob, this is Wesley and Gina.
jacob		Hi.
wesley		Welcome to fun central.
karen		He's going to be staying with us for a while.
gina		Oh yeah?  How'd you get through the blockade?
scott		Hey, beautiful.  How's it going?
karen		Hi, Scott.
scott		Who's Barney Rubble?
karen		This is Jacob Johnson.  He's a new resident.  At least temporarily.
scott		He better not be rooming with me.  I value my privacy.
karen		No, I believe that honor goes to Wesley.
wesley		Good.  I could use the company.
scott		So what's your story?  Divorce?  Custody battle?  Your parents just plain assholes?
jacob		They're dead.
karen		Mellow out, Scott.  Give him a chance to settle in.
scott		Just curious.
jacob		Is he alright?
scott		He'll be fine.  He just has a problem with cigarettes.
gina		His parents used to use them as a sick kind of discipline.  That's why he's here.
jacob		If you know that, then why do you smoke in front of him?
scott		It's not my problem.
jacob		Just what is YOUR problem, then?
scott		I took care of my problem.  That's why I'M here.
karen		His dad used to beat him.  One day he couldn't take it any more.
jacob		What happened?
karen		He killed him with his father's gun. Self-defense.
gina		Everyone here has a fun tale to tell. Isn't that right, Karen?
karen		Yeah.  Right.
karen		Why don't you go to bed?
jacob		I can't sleep.
karen		You need to talk?
jacob		No.  I'm fine.  Thanks.
scott		Come on.  Let's hop to it.  Gotta make way for those new indoor tennis courts. The fate of the world lies in the balance.  Okay, this load's full.
jacob		Yeah, no problem.
scott		I don't know.  Maybe you should think about switching to de-caf or something.
jacob		You okay?
gina		No!  Yes!  Let go of me!
karen		She doesn't like to be touched.
jacob		No shit!
karen		Don't take it personally.  It's not her fault.
jacob		What happened to her?
karen		Her mother was a hooker.  She forced Gina to carry on the tradition.  When she was thirteen...
jacob		Jesus.
karen		You look terrible.
jacob		 Thanks.
karen		I'm sorry...I just wish you'd tell me what happened to you, that's all.
jacob		I can't talk about it right now.  I'll tell you later.  I promise.
karen		Okay.  Why don't you sit and rest for a bit.  The supervisor's not around.  You look like you could use it.
jacob		I think I will.
voice		Hey, you!
supervisor		No slacking off.  Back to work.
jacob		What!  Jesus fucking...Oh, shit!
supervisor		Whoa!  Get a grip, boy.
jacob		Huh?  What's going on?
supervisor		Nothing.  That's the problem.  Now that you've gotten your beauty rest, let's see if you can change it, okay?
wesley		Aren't you going to bed?
jacob		I'm not tired.
wesley		Bullshit.  If you looked any more tired, you'd be dead.
jacob		That's right.
wesley		You gotta sleep, man.
jacob		Why?  Who says?  You know, people don't even really know why we sleep.  They haven't found any physical reason for it.
wesley		But they do know that you go nuts if you don't.
jacob		Sharks don't sleep.  They can't pump water through their gills on their own. They have to always keep moving.  If they stop, they can't breath.  If they go to sleep, they die.
wesley		You're not a shark.
jacob		I know.  I'm just a kid.  Don't worry about me, Wes.  Go to sleep.
freddy		You can't stay awake forever, boy!
wesley		I told you you'd go nuts!
jacob		Get everybody else.  I have to tell them something.
wesley		In the middle of the night?
jacob		I MEAN it!
scott		I don't get it.  Is this guy alive or dead?
jacob		He's neither.  He haunts your dreams and if he kills you, you die for real.
wesley		I haven't dreamed of him. I have nightmares like you wouldn't believe, but never of this guy.
scott		That's because this all rates an eleven on the bullshit meter!  I don't know why we have to listen to this crap.  You're scaring the hell out of Wes here.
gina		Keep your voice down.
scott		It doesn't matter.  The Ross's sleep like rocks, which is what we all should be doing.
jacob		I know this sounds crazy, but I swear it's true.  I went to bed one night and woke up in the middle of the road. Freddy Krueger killed my mother, blasted my whole town into his nightmare, and, worst of all, I think he wants to use me to kill more kids and bring more towns into his world.
karen		How?
jacob		I'm not sure.  I think I'm some kind of carrier.  He's somehow inside me and as soon as I fall deep enough into sleep he'll be let loose.  You guys were great to take me in.  I just don't want to thank you by getting you all killed.
scott		Okay.  Show me Springwood.
jacob		That's what I've been trying to tell you.
scott		There's NEVER been a town there.
jacob		That's how YOU see it.  I was part of the nightmare, so I'm the only one who notices the difference.
scott		Look, Jacob.  You don't have to convince us that nightmares are real.  Everybody in this room has been through one.  And some of us are still living it.  But the thing is, we know it's just in our heads now.  It can be just as bad as the real thing was, but it's still only a memory. It can't hurt us physically, unless we do the hurting ourselves.
gina		And we don't want to see you get hurt.
wesley		We know it gets crazy.  And we'll help out the best we can.
scott		But this is just too hard to believe.
jacob		You don't believe me, either, do you?
karen		I don't know.
jacob		Why are you still here?
karen		I'm not sure.  I guess, I guess I see a lot of me in you.
jacob		Feels good to see someone more fucked up than yourself, huh?
karen		Yeah.  That must be it.
jacob		But you haven't told me why you're here at this place.
karen		I can't talk about it right now.  Maybe later.  Do you want me to stay with you?
jacob		Yeah, that'd be great.  Don't let me sleep, okay?
karen		I'll do my best.
jacob		Yeah.  Thank God.
karen		Where are you going?
jacob		I'm leaving.
karen		Why?
jacob		He can't hurt you if I'm gone.  Maybe I'll go to the desert or something.  I'll lie down in the middle of nowhere and finally get some sleep.  Krueger can feed of the dreams of snakes and vultures.
karen		Fine.  You're just going to take off then...
jacob		Don't do this to me.  I'm just trying to protect you and the others.
karen		Right.  You blow into town and then blow right out.  Terrific.
jacob		I don't understand why you're so mad at me.
karen		You just don't get it, do you?
jacob		Get what?
karen		Running away doesn't help.
jacob		And you're going to convince me, huh?
karen		Maybe.
jacob		Yeah.  Sure.
alice		Jacob!  Help me!
freddy		Say it, don't spray it, huh, Jacob?  Come and join the fun!
karen		Jacob!
jacob		Nooooo!
jacob		No!  Don't let them take me!
karen		Jacob, it'll be alright.
jacob		You don't understand!  Let me go!
david		This is just what we need.
jacob		Don't fucking put me under!  You'll set him free!
freddy		Thanks for the lift, kid!
jacob		What do you want from me?
freddy		I already got it!  The rest I'm going to get from your new little friends.
jacob		Leave them alone!
freddy		It's my duty to clean up the neighborhood!
jacob		What have you done with my town?
freddy		Aw, poor baby's homesick, isn't he? Don't worry.  We'll all be one happy family soon.  Wanna be the first recruit?
jacob		Over my dead body!
freddy		As you wish.
blade cop		We have to.
sound cop		It's our job.
freddy		Get a new one.
power cop		Goddamnit!
jacob		Alright...just who the hell are you guys?
blade cop		We're the Dream Police.
jacob		The what?
power cop		The Dream Police.  Didn't you hear her, man?
sound cop		I think you're the wrong guy to talk about attitudes.
blade cop		Guys, guys.  This is getting us nowhere.
jacob		Hello?  May I butt in here and ask some more stupid questions?
blade cop		We don't know much more than you do. What we do know is that we've been recruited...
jacob		By who?
sound cop		We don't know.
jacob		Why?
blade cop		I think that's obvious.
power cop		The shit's about to hit the fan.
sound cop		Krueger's discovered new powers.
blade cop		He's ripped a hole between dreams and reality.
power cop		Our own powers have been amplified.
sound cop		We only hope it will be enough.
blade cop		But we're going to need your help.
jacob		Me?  What can I do?  Just who are you guys...really?
blade cop		We were like you.  We fought Freddy Krueger many years ago.  Our souls were released from his grip.  No we're back to try again.
jacob		I still don't understand what...
sound cop		Freddy Krueger can't hurt us anymore.
power cop		Because we're already dead.
jacob		What's going on?
doctor		Just relax, everything's fine.
jacob		That's what you say...
doctor		You're lucky you're here instead of juvenile hall.  You put up quite a fight. But you're clean.  No traces of drugs or alcohol in your blood.
jacob		I could've told you that.
doctor		Hold on there.
jacob		You said I was fine.  I have to get back. My friends are in trouble.
doctor		I said you weren't on drugs, but I never said you were fine.  You're suffering from extreme fatigue and stress that manifested itself into one hell of an anxiety attack.  At least that's what we hope it is.  You had a major seizure, Jacob.
jacob		You don't understand.  This whole town is in danger.
doctor		We're keeping you here for observation. You're not going anywhere tonight.
jacob		You can't do that.  You don't have the right!
doctor		Yes we do.  Your temporary guardian, Mr. Ross, signed all the papers.  If you're okay in the morning we might let you go home.  Until then, you're bed bound.
jacob		But...
doctor		We took off the restraints.  Do you want us to put them back on?
david		Sleep.
jacob		Shit...
gina		Nice movie, huh?  And I came in here to mellow out.
second orderly		Yeah, mac.  You've just had a hard day, that's all.
second orderly		Yeah, Wesley.  Have a smoke.
wesley		Fuck this.
first orderly		Relax, Wesley.
wesley		Dad?
freddy		Yeah, Wesley.  Everything's gonna be great!  Just have a smoke on us!
freddy		Didn't Daddy ever tell you what the Surgeon General says...?
wesley		Go to hell!
freddy		Right...
wesley		Noooooooo!
assistant		I don't get it.  The couch is barely scorched.  And how can he burn from just the neck down?
coroner		It happens.
assistant		It happens?  That's your explanation?
coroner		I've seen worse.
assistant		What?  What worse?
coroner		Never mind.
assistant		No.  I wanna know.  Really.  What could be worse than...
fire marshall		You know what the gossip rags are going to say?  Spontaneous human combustion.
cop		What's that?
fire marshall		That's where bodies are supposed to go up in smoke for no reason.  It's all psychic bullshit.  What really happened is called the candle effect.  A tiny fire gets started, usually from a cigarette.  It slowly smolders through the blanket and clothes until the skin starts to actually bake.  The body fat begins to melt and liquefy, fueling the fire like a slow burning candle.  It takes hours, but it's real.
cop		He fell asleep while smoking.  What a waste.
scott		That's impossible.
jacob		Who?
karen		Wes...
jacob		Oh my God.  It's started.
scott		He fucking burned alive.
karen		They said he fell asleep smoking.
scott		And we all know that can't be.
jacob		I already told you how it would happen.
scott		Don't start with that shit.
jacob		It's not shit.
david		C'mon, kids.  Everyone inside.  Now.
david		We have to be strong.
scott		He would never touch a cigarette.  You know that.
david		We don't know anything until the authorities are finished with their investigation.  In the mean time, no work for tomorrow - three day weekend.  But Monday, it's back on the job.  Jacob wasn't covered in our health plan and his little stint at the hospital cost us a bundle.  We have to work together or we might lose this place.  Okay?
jacob		When I was put under, Freddy was released.  I know this because I dreamed it.
scott		And that dream was real?
jacob		Yes.  Wesley was his first victim.
scott		Aw, man...
jacob		You said it yourself.  How could it have been a cigarette?
karen		And how could he...dire that way and not wake up?
gina		 Maybe the "authorities" will figure it out.
scott		I'm sorry.  I just can't buy into this.
jacob		Call me crazy...but I think he's after Rosedale.  The whole place.  In my dream he said something about needing a few souls to get the job done. I think he has to kill in order to get the power to suck in a new town.
scott		You are crazy.
jacob		Thank you.  There's more.  There are... other people in there.  In the nightmares.
karen		Like him?
jacob		No. Different.  There are three of them. They're dressed in black. They have powers like Freddy, but they seem to be on our side.
karen		Who are they?
jacob		Well, you gotta hang in there with me on this one.  They call themselves... the Dream Police.
scott		This is too much.
gina		You mean...like cops?
jacob		I guess.
karen		Where are they from?
jacob		They're kids that Freddy killed years ago.  THEY don't even know how they got there.  But they're somehow patrolling dreamworld to put a stop to Krueger.
scott		Then why haven't these guys done the job already?
jacob		They say they need help.  I don't know what or why...yet.
scott		I can tell you who needs help.
jacob		Hey, I'm trying to save all of us.
scott		I won't believe it until I see it.
jacob		By then it'll be too late.  It was too late for Wesley.
karen		They're going to use all this to shut us down.
jacob		I know.  It's my fault.
karen		You going to try to run away again?
jacob		It's too late for that. I have to stay and try and put a stop to it.
karen		I'm sorry.  It's all so hard to accept.
jacob		I wish I could convince you of the danger you and the others are in.
karen		I've been in danger before. THAT I can handle.
jacob		This is worse than anything you can imagine.
karen		I wouldn't be so sure about that.  Come on.  Let's go inside.
karen		She was great. Loving.  Supportive, caring - everything a mom should be. Except she had one fatal flow: my father. You see, she was raised at a time when they still had the "obey" part in the wedding vows.  He was always jealous. She couldn't talk to another man without him thinking she wanted to go to bed with him.  He never hit me. But the things he did to her...and she would always just take it.  She never fought back.  He'd get drunk and...she'd tell people she just fell down or something.  Then one night...I was thirteen.  Something happened.  My mom suddenly wouldn't take it anymore.  Something made her say enough is enough.  She hit back.  Tat only made it worse.  I watched as he hit her over and over.  Then he knocked her down the stairs.  She broke her neck. And when y father saw what he'd done - he finally became human.  He cried over her body for a while, then went into the garage and blew his brains out with a shotgun.  To this day I don't remember what that final straw was.  The shrinks say I've blocked it out of my memory. There's no one else alive who knows what really happened.  I have dreams about it sometimes, but there's always that blank spot.  A missing piece.
jacob		I'm sorry.
karen		I know nightmares are real, Jacob.  I know.
jacob		So did my mom.  She taught me a lot about dreams.
karen		Like what?
jacob		She told me that a lot of people have special dream powers.  I inherited some from her - and some I have all to myself. She showed me how I could link up with other people's dreams - to actually be inside with them.
karen		That sounds wonderful.  But...I don't know...
jacob		A little hard to imagine, huh?
karen		Yeah.  I'm sorry.
jacob		I can convince you.
karen		How?
jacob		Easy.  We're doing it now.
karen		What do you mean?
jacob		I mean we're dreaming.  You and me. Together.
karen		I don't believe it.
jacob		It's true.  We're really doing it.
karen		But what if I'm just dreaming of you telling me that?
jacob		We'll compare notes when we wake up. Then you'll know.
karen		Did you bring us here on purpose?  Can you go anywhere you want?
jacob		Sometimes.  It's not as easy as linking up, though.
karen		Wow, I never knew...
jacob		Show off.
jacob		I think I like you the way you always are.
karen		Look!
jacob		Karen, no!
karen		Oh no...
freddy		Welcome to Romper Room!
karen		Why are you doing this?
freddy		Don't you remember?
jacob		Come on!
karen		What?
jacob		You heard me.  I said wake up!
karen		How?  This is my old house.  How did I get here?
jacob		This is a dream!  You have to get out of here.  I'm not hurting you, only he can really do that!  Wake up now!
freddy		Gettin' kinky, huh?
karen		I think I get it now.
karen		You hit me.
jacob		Are you hurt?
karen		Um...no.
jacob		If he had done it, you'd be dead.
karen		You better get back to your room.  We don't want anybody to get the wrong idea.
jacob		 Or the right one?
karen		Get out of here.
jacob		That's something else my mom taught me.
karen		No.  Not tonight.
karen		I'm telling you, this Freddy guy is for real.
scott		And I'm telling you a dream is a dream.
karen		Jacob was in there with me.
scott		And where else was he with you last night?
jacob		What the hell is that supposed to mean?
karen		I have the picture in my room if you want to see it.  He brought it out from the nightmare.
scott		Or from your hope chest.  I bet your bed isn't the only thing he's been into.
karen		That picture was destroyed years ago.
jacob		You better watch your mouth, pal.
scott		I'm the last person you want to start fucking with.
jacob		Go ahead and be a tough guy, Scott. Krueger will cut you to pieces before you can even flex a muscle.
gina		Will you two stop it!  You're scaring the shit out of me.
karen		You should be scared.
david		Alright.  What's going on here?
scott		Join the fun.  Jacob and Karen were just telling us about their new excuse to sleep together.
jacob		Nothing happened between us last night.
scott		You mean in plain old reality, right?
david		Okay, everybody.  Out.  Jacob and I are going to have a little talk.  Now.
jacob		I'm sorry, but...
david		Hey, I don't know what kind of shit you're shoveling to these kids, but it's going to stop.  My Good Samaritan instincts have their limits.  We've had enough tragedy around this place.  We don't need you making things worse with fantasies.
jacob		You don't understand
david		And I want you to stay away from Karen.
jacob		It's a free country.
david		This isn't America, it's my house.  I've been checking up on you.  You have no record with the police or the state or any of the runaway groups.  You're the invisible kid.  And if I sense even a little bit more trouble-making from you, you're going to vanish from here.  Got it?
jacob		Yes, sir.
jacob		You're supposed to be off-limits to me.
karen		It's okay.  The Ross's have gone to a council meeting and Scott's in his room. We should be safe for awhile.
jacob		Wonderful.
karen		Jacob, what are we going to do?
jacob		I'm going to go to bed soon.
karen		Now you WANT to sleep?
jacob		I have to find the Dream Police.  I think I'm somehow their link to all this.  They only seem to appear when I'm around.  You woke me up before I had a chance to talk to them last night.
karen		I'm sorry.  I was scared.
jacob		your fault.  I have to ask them what we're supposed to do to help them.  And maybe I can protect Gina while I'm in there.
karen		What about Scott?
jacob		He's on his own.
karen		Oh...
jacob		I don't mean to be cold,but we've done everything to convince him.  Gina's too scared to understand.  I think Freddy will go after her next.
karen		What should I do?
jacob		You have to stay awake.
karen		That's not going to be easy.  I'm half asleep already.
jacob		You have to try.
karen		I'd better get out of here.
jacob		Okay.  Be careful.
karen		YOU be careful.  I'm not going anywhere.
freddy		Going up?
gina		You're not real!
freddy		Ah, but who is?
fat man		Hi there, princess.  Your mom's told me all about you.
freddy		...is a maniac trying to get out!
freddy		Huh?  I didn't order anything...
jacob		Come on!
gina		Let go of me!
jacob		I'm here to help!
gina		Let's get out of here.
power cop		Where'd he go?
sound cop		I thought you had him.
blade cop		Shit...
jacob		No no no no!
sound cop		Stand back.
jacob		You let him get away!
sound cop		It's difficult.
power cop		He's been at this longer than we have.
blade cop		He can do anything.
sound cop		But we have to catch him in the act to get him.
jacob		What...there are rules to all this?
sound cop		They're not rules.
power cop		It's just the way it is.
blade cop		Jacob, we need you to bring the rest together.
jacob		The rest?  You mean the kids at the home?
blade cop		Yes.  We need as many of you as we can get.  And you must bring them to Springwood.
jacob		How?
blade cop		You have the power to link your dreams with other's.  Dream of Springwood, then bring the rest with you.
sound cop		Living souls are what he thrives on. Living souls are what we need to help stop him.
power cop		Before it's too late.
blade cop		Before he takes everyone.
sound cop		And every THING.
freddy		Ah...alone at last.
jacob		Gina!
karen		Is it an earthquake?
jacob		No.  It's Freddy.
david		Pack your bags, kids.
jacob		You're kicking us out?
david		No.  They're taking you away.  They say it's for your own good.
karen		They can't do that.
david		Yes, they can.  They consider Mary and I possibly unfit to act as foster parents. They're going to find temporary homes for you until this mess is straightened out. I'm so very sorry.
karen		No, please.
david		They're not calling it an accident this time.  They don't really know what to call it.
scott		What's going to happen to us?
david		You'll be alright.
karen		What's going to happen to you?
david		I don't know.  They're thinking of pressing charges.
jacob		Aw, Jesus...
david		Come on.  A car from juvenile hall will be here in an hour.
karen		What about it?
scott		Are we considered suspects?
karen		Will we be able to go back to the Ross's?
karen		Will we be together?
scott		Great...
jacob		If it's still here.
karen		Jacob, what are we going to do?
jacob		Nothing.
karen		What do you mean, nothing?
jacob		It's over.  We're finished.  He's won.
scott		Looks like your hero just gave up.
karen		How can you do this?
jacob		Do what?  I'm not doing anything.
karen		Exactly.  After all we've been through you just throw in the towel.  Why?
jacob		Because we're fucked.  The last thing the Dream Police told me was that they needed all our help.  Together.  Even if we weren't about to be split up there aren't enough of us left to make a difference.
karen		How do you know that?
jacob		I don't.  But, it's all just too much. I've tried so hard and nothing's worked. I'm spent.  I'm wasted.  I'm...I'm so tired.
karen		So you're just going to give up?  I'll bet that's something your mother never taught you.
jacob		And we're not going to waste it.
karen		Scott, we need you.
scott		Look, I don't know what's going on anymore.  Two of my friends die and now you tell me I have to drop into dreamland with you guys to do battle with the dude that did it.
jacob		We'll have help.
scott		Ah, yes.  I almost forgot.  The Sleepy Squad.  Alright.  I'll make you a deal. I told you I wouldn't believe this stuff unless I saw it.  If I understand this correctly, all I have to do is fall asleep and you just whisk me into the action.
jacob		Right.
scott		Okay.  If that happens, if both of you show up in my dream, I'll help you out. If nothing happens, then I'll get a good night's sleep and laugh at you in the morning.
jacob		Fine.  You got a deal.  And you won't be disappointed.
karen		I'm going to be sleeping in the girl's dorm.  Will you be able to bring me in?
jacob		I hope so.  Then I got to make sure we all end up in Springwood.
scott		The old stomping ground?
jacob		Yeah.  Only right now it's not a very pretty place.
karen		What do we do when we get there?
jacob		Play it by ear.  And try and stay alive.
social worker		Half hour til lights out, everyone.
jacob		Off we go.
scott		Into the wild black yonder.
scott		Freddy Krueger.  Yeah, right.  Years ago some sicko gets fried and now he comes back to stick it to you when you're snoozing.  Stupid bedtime story.
scott		Oh, this is lovely.
bum		Hey, buddy?
scott		Yeah, what?
bum		Can you spare some change?
scott		Um, well, let me see...
karen		Scott!  You're here.
scott		Yeah.  Fun town.  Talk to any of the neighbors, yet? They're a swell bunch of folks.
karen		Uh-huh.  Real friendly, too.
scott		So this is a dream?
karen		And I'm in it with you.  Convinced?
scott		Maybe I'm just dreaming bout being here with you.  Wouldn't be the first time.
karen		Nope.  I tired that one already.  Doesn't work.  Come on, we have to find Jacob.
karen		Jacob!  Thank God!
scott		So this is the place, huh?
jacob		I'm home.
karen		What now?
jacob		Scott, are you with us?
scott		A deal's a deal.
jacob		Then we wait.
scott		Whoa!
power cop		Is this all?
jacob		All that's left.
sound cop		It'll have to do.
scott		We can always come back later.  Like when it's daytime.
power cop		It's always night here.
jacob		What's the plan?
blade cop		We need you to draw him out.
scott		Terrific.  We're supposed to be bait.
sound cop		Essentially.
jacob		Then let's do it.
blade cop		Fan out.
jacob		Oh no...
mutant bouncer		Two drink minimum.
scott		Ah, that's okay.  I think I'm underage, anyway.
mutant bouncer		Two drink minimum.
scott		No, really.  I'm driving.
mutant bouncer		Two drink minimum.
mutant waitress		Can I get you anything?
scott		That's okay.  I'll just sit at the bar.
mutant waitress		Alright, honey.  You call if you need anything.
scott		You bet.  You'll be the first to know.
bartender		What'll it be?
scott		Um, a beer, I guess.
bartender		Go on.  Puts hair on your back.
scott		And that's all?
bartender		No charge.  Compliments of the man at the end of the bar.
freddy		Welcome to my favorite haunt.
scott		So you're the man.
freddy		At your service.
scott		What's on your mind?
freddy		A deal.
scott		A deal's what got me into this.
freddy		Bring Jacob to me.
scott		What's in it for me?
freddy		Power.  You don't need to hang out with those losers. You're a take-charge kind of guy, Scott.  Like when you took charge of your father.
scott		Leave my father out of this.
freddy		I'll make you mayor of Rosedale.
scott		After you make it look like this?
freddy		You can have Karen.
scott		Alive?
freddy		Any way you want her.
scott		 Okay.
freddy		Shake?
scott		No thanks.  I trust you.
jacob		Mother?
scott		Mayor of Rosedale.
freddy		I hate a snitch!
scott		Eat shit...
jacob		Krueger...
freddy		Lighten up, bone brain.
mutant bouncer		Take it outside!
freddy		No more playing around.
sound cop		Kincaid!
freddy		Put a lid on it!
jacob		I'm sorry, Scott.
blade cop		You shouldn't be.
sound cop		He still exists.
jacob		What!  How?
power cop		We're already dead, that's why he couldn't destroy us.
blade cop		But he's not dead. He's not alive either. He's something in between.
sound cop		He's not entirely part of reality or part of dreams.  He's unique.
blade cop		WE can't kill him.
power cop		We can wail away on each other until doomsday and not do any good.
jacob		Then who's going to kill this fucker?
sound cop		YOU have to.
jacob		How the hell am I supposed to do that?
blade cop		Krueger's power comes from his rage and the souls of children.
power cop		You have to find the original source of that rage and use it against him.
blade cop		This town in its present condition encompasses all evils from all times in its history.  The answer is here somewhere...
jacob		I think I know where...
blade cop		Jacob, wait.  We have to find him first.
jacob		No time.  You guys find Karen!
karen		No more...
karen		Jacob!  You scared the shit out of me!
jacob		The feeling is mutual.
karen		Where are the Dream Police?
jacob		I told them to look for you.  What are you doing here?  Don't you know what this place is?
karen		I do now.  Look what I found.
jacob		You've got to get out of here.
karen		Wait.  You have to see this.
jacob		You don't understand.  The Police can't kill Freddy.  They literally chopped each other to pieces and he's still alive! Now I'm supposed to figure out how to get rid of him.
karen		But I think I found the answer.  Shut up for a second and look at these.
jacob		Okay, so he's a bad artist.
karen		No!  You told me Krueger's mother committed suicide and no one knows who his father was, right?
jacob		Yeah...
karen		Freddy's been pushing all our buttons with our pasts.  These are HIS past. Don't you get it? HE was a foster child, too!
jacob		But in reality Freddy hasn't lived here for decades.
karen		Like you tried to tell me once before, this is a dream.  Who knows why this is all here.
jacob		All evils from all times in history...
karen		And isn't this where it all started in Springwood?  On Elm Street?
jacob		But what does this do for us?
karen		There's got to be a way to use it against him.
jacob		Okay, but we're not going to stand around here to figure out how. It's too dangerous.
freddy		Time to join your mommy.
karen		No no no no no no no...Jacob...
freddy		Young love...ha!
jacob		Karen...dream...powers....
freddy		It's past your bedtime, young lady.
karen's father		That's my baby.  That's Daddy's little girl.
karen		Oh no...
karen's father		 Now do you remember?
karen		You're NOT my father.
karen's father		But we're going to have the same fun!
karen's mother		That's enough!
karen		Mommy, no!
karen's mother		You're never going to touch her again!
karen's father		I'll touch what I want!
freddy		Be honored, bitch.  You're the last soul I need.
jacob		I'll be back...
freddy		I'll be waiting.
voice		FREDERICK!
freddy		Daddy?
freddy		No, Daddy. Please...
power cop		We gotta get outta here!
blade cop		It took a human touch.  It took knowing HIS nightmare.  Goodbye, Karen.
woman		You okay, honey?
karen		Yes.  I'm alright.
woman		I've never seen you around.  Are you new in town?
karen		Sort of.
woman		Well then...  Welcome to Springwood.
****Dialogues from script :Nine.txt****

final script		November 11, 2009
guido		You kill your film several times, mostly by talking about it. A film is a dream. You kill it writing it down, you kill it with a camera; the film might come to life for a moment or two when your actors breathe life back into it - but then it dies again, buried in film cans. Mysteriously, sometimes, in the editing room, a miracle happens when you place one image next to another so that when, finally, an audience sits in the dark, if you're lucky -- very lucky - and sometimes I've been lucky - the dream flickers back to life again. That's why I'm secretive.
guido		Finally, a serious question.
studio superintendent		Good luck, Maestro.
dante		 Guido! You're here.
guido		Buongiorno, Dante.
dante		I've been looking for you all over the place. The set's coming along. How are you?
guido		Bene, grazie, bene.
dante		Bene. My God, you look terrible, better go to makeup, forget you've got a press conference?
fausto		 He has no tie.
dante		Yes, makeup and wardrobe.
fausto		 Signor Contini, I'm Fausto.     Good morning, Signor Contini. p. 4
dante		 Don't speak to him, I speak to him.
fausto		Okay, I have some questions for Signor Contini.
guido		We all have questions for Signor Contini.
fausto		Yes, but please, please, I think it's customary for there to be an approved script and budget before filming commences...
guido		Is he going to follow us?
fausto		It's not my intention to be difficult. Maestro, I am a huge admirer of Maestro Contini's movies, your early films are...everybody loves them and... I consider it a great honour for me to be here now... none the less, I need a script and a budget.
pierpaolo		Where do you want your messages?
guido		On my desk.
pierpaolo		There's no room on your desk.
guido		Under my desk. In the trash. Non lo so.
pierpaolo		 Some of these are urgent!
guido		 Get me a cigarette.
jaconelli		 We will never be ready to shoot in ten days.
guido		Jaconelli -
fausto		 Not ready?!
guido		 p. 6
dante		He's not exactly from the bank, Guido.
benito		Dottore, Dottore. You have actors waiting for you in your office. Auditions all morning. You should see what I've found. I found two sisters. Look, they're right...
dante		Not now. He's got the Press Conference.
guido		I need a cigarette.
dante		He needs a shirt and tie, Lilli.
guido		I need a coffee and a cigarette.
lilli		 Answer a question, I'll give you a coffee. Answer another question, I'll give you a cigarette. And so on.
guido		Actually and an aspirin.
dante		 We're running late...
lilli		 Calm down. Directing a movie is a very overrated job, we all know it. You just have to say yes or no. What else do you do? Nothing. Maestro - Should this be Red? Yes. Green? No. More extras? Yes. More lipstick? No. Yes, no, yes, no, yes, no - that's directing.
guido		That's right: that's directing. And it doesn't seem to make a blind bit of difference, finally, what the answer is...
lilli		So please, Guido, yes or no, do you want any costumes in this film?
guido		Yes. p. 8
lilli		You see - simple!  Might I know what period the movie's in?
guido		Yes, yes.  Soon.
lilli		You know I don't allow producers in here.
dante		Alright. Two minutes Guido.
lilli		He's gone. Have you written a word of the script?
guido		No.
lilli		Are you in a panic?
guido		Yes.
lilli		Is Luisa going with you to the Press Conference?
guido		No. Nobody. Dante.    And his spy.
lilli		You need to shave.    You look terrible. p. 9
guido		 Why is there no fire escape in here? What if somebody needed to escape? I can't face these reporters. I have nothing to say.
lilli		You'll be fine. You're a world class liar, darling, go out there and lie for Italy, lie for Italia.
guido		What the hell's wrong with me? I can't sleep. I can't think. I can't write. I can't breathe. My heart is racing. Am I dying, Mamma? I owe you flowers, I know. I'll come to the cemetery at the weekend. You should have let me bury you in Roma, Mamma, I could visit you every week. Don't look at me like that.
mamma		 Oh, Guido, Guido.
mamma		This is your Rome, Guido. The world sees Rome the way you invented it. Your films did that.
guido		 I miss you.
mamma		I miss you, too.
radio reporter		And we're just waiting for the arrival of Contini...any moment now - Could this film put the Maestro back on top?
dante		Silenzio, per favore...Thank you, thank you...
radio reporter		Dante, Guido Contini's long time producer, is about to speak...
dante		I want to say a few words from my heart. I am humbled and thrilled to be able to announce that I am producing Guido Contini's next film, Italia, which will star once again Contini's longtime inspiration, the international film star, Claudia Jenssen...
guido		Thanks for coming, everybody.
dinardo		Maestro Contini. Maestro Contini.
guido		Yes.
dinardo		Grazie. Maestro Contini, your new film is called Italia... big title.
guido		Actually, it's my shortest title yet.
dinardo		But hardly a modest one.
guido		Films are not modest. They cost too much, they take too long, and they involve too many people. So they should have grand titles.
dinardo		And might you tell the press what the film is about?
guido		Why? I still don't know what my last film was about.
leopardi		 That was the problem. Nobody else did.
guido		Of course I can tell you what my film is about...I can tell you the story, I can tell you who I am going to cast, the music I want to use, I can tell you everything... but... I... won't. I'm afraid that if I say anything, the word might get out to the Press.
dante		Our next film will be exactly as it sounds. Italia. It's the very spirit of Italy - Italy as myth, Italy as a woman, Italy as a dream.
leopardi		Is this true?
guido		It sounds fantastic.    I can't wait to see it.
stephanie		Signor Contini.
guido		Stephanie.
stephanie		Grazie. Could you tell the fashionable women of America who your favorite designer is this year?
guido		I'm less interested in the wrapping than what might be inside it.
reporter one		Signor Contini! You're a man of the world, yes? Educated in Britain, a home in Biarritz. With Italia is it fair to say that you've come home for good?
guido		For good?
reporter four		It's been a long time since you made a movie with your wife, do you plan on casting her in this new film?
guido		I told Luisa that when we got married I would never again make love to my leading lady.
reporter four		But she hasn't worked at all since working with you.
reporter five		But why are you being so tight-lipped about this film? It's a serious question. What's the big deal? p. 14
guido		I WOULD LIKE TO BE HERE.
guido		You want me to be serious? In a Press Conference?
guido		I WOULD LIKE TO BE THERE
guido		I thought I was the clown in this circus.
guido		I WOULD LIKE TO BE EVERYWHERE AT ONCE I KNOW THAT'S A CONTRADICTION IN TERMS.
leopardi		Signor Contini. Artists do their best work before they're famous. Now you're famous. Without wishing to be negative - but your last two films, they're not, they were...
guido		Flops.
leopardi		Your word. Flops. p. 15
guido		AND IT'S A PROBLEM, ESPECIALLY WHEN MY BODY'S NEARING FIFTY AS MY MIND IS NEARING TEN.
leopardi		I'm just asking if you're nervous? You seem nervous...
guido		Excuse me?
leopardi		What I'm asking, Maestro, is have you run out of things to say?
guido		I CAN HARDLY STAY UP AND I CAN'T GET TO SLEEP, AND I DON'T WANT TO WAKE TOMORROW MORNING, AT THE BOTTOM OF SOME HEAP BUT WHY TAKE IT SO SERIOUSLY? AFTER ALL, THERE'S NOTHING AT STAKE HERE - ONLY ME I WANT TO BE YOUNG. AND I WANT TO BE OLD. I WOULD LIKE TO BE WISE BEFORE MY TIME AND YET BE FOOLISH AND BRASH AND BOLD. I WOULD LIKE THE UNIVERSE TO GET DOWN ON ITS KNEES AND SAY, "GUIDO, WHATEVER YOU PLEASE, IT'S OKAY EVEN IF IT'S IMPOSSIBLE, WE'LL ARRANGE IT." THAT'S ALL THAT I WANT. p. 16
stephanie		I was wondering if you think there's a limit to what you can show in a movie.
guido		What would you like to see that I haven't already shown you?
guido		I AM LUSTING FOR MORE, SHOULD I SETTLE FOR LESS? I ASK YOU, WHAT'S A GOOD THING FOR IF NOT FOR TAKING IT TO EXCESS? ONE LIMITATION I DEARLY REGRET: THERE'S ONLY ONE OF ME I'VE EVER MET.
guido		I WOULD LIKE TO BE HERE  ME! I WANT TO BE PROUST... p. 17
guido		...I WANT TO BE YOUNG, BUT I HAVE TO BE OLD. WHAT I WANT IS A TALE OF SOUND AND FURY THAT SOME IDIOT WENT AND TOLD. I WOULD LIKE THE UNIVERSE TO GET DOWN ON ITS KNEES AND SAY, "GUIDO, WHATEVER YOU PLEASE, IT'S OKAY EVEN IF IT'S RIDICULOUS, WE'LL ARRANGE IT..."
guido		SO ARRANGE IT!
women		ARRANGE IT!
guido		THAT'S ALL THAT I WANT! p. 18
guido		I need a room.
de rossi		Of course. p. 19
guido		A suite.
de rossi		Yes.
guido		With a view of the sea. A balcony. Something with air.
de rossi		All of our suites have air... let me just look for you.
guido		I've come from Milano.
de rossi		I understand.
guido		On business.    I'm a businessman. Busy busy busy.
de rossi		 Would Maestro Contini prefer to register under a pseudonym?
guido		 Please.
de rossi		 Signor Milano?
guido		Why not.
de rossi		 Needless to say, I love your films. Guilty pleasure. Those early films.
guido		Not the flops.  I need to see a doctor. Do you know one who's discreet...? I'd like to see him today, in my room, now, if possible.
de rossi		Consider it done. Please. p. 20
guido		 And I need to place a call.   To my wife.
de rossi		You can take the call at the lobby phone over there.
guido		Luisa, tesoro...
luisa		There you are.
guido		Is everybody mad at me?
luisa		Well, I'm mad at you.   Where are you?
guido		I had to escape from the Press Conference.
luisa		I heard. Dramatic.
guido		Don't tease me. I'm sick, Luisa.
luisa		You're making a film. You make a film, you get sick. It's what happens.
guido		No, but this time I'm really sick.      I can't breathe. p. 21
luisa		Are you by yourself?
guido		Yes, of course I'm by myself.
luisa		Then shall I come?
guido		Yes, please come, that's why I'm calling, please come straight away. That would be wonderful.
luisa		Okay.
guido		Great. Marvellous.
luisa		I don't know where you are.
guido		I don't know, some spa.   Horrible.   I just kept driving.
luisa		Well I can't come if I don't know where you are.
guido		 And, actually, it's hardly worth it. I'll be home in a day or two.
luisa		 Yes, it's hardly worth it.
guido		But I do wish you were here.
luisa		Get some rest, take the waters, sleep, then come back here and make a good movie.
guido		I love you.
luisa		Get better. p. 22
de rossi		Your doctor is on his way.
guido		 This number - if a woman answers you put it through to my room, otherwise...
de rossi		It's a wrong number.
guido		What?
nurse		Dottore.
doctor rondi		Si?
guido		What is she whispering? Is it my blood pressure? Is it serious? Am I dying?
doctor		 Check again.
carla		GUIDO...
carla		GUIDO...
doctor		...the Roman emperors came here for the waters...
guido		 Pronto. p. 24
carla		I WAS LAZING AROUND MY BEDROOM WHEN YOU CALLED AND AN IDEA OCCURRED TO ME I THOUGHT YOU MIGHT BE WONDERING ABOUT, GUIDO...
guido		 It's a very an important call, Doctor. I'm sorry, I have to take it. Private call.
doctor		As you wish.
carla		WHO'S NOT WEARING ANY CLOTHES? I'M NOT! MY DARLING, WHO'S AFRAID TO KISS YOUR TOES? I'M NOT! YOUR MAMA DEAR IS BLOWING INTO YOUR EAR, SO YOU'LL GET IT LOUD AND CLEAR, I NEED YOU TO SQUEEZE ME HERE... AND HERE... AND HERE...
nurse		Doctor... His pulse... it's racing.
doctor		 Is something wrong?
guido		What? Yes, yes. It's about my film. It's from the Vatican. Go ahead, Monsignore! Yes, yes, of course, I'm listening.
carla		COOTCHIE, COOTCHIE, COOTCHIE COO. I'VE GOT A PLAN FOR WHAT I'M GONNA DO TO YOU, SO HOT YOU'RE GONNA STEAM, AND SCREAM, AND VIBRATE LIKE A STRING I'M PLUCKING- KISS YOUR FEVERED LITTLE BROW PINCH YOUR CHEEKS TILL YOU SAY "OW," AND I CAN HARDLY WAIT TO SHOW YOU HOW, GUIDO.
carla		WHO WON'T CARE IF YOU COME TO ME TIRED AND OVERWORKED? I WON'T! BAMBINO, WHO KNOWS A THERAPY TO BEAT WHAT YOU CAN GET FROM ME? I DON'T! BUT THIS WILL HAVE TO BE ENOUGH FOR NOW, GUIDO, CIAO.  p. 26
carla		Guido!    Ciao!
guido		 Carla!
carla		I'm so happy to see you.
guido		Carlissima.
carla		I missed you so much.  Are you happy I'm here?
guido		Of course.
carla		But very happy? Or just a little happy?
guido		Very happy.
carla		What's wrong? You look very tired, very tired. p. 27
guido		 Carla, all those bags for the weekend?
carla		Yes, the Bellavista is a very fashionable place. You know I stayed there with my parents, during the war, it was full of Germans.
guido		Carla... I have to tell you... they found out who I am at the hotel--
carla		No...
guido		... yes, horrible, but obviously we don't want to be followed by the press, so I found the most charming pensione for you, and it's right here. It's charming.
carla		Here at the station?
carla		What? p. 28
guido		Shhh! Yes, count to ten and come back in, and pretend you're in the wrong room, and I'm a complete stranger--
carla		I love your games!
guido		I'm here on business.
carla		Okay.
guido		Go, go.   Wait. Your face.
carla		What about it?
guido		Get your makeup.
carla		I had a nightmare last night. We were in that little alley behind Piazza Navona, where I bought you that scarf, remember? The same one your wife bought you--
guido		 Don't move, Carla.
carla		When you wear it, I never know if it's hers or mine.
guido		 Uh-huh.
carla		So we were there, on the ground, naked, kissing, and we didn't care, and then my husband arrived and killed us both with a shovel! Poor Luigi!  p. 29
guido		 Good for him.
carla		Perhaps there's a job for him in the movie--
guido		Why not?
carla		You could work well together.
guido		Beautiful. When you come in I want you to be my little savage.
carla		Yes.
guido		 Go, go.
carla		You think I am one of your actresses?
guido		Hurry, please, Carla.
carla		Oh, Madonna!
guido		I'll pretend to be asleep.
carla		What if I really found the wrong room? Would you be jealous? p. 30
guido		Could you do such a thing?
carla		 Hm! Who knows?
guido		What happened?
carla		 It was the woman from the hotel. She wanted to give me towels.
guido		Come here.
carla		Okay.
guido		What?
carla		You are a stranger, I don't know you.
guido		Carla, just come here.  Be savage. Show me.
carla		Excuse me! I've got the wrong room.
guido		Yes, you have. And I don't have the faintest idea who you are.
guido		Excuse me, father...
cardinal's secretary		 Buongiorno.
guido		His Excellency, the Cardinal, is he -?
cardinal's secretary		 I am a big fan.
guido		I would very much like to speak to the Cardinal. Do you think he might grant me -
cardinal's secretary		Is Claudia Jenssen with you?
guido		No.
cardinal's secretary		Pity. His excellency is a big admirer of Signorina Jenssen.
guido		 I'm in need of some guidance, some pointers...
cardinal's secretary		Do you think you could find a signed photograph of Signorina Jenssen? p. 33
guido		For His Excellency?
cardinal's secretary		Si.
guido		I'm sure that would be possible...
cardinal's secretary		Truly?   What a pleasure. Arrivederci, Maestro.
dante		Guidino!
guido		I'm not going to ask how you found me.
dante		Please - it's my job. A producer needs to know where his director is at all times...even to know the pensione where his mistress is staying...
guido		Oh God.
dante		I understand, Guido. Rome is absolutely unbearable. The pressure. It's no good.
guido		Really?    You understand?
dante		Of course I understand.      Absolutely.
guido		You're not going to drag me back?
dante		No. You're a genius and genius must be served. p. 34
guido		Thank you, my old friend.  Where are we going?
dante		You can't be in Rome. Okay. 
dante		Rome will come to you!
jaconelli		 Yes, with the flower and the glass and the arches of the Roman Empire...
dante		Guido...you remember Donatella.
donatella		Ciao.
guido		 Ciao.
dante		Donatella, you tested her.
donatella		I was very nervous. He probably doesn't remember. I was quite nervous. p. 35
guido		 No, I remember you. You were, we all enjoyed you, so to speak.
pierpaolo		Maestro...
guido		 Pierpaolo!
pierpaolo		 Yes, I'm sorry. Right now.
guido		Cretino!  Yes, yes, that's what I say, people just don't realise - she's an actress as well as a star - I know Dante's dying to talk to you. A dolpo. Ciao.
dante		Lombardo... p. 36
guido		Yap, yap, yap, yap, yap, yap, yap!
lilli		I'm happy. I brought my swimsuit.
guido		What? No. Oh please God. No. I spoke with her yesterday. She didn't even mention it. Give me a cigarette.
lilli		What's that?
guido		What's that?
lilli		It's for Claudia.
guido		For which scene?
lilli		Well I don't know which scene until I`ve seen the script, but she always likes something like this, or you do.
guido		Looks like the Folies Bergere. It's wrong. Italian women don't wear those things. p. 37
lilli		Don't knock the Folies Bergere...
guido		Why did people love that film?
lilli		Oh Guido, don't. That's death.     Every time we have to start again.
guido		I'm trying to find it.
lilli		You won't find it with your head jammed halfway up your ass.
guido		Ashtray.
lilli		Halfway. I don't know. Why not dream up something entertaining, Guido? Something with music...with dancing... God knows, we could use a little joie de vivre around here...
lilli		 LE CINEMA TODAY IS IN A CRISIS DIRECTORS ARE SO EXISTENTIALISTES. THE MOVIES ARE NOT WORTH THEIR ENTRANCE PRICES IF NO ONE SINGS A LOVE SONG WHEN HE'S KISSED. LOVE CANNOT BE LOVE WITHOUT "LE SINGING," A STRING, A CLARINET, A SAXOPHONE TAKE A LESSON FROM THIS OLD PARISIENNE AND THE FINEST ENTERTAINMENT SHE HAS KNOWN.
lilli		BY THE HEAVENS ABOVE, YOU WILL SWEAR THERE'S NOTHING RARER!
lilli		TO YOUR MODERN IDEAS I COMPARE ONE DERRIERE!
cardinal's secretary		The Cardinal is right this way.
cardinal's secretary		 Your Eminence, Signor Contini is here.
cardinal		I like Charlie Chaplin.
guido		Me too.
cardinal		A genius. What can I do for you?
guido		Do you believe in God?
cardinal's secretary		Signor Contini, please.
cardinal		No, no, it's an honest question.    Yes, I believe in God. p. 42
guido		So do I.
cardinal		Are you a Catholic?
guido		Oh yes, very much so. Not as much as I would like to be, not as much as you would like me to be, I'm sure, but certainly yes, I'm trying.
cardinal		Try harder.
guido		Yes, yes. I will, I will. Your Eminence, I am not happy. I'm searching for something. I feel a sense of misery, of despair and --
cardinal		 I saw your films. Not the flops, the others, the good ones. But you think people need to see so much sex?   It's not necessary. We can all imagine.
guido		 Excuse me - my films are what I imagine.
cardinal		Then your imagination has no moral training.
guido		 How do you train the imagination?
cardinal		The imagination is God's garden; don't let the Devil play in it. Teach our Italian women to be wives, not whores, don't make us look at filth and debauchery. Make us proud to be Italian...
young guido		 Saraghina.
boys		Saraghina!   Saraghina!
young guido		 Saraghina! Sa-ra-ghina!
saraghina		So, you little Italian devils, you want to know about love? Saraghina will tell you...and if you want to make a woman happy, you rely on what you were born with. Because it is in your blood.
saraghina		 BE ITALIAN, BE ITALIAN. TAKE A CHANCE, AND TRY TO STEAL A FIERY KISS. BE ITALIAN, BE ITALIAN. WHEN YOU HOLD ME, DON'T JUST HOLD ME BUT HOLD THIS!
saraghina		PLEASE BE GENTLE, SENTIMENTAL, GO AHEAD AND TRY TO GIVE MY CHEEK A PAT, BUT BE DARING AND UNCARING. WHEN YOU PINCH ME, TRY TO PINCH ME WHERE THERE'S FAT.
mamma		I am ashamed of you, Guido.
young guido		But Mamma, what did I do.
principal		Bring him here. That savage is the devil. God will punish you for your sins, now and forever.
carla		What? What?
guido		I can't breathe, I can't breathe.
carla		Guido, don't die on me! Can you imagine... poor Luigi! It would kill him.
guido		 If I die it would kill your husband?
carla		No, that's not what I meant, Guidino. No. Where are you going?
guido		I have to go to work. Carla, I can't breathe.
carla		Let me come with you.
guido		It's impossible.
carla		Why?
guido		Because it's impossible. Please.
carla		But why is it impossible? Look at your producer! He's married, he brings his girlfriend to work and nobody cares. Guido. Everybody knows about me. Why? Why won't you let me near you?
guido		For the very same reason you don't want me to die on top of you. It's not fair to your husband. It's not fair to my wife. p. 48
carla		See, you're playing with me. You're twisting everything... Please let me come with you.
guido		No.
carla		I'll be here waiting for you with my legs open.
guido		Let's say there were ten sequences, each one set in a different period, but played by the same cast, a man and a woman, a woman and a man...  Like the circus...
dante		Claudia is going to be amazing.
benito		It sounds like a masterpiece.
fausto		 Dante, you see, he hasn't written a word...
dante		 The screenplay is first of all a map. That's a map. p. 49
guido		Let's try to dig for something else. Maybe a group of people digging, with shovels, in the desert.
lilli		Guido.
guido		Luisa!
luisa		The jungle drums said it was an emergency.
guido		The jungle drums exaggerated just a tiny bit.
luisa		Not entirely.  You haven't been sleeping.
guido		I was dying, until just now.    Come.
luisa		Am I already going home?
guido		I hope not. Happy Birthday, my darling. p. 50
dante		 Here she is. At last.   Magnificent. You know Donatella?
luisa		I do now.
lilli		 You're saving the movie. Give him a good idea, for God's sake.
guido		Let's drink a toast to Luisa's birthday.
luisa		 It was Monday.
dante		Happy Birthday!
luisa		 Thank you.
guido		Happy Birthday.
cardinal's secretary		Maestro. p. 51
guido		 Ah, Don Mario. Excuse me, darling, this is Don Mario. This is my wife, Luisa.
cardinal's secretary		A pleasure, Signora.
luisa		Sit down, won't you, Don Mario?
cardinal's secretary		Oh no.
luisa		Please.
cardinal's secretary		I was telling your husband how much I admire his movies. Publicly, you know the Church condemns them - we have to - but we all love them.  Last year we did our own version of your Il Vicolo at the Christmas Party.
lilli		That I would pay to see.
guido		Luisa was in that film.
lilli		She was the best thing in the movie.
guido		It's true.   It was your first part.
cardinal's secretary		Of course! - you're Luisa Acari! Oh my Lord!
luisa		I was.
cardinal's secretary		You can't stop being somebody.
luisa		Can't you? p. 52
cardinal's secretary		Well there's a good catholic wife for you, Guido, that's what they do - sacrifice. Still, Signora Contini, it must be a very exciting life for you...  Luisa looks to Guido.   Close up on Guido.
luisa		MY HUSBAND MAKES MOVIES TO MAKE THEM HE LIVES A KIND OF DREAM IN WHICH HIS ACTIONS AREN'T ALWAYS WHAT THEY SEEM- HE MAY BE ON TO SOME UNIQUE ROMANTIC THEME. SOME MEN RUN BANKS SOME RULE THE WORLD SOME EARN THEIR LIVING BAKING BREAD. MY HUSBAND.... HE GOES A LITTLE CRAZY MAKING MOVIES INSTEAD. MY HUSBAND SPINS FANTASIES, HE LIVES THEM, THEN GIVES THEM TO YOU ALL LIKE MICHELANGELO, HE PAINTS HIS PRIVATE DOME BUT CAN'T DISTINGUISH WHAT'S HIS WORK AND WHAT'S HIS HOME. SOME MEN SELL STOCKS SOME MEN PUNCH CLOCKS SOME LEAP WHERE OTHERS FEAR TO TREAD. MY HUSBAND, AS AUTHOR AND DIRECTOR, MAKES UP STORIES IN HIS HEAD.
luisa		My father's Italian. My mother's French.
luisa		 Oh, I've waited...
luisa		Waited tables.  And, of course, I studied theatre and mime in Paris. But, mostly waited tables. p. 54
guido		Thank you.
luisa		For what?
guido		Thank you. For what I'm looking at.  Keep running.
luisa		LONG AGO - SOMEONE ELSE AGO. HOW HE NEEDS ME SO, AND HE'LL BE THE LAST TO KNOW IT. MY HUSBAND MAKES MOVIES. TO MAKE THEM HE MAKES HIMSELF OBSESSED. HE WORKS FOR WEEKS ON END WITHOUT A BIT OF REST- NO OTHER WAY CAN HE ACHIEVE HIS LEVEL BEST. SOME MEN READ BOOKS, SOME SHINE THEIR SHOES, SOME RETIRE EARLY, SOME STAY UP TO DREAM AND MUSE. MY HUSBAND ONLY RARELY COMES TO BED - MY HUSBAND MAKES MOVIES INSTEAD. MY HUSBAND MAKES MOVIES...
luisa		Excuse me, I suddenly feel very tired.
guido		Luisa!
luisa		I'm staggered by my own stupidity.    I could vomit.
guido		Luisa - will you please just tell me what happened?
luisa		You open your mouth and a lie comes out.
guido		What lie?
luisa		Why am I surprised? - it's like breathing to you.
carla		Guido.
carla		 I was hungry. I'm tired of eating alone in that room.
guido		There are plenty of restaurants. p. 56
carla		I wanted to see the hotel. I told you I came here with my parents when I was little. I didn't come to disturb you.
guido		Well you certainly managed to.
carla		Why didn't you tell me Luisa was going to be here!
guido		I didn't know she was here.   She just turned up.
carla		Well, she could have warned you.
guido		The only privilege my wife has these days is not having to warn me.
guido		Carla, you have to wait outside.
carla		Will you wait with me?
guido		I'm in the middle of a working dinner with my colleagues.
carla		So why do I have to wait outside?
guido		 I'll find someone to escort you home.
de rossi		 Signora, would you rather wait inside?
carla		I'm going to walk.   Please tell my friend I had to leave.
guido		Apparently she's staying in some grotesque pensione next to the station.
luisa		 Very plausible.
guido		Because it's true.
luisa		You told me it was finished.
guido		It is. Look, she was worried about me, she came to see if I was all right - which yes, is stupid but not, as far as I know, a crime, and hardly a mortal sin.
luisa		Nothing. If you could see yourself.  I couldn't live with it - the absurdity of being you, the effort of having to hide and lie and cheat. It's exhausting, no wonder you've got no script, you're too busy inventing your own life.
guido		It's finished. It's finished.  If it wasn't before, it is now.
luisa		 Blah blah blah blah blah.
guido		Vodka.
guido		Yes, I remember very well, Stephanina from Vogue.
stephanie		So, coincidence. You being here.    And me being here. p. 59
guido		 Amazing. May I take a cigarette?
stephanie		That was quite a performance. At the Press Conference. The Vanishing Act.
guido		 Please.
stephanie		Grazie.
guido		Prego.
stephanie		 I've seen all your movies.
guido		 Really?
stephanie		Like a million times. They're the only movies that tell the truth about the modern world.
guido		And what truth is that?
stephanie		 Death of religion... Sexual revolution...
guido		I don't think religion is dead. And what exactly is the sexual revolution?
stephanie		That we can talk about later.
guido		 Style.
stephanie		Every frame is like a postcard.
guido		 Okay.
stephanie		It's great: you care as much about the suit as the man wearing it.
guido		I hate that man.
stephanie		No! Style is the new content! It's what my readers love. They want to dress like Claudia Jenssen. They want to undress like Claudia Jenssen. They want to ride on a Vespa down the Via Veneto. They want to live in an Italian movie.
stephanie		I LOVE THE BLACK AND WHITE! I LOVE THE PLAY OF LIGHT! THE WAY CONTINI PUTS HIS IMAGE THROUGH A PRISM.
stephanie		I FEEL MY BODY CHILL GIVES ME A SPECIAL THRILL EACH TIME I SEE THAT GUIDO NEO-REALISM
stephanie		I LOVE THE DARK AND HANDSOME GUYS WITH THEIR SKINNY LITTLE TIES DRESSIN' MOD, LOOKIN' OUTTA SIGHT! I LOVE TO WATCH `EM AS THEY CRUISE WITH THEIR POINTY LEATHER SHOES WEARIN' SHADES IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT.
stephanie		WHATEVER GUIDO DOES, IT MAKES ME SMILE HE IS THE ESSENCE OF ITALIAN STYLE. I LOVE THE GLAMOROUSLY LATIN WORLD THAT ONLY GUIDO CAN PORTRAY!!!
stephanie		THOSE SCENES I LOVE TO SEE FROM GUIDO'S "P" "O" "V" THERE'S NO ONE ELSE WITH HIS UNIQUE DIRECTOR'S VISION. HIS ANGLES - WIDE AND TIGHT - EACH MOMENT FEELS SO RIGHT... DEFINES ITALIAN STYLE BY ONLY HIS DECISION! I LOVE THE SPEEDY LITTLE CARS THE HIP COFFEE BARS THE SLEEK WOMEN IN POSITANO... GUIDO'S THE ULTIMATE UOMO ROMANO!
stephanie		DARK AND HANDSOME GUYS SKINNY LITTLE TIES SHADES IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT SPEEDY LITTLE CARS HIP COFFEE BARS SLEEK WOMEN IN POSITANO...
all		NELLA MIA ANIMA NELLA MIA ANIMA CINEMA ITALIANO
stephanie		CINEMA ITALIANO
all		NELLA MIA ANIMA CINEMA ITALIANO NELLA MIA ANIMA CINEMA ITALIANO
contini's cinema		ITALIANO!
guido		No.
guido		I love you Luisa.
guido		Is the doctor still with her?
matron		Yes, he's in there. He's waiting for you. This way. p. 65
carla		 You came.
guido		 I'm here.
doctor rondi		Signor Contini.
carla		Come back.
doctor rondi		She took five or six pills, enough to make herself very sick. I understand she's your mistress.  This is a sordid business. You movie people, I suppose you don't consider yourself bound by morality...
guido		Thank you.    I'm going to stay with her now.
matron		If you need us for anything, just call, okay? Francesca, andiamo.
guido		Grazie.
carla		No, he'll take me home.
guido		What have you done to yourself?    I'm not worth dying for, Carla.
carla		Don't be angry with me. Everything I do, I just want you to love me.
guido		Ssshh. You should rest. We'll talk about everything in the morning...
carla		 Don't leave me. Don't leave me.
guido		Rest, rest.   Cara mia...
carla		My husband thinks I'm clever, that's the strange thing, because I'm not, well you know that, I spend too much time in my little brain thinking about you, about where you are, what you are doing, what you dream of.
mamma		OH, DREAM OF YOUR YOUTH WHEN I'M STILL BY YOUR SIDE DREAM OF YOUR MANHOOD, PRAY I'M THERE TO GUIDE YOU AND WHEN YOU GROW OLD  p. 68
guido		Hold on to me, Mamma.   Don't let me wake from this.
matron		Excuse me.
luigi		Is she okay?
guido		Yes.
luigi		I'd like to take her home.
guido		Of course. I'm sorry.  She loves you, you know that, don't you.
luigi		She's my wife.
guido		Darling?
dante		We're going back to Rome.
guido		 Where's Luisa?
dante		Luisa? She's gone. She's had it with you.  p. 70
guido		 I can't.
dante		You can't. You must. Don't sit down.
guido		I need help.
dante		 You've had help. You've seen the doctors, you've seen the priests, you've taken the cure.
guido		I'm not cured.
dante		 That's enough! The movie calls, your star has landed. Fausto - take his things please.
pierpaolo		Maestro, the screen tests are back from the lab. Will you watch them now?
dante		Tonight.   We'll watch everything tonight and make some decisions.
pierpaolo		Design meeting? Production meeting?
dante		Tonight.
pierpaolo		Tonight.
lilli		Claudia says where are you? She's in fine form. Feisty.
guido		 Okay.
lilli		She asked if she could read my script as she didn't have one. I said I didn't quite have mine.
luisa		Pronto.
guido		Luisa, it's me. Please don't hang up.  I want you to be with me in the screening room tonight. I want to talk to you about the casting, about the script. Everything...
guido		Otherwise I won't be able to start, I won't know what I'm thinking...
pierpaolo		Maestro.
guido		Are you there? Luisa?
luisa		Go on.
guido		I'm not asking you to let me come home, I just want you to come to the screen test tonight. Not for me, but for the movie. You always have, you always do.
pierpaolo		Silence please. Se gira. And we are rolling.
guido		Could you turn to the right please, Claudia.
claudia		Yes, I can turn to my right.
guido		And can you turn to the left.
claudia		Yes, I can turn to my left.
guido		Now just one slow turn for us.
claudia		 Okay, one slow turn.
guido		Bellissima.   Brava.   Cut.
pierpaolo		We've got it. Next costume please.
claudia		Has anybody got a script? Script missing, handsome reward.... Lost, one script, title Italia. Can't make a film without it...
pierpaolo		 But please, just a couple more costumes, Claudia.
claudia		 Ciao Bello.
guido		That's fair.
dante		Claudia!
guido		 That's fair.
dante		Fair?
guido		I'll be back. p. 75
dante		 You've got dailies, Guido.
guido		I'll be right back.
dante		 You've got meetings.
guido		You look ravishing.
claudia		You're not seeing me, you're seeing Lilli's wigs and makeup, I'm somewhere hidden underneath.
guido		It's good to see you.
claudia		I'm assuming that's code for there's no script.
guido		Why is everybody so suddenly obsessed with the script?
claudia		So Lilli says I'm playing a million different parts -
guido		Not a million - you're the muses, the incredible women who made Italy what it is today, a country run by men - who are themselves run by women, whether they know it or not.
claudia		 So I'm the women behind the great men?
guido		 p. 77
claudia		 And these muses - they fall in love with the man?
guido		Exactly!   They fall in love with him.
claudia		 I'd rather be the man.
guido		What?
claudia		I'd rather be the man.
claudia		IN A VERY UNUSUAL WAY, ONE TIME I NEEDED YOU, IN A VERY UNUSUAL WAY, YOU WERE MY FRIEND. MAYBE IT LASTED A DAY, MAYBE IT LASTED AN HOUR, BUT SOMEHOW IT WILL NEVER END.
claudia		These women who come off their pedestals for a kiss - they're just fantasies.
guido		No, you misunderstand... p. 78
claudia		IN A VERY UNUSUAL WAY, I THINK I'M IN LOVE WITH YOU, IN A VERY UNUSUAL WAY, I WANT TO CRY. SOMETHING INSIDE ME GOES WEAK, SOMETHING INSIDE ME SURRENDERS, AND YOU'RE THE REASON WHY, YOU'RE THE REASON WHY. YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU DO TO ME. YOU DON'T HAVE A CLUE. YOU CAN'T TELL WHAT IT'S LIKE TO BE ME LOOKING AT YOU. IT SCARES ME SO THAT I CAN HARDLY SPEAK.
guido		She's his inspiration.
claudia		I can't keep playing that part.
guido		I fall in love with you every time.
claudia		When there's a camera between us.
guido		No.
claudia		It's not a real person, Guido.  And this man you describe - he doesn't know how to love.
guido		There was a time once, we were on location, some terrible hotel - and you were in the room directly above me and I could hear you walking about...
claudia		And why didn't you?
guido		I don't know. I don't know.
claudia		SPECIAL TO ME IN MY LIFE, SINCE THE FIRST DAY THAT I MET YOU. HOW COULD I EVER FORGET YOU, ONCE YOU HAD TOUCHED MY SOUL. IN A VERY UNUSUAL WAY, YOU'VE MADE ME WHOLE.
claudia		Maybe you should have knocked, maybe you should have knocked me right off the pedestal. I can't do this anymore.
dante		 Great work, Lilli... Wonderful costume...
lilli		Thank you.
dante		...and the hair, makeup, fantastic.
benito		She has a beautiful profile.
dante		Two great profiles.
fausto		She's a goddess.
dante		And the back isn't too bad.
fausto		She came directly from Venus. Beautiful.
dante		Fantastic. Guido?     Really nice. Who's next?
benito		Actresses.
dante		Okay.   Let's see the actresses.
benito		If we like her, we have to call her agent right away. Everybody wants her right now.
dante		Well they can keep her.
benito		She's a very funny actress.
dante		She's peculiar. You don't like her Guido?
fausto		She's very natural.
dante		Even better. She's a bit nervous here. What do you say, Guido? Donatella's nice?
fausto		She's too tall.
dante		Very tall.
benito		She's very beautiful.
dante		It's not the point.     Guido wants the blonde.
fausto		She's not bad, but -
dante		Shh.
fausto		She's beautiful.
dante		She's too beautiful.      For my tastes.
guido		Sure.
dante		 Great. Anyway, fantastic day, but we have to go home. We have a very, very busy day tomorrow. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. Okay, well done.
guido		It meant so much to us all.    That you came.  p. 83
luisa		YOU WANT MY LOVE? TAKE IT ALL YOU WANT TO WATCH IT ALL COME OFF? TAKE IT ALL COME ON NOW SHOW ME HOW YOU TAKE IT ALL...
luisa		Thank you.
guido		 What for?
luisa		Thank you for reminding me I'm not special. You don't even see what you do, do you? Even the moments I think are ours, it's just you working to get what you want.
luisa		YOU WANT MY GLOVE? ARE YOU ENTHRALLED? YOU WANT TO SEE IT SLIP AWAY AND WATCH IT FALL? OH WE KNOW IT'S YOUR SHOW SO TAKE IT ALL
guido		 What are you talking about?
luisa		And this is our life. You think to create is to forgive yourself in public. Fine. But don't think I can forgive you in private, because I can't ever.
luisa		SO GO AHEAD TAKE IT ALL
luisa		You're just an appetite, and if you stopped being greedy you'd die. You take everything, and I'm empty.
guido		What have I done? What have I done, Luisa?
guido		I CAN'T   MAKE THIS MOVIE, THERE'S   NO WAY THAT I'LL BEGIN IT. I CAN'T   BEAR TO SEE THE CAMERAS ROLL. PROBLEM   IS THE SUBJECT, THERE'S   NO PLEASANT WAY TO TREAT IT.  p. 86
mamma		No one can help you find your way.  It's up to you, Guido. Up to you. Nobody else.  In Guido's face, a soulful recognition that what she's said is true.
guido		There is no movie. I can't pretend anymore. We have to stop.  I'm sorry.
lilli		I'm glad she's acting again. I made her costumes for the play. She's funny.
guido		She seemed so happy. I didn't want to interfere... Is she with anybody?
lilli		Guido, she's my friend. I'm not her mother. I don't know. I expect so. Nobody likes to be alone. Promise me you're going to let me cut your hair and get rid of that awful beard. p. 89
guido		I like to get about without everybody pointing at me.
lilli		And where are you getting about?
guido		Nowhere. Here. I walk. Just to be able to walk.
lilli		Are you seeing anybody?
guido		No, no. Nobody.
lilli		 Well, it sounds exciting. Walking around and not seeing anyone, growing a beard.   I might come up here and join you.
guido		Don't tease me, Lilli.    My heart is -
lilli		- I know.
guido		I just miss her. I should have IDIOT tattooed on my forehead.
lilli		Luisa certainly thinks so.
guido		 Does she? Did she really say that?
lilli		Stop! I'm not going to act as a postman between you both. Come back to Rome. Make a movie. Go to work.
guido		No. Never. I've spent this time trying to learn something, Lilli, to not be the person who forgets about everybody else, the person who never grew up. p. 90
lilli		You're such a dope, aren't you? Making movies wasn't your problem. You were your problem.   Don't stop being a child. You'll never make another movie! Nobody wants that... especially Luisa.
guido		 The only movie I could make now would be... I don't know... would be about a man trying to win back his wife.
lilli		Sounds perfect.  The costumes might not be so bad too.
young guido		We're ready to begin!
guido		I can't remember how you do this.
pierpaolo		You'll remember.
guido		I don't want to say too much. The first way that we kill our film is by talking about it. But this scene is about reconciliation. And within the scene I would like you to try and find your way to begin that journey back towards each other.
young guido		Presto! Presto! Take your places! Andiamo! Andiamo!
guido		 Maybe it's the most important building block that we have to begin again... We start from the beginning each time and I feel today as if I'm starting from the beginning. We'll just keep asking each other questions, and don't look to me for the answers, okay?
pierpaolo		Maestro, should I call final checks?
guido		Yes.
pierpaolo		Makeup, please! Final checks!
clapper loader		Slate.
guido		ACTION.
****Dialogues from script :Nines.txt****

final script		 November 2006
reader note		 One thing that will be obvious to viewers, but not to readers, is that the nine principal parts in this film are played by only three actors:  1) Gary, Gavin, Gabriel  2) Sarah, Susan, Sierra  3) Margaret, Melissa, Mary  It'll make more sense in context. Promise.
gary		Hey!   Do you sell crack?
gary		Is this crack?
gary		Yes, hello. I'm having a medical situation. Yes. Okay. I don't have a belly button.  I do not have a belly button where I should, on my belly. And I'm concerned, because I don't know if that's...
margaret		La la la la la. Like you've never done worse.
gary		Gary.
margaret		I know.  We need to go out the back.
gary		Are there reporters out front?
margaret		A few. Not Hugh Grant level. More like Robert Downey, Jr. when he broke into that family's house and slept in the kid's bed like Goldilocks. "This bed is just right." I handled episodes two through four for Robert. This sort of thing is my specialty.
gary		What is?
margaret		Famous fuck-ups. Don't worry. Mama's gonna take good care of you.
parole officer		Answer it.
gary		Hello?     Yes. Yes.
parole officer		Use your normal voice.
gary		 Nine dogs ran through the field. The koala sits in the tree.
margaret		It's computer voice recognition. The system can call you any time day or night. If you don't answer within five rings, the police come and haul your ass off.
gary		What if I'm not here?
margaret		That's why it's called house arrest. You stay inside your house.  He can take direction, I promise.
margaret		Okay, just so it's said, this house is flammable.
gary		I didn't mean to burn down my house.
margaret		Yeah, I didn't mean to eat my way into a ten-year shame spiral, but I did, and it's healthier to acknowledge it.  This flammable house belongs to one of Lola's other fabulous clients, who is currently shooting a pilot in Toronto.
gary		Actor?
margaret		Writer. So for the next six weeks, su casa es su casa. I say, feel free to wear his clothes. He'll probably get a sick thrill of out it. The gays.
gary		He has dogs?
margaret		They're away at summer camp.    Now, try the bed.
gary		It's fine.
margaret		Comfortable?
gary		Sure.
margaret		Look, Gary, I know this has been crazy and stressful. I want you to feel safe. And comfortable.
gary		I do.
margaret		I'm a fan of yours, you know.   Your number-one fan.
margaret		I'll be coming by twice a day to check up on you. I'm the only person who should be coming by. No buddies, no pals, no heroin dealers...
gary		I don't do heroin.
margaret		Yeah, crack is classy. And I'm not buying you porn. There's spray-per- view on cable.
gary		Good. I really wasn't concerned about my career, my family or my future. I just wanted to jack off.
margaret		Let me see your phone.
gary		C'mon!   All my numbers are in that.
margaret		Dial ten digits at random. Whoever answers will be better than the people on this phone.
gary		I guess.
gary		Is somebody there?   Hello?
margaret		Poltergeist, and no. Maybe they were rats. L.A. is teaming with rats. They live in the palm trees.
gary		Sure.   Maybe.
margaret		Okay. You know I'm a licensed psychotherapist.
gary		Really?
margaret		No. I'm a publicist. My job is what other people think of you, not what you think of yourself. So pull your shit together. I am thisclose to getting Christine Walsh to do your piece in Parade.
gary		Parade?   I fucking hate Parade.
margaret		Everyone hates Parade. But the people who watch "Crime Lab," they love their Marilyn Vos Savant. Give them a woman of indeterminate age who solves riddles and they are in hee-haw heaven.
gary		Okay.
margaret		One heartfelt act of contrition and maybe the showrunner won't kill off your character between seasons.
gary		I'm not crazy.
margaret		Exactly.    Exactly.
woman's voice		Sorry!   Really sorry.
sarah		I'm working on my putting, if you can believe it.
gary		Not really.
sarah		Okay. Maybe I was just looking for a way to meet my infamous neighbor. You see, I'm under house arrest, too.
gary		What did you do?
sarah		I had sex with my husband.
gary		That's awful.
sarah		Nine months later, I had Jaden. That's her over there.
gary		She's cute.
sarah		She's sleeping for another...  ...seventeen minutes. She keeps to a schedule.
gary		She sounds really boring.
sarah		 She is.
gary		You're rich. Shouldn't you have a nanny from Ecuador?
sarah		I'm Canadian.
gary		 Ohhh...
sarah		I can't work in the U.S. Plus, I want to maintain this air of moral superiority by doing everything myself.
gary		Very Canadian.
sarah		Thanks.
gary		I'm pretty sure I'll be here.
sarah		It's a date.
gary		Is it?
sarah		Oh.   I'm Sarah, by the way.
gary		Gary.
sarah		Yeah.    I know.
sarah		The best of all possible worlds.
gary		 Okay.
sarah		 Are you actually reading it?
gary		I thought I was.
sarah		Sorry I bailed. Jaden had a fever.
gary		Ah!   How boring of her.
sarah		Housewarming gift.
gary		Demon liquor.
sarah		The best part is, I can drink it. I pumped before I came.
gary		So did I.
gary		... so it's kind of hard to prove that I only meant to burn my ex- girlfriend's stuff, and not the entire house.
sarah		Yeah.   Fire's tricky that way.
gary		How about you? Any history of arson?
sarah		Strangely enough...
gary		I knew it!     I could see that little spark.
sarah		It wasn't arson.    Probably.
gary		Oh shit.
sarah		I'll never forget the look on my father's face as he gathered me up in his arms and raced through the burning building, out onto the pavement.
sarah		Then I fell in love with the most wonderful boy in the world. We would take long walks by the river or just sit for hours gazing into each other's eyes. We were so very much in love. Then one day he went away and I thought I'd die. But I didn't. And when I didn't, I said to myself, "Is that all there is to love?"
sarah		Is that all there is? Is that all there is? If that's all there is my friends, then let's keep...
sarah		I know what you're thinking. If that's the way she feels about it why doesn't she just end it all? I'm in no hurry for that final disappointment. I know just as well as I'm standing here talking to you, when that final moment comes and I'm breathing my last breath, I'll be saying to myself...
sarah's voice		Is that all there is, is that all there is? If that's all there is my friends, then let's keep dancing. Let's break out the booze and have a ball, If that's all there...
sarah		I need to...
gary		Just...
sarah		My shoes.     Are here.     Okay.
gary		Don't worry about it.         Just...
sarah		I'm going.     Bye.
gary		Goodnight.
voice		The cat says meow! The pig says oink!
gary		Hello.
gary		Jesus!   You scared the shit out of...
noelle		 You're hurt. GARY I don't speak that.   Sorry.   I don't...
noelle		 Mom is at the car. Where you left her. Again, Gary has no idea what she's saying.
margaret		Think of it like an electronic leash. Basically, if you ever go more than 100 feet from the base station...
gary		...the cops come and throw my ass in jail.
margaret		No. I kick your ass. Then the cops come and throw your ass in jail.
gary		Do I still have to answer the phone?
margaret		No, I'll be doing that from now on. I'm moving into the guest room.
gary		I don't need a babysitter.
margaret		Despite all evidence to the contrary. Don't worry, I'm a cool roomie. Who do you think taught Affleck how to gamble?
gary		So the guy was like, "Do you know fencing?" And I say, of course. That's what it says on my headshot.
margaret		Lies!
gary		Always.   So he says, "Foil or epi?"
margaret		Epe.
gary		I say, I'm about equal in both.
margaret		Which is true.
gary		So he tosses me this fucking Conan sword and goes after me. I'm just swinging, trying to stay alive. But I end up cutting his ear.
margaret		You cut his ear off?
gary		Just a little. But I got the job.
margaret		Wait. You were in Pirates of the Caribbean?
gary		Yes. No. Not the movie, the ride. I was like, "Gar! Keep both hands inside the boat!"
margaret		Goodnight, fuckface.
gary		Goodnight, you filthy whore.
margaret		It's incredible.
gary		I know. Whenever I see them, and I always feel like, damn...
margaret		...I was born at the wrong time.
gary		Exactly.
sarah		Where's the warden?
gary		Groceries.
sarah		Quite the little missus.
gary		How's Jaden?
sarah		Boring. We haven't had nearly the grand old time you two have been having.
gary		You've been watching.
sarah		Well. I don't want to meddle in your affairs.
gary		My affairs?
sarah		Everyone needs affection.    I get it.
gary		I don't.    Are you seriously jealous?
sarah		The opposite. I just want to protect her.
gary		From what?
sarah		From you. Look at you. You date models. Actresses. Tennis players.
gary		Yeah.
sarah		On a scale of one to ten, you belong with the Nines. We both know you won't settle for less.
margaret		What are "the Nines?"
gary		What?
margaret		"Look for the Nines."
gary		It's not mine.
margaret		It's your handwriting.
gary		I didn't write it.
margaret		Okay.
gary		 What?
margaret		Nothing.
gary		Seriously, what?
margaret		Nothing. I thought you were...forget it. Done.    Sorry.
margaret		Yhello? Hi. What?!  I have to take this.
margaret		I know who you are.
sarah		Really.
margaret		I know what you are. And if you come near him again...
sarah		You'll what?
margaret		Margaret.
sarah		I like that. "Margaret."   Classic.
margaret		Why can't you just leave him alone?
sarah		Alone? He's an actor. If nobody's watching him, he doesn't really exist. 
33.		SARAH  He's going to figure it out eventually. And when he does, who do you think he's gonna blame?
margaret		Goodnight, ratface.
gary		Goodnight.
sarah		Hey neighbor.
gary		Hi.
sarah		Sorry for the psychotic episode. I'll blame it on hormones.
gary		Okay.
sarah		Are you alright? You look a little Beautiful Mind-ish.
gary		How many times should the number nine come up? Probablistically?
sarah		Probablistically?
gary		 You know what I mean.
sarah		One time out of ten.
gary		How about every time?
sarah		Some of these are prices. There's going to be a lot of nines when...
gary		There is something wrong with the world.
sarah		You have an eyelash on your... here...
margaret		Everything okay?
gary		Peachy.
margaret		Peachy's good. I like peaches.
gary		Sure.
sarah		You have to trust me.
margaret		You okay?
gary		No.
margaret		Oh.
gary		Tell me about the Nines.
margaret		The Nines?
gary		The Nines.
margaret		Sort of hard to start there...
gary		Try. And don't tell me I'm imagining it. They're showing up everywhere, and I want to know why.
margaret		Best guess? They're your subconscious trying to remind you who you are.
gary		I'm a Nine?
margaret		Yes. It doesn't make a lot of sense of out context.  Coffee?
gary		Why don't you drink coffee?   You're always drinking tea.
margaret		Happy?
gary		Talking.
margaret		On the phone. Usually.
gary		I never met you before I came here.
margaret		You, Gary, never met me. But you're not always...  I can understand why you're a little confused.
gary		No.   I'm a lot confused.
margaret		Theories?
gary		This is all a dream.
margaret		No.
gary		I'm in a coma.
margaret		 No.
gary		Then I'm dead. This is Hell, or Purgatorium or something.
margaret		Okay, a purgatorium is where Romans vomited. But no. This is as real as anything can be.
gary		 What does that mean?
margaret		Everything is what it is. But you're not who you think you are.
margaret		You don't know what you're doing.
gary		What happens if I cross this line?
margaret		I don't know. But it's not good.
gary		Oh shit.
cut to:		 201                                                                  201 ANIMATED TITLES  We RUSH IN on a television set, which spins around revealing a blinding constellation of pixels.  MELISSA  Previously, on "Behind the Screen."  CUT TO:
gavin		"Knowing" is a one-hour drama about a woman whose husband disappears. She starts to believe that her daughter is the key to a dark conspiracy.
gavin		Basically, it's like "Rosemary's Toddler."
gavin		We sold it in the room.
gavin		Just tell me Roger liked the script.
susan		You're shooting a pilot.
melissa		I love it.     I'll do it.
melissa		Gavin and I have been friends for forever.
gavin		It's really hard to think about leaving for six weeks.
gavin		Action!
gavin		Puggies!
susan		I just don't know if you need the cold open. People want to get right to the story.
gavin		I invited Susan to see a rough cut because I trust her taste.
susan		Could we be more clear why Mary is so freaked out at that moment?
gavin		Wow. I thought it was pretty obvious. And dramatic.
susan		I know. But that's Roger's big thing this season. Never let the audience be confused.
gavin		So we're trying to squeeze in a wild line over this shot of Noelle.
melissa		What's the line?
gavin		 How could you...
melissa		Howkajew?
gavin		Yeah.
melissa		Howkajew. It sounds like kosher drug paraphernalia. Like, come on Shmuley! Have a toke on the Howkajew.
gavin		I know. It's just for the test screening.
melissa		They really think people won't get it?
gavin		The dumb people might not.
melissa		I didn't think we were making the show for dumb people.
gavin		That's how I like ya.
gavin		That guy's looking at me.
susan		He can't see you.
moderator		How about you? Did you feel it was...
agitated man		It's not real.
moderator		And what do you mean by that?
agitated man		The show's not real. Why can't you see that? Jesus! Are you fucking blind?  You think you're above it all, don't you? You are trapped here with the rest of them, brother.
gavin		The guy was crazy. Obviously. The show is kinda twisted, and it just flipped something in him.
gavin		Oblivio accebit. It's Latin. "Oblivion approaches."
gavin		Other than the world is coming to an end? "Oblivio" also means forgetting, forgetfulness.  I think that's what I'm going to do. Forget it.
susan		Did you have a chance to look at the cards yet?
gavin		From the screening?
melissa		Pardon me.      Daddy needs his drink.
melissa		 I still love you most.
susan		 People write stuff on the cards they won't say in a focus group. They get more specific.
50.		SUSAN  Forget about anyone who scores you in the Twos and Threes. They'll never like your show.
gavin		The Nines.
susan		They're the one who think your show is almost the best thing they've ever seen. They get your vision. They just want it to be even better.
melissa		Round two is starting without you!
susan		So you'll look at the cards?
gavin		Absolutely.
susan		Sometimes the numbers point things out that you don't want to admit to yourself. In this case, Melissa.
gavin		She doesn't have a ton to do in the pilot. There's so much to set up, you don't get a lot of Melissa- time.
susan		True. That's one of the challenges with a premise pilot.
gavin		But the network still likes the show?
susan		Of course. Roger is your biggest cheerleader.
gavin		How about above Roger?
susan		Roger calls the shots.
gavin		After he consults with the Higher Powers.
susan		True.
gavin		Do they like the show?
susan		They haven't seen it. They're watching all the pilots on Friday.
gavin		Why are you focusing on Melissa?
susan		Because she's the biggest concern.
gavin		She's also the biggest star in the show.
susan		No, you're the biggest star. Roger made a huge deal with you, and he went along with casting Melissa when that wasn't his instinct.
gavin		Well, hooray for Roger. I don't understand what you want me to do.
susan		Meet with someone.
gavin		Who?
susan		Dahlia Salem.
gavin		Yes. And you put her in Gatin's pilot.
susan		It's dead. It's dying. But the network loves Dahlia. So if she could jump over to your show...
gavin		Replace Melissa and reshoot the pilot.
susan		Roger would pay for it.
gavin		So is this even about Melissa?
susan		It's about getting your show on the air. That's all that matters in the end.
gavin		I see why the network loves her. It's just, I wrote the part for Melissa. She's one of my best friends. And in my head, I only see Melissa for the role.  Could Dahlia do it? Absolutely. It could work. I just don't know if I want it to work.
gavin		When I get stressed out, I play videogames. It's my therapy. I can't have them on my own computer, because then I'd never write. So I come down to Koreatown. 
54.		GAVIN  Videogames are better than real life. When you get stuck, you can always hit `reset.' Life needs a reset button.
gavin		If we're really going to replace Melissa, I want to hear it from Roger.
susan		Roger's on a flight to London. But I talked with him before he left. He said yes on Dahlia.
gavin		What does that mean?
susan		It means yes.
gavin		Yes, replace Melissa?
susan		He wants your show on the air, starring Dahlia. I just got off the phone with her agents. They love it. She loves you.
gavin		What about Melissa?
susan		You want me to call her agents?
gavin		God no.    I'll tell her.
melissa		As long as he needs me, I know where I must be...
gavin		I think my house is haunted.
melissa		Your house is really old.
gavin		1926. Ever since I got back, I feel like there's someone else there. And then last night, I thought I heard something. A woman singing.
melissa		Shit.   Like a ghost?
gavin		I guess. And then I saw something. I ran into someone.
melissa		The woman?
gavin		It was a man. I think it was me.
melissa		Your house is haunted by yourself?
gavin		Yeah.
melissa		Gavin, are you alright?
gavin		No.    No.
melissa		Oh my God.
gavin		And I'm letting them, because I really want the show on the air. I have all these characters inside my head, and they want to live. I'm the only way they can. This is the only way they can. I have five seasons mapped out, and though it sucks, either you go away, or the show goes. I had to make a decision, and that's the decision I made. I'm sorry.
melissa		So it's done. Finished.   Decided.
gavin		Yes.
melissa		I understand. It's not your fault. You're morally incapable of doing the right thing.
gavin		I don't want to do this on camera.
melissa		No, because you can't control it. Your little puppets are off their strings, running around. Saying things you didn't write. Reality terrifies you.
gavin		Reality.
melissa		Yes.
gavin		The reality is, you would not be here without me. I gave you your first few roles. And your career is a result of that.
melissa		God, thank you. Thank you for finally playing that card. I always knew you were holding onto it, the "I invented Melissa McCarthy card." Congratulations, you win. The game is over.
susan		Upfronts is the week each year when the networks present their fall schedule to advertisers.
gavin		Sort of like, "Here's our new shit. Like it?"  Upfronts is a complete oxymoron, because no one is remotely honest.
susan		The schedule is a secret until it's announced, so everything is still in play.
gavin		But hey!   At least you're in New York!
gavin		It's surreal being here. None of this is how I planned it.
woman's voice		God.    Hi.    Gavin.
dahlia		You're doing your...show.
gavin		Get on. Come join reality television.
dahlia		Just now. This whole last 24 hours has been surreal.
gavin		I just said surreal.
dahlia		You're good? I wanted to call you.
gavin		Please.   Call anytime.   I don't sleep.
dahlia		I just felt weird about what happened.
gavin		Did something happen?
gavin		So I just bumped into Dahlia Salem, star of my show...
gatins		Look,   I'm sorry. But I'm kind of not.    I want my show on the air. And I   think it was shitty for you to go   after Dahlia behind my back.
gavin		I heard your show was gone.
gatins		I "heard" you fired Melissa McCarthy without having a backup. Why would they pick up your show when you don't have a star?
gavin		The network wanted Dahlia.
gatins		Yeah, in my show. We tested right before you. Our numbers were through the roof.
gavin		Really.
gatins		Really.   Who's your exec?
gavin		Susan Howard.
gatins		She would know. She was there. Ask her.
susan		 I'm   at the UTA party. Yeah. Did you   hear about Ricky's assistant? She   literally shat herself. No, I saw   it.
gavin		I will break your fucking finger.
susan		 I'll call you back.
gavin		Bullshit.
susan		They're only picking up two dramas.
gavin		The rest is, what, reality?
susan		You can go mid-season.
gavin		You can go to Hell.
susan		Wow.
gavin		Didn't you?
susan		G., I'm on your side. Trust me, I'm the only one who is trying to protect you.
gavin		All I want to know is why.
susan		You want a motive?
gavin		Yes.
susan		This isn't "Crime Lab."   No one got murdered.
gavin		My show did. So tell me why.
susan		I had to get you away from her. She was holding you back.
gavin		Melissa.
susan		You had to give her up.  C'mon, G. If she really mattered, you couldn't have betrayed her so easily.
gavin		I didn't.
susan		What, you're the victim? The big Creator can't stand up to one little d-girl? It was your choice. I didn't make you do anything. I mean, do you have any principles? Do you believe in anything but your own ego?
gavin		Fuck you.
susan		Your dialogue used to be sharper. Maybe Gatins could do a polish.
gavin		Look, I don't want to do this anymore. My show's not going to happen, so this show is over. 
65.		GAVIN  Done. Gone. I`m not going to be your fucking puppet.
gavin		I'm fine.
octavia		Who were you talking to?
gavin		Oh God.
margaret		I can understand why you're a little confused.
gary		No.   I'm a lot confused.
margaret		Theories?
gary		This is all a dream.
margaret		No.
gary		I'm in a coma.
margaret		 No.
gary		Then I'm dead. This is Hell, or Purgatorium or something.
margaret		Okay, a purgatorium is where Romans vomited. But no. This is as real as anything can be.
gary		 What does that mean?
margaret		Everything is what it is. But you're not who you think you are.
gary		Okay, then. Who am I?
margaret		You're a multi-dimensional being of vast, almost infinite power. You created this world on a whim, and decided to stick around to see how it turned out. You, this body you're in, is just one of your incarnations. Avatars. Call you what you will.
gary		Are you saying I'm God?
margaret		Technically, no. If God is a ten -- a theoretical ultimate, that-which- no-greater-can-be-imagined -- you're more of a nine.
gary		So what are you?
margaret		Humans are sevens. Monkeys are sixes.
gary		What are the eights?
margaret		Koalas. They're telepathic.    Plus, they control the weather.
gary		Yeah.
margaret		Okay.
gary		I understand. But I don't believe you.
gabriel		Noelle!   Don't get too far ahead.
mary		No.   You had ice cream at lunch.
gabriel		 Apparently frozen yogurt doesn't count.
mary		I'll make note.
mary		Did you hit it?
gabriel		Shouldn't have to.
mary		Shit.
gabriel		Battery is dead. Least the starter is.
mary		How do we...?
gabriel		We call the service.     That's all we can do.
mary		It's just the little battery that's dead, right? The big one is probably fine.
gabriel		I guess.
mary		We can't jump it from one battery to the other? Cross-over somehow?
gabriel		Who did you marry?      MacGyver?
mary		Are you getting a signal?
gabriel		No.    Do you?
mary		Yes!     One bar.
gabriel		The minute you try to place a call, the bar goes away.
mary		Keep trying.
gabriel		Okay, I'll keep trying, Mary.   But it will keep happening.
mary		Well, what do you want to do?
gabriel		I don't know.
mary		Maybe if you hold it up higher.
gabriel		The problem is we're boxed in. It's a canyon.
mary		That's at least a mile.
gabriel		I can run that.
mary		So...we stay here?
gabriel		You okay with that?
mary		I don't think we have a choice, so, yeah. Go.
gabriel		Daddy's going to get a truck to help us out. You take care of your mom, okay?
gabriel		Excuse me!     Hi! Hello?
sierra		No, I don't. There's no service up here.
gabriel		 Yeah, I'm finding that out.
sierra		You can usually get a signal up at the ranger station.
gabriel		Okay...
sierra		You follow the road. It's probably... I don't know. You have a car?
gabriel		It's dead.     That's why I need...
sierra		Oh...
gabriel		Yeah.
sierra		I can call somebody when I get to town.
gabriel		I believe you. I do. But you don't know where the car is. And the guy might not come. We can't be up here all night.
sierra		I'm sorry.
gabriel		Don't be sorry. Just help me out here.
sierra		No.   I can't. I'm sorry.
gabriel		Why won't you trust me?
mary		Okay, but you have to be careful, understand? You have to use Big Girl hands.
gabriel		Were you following me?
sierra		Once I was sure you weren't following me. I'm sorry, it's just...
gabriel		You thought I was Ted Bundy.
sierra		Kinda.
gabriel		My name's Gabriel.   Bundy.
sierra		Sierra.
gabriel		Yeah.
sierra		So, listen. I'm parked that way.
gabriel		Really?
sierra		Yeah.   Make up some karma.
gabriel		Lead the way.
sierra		Okay, confession.    I kind of recognized you.
gabriel		Really?
sierra		I wasn't sure, but I think I saw a picture of you in some videogame magazine my boyfriend had. You're, like, the shit.
gabriel		No.
sierra		You're like the Quentin Tarantino of that world. A videogame God.
gabriel		Not really.
sierra		Fine.
gabriel		You seriously recognized me off of one photo?
sierra		I thought you were kinda hot. Considering.
gabriel		Considering..?
sierra		Within the subset of videogame people.
gabriel		Okay.
sierra		I wasn't masturbating to your picture or anything.
gabriel		Well, I guess I'm flattered.
sierra		You should be. I'm stingy with compliments.
gabriel		So your boyfriend plays videogames?
sierra		Ex-boyfriend. And yes. Way too many. He used to play Evercrack back in the day, but yours, well, that was like...what's worse than crack?
gabriel		Super-crack?
sierra		Sure.   He was this orc witch doctor guy.
gabriel		Shaman?
sierra		Yeah. At one point he was spending like, 40 hours a week gathering "thunderleaf" or whatever. 
79.		SIERRA  Then I was his mule, hauling it around because he ran out of space.
gabriel		You had an account?
sierra		I was part of your world, and you didn't even know it.
gabriel		Sorry.
sierra		You can make it up to me.
man's voice		...I have five seasons mapped out, and though it sucks, either you go away, or the show goes. I had to make a decision, and that's the decision I made. I'm sorry.
sierra		So you play a lot of characters at once?
gabriel		A couple.    Most people do.
sierra		You're not most people. You created the world. You know all the secret codes.
gabriel		What, like `God mode'?
sierra		That's what you call it?
gabriel		That's when you have all the powers, and you can't be killed. It's fine when you're designing, but it's really boring to play. A game isn't fun unless there are rules.
sierra		And you make the rules.
gabriel		Yes I do. I mean, you want to give everyone freedom, but they can't handle it. Half your players are teenage boys, and it's like they're programmed to be destructive. 
81.		GABRIEL  They deliberately crash the world servers. They'd ruin everything just to prove they could.
sierra		Do you think I'm pretty?
gabriel		What?
sierra		Do you think I'm hot?   On a purely physical level.
gabriel		Sure.
sierra		That's a rave.
gabriel		Well, I don't know why you're asking.
sierra		My ex-boyfriend, the orc, he says, "What I like about you is that you're not so hot that I'm afraid of losing you."
gabriel		So where's the orc now?
sierra		He's dead. I spiked his water bottle with a massive quantity of GHB. He hallucinated, went into convulsions and died.
gabriel		Remind me not to piss you off, Sarah.
sierra		Sierra.
gabriel		Sorry.
sierra		And what makes you think you haven't pissed me off already?
mary		How are you doing, kiddo?
noelle		He's not coming back.
mary		How could you...
83.		MELISSA  I feel so dirty.
ix		He's sweating a lot.
gabriel		Am I crazy, or is it getting hotter?
sierra		Oh, you're crazy.
gabriel		I have a wife. And a daughter. They're waiting for me.
sierra		Where are they?
gabriel		Back at the car.
sierra		I mean, which direction?
gabriel		They're back...
sierra		Face it, G.: You don't know where they are. You don't know where you are. We've been walking in circles for an hour.
gabriel		Where's your car?
sierra		There is no car. That was all a...  "pretense," I guess. An excuse to get you alone.
gabriel		What's happening?
sierra		I'm sorry it had to come this, G. But it'll all be over soon.
gabriel		You're trying to kill me.
sierra		No! No. This isn't a murder. It's an intervention.
susan		I had to get you away from her. She was holding you back. You had to give her up.
gavin		Melissa?
sarah		I can you out of here.    But you have to trust me.
susan		Do you feel like a man?   You're not.
sierra		That's right. Just let it go.       Let it go.
gabriel		Why are you doing this?
sierra		You did it to yourself.   Admitting that is the first step.
octavia		Because you forgot who you were.
agitated man		You forgot this wasn't real.
agitated man		You can't describe it with human words.
octavia		You can't think it with human thoughts.
margaret		You could destroy the world with a single thought.  Don't, incidentally. Just file that away. But the truth is, you hold all the cards: every church, every candle, every sacrifice -- that's for you. When people pray, they're not praying because they want this thing or that thing. They just don't want to be forgotten.
mary		Noelle?    Noelle!
gabriel		Maybe if I just cut back, didn't get so involved...
sierra		We both know that'll never work. Next week, you'll be back here redesigning the pinecones. You have to quit cold-turkey.
gabriel		I can't.
sierra		You can. But I can't force you to leave. You have to want it.
mary		Noelle!   Noelle!
gabriel		She's here.
mary		Everything okay?
gabriel		Absolutely. Let's go home.
mary		You need to go, don't you?
gabriel		No.   I can stay.
mary		How long? Forever? Every day, you'd know what you were missing.
gabriel		Worst-case scenario? Spontaneous disintegration into a fiery void. Oblivio accebit. The end of everything.
mary		That's all?
gabriel		That probably wouldn't happen. The basic structure of the universe should hold. I guess I'm just worried about the human factor. You guys kill each other a lot.
mary		In fairness, that's usually in your name. Plus we've gotten much more efficient at it.
gabriel		I like this world. I like my life, here, with you and Noelle...
mary		But it's not real. I'm not really your wife, you're not really my husband. On some level, it's all pretend.
gabriel		It's not pretend. There's a reason you were there, in every version. You were my sister, my wife, my best friend...
mary		That's a little creepy.
gabriel		I wanted you close. In one version, I even told you. I warned you that some day they might come for me, and...
mary		...You'd have to leave.   How many versions were there?
gabriel		Ninety.   This is the last one.
mary		Wow.
gabriel		I've destroyed billions of people with a thought. Obliterated them. And you'd like to think it's painless...
mary		Stop. You don't have to explain, or apologize. Everything that is, is because of you. If that's all, that's enough.
gabriel		So.
mary		Guess you don't really need to pack anything.
gabriel		I'm good.
mary		You're great. It's been a pleasure.
gabriel		Likewise.    I love you.
mary		Love you, too. Ya big lug.
gabriel		You're my favorite.
ben		Cinnamon, too.
noelle		 If I had a horse...
ben		Really.
noelle		And if I had another horse...
ben		Nutmeg?
noelle		No, Flash.
noelle		Mmmmmmmmmm-Mommy.
noelle		He's not coming back. But it's gonna be okay. He put the pieces together, it's like...
ben		Honey? Is it supposed to stick like this?
additional material		 The following scene  is the conversation between S and G that plays near the end of Part Three. The plan is to shoot this scene in almost every setup of the film that involves both characters -- be it in Part One, Two or Three.  So we'll be shooting this scene a lot. We'll then be intercutting the best of all these moments to create one sequence.
****Dialogues from script :Ninja_Assassin.txt****

hollywood		Fuck!   Fucking-shit-fuck-fucking- fuck!
hollywood		Watch it, old man!
tattoo artist		The needle is doing what the needle does.
hollywood		What's that supposed to mean?
tattoo master		The irezumi does not hide the skin, the tattoo reveals the nature of the man and illuminates the four noble professions in the Book of Five Rings: the Warrior, the Artist, the Merchant, and the farmer. If there is a conflict between the needle and the skin, between the mark and the man, then perhaps the path you have chosen is not the path for which you are suited.
hollywood		What did you just say, old man?
tattoo master		No disrespect.
hollywood		You're lucky. I can't kill you 'til you finish this thing. Gimme that mirror! How's it looking?
yakuza one		Hey, boss. This just came for you.
hollywood		What is it?
yakuza one		A letter.
hollywood		So open it, dumb ass.
yakuza one		Looks like sand.
tattoo master		No...
hollywood		You know what this is?
tattoo master		Years ago, I watched a man open an envelope like that one.
hollywood		What came out of the shadows?
tattoo master		I cannot say the word.
hollywood		What word?
tattoo artist		That night, one of their blades struck here. I should have died, but for an accident of birth. My heart is here, on the other side.
hollywood		What the fuck is that?
yakuza one		Looks like a Ninja, boss.
hollywood		A ninja? Are you kidding me? That's the word you're afraid to say? Ninja?
tattoo artist		But you are real, aren't you?
checker		That's a lot of noodles.  Are you a student? Tourist?   Here on business?
raizo		I don't think so. Sorry.
checker		So if you're not a student, and you're not a tourist, and you're not here to work... what are you doing?
raizo		Waiting.
checker		For what?
raizo		For the wheel to turn.
ozunu		...you must never, ever forget who you are, how you came to be. You are Ozunu. You are a part of me as I am a part of you.
raizo		Is everything all right?
landlady		Yes, fine, it's all fixed. You keep it very dark and spare in there.
raizo		Ms. Ali, my privacy is very important to me. If you enter my apartment again without my permission, I will leave your building.
landlady		I just --
raizo		Good day.
ozunu		On the street. Abandoned by your parents. Without a home. Without people to care for you. You should have done as most children do, and gone quietly from this world, to the next.  But, instead you fought. As you did here today. You fought. And you won.
mika		Some people see money as the root of all evil, but to me it looks like a fingerprint. Whether we're talking about 19th century Korea, or 21st century Iraq, the game is the same. If you want to understand why certain things are happening, you have to understand the flow of money.
maslow		You're excited, Mika. You know I get nervous when you're excited.
mika		You remember the Eulmi incident?                    *
maslow		Korean queen, late eighteen-                         * hundred's. According to you, she was off'd by one of these ninja clans.
mika		Ozunu. I think. I've been going through some of the original transcripts of the trial of Kunitomo Shigeaki. The prosecutor questioned him about a payment of 100 pounds of gold. Shigeaki answered that he didn't know what the prosecutor was talking about. The question was never brought up again. But what pinged for me was the amount- the exact same amount rumored to be paid to the Hattori Clan for the assassination of Lord Sanda.
maslow		So you start to wonder, in this ever changing world, if the cost of a man's life has remained constant.
mika		Exactly. I figure these clans are like a thousand years old. They probably don't change a lot.
maslow		Highly circumstantial.                               *
mika		I thought you might say that so I checked how often this particular bank transferred that market equivalent to a hundred pounds of gold in the last three years.
maslow		Let me guess.
mika		Not once.
maslow		Okay you got me. This is                                * interesting.                                            *
mika		The clans are real, Ryan. They                          * steal children and turn them into                       * assassins. They've been doing it                        * for years and nobody's doing a                          * damn thing to stop them.                                *
maslow		Look, no one's denying the historical record, Mika. But the whole idea just doesn't fit in with a modern world. It's like one of those questions on an IQ test: which of these doesn't belong in this sentence: laptops, space shuttles, nanotechnology, ninjas.
mika		They're real Ryan. You can call them spooks, or assassins, or whatever you want if it makes you feel better, but they're out there. They're killing people and nobody is doing a damn thing to stop them.
ozunu		Our enemies are everywhere.
ozunu		You must move without trace or                       * footprint.
pretty woman		Hi... excuse me...?  Would you mind?
raizo		...sorry?
pretty woman		If it's not too much trouble, could you help me with this?
raizo		What clan are you from?
pretty woman		I... don't understand...
raizo		You came alone. The Ozunu clan would never make such a mistake.
manager		What is going on-
maslow		And two cokes, please.
mika		How long have you been here? And you can't say "zwei cola bitte"?
maslow		Course I can, but you tend to hear more interesting things if people don't know you can understand what they're saying.
mika		Do you ever stop being a cop?
maslow		Not the way I was raised. My dad always said, being a cop has nothing to do with a clock. It's a consequence of consciousness often interpreted as desire.
mika		Desire?
maslow		For justice. And doughnuts.
mika		I think so. Same template as before. The transfer was made the day before a multiple homicide in Osaka. The police and newspapers are calling it a gangland slaying.
maslow		How do you know what the police report says? You're not still requisitioning evidence with my clearance codes, are you?
mika		What about the bank audit?
maslow		Denied.    It was a long shot at best.
mika		But you said you found something.
maslow		A report. A friend of mine in Moscow, tipped me to it.
mika		What happened to him?
maslow		Same thing that's going to happen to me, if I keep hanging around with you- booted out of the service for mental instability.
mika		Is he still alive?    We need to find him.
maslow		Working on it.
mika		You believe it now, don't you?
maslow		Ninjas?    Are you kidding?
mika		Then why are you doing this?
maslow		No idea-
ozunu		Hunger and thirst, your bowels and                   * breath, even the blood in your                       * veins, are the body's weaknesses.                    *
ozunu		The world feeds on the weak.
ozunu		Suffering exists only because                       * weakness exists.
mika		...who are you?
ozunu		Hone your body. Sharpen your mind. Become the weapon you will need to survive.
raizo		You shouldn't do that. It's against the rules. If they catch you --
kiriko		Then they catch me.
raizo		They'll put you in the box.
kiriko		Yes, they will.
raizo		Trees don't have hearts.
kiriko		Everything has a heart.
raizo		I don't.
kiriko		Really? Let me see.
raizo		Liar.
kiriko		Listen to mine, I'm not lying. I'll prove it.
mika		Excuse me? Excuse me?
asian man		Ahh, Jona.    Jona sick.
mika		Oh. Well, tell him I hope he feels better
asian man		Take care.   You should take care.
mika		...What?
asian man		Work so late. Not good for you.
mika		True...Thanks.
mika		...is someone there?
ozunu		Did Takeshi's blow hurt you?    You                   * think this is pain? You are                           * mistaken.                                             *
maslow		Last night I'm working late and I get a visit. Guy named Zabranski. Works upstairs for Internal Affairs. Just drops by. In the neighborhood- cup a sugar- how ya doin- kinda thing. Asks what I'm working on. Oh, this and that, usual blibbity blab, I tell him. Then he smiles and says-
zabranski		...Very Good.
maslow		I don't understand what is really going on, but I'm smart enough to recognize a warning when I see one.
mika		But why?
maslow		Why? It's obvious. If your little fantasy has even slightest chance of being real, then these Nine Clans would have some pretty major juice protecting them.
mika		What are you going to do?
maslow		We are going to tip-toe, very carefully from here on out. You understand? You don't do anything else without checking with me. Got it?
mika		Did you find Sabatin yet?
maslow		Yeah...he's dead.
mika		How?
maslow		Heart attack.
mika		They killed him.
maslow		People die of heart attacks, Mika.
mika		Was he married? Did he have a family?
maslow		God, you are relentless, aren't you.
mika		I know you Ryan, you would have checked.
maslow		A wife.
mika		Still in Russia?
maslow		Relocated.
mika		Where?
maslow		Explain something to me first. Where is this obsession coming from? What started this whole thing?
mika		Like your father said...It's a consequence of consciousness often interpreted as desire.
maslow		Desire for what?
mika		For the truth.
maslow		Mika! Tip-toe!
ozunu		A true Shinobi lives in darkness. The night is his weapon.                             *
mika		Mrs. Sabatin?
mika		I'm with Europol. We spoke on the phone.  GOLDENROD REVISED 2nd DRAFT     6/4/08   33. 36   CONTINUED:                                                   36
mika		Shoen.
mika		I found it...illuminating. Especially the references to the Rihla. Your husband quotes passages not found in Battuta's present manuscript.
mika		I understand the report caused some problems for him inside the KGB.
mika		What happened?
mika		Do you know what they talked about?
mika		Can I ask how he died?
mika		What're you --
maslow		I told you to stop using my confirmation code.
mika		I did --
maslow		Dammit, Mika --                                    *                                                44
mika		...I'm sorry, it was the only way                    * I could get the evidence.                            *
maslow		Shit....
mika		What happened?
maslow		What happened? Everything's fucking happened.
mika		 DNP.
maslow		That's right. DNP. DO NOT FUCKING PURSUE!
mika		 Actually that would be DNFP --
maslow		Right now there are people from internal affairs, CIA, Homeland Security and for all I know the Martian Fucking Military in my office tearing the place apart.  I don't know what they're looking for but I think you do.
mika		Most of this is from Sabatin. Copies of what I think are the lost chapters of the Rihle. I think it describes the original location of the Ozunu Clan but my 14th century Arabic is a little rusty.
maslow		And this?
mika		That's how it started. I made a mistake, mixed up the case code and they sent me that.
maslow		...Christ.
mika		Yeah. I know. I don't understand why they're fighting though. It could be a clan war.
maslow		So you requisitioned this by accident. You used my code which is why you didn't want to show me this. Which is also why they're tearing apart my office right now.
mika		I'm sorry Ryan. You have to know I didn't mean for you to get in trouble...  I just thought if this was real, if these clans were killing people, you know, it was our job to try to stop them.
maslow		Okay, that's low.
mika		Look, I know I broke the rules. I'll explain what I did and accept the consequences.
maslow		Very noble of you but I've got the feeling this isn't a slap-on-the wrist kinda consequence. Let me take this and try to make some sense of this shitstorm you started. In the meantime, you will not say anything to anybody. Capiche?
passport official		Are you coming to Berlin for business or pleasure Mr. Han
raizo		Pleasure.
zabranski		Boy you're like a dog with a bone on that computer aren't you?
mika		Excuse me? Who are you?
zabranski		Agent Zabranski. Internal affairs. Need to ask you a couple of questions. You are Mika Coretti, yeah?
mika		...A few cases.
zabranski		You have something of a social relationship.
mika		What?
zabranski		You had lunch with him on the 13th and again on the 18th.
mika		How do you know that?
zabranski		Is it not true?
mika		I...I'm not sure. We do have lunch together sometimes, usually when we're working-
zabranski		Are you working on something with him right now?
mika		No...not right now.
zabranski		Has Agent Maslow seemed different lately, in any way? Has he done or said anything that struck you as unusual?
mika		No why. Has Agent Maslow done something?
zabranski		Just routine. The agency cares about its field operatives. We monitor for signs of stress, fatigue, mental exhaustion. Agent Maslow has a serious case load. That much work can wear on a man.
mika		Come on...you're kidding me.
maslow		Ssssshhhhhh.   Sorry, Mika.
mika		Fucking Christ, Ryan-
maslow		I couldn't talk earlier.   They're watching me.
mika		Zabranski came to my office. Asking about you.
maslow		I know how Sabatin must have felt.
mika		What happened?
maslow		I showed Jamison the materials.
mika		What did he say?
jamison		This agency is subject to the International laws and agreements that govern the jurisdiction of our authority. If a case is marked DNP we must respect the jurisprudence of the regional government and act accordingly.
maslow		I understand that sir but-
jamison		Let me be clear, Agent Maslow. In the eyes of the law these materials do not exist. If so, than there is no case and if there is no case there is no reason for this conversation to continue.
mika		He took the materials?
maslow		Come on Mika, how could he take something that didn't exist? He couldn't. Which means that I couldn't copy it either, and if I couldn't copy it than I can't be violating international laws and agreements by still having it.
mika		What are we going to do?
maslow		Your going to go home. Pack your bags and go on holiday.
mika		No way-
maslow		Don't fucking argue with me, Mika. I trusted you. Now you've got to trust me.
mika		Ryan, I can't let you lose your job because of me-
maslow		I'm not talking about my job, Mika.
mika		I've never even fired one of these.
maslow		 This is the bad end. This is the end you hold. Point, shoot, run like hell.
mika		Ryan...
maslow		I know. It's unbelievable. I've investigated, world bank officials, drug cartels, arms dealers, and I've never faced this kind of heat. For ninjas. Fucking unbelievable!
mika		Hey....
neighbor		Hi.
mika		What happened?
neighbor		Power's out. Us, the building behind us, that one across the street. Seems like every few months, boom, the lights out. I call, I complain, they listen...nothing gets done. So I sit out here, at least it's cool.
mika		You're not the first person to give me that advice today....
raizo		You know me?
mika		...security camera in New York.                        * Recorded you fighting...one of                         * them.                                                  *
mika		A little.                                              *
mika		Who?
raizo		The Hanta-Kirra.
mika		Does that mean what I think it means?
raizo		They won't stop until you are                         * dead.                                                 *
mika		Oh god.                                               *
raizo		The gun won't help you.
mika		I don't have a lot of options okay. I once took a Tae Bo class, but that's the extent of my Kung Fu abilities.
raizo		I can help but you must tell me                       * something first.
mika		What?
raizo		You saw Ms. Sabatin.                                  *
mika		But I can get them.
raizo		We need something black. Hurry!                      *
takeshi		Raizo.
dog ninja		He's taken the girl.
ozunu		Betrayal begets blood.
ozunu		This is the law of the Nine Clans. This is the way of the ninja.
mika		I'm going to have to make a phone call in order to get the manuscript.
raizo		Not now.   Just drive.
mika		Where?
raizo		Does not matter. Just get as far away from here as fast as you can without drawing attention.
mika		You think they're following us?
raizo		I know they're following us.  GOLDENROD REVISED 2nd DRAFT     6/4/08   53. 63   CONTINUED:                                                   63
mika		I don't see anything back there.
raizo		They have our scent.
mika		Following our scent?    Like dogs?
raizo		No. Like Wolves.
mika		How do you know so much about them?
raizo		I was one of them.
mika		You flunked out of ninja school or something?
raizo		...something.
ozunu		You may remove the blindfold.
kingpin		Wait here.   Gotta piss.
bodyguard		Want me to come with you, boss?
kingpin		Why? So you can shake it for me? You some kind of secret faggot?
kingpin		The fuck-?
ozunu		Keep it. It will remind you that every minute of your life is a gift that I have given you.
mika		Okay, if you're not going to say anything, do you mind if I talk? When I get nervous, it helps if I talk.
raizo		I know.
mika		Yeah, well usually if someone introduces themselves it is a convention that the other person does likewise.
raizo		Raizo...is the name I was given.
mika		So, you were an orphan?
raizo		Ninja only kill two kinds of people. The first kind has power and money. The other kind is trying to stop them.
mika		I understand retail therapy as well as any girl but I think it's a little late.
raizo		You are a size 36?
mika		What? No! Size 34...`cept certain times of the month.
raizo		If you leave while I am gone they will catch you and kill you.
raizo		Get undressed. Shower. Do not use the hotel soap. Or any towel. Do you smoke?
mika		No.
raizo		Put your clothes in here.
mika		Hey-
raizo		What?
mika		Don't you know how to knock?
raizo		I'm trying to save your life.
mika		...okay right.
raizo		Dry yourself with this.
mika		...I'm just a researcher. I'm really not equipped to deal with this...
raizo		Get dressed.
mika		These are a little tight.
mika		European sizes...run a little small I guess.
raizo		Let's go.
mika		Wow. They teach you that at ninja school?
raizo		Most locks are not worth the metal they're made of.
mika		You're going to steal a car?
raizo		Just borrow it.
mika		In for a penny, in for a pounding.
raizo		At ninja school I minored in electrical engineering.
raizo		Now we have some time.
mika		How much time?
raizo		A day.    Maybe less.
mika		Jesus.
raizo		Make your call.
mika		Ryan, it's me.
maslow		Mika! For Christ sake I've been calling for hours!
mika		I know.   I'm in a bit of trouble-
maslow		Trouble? You miss jury duty you're in trouble. You're in some kind of bottomless pit of deep shit.
mika		Yeah. Least I'm not down here by myself...
maslow		Your guardian angel? Is it him? The one from the tape?
mika		He's on our side, Ryan.   I trust him.
maslow		Careful, Mika.
mika		I promised him the Battuta pages. Do you still have them?  GOLDENROD REVISED 2nd DRAFT   6/4/08   64. 77   CONTINUED:                                                    77
maslow		...yeah, I got them.
mika		Can you meet us? In three hours?
maslow		Where?
mika		How bout the usual?
mika		There he is.
maslow		Mika!
mika		Thanks to him.
raizo		Why have you done this?
mika		Done what?
maslow		Step back Mika.
mika		What?
raizo		People will die.  GOLDENROD REVISED 2nd DRAFT   6/4/08     65. 78    CONTINUED:                                                     78
maslow		NOW!
mika		No!
military man		Hands on your head! On your knees! Do it now!
mika		Raizo!   No!   This is wrong!
raizo		The clans have people everywhere.
mika		What are you doing?
maslow		Following orders.
ozunu		Cut him.
security goon		Prisoner is secure sir.
maslow		Right.
security goon		No sir, we checked it.
maslow		Then why isn't he showing up?
security goon		We think he's able to lower the temperature of his body to remain neutral.
maslow		Or maybe he's just cold-blooded.
mika		Ryan, you know this is wrong!   It can't be legal! What is this place? Your own private Guantanamo?
maslow		It's an old GDR safehouse. Jamison wants this off the grid.
mika		Ryan you're making a huge mistake!
maslow		I don't think so. We got reports from Washington, London, Osaka all tagging your boy. Only problem we have is where to extradite him first.
mika		So two weeks ago, there's no such thing as a ninja and now every city in the world has a warrant for one?
maslow		We must respect the jurisprudence of the regional government and corresponding law enforcement agencies.
mika		He's not the enemy.
maslow		No? You ever heard of Stockholm Syndrome I'm getting the feeling I'm looking at a pretty serious case of it.
mika		I'm not crazy.     This is!
maslow		He's a killer, Mika. Weren't you the one telling me it was our job to stop him.
mika		You're not listening to me!
maslow		You're not saying anything worth hearing. Look, if want to do the insubordination tango, let's go, but not in front of the kids okay? Boys, give us a minute.
mika		Damn it, Ryan, I --
maslow		Listen to me, we don't have much time. Look, I don't know what you've stumbled into, but somebody is pulling some major strings inside.
mika		They want him dead. He's been fighting them for years.
maslow		I believe you.  -- because I don't want anything to happen to you.
raizo		I told you.   I tried to warn you.
kiriko		...yes, you did....
raizo		But you did it anyway.   Why?
kiriko		Why am I in here for watering my tree...or why are you out there... watering me?
mika		Could you give us a moment?
guard		Negative.   Not safe ma'am.
mika		If he wanted to hurt me he could have done that a while ago.
guard		Sorry ma'am. Maslow okayed the water. That's it.
mika		Hi...you looked thirsty.
raizo		I know.
mika		You do?
raizo		The only time you lied to me was when you told me your size.
mika		How did you know that?
raizo		Your heart.   It is special.
mika		You know about my heart?
raizo		Hearts speak truer than tongues.
mika		Listen, Maslow is on our side. He's going to try to help you.
raizo		It's too late. All that matters is the Rihla. Get the manuscript before they get here.
mika		The Hanta Kirra?
raizo		Hurry.
mika		Ryan, can I talk to you?
maslow		We have to do this again, Coretti?
mika		No sir. I just...I have reason to believe that a group of ninja may be on their way here.
maslow		I think these gentlemen can handle a few whack-jobs wearing pajamas. Am I right?
mika		But the situation we discussed-
maslow		I'm working on that. You have to give me a little time.
mika		We don't have time.
maslow		They're not here now.
mika		They'll be here soon.
maslow		How soon-
mika		Raizo--
maslow		Mika!
europol guard		Christ--
europol guard		We got some guys in pajamas comin' to play spin the bottle.
mika		I don't have time for this shit. We have to move the prisoner.
raizo		Mika!
raizo		You've got to get out of here!
mika		Not without you.
raizo		Then we all die together.
point man		Is that..?
mika		Fuck me...
europol guard		They're not showing up on IR!
mika		Come on--come on--
raizo		Mika?
mika		Shh!
raizo		I don't want to sound critical--
mika		Got it!
raizo		Go. Find Maslow.
maslow		Mika!
mika		Jesus Ryan--
maslow		I thought you were--
mika		Are you ok?
maslow		I hope that wasn't my liver. Gonna need that soon.
mika		Come on.
mika		Fuck!
maslow		What?
mika		The manuscript--
maslow		No Mika--
mika		Maslow--
mika		Come on, Ryan...
mika		Ryan- I had to leave!
maslow		Good, stay clear.
mika		Do you have the map?
maslow		Not yet.   We're heading upstairs now.
mika		Where's Raizo
maslow		He took off.   We think they went after him.
takeshi		This is the end for you, brother.
mika		Raizo!
raizo		...waiting for you...
mika		You have to go to a hospital.
raizo		No. Not a hospital.     Another place.
herbalist		What is it?   What --
raizo		...dong-xia leaves...three of the lo-chan...dragon root...
herbalist		You should not mix these.    Very dangerous.
raizo		No...it will save me....
herbalist		It will?  You're sure?  Let me write this down.
raizo		Hot water.
mika		A day?!?     What should I do?
raizo		...keep moving...  GOLDENROD REVISED 2nd DRAFT     6/4/08     80. 100   CONTINUED:                                                    100
mika		I'll have him to go.  Can you...help me to the car?
maslow		Mika, where are you?
mika		Moving.   He told me to keep moving.
maslow		He's still alive?
mika		After a fashion.
maslow		Let us bring you in.
mika		Not this time.
maslow		Mika, the situation's a little different. Jurisprudence goes out the fucking window when my men get attacked.
mika		Do you have the manuscript?
maslow		...negative. They got to my office. Everything's gone.
mika		...but I promised...
maslow		We'll keep your promise. They're too many people involved now. It's just a matter of time.
mika		I don't think we have much time...
maslow		Just tell me where you are.
mika		I know you can't hear me, so I'm sure this doesn't matter, but I'm going to say it anyway.
aide		Agent Maslow, the tracking device--
maslow		You've got a lock?
aide		Triangulating her position now.
mika		They took him.     Ten minutes ago. He's gone.
raizo		...no!
raizo		Kiriko!   You can't leave!
kiriko		I have to.
raizo		Why?
kiriko		Because my heart is telling me too.
raizo		The Hanta Kirra will come for you.
kiriko		Then they will come.
raizo		You know the law. He will cut your heart from your chest.
kiriko		No...He can never touch my heart.
raizo		Where? What is out there?
kiriko		Life.
raizo		...My life is here.
kiriko		Because I can't watch you become something you are not.
ozunu		A child of mine, my daughter, betrayed us. She refused these gifts. Rejected our clan.
ozunu		You are Ozunu. Your life is meaningless compared to the survival of the Clan. This is our deepest truth. Because of it, we have endured for hundreds of years, and will endure for hundreds more.
takeshi		Father...
maslow		No more grenades, not until we get the children out!
raizo		What took you?
mika		You knew I'd come?
raizo		Just because I was asleep doesn't mean I couldn't hear you.
takeshi		Come, little brother, let us play like old times
ozunu		You have not forgotten your training. You will always be mine, child.
raizo		The breath I take after you are dead, will be the first of my life.
mika		Die you fuck!
ozunu		Bitch!
mika		Raizo
raizo		Mika! Run!
mika		Where is he?   I can't see him!
raizo		Get away!
maslow		Mika!
raizo		She saved my life.
maslow		How can you be sure?
raizo		Her heart is special.
mika		Medic!    Over here now!
maslow		Is she going to be okay?
medic		I don't know...she's got a hole right through the middle of her heart...but shes not really bleeding, that badly...
mika		My heart...
maslow		...you gotta be fucking kidding me.
mika		...Raizo?
maslow		He said you saved his life.
kiriko		I believe the heart of a tree knows which way it needs to grow.
raizo		I don't.
kiriko		Hello...hello in there. It said it was happy to meet me and that it missed you.
kiriko		Come with me!
****Dialogues from script :Ninotchka.txt****

ninotchka		 Written by  Charles Brackett, Billy Wilder & Walter Reisch
shooting draft		 1939
manager		 Is there anything I can do for you, monsieur?
buljanoff		No, no.
manager		Yes, monsieur?
iranoff		Just looking around.
kopalski		Comrades, why should we lie to each other? It's wonderful.
iranoff		Let's be honest. Have we anything like it in Russia?
all three		 No, no, no.
iranoff		Can you imagine what the beds would be in a hotel like that?
kopalski		They tell me when you ring once the valet comes in; when you ring twice you get the waiter; and do you know what happens when you ring three times? A maid comes in -- a French maid.
iranoff		 Comrades, if we ring nine times... let's go in.
buljanoff		 Just a minute -- just a minute -- I have nothing against the idea but I still say let's go back to the Hotel Terminus. Moscow made our reservations there, we are on an official mission, and we have no right to change the orders of our superior.
iranoff		Where is your courage, Comrade Buljanoff?
kopalski		Are you the Buljanoff who fought on the barricades? And now you are afraid to take a room with a bath?
buljanoff		 I don't want to go to Siberia.
iranoff		I don't want to go to the Hotel Terminus.
kopalski		If Lenin were alive he would say, "Buljanoff, Comrade, for once in your life you're in Paris. Don't be a fool. Go in there and ring three times."
iranoff		He wouldn't say that. What he would say is "Buljanoff, you can't afford to live in a cheap hotel. Doesn't the prestige of the Bolsheviks mean anything to you? Do you want to live in a hotel where you press for the hot water and cold water comes and when you press for the cold water nothing comes out at all? Phooey, Buljanoff!"
buljanoff		 I still say our place is with the common people, but who am I to contradict Lenin? Let's go in.
kopalski		Are you the manager?
manager		 Yes.
kopalski		Pardon me for introducing Comrade Iranoff, member of the Russian Board of Trade.
manager		 Monsieur.
iranoff		This is Comrade Kopalski.
manager		Monsieur.
buljanoff		I am Comrade Buljanoff.
manager		Monsieur.
buljanoff		May I ask how much your rooms are?
manager		 Well, gentlemen, I'm afraid our rates are rather high.
buljanoff		Why should you be afraid?
manager		 I might be able to accommodate you. Is there some more luggage?
iranoff		Oh, yes, but have you a safe here big enough to hold this?
manager		I'm afraid we have no boxes of that size in our vault, but there is one suite with a private safe...
iranoff		That's even better.
manager		But, gentlemen, I am afraid...
buljanoff		He's always afraid.
manager		 I just wanted to explain. The apartment may suit your convenience but I doubt that it will fit your convictions. It's the Royal Suite.
buljanoff		Royal Suite!  Just a minute.
buljanoff		 Now Comrades, I warn you... if it gets out in Moscow that we stay in the Royal Suite we will get into terrible trouble.
iranoff		 We'll just say we had to take it on account of the safe. That's a perfect excuse. There was no other safe big enough.
buljanoff		Of course, we could take out the pieces and distribute them in three or four boxes in the vault and take a small room. That's an idea, isn't it?
iranoff		Yes, it's an idea, but who says we have to have an idea?
both		That's right... that's right.
buljanoff		 Give us the Royal Suite.
kopalski's voice		Will you connect me with Mercier... yes, the jeweler...
kopalski		I want to speak with Monsieur Mercier personally... Hello, Monsieur Mercier? This is Kopalski of the Russian Board of Trade. We arrived this morning... Thank you.
kopalski's voice		Yes, everything is here. The necklace too. All fourteen pieces... What? No, Monsieur Mercier, the court jewels of the Duchess Swana consisted of fourteen pieces. Why don't you check on that? Naturally, we have all the necessary credentials.
rakonin		 Eight Rue de Chalon.
maid		Good morning, Count.
leon		Good morning.
maid		Her Highness is still dressing.
leon		 That's all right.
swana		Hello, Leon!
leon		Good morning, Swana.
swana		It's really a wretched morning... wretched. I can't get myself right. I wanted to look mellow and I look brittle. My face doesn't compose well... all highlights... how can I dim myself down, Leon? Suggest something. I am so bored with this face. I wish I had someone else's face. Whose face would you have if you had your choice? Oh, well, I guess one gets the face one deserves.
leon		Your conversation has one marvelous advantage, Swana. However many questions you ask you never expect an answer.
swana		Don't you find that restful?... Why didn't you come last night?
leon		Darling, I was busy looking out for your interests.
swana		Did you win?
leon		 We can forget horse racing, roulette, the stock market... our worries are over! You remember that platinum watch with the diamond numbers? You will be in a position to give it to me.
leon		We can be rich if you say the word. I had dinner with the Guizots last night.
swana		 Those newspaper people?
leon		You'd be surprised how many nice people dine with the Guizots.
swana		What a gruesome proof of the power of the press!
leon		Now listen, Swana... I sold Monsieur Guizot the idea of publishing your memoirs in the Gazette Parisienne. "The Life and Loves of the Grand Duchess Swana of Russia"!
swana		 Oh, Leon!
leon		Sweetheart, we won't have to bother about our future if you are willing to raffle off your past!
swana		Was it for this that I refused to endorse Dr. Bertrand's Mouthwash? I could have made a little fortune by saying that the Vincent Vacuum Cleaner was the only vacuum cleaner ever used by the Romanoffs... and now you want them to smear my life's secrets over the front page of a tabloid?
leon		I understand how you feel, but there is a limit to everything, particularly pride and dignity. They are willing to pay any price! They have a circulation of two million!
swana		Imagine two million clerks and shop girls peeking into my life for a sou! Think of my lovely life being wrapped around cheese and blood sausages! I can see a big grease spot in the midst of my most intimate moments!
leon		Well, I am the last person to persuade you, but don't do it blindly... if this is your decision, you must be prepared to face the consequences...  I will have to go to work.
swana		My little Volga boatman! Stop threatening! I don't deserve this.  Are you my little Volga boatman?
leon		Now, Swana...
swana		First tell me, are you my little Volga boatman?
leon		 Yes, I'm your little Volga boatman.
swana		 Well... two million readers... I know exactly what they want. Chapter One: "A Childhood behind Golden Bars. Lovely Little Princess Plays with Rasputin's Beard."
leon		I've got one chapter Guizot thinks is terrific. "Caviar and Blood." Swana escapes over the ice!
swana		A couple of bloodhounds and we have Uncle Tom's Cabin.
leon		 Darling, this would be wonderful! Just once... weren't you attacked by a Bolshevik?
swana		 Was I? No... not by a Bolshevik!
leon		Too bad! Brings our price down ten thousand francs!
swana		Come in.
maid		Count Rakonin asks the privilege of a few words, Your Highness.
leon		Count Rakonin?
swana		He's a waiter at the Clarence, poor devil. You know him.
leon		Oh, yes.
swana		Tell him I won't be able to see him for a half an hour.
maid		The Count says if it could be as soon as possible. It is luncheon time and he is just between courses.
rakonin		Your Highness.
swana		How do you do, my friend.
rakonin		Your Highness, forgive this intrusion, but...
swana		What is it, Rakonin? Did you lose your job?
rakonin		No, madame, something of the utmost importance... it concerns your jewels.
swana		My jewels?!
rakonin		I remember one birthday of His Majesty, our beloved Czar... I had the honor of being on guard at the summer palace... I still see you bending before His Majesty... You wore your diadem and a necklace... your face seemed to be lighted by the jewels.
swana		 Why do you bring this up after so many years?
rakonin		They are here!... Your jewels!... Here in Paris!
swana		Alexis! Do you know what you are saying?
rakonin		This morning three Soviet agents arrived. I overheard a telephone conversation with Mercier, the jeweler. Your Highness, they are going to sell them!
leon		Did I hear something about jewels?
swana		Rakonin, bless him, has given me the most amazing news!
swana		 My lawyer...
rakonin		I am sorry... I have to leave.
swana		 Thank you so much, my friend. I will get in touch with you.
swana		 ...But they are my jewels! There must be some way of getting them back!
leon		 What does he say?
swana		 ...But how can there be a question?... Are you my lawyer or theirs?... All right, I'll let you know!
leon		What did he say?
swana		 It looks pretty hopeless... there may be a chance... that's all... The French Government has recognized Soviet Russia and he doubts that they will risk a war for my poor sake. He might be able to make up some kind of a case but it would cost money, money, money!... That's all they are interested in -- those lawyers!
leon		 Darling, calm down. Why do you need a lawyer? Haven't you your little Volga boatman?
mercier		Very good... superb... excellent... it would be foolish to belittle the quality of the merchandise but your terms are impossible. My counteroffer is the absolute maximum.
kopalski		But, Monsieur Mercier...
mercier		 Gentlemen, I'll let you in on a little secret... we are only undertaking this deal for the prestige involved, and, quite frankly, we are expecting to take a loss.
iranoff		 Capitalistic methods...
buljanoff		They accumulate millions by taking loss after loss.
buljanoff		 Hello... this is Buljanoff, Iranoff, and Kopalski... Who?... Count d'Algout?... No, no... it must be a mistake... we can't be disturbed.
mercier		 I assure you no one else could meet the figure named by my syndicate... at least under the present economic conditions.
kopalski		We can wait.
iranoff		 Do we give the impression of people who are pressed for money?
mercier		Yes. Gentlemen... let's put our cards face down. Right now there is a Russian commission in New York trying to sell fifteen Rembrandts. There is another in London mortgaging the oil fields in Baku. You need money and you need it quickly. I think my offer is fair and does not even take advantage of your situation.
kopalski		 Just a minute.
iranoff		 He's cutting our throat...
buljanoff		But what can we do?... We have to accept.
kopalski		Comrades! Comrades! Don't let's give in so quickly. After all we have to uphold the prestige of Russia.
buljanoff		All right, let's uphold it for another ten minutes.
iranoff		We don't want to be disturbed.
leon		My name is Count d'Algout. I telephoned.
iranoff		If you want to see us you must come later.
leon		I just want a word with Monsieur Mercier.
iranoff		But you can't...
leon		Monsieur Mercier. May I introduce myself? I am Count Leon d'Algout. I think I had the pleasure of meeting you in your beautiful shop. I was admiring a platinum watch with diamond numbers.
mercier		Oh, yes, yes...
leon		 Glorious, aren't they?
kopalski		Now, monsieur, you have no right...
leon		 I hope you haven't closed this deal, Monsieur Mercier. It might bring you into serious difficulties.
leon		These jewels are the property of the Duchess Swana of Russia, and were seized illegally by the Soviet Government. I am acting for Her Highness, the Duchess. Here is my power of attorney.
iranoff		 You know, Monsieur Mercier, this is all non-sense.
kopalski		These may have been the jewels of the Duchess Swana, but, like all private property, they were confiscated by the State.
leon		We'll leave the problem of their ownership to the French courts. Meanwhile I have filed a petition for an injunction to prohibit you from either selling or removing the jewels. Here is a copy.
leon		I thought it my duty to warn you. I would hate to see you get in any trouble, monsieur.
mercier		Thank you.  Gentlemen, this introduces a new element into our negotiations. Until this claim is completely settled...
kopalski		We can call our ambassador.
iranoff		I give you my word! They were confiscated legally!
mercier		Please try to understand my position. I am not with-drawing. My offer stands and as soon as you produce a clear title, approved by the French courts, the deal is settled. Until then, good day.
leon		 I hope you will forgive me, Monsieur Mercier.
mercier		 On the contrary. I consider myself very lucky. Good day.
leon		 Good day, monsieur.
leon		 Well, gentlemen... how about a little lunch?
iranoff		Get out of here!
leon		Don't look so gloomy, gentlemen. All is not lost. You may have a chance.
kopalski		 We may have a chance.
leon		Yes... a very slim one. I want to be fair. I don't deny that you might make out some kind of a case.
kopalski		We haven't anything to discuss with you. We'll talk to a lawyer!
leon		All right -- go ahead... you talk to the lawyer and I'll talk to the judge!
iranoff		That won't help you! You can't intimidate us!
kopalski		Soviet Russia will put all its might behind this case.
buljanoff		You think because you represent the former Duchess...
leon		The Duchess...
buljanoff		The former Duchess!
leon		In any case, gentlemen, a charming, beautiful, exquisite woman. I warn you, if this case comes to trial it will be before a French court, and when the Duchess takes the stand...
iranoff		All right, go ahead, get her on the witness stand! What can she say?
leon		But how will she look? The fashions this spring are very becoming to her. Gentlemen, the judge will be French, the jury will be French, everybody in that courtroom will be French. Have you ever seen a French court when a beautiful woman sits on the witness stand and lifts her skirt a little? You sit down and pull up your pants and where will it get you?
iranoff		I suppose you expect us to hand over the jewels?
leon		Oh, no, no. I am not a highwayman, I'm just a nuisance. All I'm trying to do is make things as difficult as possible.
buljanoff		Not that we are giving in one inch, but tell us... what is in your mind?
leon		Well, gentlemen, how about my proposition?
iranoff		What proposition?
leon		I just said let's have a little lunch.  Room service.
leon		Hey, Sascha! Serge! Misha!
kopalski		Yes, Leon...
iranoff		 What is it, my boy?
leon		About this telegram to Moscow. Why should you bother? I'll write it for you.
buljanoff		Leon... Leonitchka... 
iranoff		 Leon, my little boy.
kopalski		 Oh, Leon, you are so good.
leon		 What's the name of that Commissar on the Board of Trade?
iranoff		Razinin.
leon		 Razinin, Board of Trade, Moscow.
kopalski		You wouldn't like Razinin.
buljanoff		He's a bad man. Sends people to Siberia!
iranoff		We don't like Razinin.
buljanoff		 We like you, Leon -- don't we like Leon?
leon		How does this strike you? Commissar Razinin, Board of Trade, Moscow. Unexpected situation here. Duchess Swana in Paris claims jewels, and has already brought injunction against sale or removal. After long and careful study we suggest in the interest of our beloved country a fifty-fifty settlement as best solution. Iranoff, Buljanoff, and Kopalski.
kopalski		If we say that, Leon... we'll be sent to Siberia!
iranoff		And if we have to go to Siberia...
leon		 I'll send you a muff.
buljanoff		Oh, why are you so good to us?
leon		Take this telegram to the telegraph office at once!
rakonin		Yes, monsieur.
lady lavenham		Good afternoon, messieurs, mes Comrades.
kopalski		And how is Lord Lavenham?
buljanoff		...and little Lady Beatrice?
lady lavenham		Very well. Did fortune favor you at the races?
iranoff		Comme ci, comme ca.
lady lavenham		I understand... nothing to write home about.
buljanoff		 Who wants to write home about it?
lady lavenham		It's just a saying. How about joining us Saturday night for dinner? We're having a few friends.
kopalski		Are we free, Buljanoff?
buljanoff		Possibly.
iranoff		We'll manage.
lady lavenham		Then let's say at nine.
buljanoff		Black tie or white tie?
lady lavenham		Oh, let's make it white.
buljanoff		Certainly!
lady lavenham		Au revoir.
buljanoff		Nice people.
iranoff		 What is it, Leon?... You can't hurry such things... You must give Moscow a little time... There's nothing we can do about it... why don't you drop in later?... Au revoir...
buljanoff		Misha! Misha!
iranoff		What is it?
buljanoff		A telegram from Moscow! It must have been here all day!
kopalski		 Halt negotiations immediately. Envoy extraordinary arrives Thursday six ten with full power. Your authority cancelled herewith. Razinin.
iranoff		It is Thursday!
buljanoff		It's six o'clock already!
kopalski		I always said it would be Siberia!
iranoff		 A Special Envoy is coming from Moscow. He'll occupy the Royal Suite. Move our things to the smallest room you've got.
manager		Yes, monsieur.
iranoff		Right away... instantly!
iranoff		I'm coming!
iranoff		This is a fine thing. Maybe we've missed him already.
kopalski		How can you find somebody without knowing what he looks like?
iranoff		That must be the one!
buljanoff		Yes, he looks like a comrade!
kopalski		No, that's not him...
buljanoff		Positively not!
ninotchka		 I am looking for Michael Simonovitch Iranoff.
iranoff		I am Michael Simonovitch Iranoff.
ninotchka		I am Nina Ivanovna Yakushova, Envoy Extraordinary, acting under direct orders of Comrade Commissar Razinin. Present me to your colleagues.
iranoff		Comrade Buljanoff...
ninotchka		Comrade.
iranoff		Comrade Kopalski...
ninotchka		Comrade.
iranoff		What a charming idea for Moscow to surprise us with a lady comrade.
kopalski		If we had known we would have greeted you with flowers.
ninotchka		 Don't make an issue of my womanhood. We are here for work... all of us. Let's not waste time. Shall we go?
iranoff		Porter!
porter		Here, please...
ninotchka		What do you want?
porter		May I have your bags, madame?
ninotchka		Why?
kopalski		He is a porter. He wants to carry them.
ninotchka		 Why?... Why should you carry other people's bags?
porter		Well... that's my business, madame.
ninotchka		That's no business... that's a social injustice.
porter		That depends on the tip.
kopalski		 Allow me, Comrade.
ninotchka		No, thank you.
buljanoff		How are things in Moscow?
ninotchka		Very good. The last mass trials were a great success. There are going to be fewer but better Russians.
ninotchka		What's that?
kopalski		It's a hat, Comrade, a woman's hat.
ninotchka		Tsk, tsk, tsk, how can such a civilization survive which permits women to put things like that on their heads. It won't be long now, Comrades.
buljanoff		This is the apartment we have reserved for you, Comrade Yakushova. I hope you like it.
ninotchka		 Which part of the room is mine?
iranoff		You see... it is a little different here. They don't rent rooms in pieces. We had to take the whole suite.
ninotchka		How much does this cost?
iranoff		Two thousand francs.
ninotchka		A week?
iranoff		A day.
ninotchka		Do you know how much a cow costs, Comrade Iranoff?
iranoff		A cow?
ninotchka		Two thousand francs. If I stay here a week I will cost the Russian people seven cows.  Who am I to cost the Russian people seven cows?
buljanoff		We had to take it on account of the safe.
iranoff		For ourselves... we are much happier now since we moved to a little room next to the servants' quarters.
ninotchka		I am ashamed to put the picture of Lenin in a room like this.  Comrades, your telegram was received with great disfavor in Moscow.
kopalski		We did our best, Comrade.
ninotchka		I hope so for your sake.  Let us examine the case. What does the lawyer say?
buljanoff		Which lawyer?
ninotchka		You didn't get legal advice?
buljanoff		We didn't want to get mixed up with lawyers. They are very expensive here. If you just say hello to a lawyer... well, there goes another cow.
kopalski		We dealt directly with the representative of the Grand Duchess. I am sure if we call him he will give you a very clear picture.
ninotchka		I will not repeat your mistake. I will have no dealings with the Grand Duchess nor her representative.
ninotchka		 Comrade Buljanoff...
buljanoff		Yes, Comrade?
ninotchka		Do you spell Buljanoff with one or two f's?
buljanoff		 With two f's, if you please.
ninotchka		 You were entrusted with more than a mere sale of jewelry. Why are we peddling our precious possessions to the world at this time? Our next year's crop is in danger and you know it. Unless we can get foreign currency to buy tractors there will not be enough bread for our people. And you three comrades...
kopalski		We did it with the best intentions...
ninotchka		We cannot feed the Russian people on your intentions. Fifty per cent to a so-called Duchess!... Half of every loaf of bread to our enemy! Comrade Kopalski, go at once to our Embassy and get the address of the best lawyer in Paris.
kopalski		Yes, Comrade.
ninotchka		You, Comrade Iranoff, go to the Public Library and get me the section of the Civil Code on property.
buljanoff		Is there anything I can do, Comrade?
ninotchka		You might get me an accurate map of Paris. I want to use my spare time to inspect the public utilities and make a study of all outstanding technical achievements in the city.
buljanoff		Yes, Comrade.
ninotchka		Come in.
cigarette girls		 Hello! Hello! Cigarettes?
ninotchka		 Comrades, you seem to have been smoking a lot.
desk clerk		Desk... yes, Monsieur Kopalski... 
desk clerk		Good evening, madame.
ninotchka		Good evening. She exits out the door.
ninotchka		You, please.
leon		Me?
ninotchka		Yes. Could you give me some information?
leon		Gladly.
ninotchka		How long do we have to wait here?
leon		Well -- until the policeman whistles again.
ninotchka		At what intervals does he whistle?
leon		What?
ninotchka		How many minutes between the first and second whistle?
leon		That's funny. It's interesting. I never gave it a thought before.
ninotchka		Have you never been caught in a similar situation?
leon		Have I? Do you know when I come to think about it it's staggering. If I add it all up I must have spent years waiting for signals. Imagine! An important part of my life wasted between whistles.
ninotchka		In other words you don't know.
leon		No.
ninotchka		Thank you.
leon		You're welcome.
leon		Can I help you?
ninotchka		You might hold this for me.
leon		Love to.
ninotchka		 Correct me if I am wrong... We are facing north, aren't we?
leon		 Facing north... I'd hate to commit myself without my compass... Pardon me... are you an explorer?
ninotchka		No... I am looking for the Eiffel Tower.
leon		Is that thing lost again?... Listen... if you are interested in a view...
ninotchka		I am interested in the Eiffel Tower from a technical standpoint.
leon		Technical... I couldn't help you from that angle. You see, a real Parisian only goes to the top of the tower in moments of despair to jump off.
ninotchka		How long does it take a man to land?
leon		Now, isn't that too bad! The last time I jumped I forgot to clock it!  Let me see... Eiffel Tower... Your finger, please.
ninotchka		 Why do you need my finger?
leon		Bad manners to point with your own... Here... the Eiffel Tower.
ninotchka		And where are we?
leon		 Here... here we are... here you are and here I am... feel it?
ninotchka		I am interested only in the shortest distance between these two points. Must you flirt?
leon		I don't have to but I find it natural.
ninotchka		Suppress it.
leon		I'll try.
ninotchka		For my own information would you call your approach toward me typical of the local morale?
leon		Madame, it is that kind of approach which has made Paris what it is.
ninotchka		You are very sure of yourself, aren't you?
leon		Nothing has occurred recently to shake my confidence.
ninotchka		I have heard of the arrogant male in capitalistic society. It is having a superior earning power that makes you like that.
leon		A Russian! I love Russians! Comrade... I have been fascinated by your Five- Year Plan for the past fifteen years!
ninotchka		Your type will soon be extinct.
ninotchka		Please... can you tell me the exact width of the foundation on which the piers are resting?... and the depth?
attendant		You don't have to worry. The thing is safe.
ninotchka		I am not afraid... I want to know...
leon		 I hope you'll forgive me but I thought you'd...
ninotchka		 Go ahead.
leon		 Four massive piers of masonry are sunk to a depth of forty-six feet on the side of the Seine, and twenty- nine and one-half feet on the other side. The girders of interlaced iron- work which stay the structure have an inclination of fifty-four degrees...
ninotchka		That's a strange angle.
leon		Yes, very strange.
leon		 There is an elevator included in the price of admission!
ninotchka		You gave me some very valuable information. Thank you.
leon		 And thank you for getting me up here. I've never seen this before. Beautiful, isn't it?
ninotchka		Yes, it is.
leon		I'm glad I saw it before becoming extinct.
ninotchka		Do not misunderstand me. I do not hold your frivolity against you.  As basic material you might not be bad, but you are the unfortunate product of a doomed culture. I feel sorry for you.
leon		You must admit that this doomed old civilization sparkles... It glitters!
ninotchka		I do not deny its beauty, but it is a waste of electricity.
leon		What a city! There are the Grands Boulevards... blasted out of the heart of the old streets. The Arc de Triomphe... made to greet Napoleon's army. The Opera! And Montmartre... Montparnasse... La Bohme... and now I'll show you the greatest attraction!  What do you see?
ninotchka		I see a house that looks like any other house. What's remarkable about it?
leon		It's not the structure but the spirit which dwells within. There are three rooms and a kitchenette dedicated to hospitality.
ninotchka		So that is your house?
leon		Well, let's say I live in it. Such a pleasant place... all kinds of comfort, easy to reach, close to street car, bus, and subway...
ninotchka		 Does that mean that you want me to go there?
leon		 Please don't misunderstand me...
ninotchka		Then you don't want me to go there.
leon		 Now I didn't say that either... naturally nothing would please me more.
ninotchka		 You might be an interesting subject of study.
leon		I will do my best.
gaston		 No... Count d'Algout is still out. Yes, as soon as he returns I'll tell him. Yes... I'll tell him Monsieur Buljanoff.
leon		Good evening, Gaston.
gaston		Good evening, Monsieur.
ninotchka		Is this what you call the "butler"?
leon		Yes.
ninotchka		 This man is horribly old. You should not make him work.
leon		He takes good care of that.
ninotchka		He looks sad. Do you whip him?
leon		No, though the mere thought makes my mouth water.
ninotchka		 The day will come when you will be free. Go to bed, little father. We want to be alone.
gaston		 Count d'Algout, there have been several telephone...
leon		Go to bed.
leon		Well, may I offer you a drink, or how about something to eat?
ninotchka		Thank you. I've had all the calories necessary for today.
ninotchka		What do we do now?
leon		We take off our hat and coat.  Well... we don't smile. How about some music?
ninotchka		Is that customary?
leon		It helps. It has ever since King David wooed Bathsheba with the harp. As I am not so fortunate as to have my harp at hand, I shall turn on the radio.
ninotchka		 I should say this room is eighteen by twenty-five.
leon		Not too big and not too small. What I'd call the typical room of an average man. Or shall we say a little above average. Now if there are any special aspects you wish to study I have nothing to conceal. Just look around. That's my desk. Those are my books, and here am I. Where shall we begin?
ninotchka		I will start with you.
leon		That's great. I'm thirty-five years old. Just over six feet tall. I weigh a hundred and eighty-two pounds stripped.
ninotchka		And what is your profession?
leon		Keeping my body fit, keeping my mind alert, keeping my landlord appeased. That's a full-time job.
ninotchka		And what do you do for mankind?
leon		For mankind not a thing -- for womankind the record is not quite so bleak.
ninotchka		You are something we do not have in Russia.
leon		Thank you. Thank you.
ninotchka		That is why I believe in the future of my country.
leon		I begin to believe in it myself since I've met you. I still don't know what to make of it. It confuses me, it frightens me a little, but it fascinates me, Ninotchka.
ninotchka		You pronounce it incorrectly. Ni- notchka.
leon		Ni-notchka.
ninotchka		That is correct.
leon		Ninotchka, do you like me just a little bit?
ninotchka		Your general appearance is not distasteful.
leon		Thank you.
ninotchka		Look at me. The whites of your eyes are clear. Your cornea is excellent.
leon		Your cornea is terrific. Tell me -- you're so expert on things -- can it be that I'm falling in love with you?
ninotchka		You are bringing in wrong values. Love is a romantic designation for a most ordinary biological, or shall we say chemical, process. A lot of nonsense is talked and written about it.
leon		Oh, I see. What do you use instead?
ninotchka		I acknowledge the existence of a natural impulse common to all.
leon		What can I possibly do to encourage such an impulse in you?
ninotchka		You don't have to do a thing. Chemically we are already quite sympathetic.
leon		 You're the most improbable creature I've ever met in my life, Ninotchka, Ninotchka...
ninotchka		You repeat yourself.
leon		I'd like to say it a thousand times.
ninotchka		Don't do it, please.
leon		I'm at a loss, Ninotchka. You must forgive me if I appear a little old- fashioned. After all, I'm just a poor bourgeois.
ninotchka		It's never too late to change. I used to belong to the petty bourgeoisie myself. My father and mother wanted me to stay and work on the farm, but I preferred the bayonet.
leon		 The bayonet? Did you really?
ninotchka		I was wounded before Warsaw.
leon		Wounded? How?
ninotchka		I was a sergeant in the Third Cavalry Brigade. Would you like to see my wound?
leon		 Tsk, tsk, tsk.
ninotchka		A Polish lancer. I was sixteen.
leon		Poor Ninotchka. Poor, poor Ninotchka.
ninotchka		 Don't pity me. Pity the Polish lancer. After all, I'm alive.
leon		What kind of a girl are you, anyway?
ninotchka		Just what you see. A tiny cog in the great wheel of evolution.
leon		You're the most adorable cog I ever saw in my life. Ninotchka, Cogitska, let me confess something. Never did I dream I could feel like this toward a sergeant.
leon		Do you hear that?
ninotchka		It's twelve o'clock.
leon		It's midnight. One half of Paris is making love to the other half. Look at the clock. One hand has met the other hand. They kiss. Isn't that wonderful?
ninotchka		That's the way a clock works. There's nothing wonderful about it. You merely feel you must put yourself in a romantic mood to add to your exhilaration.
leon		I can't possibly think of a better reason.
ninotchka		It's false sentimentality.
leon		 You analyze everything out of existence. You analyze me out of existence. I won't let you. Love is not so simple. Ninotchka, Ninotchka, why do doves bill and coo? Why do snails, coldest of all creatures, circle interminably around each other? Why do moths fly hundreds of miles to find their mates? Why do flowers open their petals? Oh, Ninotchka, Ninotchka, surely you feel some slight symptom of the divine passion... a general warmth in the palms of your hands... a strange heaviness in your limbs... a burning of the lips that is not thirst but a thousand times more tantalizing, more exalting, than thirst?
ninotchka		You are very talkative.
leon		Was that talkative?
ninotchka		No, that was restful. Again.
ninotchka		Thank you.
leon		Oh, my barbaric Ninotchka. My impossible, unromantic, statistical...
leon		 Glorious, analytical...
ninotchka		The telephone is ringing.
leon		Oh, let it ring.
ninotchka		But one of your friends may be in need of you. You must answer.
leon		 Hello?... Yes... I'm sorry but I couldn't make it. I ran into a friend from the army... What?... The deal is off! Are you crazy, Buljanoff?...
leon		...A special envoy arrived... What?... That sounds better. I'll be glad to see her any time she wants... Oh, she doesn't want to see me? What do you know about that? Why?... Well, I'll get in touch with her myself. What's her name?...  ...I... Oh, Y...
leon		 Yakushova... Ninotch...
leon		 All right. Thank you.
leon		 Ninotchka...
ninotchka		I must go.
leon		Ninotchka, or shall I say Special Envoy Yakushova...
ninotchka		Let's forget that we ever met.
leon		I have a better suggestion. Let's forget that the telephone ever rang. I never heard that you are Yakushova... you are Ninotchka... my Ninotchka...
ninotchka		 I was sent here by my country to fight you.
leon		All right, fight me, fight me as much as you want, but fight me tomorrow morning! There's nothing sweeter than sharing a secret with a bitter enemy.
ninotchka		 As a representative of Moscow...
leon		Tonight let's not represent anybody but ourselves.
ninotchka		It is out of the question. If you wish to approach me...
leon		You know I want to...
ninotchka		Then do it through my lawyer!
leon		 Ninotchka, you can't walk out like this... I'm crazy about you, and I thought I'd made an impression on you. You liked the white of my eye.
ninotchka		I must go.
leon		But, Ninotchka, I held you in my arms. You kissed me!
ninotchka		I kissed the Polish lancer too... before he died.
gaston		Good morning, Your Highness.
swana		Good morning, Gaston.
gaston		Count d'Algout is still asleep.
swana		 That's all right.
swana		Leon! What in heaven's name...!
leon		Huh?
swana		Is anything wrong? Are you ill?
leon		No.
swana		Don't tell me the bed has lost its best friend.
leon		I just couldn't sleep. I got up and went back... and then got up again. These last few days... whew!
swana		Darling, you're taking my business affairs far too seriously. Much as I'd love to rob the Bolsheviks of their filthy money, I won't do it at the expense of your health. Particularly as we know we won't get much.  You look so pale... pale but interesting.
swana		Come in.
gaston		Your breakfast, monsieur.
leon		I don't feel like any breakfast.
swana		Nonsense. How can you fight the Reds and make yourself agreeable to the Whites if you don't keep up your strength.
gaston		Shall I draw your bath, sir?
leon		Make it ice cold.
swana		Not in your condition.  Afterwards I'll drive you through the Bois. Slowly... in Waltz time.
gaston		A blue shirt, perhaps?
swana		Blue? Let's offset his mood. Find a striped one, and brighten it with a great blaze of tie.
gaston		Very well, Your Highness.
swana		Now... here we have two very handsome soft-boiled eggs. Do you suppose hens mind what happens to their eggs? Probably not. They have such unfeeling eyes. We'll put in a great nugget of butter, plenty of pepper and salt... Darling, I haven't seen you for three livelong days... seventy-two hours!
leon		 Oh, please, Swana! I don't know whether I'm standing on my head or my heels. Here you are blaming me for neglecting you when I'm trying to concentrate on another woman and can't get near her.
swana		You haven't seen her yet?
leon		No, and believe me I've tried everything! I must have telephoned her a hundred times. I've sent her telegrams, I've sent her flowers... I asked her to dinner... I offered her seats for the Opera...
swana		That proletarian! In the old days we'd have had her flogged.
leon		That wouldn't have done any good. Not with her.  She's the most incredible creature I've ever seen.
swana		You just told me you hadn't seen her.
leon		Well... er... I caught a glimpse of her when she walked through the lobby.
swana		Imagine the carpets of a self- respecting Parisian hotel dirtied by the boots of a muzhik! What does she look like?
leon		You can't imagine.
swana		That bad?  Old or young?
leon		Timeless. When she comes into a room you'd think that the Bolsheviks had taken over Paris. She wears her cheap miserable blouse as though it were the latest model by Schiaparelli. What a woman! What a woman! There is a Russian snowstorm in each of her eyes.
swana		You saw all that in one glimpse?
swana		Now, darling, soak in your beautiful pine bath and let Gaston shave you.
swana		Gaston!
swana		Yes?
kopalski		We want to talk to Count d'Algout. My name is Kopalski.
swana		Oh... you are the three gentlemen from Moscow?
kopalski		Yes.
swana		 You may wait.
buljanoff		That's her.
kopalski		Imagine! The niece of the Czar opening the door for us.
buljanoff		Once in Petersburg I was driving down the Nevsky Prospect in my cart and Her Highness in her troika swept down from the opposite direction, and when I couldn't make way quick enough she spat in my face.
iranoff		Now look here, Buljanoff. You never were in Petersburg, you never owned a cart, and she never spat in your face. Who are you trying to impress?
leon		Hello, boys.
leon		Come in, come in.
leon		What's new?
kopalski		 Leon, Leonitchka, she is not going to negotiate! She is going to fight that injunction. She's going to make a precedent of it!
iranoff		She says she won't be intimidated by parasites. She called the Duchess a blood-sucking aristocrat and a blackmailer.
leon		 What did she say about me?
iranoff		 I think she covered you with the parasites.
buljanoff		And Leonitchka! What she said about us...!
iranoff		And they might believe her in Moscow.
buljanoff		What do you mean they might -- they will!
kopalski		We don't blame you, Leon, but when we came from Russia we believed in simplicity...
iranoff		We avoided luxury and extravagance and today... well, if you were to offer us a glass of champagne, we wouldn't say no.
leon		Well, boys, I'd like to help you but what can I do? Yesterday I waited six hours in the lobby!
kopalski		She doesn't leave her room! She has been locked in for the last two days with lawyers and law books!
leon		All right, then make an appointment with her so I can see her!
kopalski		We can't... but you are so ingenious, Leon...
iranoff		You found your way to us and we weren't easy to reach, were we?
leon		No, no.
buljanoff		Didn't we put up a strong resistance?
leon		Oh, yes, yes.
kopalski		You must help us, Leon... if you don't win her over we're on our way to Siberia!
buljanoff		Or it might be the firing squad!
kopalski		Or we can't go back to Russia!
iranoff		What's wrong with that?
buljanoff		Yes! We could stay with Leon!
iranoff		Leon, how would you like to have three lifelong friends?
leon		Boys, boys... don't forget Russia is your mother country. Three sons walking out all at once... that's too much for any mother.
buljanoff		Well, if your mother turns against you, you have to look for someone to adopt you.
swana		Leon! Just a minute...
swana		I'm leaving, dear. I'm lunching at Fouquet's if you can make it, and... Leon, remember, a man should think it over twice before he decides to become a mother.
first lawyer		 I seem to remember some additional injunctive provision dealing with the property of foreigners residing in France.
ninotchka		 You are referring to paragraph 59b, section 25f of the Civil Code.
ninotchka		Page eight hundred twenty-four.
ninotchka		And do not fail to read the three footnotes. While you are studying it I will eat.  Food please.
rakonin		 Room service... Just a moment please.
leon		 Room service speaking.
ninotchka		 Send me a plate of raw carrots and beets, beets predominating on a ratio of sixty-forty... What? There is a strike in the kitchen? Good! Will you assure the strikers of my hearty sympathy in their cause. I hope they will not weaken in their demands and tell them to put no dressing whatsoever on my vegetables... What? You won't serve me either? Now look here, Comrade, I think it is a fine idea to let the capitalists go without luncheon but when you keep food away from me you're weakening the people.
leon		 So! You want to make a strike breaker out of me! I am surprised at you, Comrade! Is it too much for the workers of the world to ask you to walk around the corner for lunch? All I can say to you is take your hammer and sickle and get out of that Royal Suite!
ninotchka		Tsk, tsk, tsk.
taxi driver		Where to, madame?
ninotchka		Can you recommend a restaurant?
taxi driver		Well, there's Pruniers if you care for seafood. If you want to lunch in the Bois, there's...
ninotchka		 Where do you eat?
taxi driver		At Pre Mathieu's.
ninotchka		Where is that?
taxi driver		It's just a place for workmen.
ninotchka		Where is it?
taxi driver		Eight blocks down in the Rue de Poivrel.
ninotchka		Thank you.
pre mathieu		This way, madame. Are you alone? By the window perhaps?  Or a nice little corner table?
ninotchka		This will do. 
pre mathieu		I think this is the first time you have been to my little place. Your face is new to me. Now, what shall it be?
ninotchka		Raw carrots and beets.
pre mathieu		 Oh, madame! This is a restaurant, not a meadow.
pre mathieu		Here is what we are offering today. Please make your choice. I am sure you will find something to tempt your appetite.
leon		Why, hello! It certainly is a small world!
pre mathieu		 Well, madame? Shall we start with soup? Fish soup today. I got up at five to fish them from the Seine.
leon		 Crayfish soup for me!
pre mathieu		 Then, may I suggest an omelet with mushrooms?
ninotchka		Bring me something simple. I never think about food.
pre mathieu		 But, madame! If you don't think about food what do you think about?
ninotchka		The future of the common people.
leon		Pardon me for addressing you but you insulted him, you know that. You hurt his feelings. It was just like telling a musician you don't like music. That good old man believes in food as you believe in Karl Marx. You can't go around hurting people, Comrade Yakushova, but maybe you can make it up to him. Do you know how?  By eating everything with relish, by drinking everything with gusto, by having a good time for the first time in your natural life!
ninotchka		I don't like your following me.
leon		I didn't follow you.
ninotchka		Then how did you get here?
leon		I always eat here.
ninotchka		This is a place for workmen.
leon		 But my dear child, I am most at home among working men. I hate the places where you circulate -- the Hotel Clarence... This is my natural element. After all, what are any of us? Workingmen! At least, those of us who are worth our salt. Hyah?
leon		Hyah!
leon		Hyah, fellows!
leon		 They are all my friends. They're a swell bunch!
leon		 Ah, my friend! I'm happy to see you again!
pre mathieu		I'm always glad to meet a new customer, and I hope this first visit will not be your last.
leon		Just an old man. His memory is getting weak.
ninotchka		What are you after?
leon		Must one always be after something?
ninotchka		Your tactics are useless. My name is neither Buljanoff, Iranoff, nor Kopalski.
leon		Oh, Ninotchka, who wants to talk business. If you win the suit, fine. If we win the suit, better. You do me an injustice.  When we went to my apartment did I have the slightest idea that you had any connection with this deal?
ninotchka		But you have now, and I know now that you are a man who employs business methods which in Russia would be punished by death.
leon		Death! Death! Always so glum! What about life, Ninotchka! Do Russians never think of life? Of the moment in which we are living? The only moment we really have? Don't take it all so seriously, Ninotchka. Nothing is worth it. Please... relax... I beg you, Sergeant... smile!
ninotchka		 What?
leon		Will you smile?
ninotchka		Why?
leon		Just smile.
ninotchka		At what?
leon		At anything. At the whole ludicrous spectacle of life. At people being pompous and taking themselves seriously and exaggerating their own importance. If you can't find anything else to laugh at you can laugh at you and me.
ninotchka		Why?
leon		Because we are an odd couple.
ninotchka		Then you should go back to your table.
leon		No, I can't leave you. I won't. Not yet. Not until I've made you laugh... at least once.
ninotchka		Ha! Ha! Now go back.
leon		That's not a laugh! I mean a laugh from the heart. Now let's see. I'm going to tell you a funny story. Just a moment... I've got it! Well, it seems there were a couple of Frenchmen who went to America...
ninotchka		On which boat?
leon		 Well, er... let's drop it. I don't think you would care for that one.
ninotchka		Probably not.
leon		Do you like Scotch stories?
ninotchka		I have never heard one.
leon		Two Scotchmen met on the street... and I don't know the name of the street and it really doesn't matter. Well, anyway, one's name was McIntosh and the other's was McGillicuddy. McIntosh says to McGillicuddy, "Hello, Mr. McGillicuddy," and McGillicuddy says to McIntosh, "Hello, Mr. McIntosh," and then McIntosh says to McGillicuddy, "How is Mrs. McGillicuddy?" and then McGillicuddy says to McIntosh, "How is Mrs. McIntosh?"...
ninotchka		I wish they had never met.
leon		 Well, maybe it's not so good. Let's forget it! How's this? Two men are looking at the moon. One says to the other, "Is it true that a lot of people live on the moon?" "Yes, it is," says the other, "five hundred million." "Whew!" replies the first, "they must get pretty crowded when it's half moon!" Ha! Ha! Ha!
leon		 I suppose you don't think that's funny?
ninotchka		No.
leon		It seemed funny to me when I first heard it. Maybe the trouble isn't with the joke. Maybe it's with you!
ninotchka		I don't think so.
leon		Maybe you haven't any sense of humor. Well, I'll give you one more chance! Now listen!
leon		When I heard this joke for the first time I laughed myself sick. Here goes! A man comes into a restaurant and sits down and says, "Waiter! Get me a cup of coffee without cream." After five minutes the waiter comes back and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we're all out of cream, can it be without milk?"
leon		 Not funny, huh?
ninotchka		No.
leon		So you don't think that's funny? It is funny! Everyone else thinks so! Maybe you didn't get it.
leon		 I'll tell you that joke again. A man comes into a restaurant. Did you get that?
ninotchka		Yes.
leon		He sits down at the table and says to the waiter... Did you get that too?
ninotchka		Yes.
leon		Well, so far it isn't funny, but wait. He says to the waiter, "Waiter! Bring me a cup of coffee." So the waiter comes back five minutes later and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no coffee."...  A man comes in a restaurant, he sits down, he calls the waiter and he says, "Waiter! Get me a cup of coffee without cream," and five minutes later the waiter comes back and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no cream, can it be a glass of milk!"
leon		Ah! You have no sense of humor! That settles it! You have no sense of humor! None! No humor!!
leon		 What's funny about this?
lawyer		 In addition to the arguments above enumerated for lifting this injunction, we wish to cite the decision of the High Court of Paris, rendered in the case of Princess Marishka against the Government of Montenegro on the fifth day of August, 1897. Comparing the facts in that case with our present set of facts we feel that the Treaty between the Republic of France and the U.S.S.R. should prevail over all...
ninotchka		I'm sorry, gentlemen. The other day I heard such a funny story...  I am sorry. Oh yes... about this injunction...
lawyer		 The hearing is set for the twentieth of this month.
ninotchka		 That's two weeks from Thursday...
lawyer		We did our utmost to have it set ahead.
ninotchka		 I know, gentlemen, but it is in the hands of the Court. We're helpless, aren't we?
lawyer		Yes. It is unfortunate.
ninotchka		Well, there's nothing we can do about it. Why get excited?
lawyer		We'll leave these papers here for your further consideration. Au revoir, madame.
ninotchka		Au revoir.
ninotchka		Well, it means another two weeks in Paris.
iranoff		 Too bad we have to waste all that time.
kopalski		I acted on your suggestion and got in touch with the Power and Light authorities. Whenever you want to visit their plants they are open to you.
ninotchka		 Oh yes, Power and Light. Thank you.
buljanoff		There's something else which I know will appeal to you. A visit to the Paris sewers. They tell me it is extremely instructive.
ninotchka		Huh?... Why don't you get a haircut, Buljanoff? You all look so wintry, Comrades. And why do we always keep the windows closed?  Isn't it amazing, at home there's still snow and ice and here... Look at the birds. I always felt a little hurt that our swallows deserted us in the winter for capitalistic countries. Now I know why. We have the high ideal but they have the climate... well, Comrades, I don't think I need you any more.
kopalski		If there is anything we can do for you...
ninotchka		No, not a thing. Would you like to go out?
ninotchka		Have you any money?
ninotchka		Well, here are fifty francs.
ninotchka		Bring me forty-five back.
leon		 What time have you, Gaston?
gaston		Eight forty-two, sir.
leon		I guess it is eight forty-two.
gaston		You seem to be a bit nervous, sir.
leon		I am, Gaston.
gaston		If you will forgive me, ever since you met that Bolshevik lady I've noticed a distinct change in you, sir.
leon		 Have you?
gaston		Decidedly. Yesterday I was greatly amazed when I came from the market and found that you had made your bed, sir.
leon		And Gaston, I was happier all day long. I felt I'd contributed something.
gaston		Well, sir, if you should do it again, which I hope you won't, please remember the order. Counterpane, blanket, blanket, sheet, sheet.
leon		Ah, there's something poetic about the simple processes of labor. Counterpane, blanket, blanket, sheet, sheet... it should be set to music!
gaston		May I add, sir, that it was with great amazement that I found a copy of Karl Marx's Capital on your night table. That is a socialistic volume which I refuse to so much as dust, sir. I view with alarm, sir, the influence over you of this Bolshevik lady.
leon		I can't follow you, Gaston, isn't it about time that you realized the unfairness of your position? You being my servant? Wouldn't you like to stand on an equal footing with me?
gaston		No, sir.
leon		Isn't there any revolt in you? Sometimes when I order you around don't you feel like kicking me in the pants?
gaston		 No, sir.
leon		Oh, you're a reactionary! Don't you look forward to the day when you can come in here and stand square on your two feet and say, "Hey, you, d'Algout! from now on it's going to be share and share alike"?
gaston		 Emphatically not, sir. The prospect terrifies me. Now, don't misunderstand me, sir, I don't resent your not paying me for the past two months, but the thought that I should split my bank account with you... that you should take half of my life's savings... that is really too much for me.
leon		Go to bed, little father, go to bed.
ninotchka		I don't look too foolish?
leon		Foolish? If this dress were to walk down the boulevard all by itself I would follow it from one end of Paris to the other, and when I caught up with it I would say, "Just a moment, you charming little dress, I want you to meet Ninotchka... you two were meant for each other." Ninotchka feels more comfortable.
leon		You remember this room?
ninotchka		I've never been here before. I wonder whom you're thinking of. Oh, I know, a girl with a map, figuring out each step, worrying about north and south. Today... now this might shock you... I went up to a taxi and said "Eight Rue du Bois"... and here I am.
leon		You see? Life can be so simple.
ninotchka		For twelve francs, seventy-five.
leon		Twelve seventy-five from the Clarence? The son-of-a-gun made a detour!...  But he got you here.
ninotchka		 It's nine o'clock.
leon		That's when one half of Paris says to the other half, "What are your plans for this evening, madame?"
ninotchka		 Then could we have some music?
leon		A wonderful idea! Radio or records?
ninotchka		Not radio. Let's have music that's just for ourselves.
leon		 I'll play it softly because I have things to tell you about which I can't shout.
leon		Well, my darling... I... we...
leon		 You see I couldn't shout that.
ninotchka		 Leon, you know the jokes you told me a few days ago? I wake up in the middle of the night and laugh at them. Now, Leon that's wrong. I know they're not funny, they're silly. They're stupid. And still... I laugh... and when I look at Buljanoff and Iranoff and Kopalski I know they are scoundrels and I should hate them -- then I realize who made them like that, and instead of sending my report to Moscow I tear it up and go down and buy a ridiculous hat... and if this keeps on... am I too talkative?
leon		 No... go on.
ninotchka		Leon, I want to tell you something which I thought I never would say, which I thought nobody ever should say, because I thought it didn't exist... and, Leon... I can't say it...
leon		What a gesture for a sergeant.
ninotchka		Leon, I would like to ask you something.
leon		Anything, Ninotchka.
ninotchka		If you don't want to answer, you needn't. But if you do, you must tell me the truth.
leon		I promise... I swear.
ninotchka		 Did you make any change in this room?
leon		I don't think so.
ninotchka		When I was here before I noticed a photograph of a woman on the desk in a wide silver frame. I thought what a waste of silver. That's all that interested me then. Now I would like to know... what happened to the woman?
ninotchka		The Duchess.
ninotchka		 She's what you call a woman of the world, isn't she?
leon		 Ninotchka, I love you.
ninotchka		I suppose she is very entertaining... It must be lots of fun to be with her, so witty, so glamorous...
leon		Ninotchka, you're jealous.
ninotchka		 Leon, don't ever ask me for a picture of myself... I couldn't bear the thought of being shut up in a drawer... I couldn't breathe, I couldn't stand it.
leon		My darling.
headwaiter		Good evening, Your Highness.
swana		Good evening, Louis. You seem to be very crowded tonight. Can you manage a table near the floor?
headwaiter		Certainly, Your Highness, this way please... Count d'Algout made the reservation this afternoon.
swana		 Count d'Algout...
headwaiter		It is only a small table but it will be no trouble to put in some extra chairs.
swana		No, that's another party.
lady		Why don't we go some other place? It's so crowded here.
swana		 No, no! This is glory! At last I'm going to have a look at that female Bolshevik. Can you give us another table?
headwaiter		Only one in the rear, I'm afraid.
swana		That's perfect!
swana		Isn't it divine?
another guest		I wouldn't have missed this for the world.
swana		 We must not embarrass little Leon. He is going through enough for my sake. We mustn't add insult to injury
headwaiter		Is this satisfactory?
swana		Thank you, Louis.
headwaiter		Is it to be dinner, monsieur?
general savitzky		Possibly later. We'll just start with champagne.
swana		 I'm only afraid that the doorman may spoil our fun. If only he lets her in!
general savitzky		Your Highness...
swana		Yes, General Savitzky?
general savitzky		I want you to know all the White Russian exiles in Paris are keeping their fingers crossed about the jewels. They are very interested in the case. Swana suspects her countrymen.
swana		Are they indeed? Thank you.
general savitzky		They hope the settlement will bring you a fortune.
swana		General, please... if you hear any rumors that I am a charitable person, will you please kill them at their source?
guest		Look! There's Leon!
marianne		Isn't she something?
swana		Shall we dance, General Savitzky?
guest		Are you crazy?
another guest		How could you make such a remark?
third guest		Swana isn't stupid.
marianne		What did I say? I just said "isn't she something?" I didn't say something what.
leon		 Is it dry?
waiter		Yes, monsieur.
leon		 Is that right or do you prefer it sweet?
ninotchka		I wouldn't know. The closest I ever came to champagne was in a newsreel. The wife of some president was throwing it at a battleship.
leon		It's always good luck to launch something with champagne; a battleship... or an evening.
ninotchka		It's funny to look back. I was brought up on goat's milk, I had a ration of vodka in the army, and now champagne.
leon		 From goats to grapes. That's drinking in the right direction.
ninotchka		Ugh... um... oh...  It's good.
ninotchka		From what I read I thought champagne was a strong drink. It's very delicate. Do people ever get drunk on this?
leon		There have been cases... but the headache the next morning is worth while -- if you drink it with the right toast.  To us, Ninotchka!
swana		Hello, Leon! What a surprise! You of all people! How are you, my dear?
leon		 Hello, Swana. How do you do, General Savitzky?
general savitzky		How do you do?
swana		 ...isn't he, General Savitzky?
general savitzky		Yes.
leon		Thank you.
swana		Is this your new dress suit?
leon		Yes, Swana.
swana		Didn't I tell you Benson and Benson were the tailors for you?
leon		 Yes, Swana, you did.
swana		It's a dream of beauty. He never takes my word for anything, but I was right, wasn't I?
leon		Yes, Swana.
swana		 Am I interrupting?
leon		Not at all. Your Highness, may I present Madame Yakushova?
swana		How do you do?
ninotchka		How do you do?
leon		And General Savitzky.
general savitzky		How do you do?
ninotchka		How do you do?
swana		I've some wonderful news for you, Leon. It's about Punchy... do you mind if I sit down?
leon		 No... please...
swana		 General, would you mind making my excuses at our table? I'll be back in a few moments.
general savitzky		Certainly.
swana		Well, Leon, we can be proud of our Punchy. He had a triumph at the dog show.
swana		 You must have searched weeks before you found anything as divine as Punchy, didn't you, Leon?
leon		 Months, Swana.
swana		 Poor Madame Yakushova... here we are talking in mysteries.... I'm sure you wonder what it's all about.
ninotchka		 Not at all.... I understand perfectly, Count d'Algout gave you a dog. You made it very clear, madame.
swana		Dear me... I must be losing my finesse. If I'm not careful I'll be understood by everybody.
leon		 There's a charming crowd here tonight, isn't there?
swana		I'm going, Leon...  but before I leave I must compliment you on your gown, Madame Yakushova. Is that what they're wearing in Moscow this year?
ninotchka		No, last year, madame.
swana		Isn't it amazing! One gets a wrong impression of the new Russia.  It must be charming. I'm glad conditions are so improved. I assume this is what the factory workers wear at their dances?
ninotchka		Exactly. You see, it would have been embarrassing for people of my sort to wear low-cut gowns in the old Russia. The lashes of the Cossacks across our backs were not very becoming, and you know how vain women are.
swana		You're absolutely right about the Cossacks. We made an unpardonable mistake when we let them use their knouts. They had such reliable guns.
leon		Will you do me a favor? Stop talking about the good old days.
swana		A very wise suggestion, Leon. I'm afraid madame and I will never agree.  The only thing we have in common is our lawsuit and that will be decided next week. I understand everything will be over by Thursday. Am I right?
ninotchka		You're right, madame, it will all be over by Thursday.
swana		 Good night, Leon.
leon		 Good night, Swana.
ninotchka		Now I think I need a glass of champagne.
ninotchka		 Quickly, please... tell me one of your funny stories.
leon		A funny story?
ninotchka		You never finished the one about the two Scotchmen with the names.
leon		Well, there were two Scotchmen. One was named McIntosh and one was named McGillicuddy. They met on the street.
ninotchka		Go on.
leon		No, darling. I'll tell you another story, a much better one.  The only thing that will be over on Thursday is the lawsuit. There will be no Thursday for us. Not next week or any week. We won't let it happen. I'll tear it out of the calendar. Is that a good story?
ninotchka		 Wonderful -- if one could believe it.
leon		You must, darling.
ninotchka		 To the loveliest story I ever heard.
ninotchka		 Shall we dance?
ninotchka		 Oo! Darling! Something is the matter.
leon		You just made that trip from goats to grapes a little too fast.
ninotchka		Oh, everything is so wonderful! It's getting farther and farther away!
leon		What, darling?
ninotchka		Thursday.
leon		Yes. Don't worry. Everything will be all right.
ninotchka		Comrades! Comrades!
leon		 Darling, darling... please!
ninotchka		I must talk to my brothers!
leon		Shhh! Shhh!
ninotchka		Don't shush me. I am People! I want to make a speech. I want to overthrow the Duchess!
leon		But, darling, you can't do that.
ninotchka		Comrades! Good people of France!
leon		Now, Ninotchka... please!
ninotchka		They are all Duchesses here... thousands of Duchesses... and I am going to tell them.
leon		Quite right... yes, yes, yes, but first you're going in that door and you're going to take a little spirits of ammonia and lie down.
ninotchka		 No speech?
leon		 No speech.
ninotchka		I love you, my little Leonitchka!
leon		And I adore you, Ninotchua.
leon		 Give me a double brandy.
manager		 I'm very sorry, Count d'Algout, it is most embarrassing, but the lady you brought with you tonight is spreading communistic propaganda in the powder room.
leon		Give me another double brandy.
manager		That kind of propaganda is bad anywhere, but inciting the attendants of a powder room to go on strike.... Well, if she succeeds the consequences will be disastrous.
leon		What can I do about it?
manager		She has been asked to leave the powder room but without success. We would appreciate if you would see to it yourself.
leon		 You want me to go in there?
manager		I'm sorry, sir, but I must insist.
leon		 Make it a triple brandy. As we
leon		 All right... you can tell the Duchess... you can tell everybody... they know anyhow... it doesn't make any difference... now get out!
ninotchka		 Don't tell them where we're going, sweetheart.
leon		No. Nobody will find us.
ninotchka		Are we going to build our little house?
leon		Yes... a little white house.
ninotchka		Not white, darling.
leon		All right, we'll make it red.
ninotchka		No, don't let's have it any color... no color... just a house house... let's form our own party.
leon		Right: Lovers of the world unite!
ninotchka		 And we won't stretch up our arms...
leon		No! No!
ninotchka		...and we won't clench our fist...
leon		No! No!
ninotchka		 Our salute will be a kiss.
leon		Yes... a kiss... salute!
ninotchka		 I want to confess, darling.
leon		I know... it's the Russian soul.
ninotchka		 Everyone wants to confess and if they don't confess they make them confess. I am a traitor. When I kissed you I betrayed the Russian ideal. Leon, I should be stood up against the wall.
leon		 Would that make you any happier?
ninotchka		Much happier.
leon		All right.
ninotchka		 I have paid the penalty. Now let's have some music.
leon		Let's turn on the radio.
ninotchka		Radio! What is radio?
leon		It's a little box that you buy on the installment plan and before you tune it in they tell you they have a new model.
ninotchka		 Oh yes, yes. It has a little knob that turns... a little knob... it must be somewhere around here... yes... here... I see...
ninotchka		 Here it is!
leon		What shall we get? The news!
ninotchka		No, no news. We don't want to know what's happening in the world. We want to be left alone, don't we?
leon		Yes, sweetheart... all by ourselves.
ninotchka		 Well, then we turn twice to the right and stop at seven...
ninotchka		 It's dead.
leon		Well, it has to warm up... you have to give it a chance... just like people... like you and me... first you wanted to fight me and now we belong to the same party... salute!
ninotchka		 Now twice to the left and stop at seventeen.
ninotchka		 No music.
leon		 No, no music.
ninotchka		 There it is... Thursday... you can't rip it out of the week....
leon		 But I can throw it out of the window.
ninotchka		 There they are... they are terrible things, those jewels....
leon		...but big.
ninotchka		...they are the tears of Old Russia... see that stone?
leon		Who cried that one?
ninotchka		Czar Peter gave it to his wife, Catherine the Great. For it he sold ten thousand serfs in the market.
leon		Now, darling, don't get impatient, wait until we are married. You know that worthless butler of mine... that reactionary? Some day when I come home to you I may say, "Darling, I drove Gaston to the market and look what I got from him!"
ninotchka		 First ten thousand serfs... now just Gaston. It is very encouraging.
leon		Come, sweetheart. Let me put it on you. You will teach these jewels. For the first time they will learn how they can look.
ninotchka		They belong to the people.
leon		 I make you Ninotchka the Great... Duchess of the People!... Grand Duchess of the People!
ninotchka		Is this the wish of the masses?
leon		It is their wish.
ninotchka		Thank you, Leon... thank you, masses.  Can I make a speech now?
leon		Please.
ninotchka		Comrades! People of the world! The revolution is on the march... I know... wars will wash over us... bombs will fall... all civilization will crumble... but not yet, please... wait, wait... what's the hurry?  We are happy, aren't we, Leon?
ninotchka		 So happy and so tired.
ninotchka		 Smile, little father, smile.
swana		 Good morning.
ninotchka		 What?
swana		It is tomorrow morning... tomorrow noon, to be exact. I hope you will forgive me. I know it's extremely cruel to waken anyone at such an hour. Don't you recognize me? I am the Duchess Swana.
swana		I know how you feel, my dear. The morning after always does look grim if you happen to be wearing last night's dress. Don't be embarrassed by my presence, though. You couldn't have found anybody more sympathetic to your condition. I remember once in Petrograd when I felt exactly as you do. I had to bow from a balcony to the crowd. My dear, the masses have no understanding of the feelings of a lady before noon. Don't you find that true?
ninotchka		I think we can cut your visit short. Leon is not here.
swana		Of course not, my dear! I didn't come here with any such suspicion. How ridiculous!  Nor did I come here to pick up his hat.
swana		 How stale last night's gaiety looks! It has the taste of a dead cigarette.
ninotchka		If you were encouraged to come here by our meeting last night I am afraid you misunderstood my attitude.
swana		Don't worry, you were quite rude enough.  Do you mind if I let in a little fresh air and sunshine? I'm sure it will make you feel better and I want you to be at your very best. In full possession of your faculties, at least.
ninotchka		 Please come to the point. What is it you want?
swana		I just dropped in to have a little heart-to-heart talk with you.
ninotchka		We have nothing to discuss.
swana		Now there you are completely wrong. If we sit down for a little chat, I'm sure we won't run out of conversation and what's more it won't be dull.
ninotchka		Madame, what is it you people always say, regardless of what you mean... "I am delighted to have you here"? I have not reached that stage of civilization.
swana		That's all right... I grow on people.
ninotchka		I must ask you to leave.
swana		Leave? That's exactly what I came here to ask you to do. Leave! I don't mean this hotel and I don't mean Paris... I mean France. There's a plane for Moscow at five-forty.
ninotchka		 Madame, if you...
swana		Don't worry. I have already made reservations. It's perfect flying weather. They assure me there's a fine tail wind which will sweep you back to Moscow in no time.
ninotchka		 If this is meant to be a joke it is not funny. Or do you still think you're issuing orders from your palace in Petrograd?
swana		 but nothing more -- I warn you.
ninotchka		 People cannot be taken away, madame, neither a hundred and sixty million nor one. Not if you have their love. You hadn't. That's why you're not in Russia any longer, and that's why you came here this morning.
swana		Very interesting, my dear, but couldn't you write all that from Moscow? A dissertation on love on Soviet stationery -- would be an amusing paradox.
ninotchka		It is not enough to be witty, madame. People grow tired of being entertained. You made that mistake before. Problems were never solved by bowing from a balcony.
swana		My dear, you don't know how impressive I could be. Did you ever see me in my regalia with my diadem and all my jewels?
swana		You can't deny we gave the people their money's worth -- almost -- eight tumbling Romanoffs -- eight!
ninotchka		 I must insist that you leave.
swana		Not before you agree to use those reservations to Moscow.
ninotchka		In that case I can only say good-by.
swana		 I wouldn't waken Leon. After last night I would say not before three o'clock at the earliest.
ninotchka		I told you to go, madame.
swana		Believe me, Leon can't help you. He doesn't know anything about the jewels... I give you my word... I swear it.
ninotchka		Where are they?
swana		You were very careless with our precious jewels, my dear. They're too expensive a toy for two children to play with.
ninotchka		Where are they?
swana		Don't worry. Fortunately last night a very trustworthy friend kept his eyes open. Perhaps he overstepped his function as a waiter but he fulfilled his duty as a Russian.  I just put this on for sentiment. The rest are absolutely safe. I assure you. But if you feel like notifying the police...
ninotchka		You leave me no choice.
swana		Won't it be rather embarrassing for a Soviet Envoy to disclose the circumstances under which she lost them?
ninotchka		I will have to face the consequences, but so will you. Don't forget they will ask how you got them.
swana		That's very simple to answer. They were given to me by my mother. They were given to her by her mother, in fact they're mine, you cannot steal what belongs to you!
ninotchka		They always belonged to the Russian people. They were paid for with their sweat, their blood, their lives and you will give them back!
swana		 I told you we had plenty to talk about. Shall we sit down?
swana		 Now, let's free ourselves from emotionalism and try to solve the problem in a practical way. Our situation has changed considerably. Before I had only a claim to the jewels. Now I have the jewels.
ninotchka		In other words moral ideas have no weight with you... all right, then let's deal with legal facts. You know that France has recognized the Soviet.
swana		Unfortunately.
ninotchka		Under Soviet law the jewels belong to the State. France is going to uphold that ownership.
swana		My lawyer agrees with you. He says France will uphold it in every court, but I will drag you through every court, don't forget that. And when I say it will take two years I am, as always, conservative.
ninotchka		Won't those two years in court be expensive for you? I know that money was no object as long as you could squeeze it from the pockets of the people, but now...
swana		I may run out of money, but you have already run out of bread. Two years is a long time for your comrades to wait.
ninotchka		I see. You have calculated in terms of hunger.
swana		No, I just wanted to be absolutely impartial. Both of us are faced with two rather uncomfortable years. We can condense these two years to two minutes if you want to accept my proposition. Ninotchka now realizes what she is after.
ninotchka		Go on.
swana		I am willing to hand over the jewels and sign the necessary papers if you take that five-forty plane to Moscow.
ninotchka		 That's not the way to win him back... not Leon.
swana		I think I know Leon quite as well as you... possibly a little better. Leave that worry to me. Five-forty leaves you time enough to close the deal with Monsieur Mercier, but naturally you'll be too busy for any farewells. I'll see to it that everything is done in the most expeditious manner and I will also see you to the airport. That's my proposition, Comrade Yakushova.
ninotchka		 Oh hello...
ninotchka		Good morning, Leon... 
ninotchka		 You can leave it here.
ninotchka		 salute!
ninotchka		I am sorry to have kept you waiting, madame.
swana		Good afternoon, Jacqueline.
maid		Good afternoon, Your Highness.  Madame, I...
swana		You didn't find my glove. All right, you're forgiven.
maid		Thank you, Your Highness. Count d'Algout is waiting. He's been here some time.
swana		Leon, darling, how nice! Have you ordered tea or a cocktail?
leon		No thanks, Swana.
swana		Did I act stupidly last night? Should I apologize?
leon		I'm the one who should apologize. I should have talked to you before.
swana		Is this, by any chance, going to be a confession?
leon		Yes.
swana		Oh, no, my little Volga boatman. Have you forgotten our First Commandment: Never Complain -- Never Explain. It has worked so often and so perfectly, don't let's break the rule. And please don't look so guilty, otherwise I'll...
leon		This time, Swana -- just this once -- I must ask you to listen.
swana		All right, I'll listen.
leon		I know you hate the obvious but do you mind if, at this moment, I'm not in the least subtle?
swana		Brutal frankness, if you insist.
leon		There are a hundred ways to approach it, but I feel it can best be said in one simple phrase. I'm in love, Swana.
swana		And I thought it was something serious! How could you frighten me so?
leon		It must be serious, Swana. Not long ago I'd have considered such a statement rather juvenile and rather middle class. Now I can say it without stammering, without a blush. I'm in love, Swana.
swana		Say it over and over again, Leon. Words are a wonderful safety valve, and that's what you need -- because you know it's impossible, don't you?
leon		I have to be simple again, Swana, and you may find it shockingly banal. I've thought it over and I'm willing to take all the consequences, even if it means a complete readjustment of my way of living.
swana		Leon! This has the ugly sound of regeneration.
leon		I'm afraid that's what it is.
swana		The same old trouble, Leon. You're always late. Whether you're taking me to the Opera or calling for me at a beauty shop, you're never on time. And now, when it's a question of your reform -- late again.  By about five minutes.
leon		What is this, Swana?
swana		Knowing the efficiency of the French Air Service I think I can guarantee that Madame Yakushova has already taken off for Moscow.
leon		Has done what?
swana		She's gone, Leon.
leon		Do you expect me to believe that?
swana		Here's the telephone. If you call the hotel you will find that you have no seven o'clock appointment.
buljanoff		Imagine, for once in our lives we were in Paris and we never went to the Eiffel Tower.
kopalski		That's right.
iranoff		They tell me it has a wonderful restaurant on the second floor.
kopalski		While you eat, you look at the view.
ninotchka		Yes, it is an amazing piece of engineering. Still the most remarkable iron structure in the world. Leading to the top there is a staircase of over a thousand steps... but an elevator is included in the price of admission.
official		Well, everything is in order. I hope you will enjoy your trip to Russia, madame.
english lady		Thank you. Oh, by the way, I've heard so many rumors about laundry conditions in Russia. Is it advisable to take one's own towels?
official		Certainly not, madame. That's only capitalistic propaganda. We change the towel every week.
english lady		Oh... thank you.
official		Yes, please?
official		 Yes... Comrade Cazabine? No, I'm sorry... he hasn't been with us for six months. He was called back to Russia and was investigated. You can get further details from his widow.
leon		Pardon me, I am very interested in what you just said -- you mean when an envoy goes back to Russia -- if they don't like what he has done they put him out of the way?
official		Not always... look at me... I've been back twice. 
leon		 Here's my passport.... Please give me a visa. I have to leave for Russia immediately.
official		 Count Leon d'Algout... a count!... a nobleman!
leon		Don't hold that against me... please!
official		Why should an aristocrat want to go to Russia?
leon		Business.
official		What business?
leon		Private.
official		There is no privacy in Russia. This whole thing seems very suspicious. What's the real reason? If you ever want to get into Russia, take my advice... confess!
leon		 Confess what?
official		Are you sympathetic to the former Czaristic government -- the White Russians?
leon		On the contrary -- I don't want to have anything to do with them.
official		You believe in our cause?
leon		Oh... I think it's great! Everyone works -- everyone contributes -- that's what I want to do -- work! I make my own bed -- you can call up my butler! I don't believe in the right of the individual. I like the Bolshevik ideal -- everyone being the same. You just like me -- me just like you -- I use your comb -- you use my toothbrush -- oh, it's a great life.... Please... give me that visa!
swana		Hello, Leon darling!
leon		 Hello.
swana		 May I introduce myself? I am the Duchess Swana of Russia... another Russia.
leon		Now, please, Swana.
swana		 Count d'Algout was for several years my personal representative and if it is necessary to sign any affidavit for him I'll be delighted.
leon		 Now you mustn't miss your appointment with your hair-dresser.
swana		 Just in case they don't give you your visa to Russia I want you to know that I have signed a contract for my memoirs and rented a lovely little chteau in the Touraine, and if you feel the need of a change...
leon		Thank you, Swana. You are very gracious.
leon		She must have her little joke.  You're not going to take that seriously.
official		The Grand Duchess Swana... active in the White Russian movement?
leon		Believe me, I have no connection with her any longer... I swear I haven't!
official		But you had!
leon		Listen, I want to be absolutely frank with you. I have no business in Moscow.
official		I think so too.
leon		I want to see a friend of mine... a very dear friend.... It's a personal matter which has nothing to do with politics or social philosophies.... It's a girl.
official		So it's love which drags you to Moscow.
leon		Yes!
official		No visa.
leon		 I must get into that country of yours!
official		Oh no. No visa.
leon		 That's impossible! Nobody has the right.... You can't do that!... If you don't give me that visa...
official		 You're going to force us... huh?
leon		 Now look here... you advertise all over the world that you want people to go into your country and when someone tries to get in, you keep him out!
official		Why should I take a chance?
leon		On what?
official		How do I know you don't want to blow up a factory?
leon		What for... why?
official		Or a tunnel or a bridge...
leon		Suspicions... nothing but suspicions!... That's the trouble with you! If you don't let me in I'll stand in front of this office of yours and warn people to keep away from Russia!... I'll picket your whole country....
leon		I'll boycott you, that's what I'm going to do!... No more vodka... no more caviar... no more Tchaikovsky... no more borscht.... Wait a minute, I know something better than that...
official		What?
leon		And you can tell the Kremlin that's just the beginning!
official		No visa.
radio announcer		March, march, march! Comrades of the World, never has there been such a May Day parade as this! Already for four hours the pavements of Moscow have resounded to the tread of a million boots! Thousands of gun- carriages have thundered past. Thousands of tanks, combined with our mighty air force, have demonstrated to a belligerent neighbor that we are ready and invincible! Now past me marches the great army of our civilians! Men and women of all ages. All servants of the State united in one thought and ideal. Group of Several Units Marching
ninotchka		Good evening, Anna.
anna		Good evening, Ninotchka.
ninotchka		Aren't you late?
anna		No, the opera starts an hour later tonight on account of the parade.
ninotchka		Didn't you march?
anna		They didn't let me. I am in disgrace. Last week at the performance of Carmen I played a sour note. The conductor got so excited he yelled, "There's sabotage in the string section!"
ninotchka		Too bad... you missed an inspiring day, Anna.
anna		I know... my heart is sad... but my feet are happy. When all the tanks and guns were roaring over the Red Square I sat here all by myself and played a Beethoven sonata. Not bad at all.  Are you expecting someone?
ninotchka		A few friends... just a little dinner party.
anna		What are you serving?
ninotchka		An omelet.
anna		 An omelet! Aren't you living a little above your ration?
ninotchka		Well, I've saved up two eggs and each of my friends is bringing his own so we'll manage.
anna		It just goes to prove the theory of our State. If you stand alone it means a boiled egg but if you're true to the collective spirit and stick together you've got an omelet.  That reminds me... have you heard the latest they're telling about the Kremlin?
anna		 That Gurganov, you never know whether he's on his way to the washroom or the Secret Police.
ninotchka		You should be more careful, Anna.
anna		And you too, Ninotchka.
ninotchka		 About what?
anna		Ever since you have been back from Paris...
ninotchka		I haven't talked to anyone about Paris. I haven't said a word.
anna		That's just it. It makes people feel queer. I dont' want you to get in any trouble.
ninotchka		I have nothing to hide.
anna		You should. I'll show you.
anna		When I passed through the laundry yard today I saw all the women huddled around this so I brought it up here. Things like this create a bad feeling. First they didn't know whose it was. Then they saw the Paris label and did it start a commotion! Some said it's what we all ought to wear and others said it's like hanging foreign ideas on our clothesline. It undermines our whole cause.
ninotchka		 I see.
anna		You know how it is today... all you have to do is wear a pair of silk stockings and they suspect you of counter-revolution.
ninotchka		Thank you, Anna. I'll dry it up here when I wash it next. I should hate to see our country endangered by my underwear.
anna		 Ninotchka, you know I am your friend, you can trust me.... Did you bring back anything else?
ninotchka		 No, I left everything in Paris. I just happened to be wearing this.
anna		Tell me... what else did you have?
ninotchka		 Well, a hat...
anna		What was it like?
ninotchka		It was very silly.... I would be ashamed to wear it here.
anna		As beautiful as that? What else? Come, tell me.
ninotchka		An evening gown.
anna		 Evening gown?
ninotchka		A dress you wear in the evening.
anna		What do you wear in the morning?
ninotchka		When you get up you put on a negligee, and then you change to a morning frock.
anna		You mean to tell me you wear a different dress for different times of the day?
ninotchka		Yes.
anna		Now, Ninotchka, you're exaggerating.
ninotchka		No, my dear, it is true. That's how they live in the other world. Here we dress to have our bodies covered... to keep warm....
anna		And there?
ninotchka		Well, sometimes they're not completely covered but... they don't freeze.
anna		 They must have wonderful materials to make a thing like this so soft... something you don't even see.
ninotchka		You feel it, though.
anna		 Ninotchka, I wouldn't bring this up if we weren't such good friends.
ninotchka		What is it, Anna?
anna		You know I told you that Pavlov and I are going to get married when he comes back from the maneuvers. Would it be asking too much...
ninotchka		You want this?
anna		Just for the honeymoon.
ninotchka		You can have it for good. It is my wedding present.
anna		Ninotchka! Ninotchka!
anna		Am I going to play that cadenza tonight!
ninotchka		No music.
ninotchka		 How are you, you three scoundrels?
kopalski		 Well, we're back home.
buljanoff		 You know what they say -- there's nothing like home.
iranoff		That's right... and we might as well face it.
ninotchka		 Come, now, you must not talk that way.... You have to adjust yourselves.... We must be brave.
iranoff		Brave... that's right.
buljanoff		Let's be happy that we're all alive.
iranoff		And that's something we owe to Ninotchka.
kopalski		If you hadn't given Commissar Razinin such a wonderful report about us, who knows what would have happened?
buljanoff		I can tell you exactly.
ninotchka		Now let's forget everything except that we're together.
buljanoff		That's right.
iranoff		Let's do that.
kopalski		 It's a real Paris reunion.
iranoff		If you close your eyes and listen to our voices we might be in Paris.
ninotchka		Let's not close our eyes. There are many good things to see here too.
buljanoff		 I think I need my glasses.
kopalski		 A little more tact... look how nicely she's fixed the table -- all for us.
buljanoff		 How nicely you've fixed the table, Ninotchka.
iranoff		What a lovely room you have here.
buljanoff		How many families live here with you?
ninotchka		Only myself and two other girls. One is a cello player in the opera and the other a street-car conductor.
iranoff		 Just three people in a room this size? Whew!
kopalski		 Naturally it's not the Royal Suite...
ninotchka		Sssh! Once and for all, we're in Moscow!
kopalski		 Just look out of the window and there it is.
ninotchka		And it's great! Think what it was a few years ago and what it is now.
iranoff		She's right...  anyhow let's talk ourselves into it.
buljanoff		Just see how happy the people look... from here....
kopalski		Can you blame them?... at least the May Day parade is over.
buljanoff		That's another thing... it's spring.
ninotchka		The same spring we had in Paris. Just as good.
kopalski		Even the swallows are back.
iranoff		Maybe that's the same swallow we saw in Paris!
buljanoff		It is, Ninotchka! It is! He must have been in Paris! You can see it in his whole attitude! He just picked up a crumb of our black bread, shook his head, and dropped it.
kopalski		If you asked him why he left France I bet he couldn't name one good reason.
buljanoff		I should be a swallow! Right now I would be sitting in front of the Caf de Paris picking up flakes of French pastry that would melt in my bill.
ninotchka		Now, comrades... there is something better in life than crumbs of French pastry.
kopalski		 Yes, a good piece of apfel strudel....
ninotchka		We will get that... we'll get everything... maybe a little bit later but we'll get it... We must be patient... Finally we got the spring, didn't we? We got the swallows, and you will get your apfel strudel too.
buljanoff		 And if it is too late for you your children will eat it.
iranoff		 Let's forget the future... let's stop being sentimental... let's start that omelet.
kopalski		That's right. 
iranoff		And here's mine.
buljanoff		Comrades... I'm out of the omelet.
ninotchka		Don't worry... there will be enough.
iranoff		Come, Ninotchka, let's make it in real Parisian style!
kopalski		Let's fill it with confitures, des prunes...
buljanoff		...des raisins de Madre, des framboises... 
iranoff		...des petites fraises des bois... de la crme de Bretagne... 
kopalski		...so it blows up that big... what they call an Omelette Surprise!
buljanoff		And the surprise is there's nothing in it.
kopalski		I know, but if we can't put in all these wonderful things at least let's put in some imagination.  In that one omelet we'll taste the whole of Paris!
iranoff		 Sssh!
iranoff		A man like that... all he has to do is to walk through a room and the omelet drops.
vladimir		 Comrade Yakushova, here, the postman left a letter for you.
ninotchka		It's from Paris.
kopalski		A bill?
ninotchka		From Leon.
iranoff		 Bad news?
ninotchka		Look for yourselves.
kopalski		Well, I think it's getting late. Good night, Ninotchka.
iranoff		Thank you for a wonderful dinner.
ninotchka		 Good night, my friends.
buljanoff		They can't censor our memories, can they?
razinin		Good morning, Comrade.
ninotchka		 Good morning, Comrade Commissar. Here is my report on the materials available for trading in the next four months.
razinin		Does this include the products of the Far Eastern provinces?
ninotchka		Yes, it does.
razinin		You mean you have finished the whole investigation?
ninotchka		Yes.
razinin		That's marvelous.... You must have worked day and night.... Don't you ever sleep?
ninotchka		I need very little sleep. We must be extremely careful what goods we take in exchange. I have already started a survey of our most urgent needs.
razinin		Well, Comrade, I am afraid you will have to turn over that work to someone else.
ninotchka		 May I ask why?
razinin		Please... sit down.
razinin		Cigarette?
ninotchka		Thank you.
razinin		Well, Comrade, have you heard from your friends Kopalski, Buljanoff, and Iranoff?
ninotchka		No.
razinin		I haven't either, but I've heard about them. You must realize it was only on the strength of your Paris report that I sent them to Constantinople; without that I never would have trusted them on a mission as important as the fur deal.
ninotchka		May I ask what has happened?
razinin		As soon as our representatives go to a foreign country they seem to lose all sense of balance. If I told you what's going on in Constantinople right now you wouldn't believe it. Those three have been sitting there for six weeks and haven't sold a piece of fur.  "How can the Bolshevik cause gain respect among the Moslems if your three representatives, Buljanoff, Iranoff, and Kopalski, get so drunk that they throw a carpet out of their hotel window and complain to the management that it didn't fly?"
ninotchka		Oh, they shouldn't do such things. Are you sure this report is correct?
razinin		It gives details which couldn't be invented. Naturally I want to verify it and that's why I need you.
ninotchka		 You want me to go to Constantinople?
razinin		Yes... leaving immediately.
ninotchka		 I appreciate the confidence you show in me, but I must ask you to entrust someone else with this mission. I should hate to interrupt my present work. I am positive that my survey is more important than finding out whether three of our comrades have been drinking some extra glasses of champagne.
razinin		 That is for me to decide, Comrade Yakushova.
ninotchka		I am sorry, I don't want to overstep my position -- but please... don't send me.
razinin		I don't understand.
ninotchka		 How can I make myself clear... It is difficult to express but I'd rather not go to foreign countries any more. Please, Comrade... let me stay here... let me finish my work... I am in the rhythm of it now... I don't want to go away. I don't want to be sent into that foreign atmosphere again. It throws one out of gear.... Let me finish my work... I have concentrated everything in it... Please... don't make me go.
razinin		Please don't waste my time, Comrade. Do your duty. Good-by.
ninotchka		I will do my best.
kopalski		 How do you like it, Ninotchka? Isn't it wonderful?
ninotchka		But Buljanoff, Iranoff, Kopalski...
iranoff		Now, please, Ninotchka, don't start figuring it out in cows.
ninotchka		You've done it again and I am responsible. How can you forget yourselves this way? You were sent here to make money, not to spend it.
iranoff		Buljanoff, she still has those old- fashioned Bolshevik ideas.
buljanoff		It is high time you got out of Russia.
ninotchka		 I must be stern with you.
kopalski		 That's our old Ninotchka!
ninotchka		Don't forget, the day will come when you will have to face Razinin.
buljanoff		 Good old Razinin! Is he still alive? How does he manage?
ninotchka		But, Comrades...
kopalski		 We are not comrades any more... we are friends, Ninotchka.
buljanoff		Imagine, we don't have to whisper any longer.
iranoff		We can say whatever we want. We can shout... we can complain... Look...  See? Nobody comes... nobody pays any attention. That's freedom.
buljanoff		 No, that's bad management.
ninotchka		Is it possible to bring you back to reality for a moment? I must have a complete report of your negotiations and a detailed expense account.
buljanoff		Don't ask for it, Ninotchka. There is a Turkish proverb which says, "If something smells bad, why put your nose in it?"
ninotchka		And there is a Russian saying: "The cat who has cream on his whiskers had better find good excuses."
buljanoff		With our cream situation what it is, it is Russia which should apologize to the cats.
ninotchka		 Friends... friends, Buljanoff, Iranoff...
kopalski		 ...and Kopalski.
ninotchka		 Don't make it difficult for me. This is no more a pleasure trip for me than it is for you.
iranoff		That was our idea when we first came. All we thought we would get out of this trip was a Turkish bath, but... we learned better.
kopalski		Ninotchka, we are in the magic East, the country of Aladdin and His Lamp...
iranoff		...Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves... into one single hour you can crowd a thousand and one nights.
buljanoff		All you have to do is say "open sesame."
ninotchka		I don't know how I can get you out of it this time. How will it end? What will happen to you?
buljanoff		 Shall we tell her?
buljanoff		 Ninotchka, I hope you'll be our guest.
ninotchka		Guest?
buljanoff		We have opened a restaurant...
iranoff		...we have a wonderful electric sign: "Dine With Buljanof, Iranoff, and Kopalski."
ninotchka		You mean you are deserting Russia?
kopalski		 Don't call it desertion. Our little restaurant... that is our Russia... the Russia of borscht, the Russia of beef Stroganoff, blinis with sour cream...
iranoff		...the Russia of piroshki... people will eat and love it.
buljanoff		We are not only serving good food, we are serving our country... we are making friends.
ninotchka		 Who gave you this idea? What is responsible for all this?
kopalski		 There's something in Constantinople... something irresistible....
iranoff		...it is in the air... it may come around the corner as you walk down the street....
buljanoff		...it may step out of a bazaar... it may wait for you in a corridor... it may hide in the shadow of a minaret....
kopalski		 Right now it's on the balcony.
leon		 They wouldn't let me in so I had to get you out.
ninotchka		 So -- you're behind all this. I should have known.
leon		Trying to keep me away from you! It couldn't be done. Naturally I couldn't go on forever punching passport officials in the nose -- but I found a way, didn't I? Darling, I had to see you. I wrote and wrote but all my letters came back.
ninotchka		The one I got they wouldn't let me read.  It began, "Ninotchka, my darling," and ended, "Yours, Leon."
leon		 I won't tell you what came between... I'll prove it. It will take a long time, Ninotchka... at least a lifetime.
ninotchka		But, Leon, I am only here for a few days.
leon		If you don't stay with me, I'll have to continue my fight. I'll travel wherever Russian commissions are. I'll turn them all into Buljanoffs, Iranoffs, and Kopalskis. The world will be crowded with Russian restaurants. I'll depopulate Russia. Once you saved your country by going back. This time you can save it by staying here.
ninotchka		Well, when it is a choice between my personal interest and the good of my country, how can I waver? No one shall say Ninotchka was a bad Russian.
****Dialogues from script :Ninth_Gate.txt****

****Dialogues from script :No_Country_for_Old_Men.txt****

voice over		I was sheriff of this county when I was twenty-five. Hard to believe. Grandfather was a lawman. Father too. Me and him was sheriff at the same time, him in Plano and me here. I think he was pretty proud of that. I know I was.
voice over		Some of the old-time sheriffs never even wore a gun. A lot of folks find that hard to believe. Jim Scarborough never carried one. That's the younger Jim. Gaston Boykins wouldn't wear one. Up in Comanche County.
voice over		I always liked to hear about the old- timers. Never missed a chance to do so. Nigger Hoskins over in Bastrop County knowed everbody's phone number off by heart. You can't help but compare yourself against the old- timers. Can't help but wonder how they would've operated these times. There was this boy I sent to the gas chamber at Huntsville here a while back. My arrest and my testimony. He killed a fourteen-year-old girl. Papers said it was a crime of passion but he told me there wasn't any passion to it.
voice over		Told me that he'd been planning to kill somebody for about as long as he could remember. Said that if they turned him out he'd do it again.
voice over		Said he knew he was going to hell. Be there in about fifteen minutes. I don't know what to make of that. I surely don't.
voice over		The crime you see now, it's hard to even take its measure. It's not that I'm afraid of it.
voice over		I always knew you had to be willing to die to even do this job -- not to be glorious. But I don't want to push my chips forward and go out and meet something I don't understand.
voice over		You can say it's my job to fight it but I don't know what it is anymore.
voice over		...More than that, I don't want to know. A man would have to put his soul at hazard. The deputy slams the door.
voice over		...He would have to say, okay, I'll be part of this world.
the deputy		Seated in the sheriff's office, on the phone. The prisoner stands in the background. Focus is too soft for us to see his features but his posture shows that his arms are still behind his back.
deputy		Yessir, just walked in the door. Sheriff he had some sort of a thing on him like one of them oxygen tanks for emphysema or somethin'. And a hose from it run down his sleeve...
deputy		...Well you got me, sir. You can see it when you get in... The prisoner approaches. As he nears the deputy's back he grows sharper but begins to crop out of the top of the frame.
deputy		...Yessir I got it covered. As the deputy reaches forward to hang up, the prisoner is raising his hands out of frame just behind him. The manacled hands drop back into frame in front of the deputy's throat and jerk back and up.
man		What's this about?
chigurh		Step out of the car please, sir. The motorist squints at the man with the strange apparatus.
man		Huh? What is...
chigurh		I need you to step out of the car, sir. The man opens his door and emerges.
man		Am I... Chigurh reaches up to the man's forehead with the end of the tube connected to the air tank.
chigurh		Would you hold still please, sir. A hard pneumatic sound. The man flops back against the car. Blood trickles from a hole in the middle of his forehead.
moss		Hold still. He opens the free eye and rolls his head off the sight to give himself stereo.
moss		Shit. He stands and jacks out the spent casing which jangles against the rocks. He stoops for it and puts it in his shirt pocket.
man		Agua. Moss stares at him
man		...Agua. Por Dios.
moss		Ain't got no water. On the seat next to the man is an HK machine pistol. Moss looks at it. He looks back at the man. The man is still staring at him. Without lowering his eyes Moss reaches in and takes the pistol. Moss straightens up out of the truck and slings the rifle back over his shoulder. He snaps the clip off the machine pistol, checks it and snaps it back on. Moss crosses to the back of the truck and lifts the tarp that covers the truck bed. A load of brick-sized brown parcels each wrapped in plastic. He throws the tarp back over the load and crosses back to the open cab door.
man		Agua.
moss		I told you I ain't got no agua. You speak English? A blank look.
moss		...Where's the last guy?
moss		Ultimo hombre. Last man standing, must've been one. Where'd he go?
man		...Agua. Moss turns to scan the horizon. He looks at the tire tracks extending back from the truck. He thinks for a beat.
man		La puerta... Hay lobos...
moss		If you stopped... to watch your backtrack... you're gonna shoot my dumb ass. He doesn't see anything. He lowers the glass, thinking. He raises the glass again.
moss		...But. If you stopped... you stopped in shade. He sets off.
his truck		Moss's pickup is parked by a cattleguard off a paved but little-used road. Moss is just arriving. He throws in the document case, the rifle and the machine pistol, climbs into the cab and slams the door.  EXT. DESERT AIRE TRAILER PARK - TWILIGHT  Moss's truck pulls into a trailer park that sits alongside the highway on the outskirts of Sanderson, Texas. An old sign with a neon palm tree identifies the park as the Desert Aire.
carla jean		What's in the satchel?
moss		It's full a money.
carla jean		That'll be the day. Moss is crossing to a back bedroom. Before he disappears inside Carla Jean sees the pistol stuck in the back of his waistband.
carla jean		...Where'd you get the pistol?
moss		At the gettin' place.
carla jean		Did you buy that gun?
moss		No. I found it.
carla jean		Llewelyn!
moss		What? Quit hollerin'. He walks back sipping the beer and sprawls on the couch.
carla jean		What'd you give for that thing?
moss		You don't need to know everthing, Carla Jean.
carla jean		I need to know that.
moss		You keep running that mouth I'm gonna take you in the back and screw you.
carla jean		Big talk.
moss		Just keep it up.
carla jean		Fine. I don't wanna know. I don't even wanna know where you been all day.
moss		That'll work.
moss		All right.
carla jean		Llewelyn.
moss		Yeah.
carla jean		What're you doin', baby?
moss		Goin' out.
carla jean		Goin' where?
moss		Somethin' I forgot to do. I'll be back.
carla jean		What're you goin' to do? Moss turns from the sink, screwing the top onto the jug.
moss		I'm fixin' to do somethin' dumbern hell but I'm goin' anyways. He starts toward the front door.
moss		...If I don't come back tell Mother I love her.
carla jean		Your mother's dead, Llewelyn.
moss		Well then I'll tell her myself.
a map		A detailed topographical survey map, illuminated by a flashlight. Moss is studying it in the cab of his truck. After a beat he folds the map. He checks the .45 taken off the corpse with the money. Wider: the pickup truck parked outside the cattle guard. After a beat, the truck drives over the grate onto the unpaved part of the road, jogging up the uneven terrain. Through the windshield, the view is pitch black except for the boulders and scrub picked out by the crazily bouncing headlights.  EXT. BASIN - NIGHT
door slam		We are close on the water jug slapping against Moss's leg as we pull him through the darkness. The shape of his parked truck is just visible behind him, silhouetted on the crest by the glow of the moon already set. Walking across the basin to the near truck Moss freezes,
moss		Hello?... No answer. He opens the door. The man's body is still held upright by the shoulder harness but his head, flayed by buckshot, is tipped away. Moss glances at the bed of the truck.
moss		Goddamnit. He is looking out at the river. His boots are drifting by.
chigurh		How much?
proprietor		Sixty-nine cent.
chigurh		This. And the gas.
proprietor		Y'all getting any rain up your way?
chigurh		What way would that be?
proprietor		I seen you was from Dallas. Chigurh tears open the bag of cashews and pours a few into his hand.
chigurh		What business is it of yours where I'm from, friendo?
proprietor		I didn't mean nothin' by it.  19
chigurh		Didn't mean nothin'.
proprietor		I was just passin' the time.
chigurh		I guess that passes for manners in your cracker view of things. A beat.
proprietor		Well sir I apologize. If you don't wanna accept that I don't know what else I can do for you.
proprietor		...Will there be somethin' else?
chigurh		I don't know. Will there? Beat. The proprietor turns and coughs. Chigurh stares.
proprietor		Is somethin' wrong?
chigurh		With what?
proprietor		With anything?
chigurh		Is that what you're asking me? Is there something wrong with anything? The proprietor looks at him, uncomfortable, looks away.
proprietor		Will there be anything else?
chigurh		You already asked me that.
proprietor		Well... I need to see about closin'.  20
chigurh		See about closing.
proprietor		Yessir.
chigurh		What time do you close?
proprietor		Now. We close now.
chigurh		Now is not a time. What time do you close.
proprietor		Generally around dark. At dark. Chigurh stares, slowly chewing.
chigurh		You don't know what you're talking about, do you?
proprietor		Sir?
chigurh		I said you don't know what you're talking about. Chigurh chews.
chigurh		...What time do you go to bed.
proprietor		Sir?
chigurh		You're a bit deaf, aren't you? I said what time do you go to bed.
proprietor		Well... A pause.
proprietor		...I'd say around nine-thirty. Somewhere around nine-thirty.
chigurh		I could come back then.
proprietor		Why would you be comin' back? We'll be closed.
chigurh		You said that. He continues to stare, chewing.
proprietor		Well... I need to close now --
chigurh		You live in that house behind the store?
proprietor		Yes I do.
chigurh		You've lived here all your life? A beat.
proprietor		This was my wife's father's place. Originally.
chigurh		You married into it.
proprietor		We lived in Temple Texas for many years. Raised a family there. In Temple. We come out here about four years ago.
chigurh		You married into it.
proprietor		...If that's the way you wanna put it.
chigurh		I don't have some way to put it. That's the way it is.
chigurh		...What's the most you've ever lost on a coin toss?
proprietor		Sir?
chigurh		The most. You ever lost. On a coin toss.
proprietor		I don't know. I couldn't say. Chigurh is digging in his pocket. A quarter: he tosses it. He slaps it onto his forearm but keeps it covered.
chigurh		Call it.
proprietor		Call it?
chigurh		Yes.
proprietor		For what?
chigurh		Just call it.
proprietor		Well -- we need to know what it is we're callin' for here.
chigurh		You need to call it. I can't call it for you. It wouldn't be fair. It wouldn't even be right.
proprietor		I didn't put nothin' up.
chigurh		Yes you did. You been putting it up your whole life. You just didn't know it. You know what date is on this coin?
proprietor		No.
chigurh		Nineteen fifty-eight. It's been traveling twenty-two years to get here. And now it's here. And it's either heads or tails, and you have to say. Call it. A long beat.
proprietor		Look... I got to know what I stand to win.
chigurh		Everything.
proprietor		How's that?
chigurh		You stand to win everything. Call it.
proprietor		All right. Heads then. Chigurh takes his hand away from the coin and turns his arm to look at it.
chigurh		Well done. He hands it across.
chigurh		...Don't put it in your pocket.
proprietor		Sir?
chigurh		Don't put it in your pocket. It's your lucky quarter.
proprietor		...Where you want me to put it?
chigurh		Anywhere not in your pocket. Or it'll get mixed in with the others and become just a coin. Which it is. He turns and goes. The proprietor watches him.
carla jean		Llewelyn? What the hell? Moss enters and the door closes.
moss		Odessa.
carla jean		Why would we go to Odessa?
moss		Not we, you. Stay with your mother.
carla jean		Well -- how come?
moss		Right now it's midnight Sunday. When the courthouse opens nine hours from now someone's gonna be callin in the vehicle number off the inspection plate on my truck. And around nine- thirty they'll show up here.
carla jean		So... for how long do we have to...
moss		Baby, at what point would you quit botherin' to look for your two million dollars?
carla jean		What'm I supposed to tell Mama?
moss		Try standin' in the door and hollerin: Mama I'm home.
moss		C'mon, pack your things. Anything you leave you ain't gonna see again. Carla Jean begins peevishly tossing things into a bag:
carla jean		Well thanks for fallin' all over and apologizing.
moss		Things happened. I can't take 'em back.
man		Mind ridin' bitch?
the ramcharger		Bouncing through ungraded terrain. It stops and discharges the three men-the driver and his partner, both in suits, from either side, and then Chigurh from the middle seat.
chigurh		This his truck? He is opening the door and looking at the plate riveted inside.
man		Mm-hm.
chigurh		Screwgie. The man reaches into a pocket and hands over a screwdriver. As Chigurh works it under the plate:
chigurh		...Who slashed his tires?
driver		Wudden us.
driver		That's a dead dog.
chigurh		Thank you. Chigurh plays the flashlight around the scene. Dead bodies on the ground.
chigurh		...Where's the transponder?
man		In the truck. I'll get it.
driver		These are some ripe petunias. Chigurh gives his flashlight to the driver.
chigurh		Hold this please. He bends down and takes a 9 mm. Glock off of one of the dead bodies and checks the clip. The other man is returning from the truck. He hands Chigurh a small electronic receiver.
chigurh		...You getting anything on this?  27
man		Not a bleep.
chigurh		All right... Chigurh stands and holds his hand out for his flashlight. The driver hands it to him. Chigurh shines it in his face and shoots him through the forehead. As the man falls Chigurh pans the light to the other man who has watched his partner drop. He looks up, puzzled, and is shot as well.
loretta		I thought it was a car afire.
bell		It is a car afire. But Wendell said there was something back country too.
loretta		When is the county gonna start payin' a rental on my horse.
bell		Hyah! He is sending a second horse up into the trailer.
bell		...I love you more'n more, ever day.
loretta		...Be careful.  28
bell		I always am.
loretta		Don't get hurt.
bell		I never do.
loretta		Don't hurt no one.
bell		Well. If you say so.
bell		You wouldn't think a car would burn like that.
wendell		Yessir. We should a brought wieners. Sheriff Bell takes his hat off and mops his brow.
bell		Does that look to you like about a '77 Ford, Wendell?
wendell		It could be.
bell		I'd say it is. Not a doubt in my mind.
wendell		The old boy shot by the highway?
bell		Yessir, his vehicle. Man killed Lamar's deputy, took his car, killed someone on the highway, swapped for his car, and now here it is and he's swapped again for god knows what.
wendell		That's very linear Sheriff. Bell stares at the fire.
bell		Well. Old age flattens a man.
wendell		Yessir. But then there's this other. He nods up the ridge away from the highway.
bell		Uh-huh. He walks back toward the trailer.
bell		...You ride Winston.
wendell		You sure?
bell		Oh, I'm more than sure. Anything happens to Loretta's horse I can tell you right now you don't wanna be the party that was aboard.
bell		It's the same tire tread comin back as goin'. Made about the same time. You can see the sipes real clear. Wendell is standing in the stirrups, looking up the ridge.
wendell		Truck's just yonder. Somebodies pried the inspection plate off the door. Bell looks up, circling the truck.
bell		I know this truck. Belongs to a feller named Moss.
wendell		Llewelyn Moss?  30
bell		That's the boy.
wendell		You figure him for a dope runner? Bell sits his horse looking at the slashed tires.
bell		I don't know but I kindly doubt it.
wendell		Hell's bells, they even shot the dog. They walk towards the near truck.
wendell		...Well this is just a deal gone wrong. Sheriff Bell stoops to look at casings.
bell		Yes, appears to have been a glitch or two.
wendell		What calibers you got there, Sheriff?
bell		Nine millimeter. Couple of .45 ACP's. He stands, looking at the truck.
bell		...Somebody unloaded on this thing with a shotgun.
wendell		Mm. Bell opens the door of the truck. Looks at the dead driver.
wendell		...How come do you reckon the coyotes ain't been at 'em?  31
bell		I don't know... He shuts the door softly with two hands.
bell		...Supposedly they won't eat a Mexican. Wendell is looking at the two corpses close together, wearing suits.
wendell		These boys appear to be managerial. Bell walks back toward the bed of the truck as Wendell
wendell		...I think we're lookin' at more'n one fracas. A gesture toward the scattered bodies.
wendell		...Wild West over there... A nod down at the two men in suits with head wounds.
wendell		...Execution here. Bell, at the back of the truck, wets a finger and runs it against the bed and looks at it.
bell		That Mexican brown dope. Wendell strolls among the bodies.
wendell		These boys is all swole up. So this was earlier: gettin set to trade. Then, whoa, differences... You know: might not of even been no money.
bell		That's possible.
wendell		But you don't believe it.
bell		No. Probably I don't.
wendell		It's a mess, ain't it Sheriff? Bell is remounting.
bell		If it ain't it'll do til a mess gets here.
air tank		We follow it being toted along a gravel path and up three shallow steps to a trailer door. A hand rises to knock. Tubing runs out of the sleeve and into the fist clenched to knock. The door rattles under the knock. A short beat. The hand opens to press the nozzle at the end of the tube against the lock cylinder. A sharp report.
inside		A cylinder of brass from the door slams into the far wall denting it and drops to the floor and rolls. Reverse on the door. Daylight shows through the lock. The door swings slowly in and Chigurh, hard backlit, enters. He sets the tank down by the door. He looks around. He ambles in. He opens a door. The bedroom, a messy aftermath of hasty packing. The main room. Mail is stacked on the counter that separates a kitchen area. Chigurh flips unhurriedly through the pieces. One of them is a phone bill. He puts it in his pocket. He goes to the refrigerator. He opens it. He looks for a still beat. He decides. He reaches out a quart of milk. He goes to the main room sofa and sits. He pinches the spout open and drinks.
woman		Yessir?
chigurh		I'm looking for Llewelyn Moss.
woman		Did you go up to his trailer?
chigurh		Yes I did.
woman		Well I'd say he's at work. Do you want to leave a message?
chigurh		Where does he work?
woman		I can't say.
chigurh		Where does he work?
woman		Sir I ain't at liberty to give out no information about our residents. Chigurh looks around the office. He looks at the woman.
chigurh		Where does he work?
woman		Did you not hear me? We can't give out no information. A toilet flushes somewhere. A door unlatches. Footsteps in back.
carla jean		Why all the way to Del Rio?
moss		I'm gonna borrow a car. From Eldon. Carla Jean nods at the document case.
carla jean		You can't afford one?
moss		Don't wanna register it. I'll call you in a couple days.
carla jean		Promise?
moss		Yes I do.
carla jean		I got a bad feelin', Llewelyn.
moss		Well I got a good one. So they ought to even out. Quit worrying about everthing.
carla jean		Mama's gonna raise hell.
moss		Uh-huh.
carla jean		She is just gonna cuss you up'n down.
moss		You should be used to that.
carla jean		I'm used to lots of things, I work at Wal-Mart.
moss		Not any more, Carla Jean. You're retired.
carla jean		Llewelyn?
moss		Yes ma'am?
carla jean		You are comin back, ain't ya?
moss		I shall return.
wendell		Sheriff's Department! No answer.
bell		Look at the lock. They both look. A beat.
wendell		We goin' in?
bell		Gun out and up. Wendell unholsters his gun but hesitates.
wendell		What about yours?
bell		I'm hidin' behind you. Wendell eases the door open.
wendell		Sheriff's Department!
wendell		...Nobody here. He lowers his gun and starts to holster it.
bell		No reason not to stay safe. Wendell keeps the gun out.
wendell		No sir. He goes to the bedroom door as Sheriff Bell, seeing the lock cylinder on the floor, stoops and hefts it. He looks up at the wall opposite the door: the small dent.
wendell		...I believe they've done lit a shuck.
bell		Believe you're right.
wendell		That from the lock? Sheriff Bell stands and wanders, looking around.
bell		Probably must be.
wendell		So when was he here?
bell		I don't know. Oh. He is at the counter staring at something.
bell		...Now that's aggravating.
wendell		Sheriff? Sheriff Bell points at the carton of milk.
bell		Still sweating. Wendell is agitated.
wendell		Whoa! Sheriff! Sheriff Bell unhurriedly opens a cabinet. He looks closes it, opens another.
wendell		...Sheriff, we just missed him! We gotta circulate this! On the radio! Sheriff Bell takes a glass from the cabinet.
bell		Well, okay... He pours milk into the glass.
bell		...What do we circulate? He sits on the sofa and takes a sip from the milk.
bell		...Lookin' for a man who has recently drunk milk? Wendell stares at him.
wendell		Sheriff, that's aggravating.
bell		I'm ahead of you there. Wendell gazes around the trailer, shaking his head.
wendell		You think this boy Moss has got any notion of the sorts of sons of bitches that are huntin' him?
bell		I don't know. He ought to... Sheriff Bell takes another sip.
bell		...He seen the same things I seen and it made an impression on me.
moss		Take me to a motel.
cabbie		You got one in mind?
moss		Just someplace cheap.
rate card		The rates for Charlie Goodnight's Del Rio Motor Court are under its address of Highway 84 East and an ovalled AAA logo: Single Person $24.00 Double Bed/Couple $27.00 2 Double Bed/Couple $28.00 2 Double Bed/3 People $32.00 Voices play off:
woman		You tell me the option.
moss		The what?
woman		The option. Wider shows that we are in a motel lobby. A woman faces Moss across a Formica counter top She has handed him the framed rate card.
woman		...You pick the option with the applicable rate.
moss		I'm just one person. Don't matter the size of the bed.
the duffle		Moss unzips it and pulls out the machine pistol and the .45 that he took off the dead man. He lifts the mattress and stashes the machine pistol underneath. He checks the chamber of the .45 and stuffs it in his belt.  40
the window		Moss pulls back one curtain to look out at the lot. Nothing there disturbs him. He closes the curtains, crossing one over the other. He goes out the door, shutting it softly behind him.  INT. ROADSIDE DINER - DAY
phone bill		A pencil taps at a Del Rio number that repeats on the bill. We hear phone-filtered rings. The rings are cut off by the clatter of a hang-up. The pencil moves to an Odessa number, the only other repeat on the short list of toll calls. We cut up to Chigurh as he finishes dialing, in the booth of a roadside diner. Dusk. Phone-filtered rings. Connection; a woman's voice:
woman		Hello?
chigurh		Is Llewelyn there?
woman		Llewelyn?! No he ain't.
chigurh		You expect him? The woman's voice is old, querulous:
woman		Now why would I expect him? Who is this? Chigurh stares for a short beat, then prongs the phone.
salesman		Hep you?
moss		I need the Larry Mahan's in black,
salesman		Okay.
moss		You sell socks?
salesman		Just white. He gathers up a brown paper bag from a pharmacy.
moss		White is all I wear. You got a bathroom?
salesman		Ain't got Larries in black but I got 'em in osta-rich. Break in easy.
moss		Don't stop. Just ride me up past the rooms.
driver		What room?
moss		Just drive me around. I want to see if someone's here. The cab rolls slowly up the lot.
moss		...Keep going. His pivoting point-of-view of his room. The window shows a part between the curtains.
moss		...Keep going. Don't stop.
driver		I don't want to get in some kind of a jackpot here, buddy.
moss		It's all right.
driver		Why don't I set you down here and we won't argue about it.
moss		I want you to take me to another motel.
driver		Let's just call it square. Moss reaches a hundred-dollar bill up to the driver.
moss		You're already in a jackpot. I'm trying to get you out of it. Now take me to a motel. The driver reaches up for the bill then turns the cab out of the parking lot onto the hiway. Moss turns to look at the receding lights of the motel.
wendell		He labs from Austin on the man by the highway. Bell takes the papers and starts to look at them.
bell		What was the bullet?
wendell		Wasn't no bullet. This brings Bell's look up.
bell		Wasn't no bullet?
wendell		Yessir. Wasn't none.  44
bell		Well, Wendell, with all due respect, that don't make a whole lot of sense.
wendell		No sir.
bell		You said entrance wound in the forehead, no exit wound.
wendell		Yes sir.
bell		Are you telling me he shot this boy in the head and then went fishin' around in there with a pocket knife?
wendell		Sir, I don't want to picture that.
bell		Well I don't either! A beat during which both men picture it, ended by an arriving waitress.
waitress		Can I freshen that there for you Sheriff? The Sheriff's distressed look swings on to her.
bell		Yes Noreen you better had. Thank you.
wendell		The Rangers and DEA are heading out to the desert this morning. You gonna join 'em?
bell		I don't know. Any new bodies accumulated out there?
wendell		No sir.
bell		Well then I guess I can skip it. Heavens to Betsy, Wendell, you already put me off my breakfast.
clerk		Twelve gauge. You need shells? Moss looks the gun over.
moss		Uh-huh. Double ought.
clerk		They'll give you a wallop. He pushes the shells across.
moss		You have camping supplies?
another counter		A clerk stares at Moss.
clerk		Tent poles.
moss		Uh-huh.
clerk		You already have the tent?
moss		Somethin' like that.
clerk		Well you give me the model number of the tent I can order you the poles.
moss		Never mind. I want a tent.
clerk		What kind of tent?
moss		The kind with the most poles.  46
clerk		Well I guess that'd be our ten-foot backyard Per-Gola. You can stand up in it. Well, some people could stand up in it. Six foot clearance at the ridge. You might just could.
moss		Let me have that one. Where's the nearest hardware store?
moss		Could I get another room.
woman		You want to change rooms?
moss		No, I want to keep my room, and get another one.
woman		Another additional.
moss		Uh-huh.You got a map of the rooms? She inclines her head to look under the counter.
woman		Yeah we had a sorta one.
moss		What about one forty-two.
woman		You can have the one next to yours if you want. One twenty. It ain't took.
moss		No, one forty-two.
woman		That's got two double beds.
chigurh		Driving slowly down the street with frequent glances down at the receiver on the seat next to him. The receiver lights ups and bleeps one time. Chigurh slows and looks around at the buildings that line the two-lane highway.  INT. 2ND MOTEL ROOM - LATE DAY  Moss is standing on a desk chair unscrewing the plate from the overhead airduct. He lays it aside and raises a flashlight and peers into the airduct.  48
chigurh		The receiver is bleeping slowly as the car creeps along. Up at a distant intersection is Charlie Goodnight's Del Rio Motel.
chigurh		He is slowly driving the parking lot, the receiver now in his lap. The beeping frequency peaks and then starts to fall off. Chigurh puts the truck in reverse and eases back to the peak. His point-of-view: window with parted curtains.  INT. 2ND MOTEL ROOM - LATE DAY  Moss experiments with the tape-joint, angling then straightening the two poles. Satisfied, he starts taping on a third length of pole.  INT. MOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT  Chigurh stands across the counter from the clerk who looks at him, waiting. He is frowning at the rate card.  INT. CHIGURH'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT
door		It swings slowly in toward us. Chigurh stands in the doorway. The room-number bangle hangs off the key in the knob. He stares in for a beat.  49
moss		Moss pulls three wire hangers off the closet rack. He takes them to the bureau and picks up a sidecutter.
chigurh		He walks over to the bathroom. He turns on its light, looks.
moss		Moss snips the last of the wire hangers' hooks off with the sidecutter. He wraps the three hooks with duct tape to make a sturdier one. He wraps more tape to attach this hook to the end of the three-link pole.
chigurh		From a bag he withdraws a twelve-gauge automatic shotgun fitted with a silencer big around as a beer can. He checks the loads. He picks up the regularly beeping receiver, turns it off, and slips it into his pocket. He hoists the air tank.
moss		He is standing on the chair below the airduct, stooping to pick up the jury-rigged pole leaning nearby. He straightens and feeds the length of the pole into the duct, using the joints to angle it in.  INT. MOTEL DUCT - NIGHT  Inside the duct: he watches the pole play in, illuminated by the flashlight he has left resting inside.  EXT. MOTEL WALKWAY - NIGHT
stockinged feet		We track on the feet padding down the exterior walkway.
moss		Peering along the airduct, both hands up next to one ear awkwardly maneuvering the pole. He lays the far, hooked end over the protruding corner of the document case. He pulls. The pole slides off the case.  EXT./INT. 1ST MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT
chigurh		He stands at the door of Moss's first room. He eases an ear against it. He steps back. He punches out the lock cylinder with the airgun and kicks in the door, raising the shotgun. A Mexican in a guyabera reclines on one of the two double beds. He is scrabbling for a machine pistol on the nightstand. Chigurh fires three times quickly. The damped blasts have the low resonance of chugs into a bottle.
chigurh		Also frozen, back against the wall outside the room, to one side of the open door. After a beat he steps back into the open doorway leveling the gun. Inside the room: no movement. Much of the man on the bed is spattered against the chewed-up headboard. The bathroom door is ajar, its light on. A long beat.
moss's pov		Along the air vent. The machine-pistol chatter crosses the cut. We hear bullets snap through metal. The sound brings on indirect light as holes are punched in the duct somewhere around the bend. Moss holds still as the galvanized metal faintly thunders. The flashlight resting on it wobbles.  EXT./INT. 1ST MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT
chigurh		Gun leveled, at the open door. Again, no movement. He advances into the room, gun pointing at the bathroom door. As he advances he swings the gun briefly over at the closet door and fires. The splintered-in door reveals no occupant.
chigurh		He uses the shotgun barrel to push open what's left of the bathroom door.
man		No me mate. The man on the floor is quite dead. A machine pistol lies in one out-flung hand. Chigurh looks back up at the survivor.
chigurh		How'd you find it?
man		No me mate. Chigurh walks unhurriedly to the tub. The man watches him, hands up, vibrating. Chigurh reaches with his free hand and pulls the shower curtain most of the way round, hiding the man. He angles the nose of the shotgun in and fires.
old man		Shouldn't be doin' that. Even a young man like you.
moss		Doin' what. The old man gazes at the road.
old man		Hitchhikin'. He shakes his head again. Silent driving. The old man murmurs:
old man		Dangerous.
booming up		We are looking out as a foreground building slips by and we rise to get an ever-higher perspective on downtown Houston, hazy under a noon sun.
man		You know Anton Chigurh by sight, is that correct? Carson Wells sits in front of the desk, his manner affable. He rests a booted foot across one knee.
wells		Yessir, that's correct. I know 'em when I see 'em.
man		When did you last see him.
wells		November the 28th, last year.
man		You seem pretty sure of the date. Did I ask you to sit?
wells		No sir but you struck me as a man who wouldn't want to waste a chair. I remember dates. Names. Numbers. I saw him on November 28th. The man gazes. He nods.
man		We got a loose cannon here. And we're out a bunch of money, and the other party is out his product.
wells		Yessir. I understand that. The man looks at him, appraising. He nods again and slides a bank card across the table.
man		This account will only give up twelve hundred dollars in any twenty-four hour period. That's up from a thousand. Wells rises to take the card and then reseats himself.
wells		Yessir.
man		If your expenses run higher I hope you'll trust us for it.
wells		Okay.
man		How well do you know Chigurh.  56
wells		Well enough.
man		That's not an answer.
wells		What do you want to know?
man		I'd just like to know your opinion of him. In general. Just how dangerous is he? Wells shrugs.
wells		Compared to what? The bubonic plague? He's bad enough that you called me. He's a psychopathic killer but so what? There's plenty of them around. A beat.
man		He killed three men in a motel in Del Rio yesterday. And two others at that colossal goatfuck out in the desert.
wells		Okay. We can stop that.
man		You seem pretty sure of yourself. You've led something of a charmed life haven't you Mr. Wells? Wells rises.
wells		In all honesty I can't say that charm has had a whole lot to do with it. He thumps once at his chest.
wells		...I'm wondering...
man		Yes?
wells		Can I get my parking ticket validated?  57
man		...An attempt at humor, I suppose.
wells		I'm sorry.
man		Goodbye, Mr. Wells.
moss		One room, one night.
clerk		That's twenty-six dollars.
moss		You on all night?
clerk		Yessir, be here til ten tomorrow morning. Moss pushes a hundred along with smaller bills across the desk.
moss		For you. I ain't asking you to do anything illegal. The clerk looks at the hundred-dollar bill without reaching.
clerk		I'm waitin' to hear your description of that.
moss		There's somebody lookin' for me. Not police. Just call me if anyone else checks in tonight.
moss		There just ain't no way. He sits up and turns on the bedside lamp. The shot gun and document case are on the floor by the bed. Moss swings the document case onto the bed and unclasps it and upends the money onto the bed. He feels the bottom of the case, squeezing it with one hand inside and one hand out, looking for a false bottom. He eyeballs the case, turning it over and around. He starts riffling money packets. He finds one that binds. It has hundreds on the outside but ones inside with the centers cut out. In the hollow is a sending unit the size of a Zippo lighter.
outside		Moss emerges into a shallow service alley, dark and dirty. He is at a run when we hear soft tock and a garbage can in front of him snaps and wobbles. He turns looking up, backpedaling. Another tock accompanies a muzzleflash in a dark second-story window. Moss fires his shotgun: loud. Chips fly off the brickface and the window shatters. Moss rounds the alley corner. He stops and squats.  EXT. DOWNTOWN EAGLE PASS STREET - NIGHT  Wide: dark, deserted downtown Eagle Pass, Moss a lone figure resting at a corner. Close on Moss panting. He takes stock, painfully feeling at his upper chest where the lock hit, then touching gingerly at his side, beneath the ribs, newly bloody. He sighs.  62
moss		I'm not going to hurt you. I need you to -- The windshield stars. A quick second round pushes part of the windshield in. Rounds come in without pause, cracking sheet metal, blowing the cab's rear window into the truckbed, twisting the rear- view. A round seems to have caught the driver in the throat: a gurgling scream as he claws at his windpipe, blowing out blood. Moss, quicker to react, has already ducked below the dash. A snap of the driver's head and a new freshet of blood from a shot to the head. The screams turn to low gurgles. Moss, jammed almost in to the driver's lap, frantically gropes for the shift. He throws the pickup into drive and stamps at the accelerator, driving blind as bullets continue to pour in. He raises his head enough to see his side-view. It shows sluing, bouncing, empty street, rough guide for steering. A tremendous jounce up onto the curb then off it, the driver's body swaying in its restraint. The passenger side window shatters: we are passing the gunman. Now Moss sits up to steer looking out front. Behind him through the shot-out back window the dark street is suddenly punctured by muzzleflash. It comes, for the first time, with a report: the low chug of the muted shotgun. Rattle of shot against sheet metal. Moss floors the gas to roar into a turn. The street sweeping out of view behind him produces one more chugging muzzleflash.
moss		I'll give you five hundred bucks for your shirt and your coat.
youth		Let's see the money. Moss unpeels bills from a moist wad. The top one is bloody.
second youth		...Were you in a car accident?
moss		Yeah.
youth		Okay, lemme have the money.
moss		It's right here. Give me the coat.
youth		Lemme hold the money. Moss does.
moss		Gimme the clothes. The youth starts to peel them.
moss		...And let me have your beer.
youth		...How much?
second youth		Brian. Give him the beer.
minutes later		The boys are receding. Moss pours the beer over his head, rubbing blood away. He opens his shirt. He inspects the wounds in his midriff, entrance and exit. Pulsing blood laps weakly out. He shrugs off his shirt, wraps it around his waist and knots it. He starts to put on the new shirt. Something stops him. He pauses. He vomits into the roadbed.
black		In black, an insanely cheerful mariachi song. Fade in on the mariachis. We are looking steeply up at them, dutch-angled. They beam down at us, energetically thumping their oversized guitars and bajo sextos. We boom woozily up and start to un-dutch.
moss		Doctor.
moss		...Medico. Por favor.
bath		Chigurh lowers himself into bath water that quickly turns pink. He laves water over his bloody thigh. There is a dark red hole, one half inch across, pulsing blood into the bath water Torn pieces of fabric from his pants are embedded in the bleeding skin.  A SHAVING MIRROR We are looking at the wound in a magnifying mirror. Forceps enter and pluck a tiny piece of blood-soaked fabric from the skin.  70
running water		A bathroom tap. The forceps enter. They are rinsed, shaken off. Wider: Chigurh sits on the closed toilet with the mirror sitting on the edge of the tub, angled toward the wound. Chigurh works on cleaning it.  INT. SMALL TOWN MOTEL ROOM - DAY  The main room. The TV is on now. Chigurh enters from the bathroom with his leg bandaged. He sits on the bed and tears open the packaging of a syringe. He plunges it into an ampule of penicillin.
bell		Anything on those vehicles yet? A raised female voice from the front office:
voice		Sheriff I found out everything there was to find. Those vehicles are titled and registered to deceased people. Molly, the secretary, appears at the doorway.
voice		...The owner of that Blazer died twenty years ago. Did you want me to see what I could find out about the Mexican ones?
bell		No. Lord no. He holds out the checkbook.
bell		...This month's checks.
molly		That DEA agent called again. You don't want to talk to him?
bell		I'm goin' to try and keep from it as much as I can.
molly		He's goin' back out there and he wanted to know if you wanted to go with him. Sheriff Bell is putting things away.
bell		Well that's cordial of him. I guess he can go wherever he wants. He's a certified agent of the United States Government.
bell		...Could I get you to call Loretta and tell her I've gone to Odessa? goin' to visit with Carla Jean Moss.
molly		Yes Sheriff.
bell		I'll call Loretta when I get there. I'd call now but she'll want me to come home and I just might.
molly		You want me to wait til you've quit the building?
bell		Yes I do. You don't want to lie without what it's absolutely necessary. Molly trails him into the front office.
bell		...What is it that Torbert says? About truth and justice?
molly		We dedicate ourselves daily anew. Something like that.
bell		I think I'm goin' to commence dedicatin' myself twice daily. It may come to three times before it's over... A loud truck-by from the street outside. Sheriff Bell's eyes track the passing vehicle.
bell		...What the hell?
driver		Sheriff.
bell		Have you looked at your load lately?
bell		That's a damned outrage.
driver		Oh. One of the tiedowns worked lose. Bell whips the tarp back to expose eight corpses wrapped blue sheeting bound with tape.
bell		How many did you leave with? The driver is still smiling.
driver		I ain't lost none of 'em, Sheriff.
bell		Couldn't you all of took a van out there?
driver		Didn't have no van with four-wheel drive. Sheriff Bell pulls the tarp down and ties it. The driver watches without helping.
driver		...You going to write me up for improperly secured load? Sheriff Bell cinches the knot tight.
bell		You get your ass out of here.
voice		I'm guessin'... this is not the future you pictured for yourself when you first clapped eyes on that money. Moss blearily focuses on: A fancy crocodile boot. His look rises from the boot, crossed on his visitor's knee, up to the man's face. Carson Wells smiles at him from the bedside chair.
wells		...Don't worry. I'm not the man that's after you.
moss		I know, I've seen him. Sort of. Wells is surprised.
wells		You've seen him. And you're not dead. He nods, impressed.
wells		...But that won't last.
moss		What is he supposed to be, the ultimate bad-ass?  74
wells		I don't think that's how I would describe him.
moss		How would you describe him?
wells		I guess I'd say... that he doesn't have a sense of humor. His name is Chigurh.
moss		Sugar?
wells		Chigurh. Anton Chigurh. You know how he found you?
moss		I know how he found me.
wells		It's called a transponder.
moss		I know what it is. He won't find me again.
wells		Not that way.
moss		Not any way.
wells		Took me about three hours.
moss		I been immobile.
wells		No. You don't understand. Wells sits back and studies Moss.
wells		...What do you do?
moss		I'm retired.
wells		What did you do?
moss		I'm a welder.
wells		Acetylene? Mig? Tig?
moss		Any of it. If it can be welded I can weld it.
wells		Cast iron?
moss		Yes.
wells		I don't mean braze.
moss		I didn't say braze.
wells		Pot metal?
moss		What did I say?
wells		Were you in Nam?
moss		Yeah. I was in Nam.
wells		So was I.
moss		So what does that make me? Your buddy? Wells sits smiling at him. A beat.
wells		Look. You need to give me the money. I've got no other reason to protect you.
moss		Too late. I spent it -- about a million and a half on whores and whiskey and the rest of it I just sort of blew it in. Wells' smile stays in place.
wells		How do you know he's not on his way to Odessa? Moss stares at him. A beat.
moss		Why would he go to Odessa?
wells		To kill your wife. Another beat.
moss		Maybe he should be worried. About me.
wells		He isn't. You're not cut out for this. You're just a guy that happened to find those vehicles. Moss doesn't respond.
wells		...You didn't take the product, did you?
moss		What product.
wells		The heroin. You don't have it.
moss		No I don't have it.
wells		No. You don't. He rises.
wells		...I'm across the river. At the Hotel Eagle. Carson Wells. Call me when you've had enough. I can even let you keep a little of the money.
moss		If I was cuttin' deals, why wouldn't I go deal with this guy Chigurh?
wells		No no. No. You don't understand. You can't make a deal with him. Even if you gave him the money he'd still kill you. He's a peculiar man. You could even say that he has principles. Principles that transcend money or drugs or anything like that. He's not like you. He's not even like me.
moss		He don't talk as much as you, I give him points for that.
bell		Carla Jean, I thank you for comin'. She sits. He sits.
carla jean		Don't know why I did. I told you, I don't know where he is.
bell		You ain't heard from him?
carla jean		No I ain't.
bell		Nothin'?
carla jean		Not word one.
bell		Would you tell me if you had?
carla jean		Well, I don't know. He don't need any trouble from you.
bell		It's not me he's in trouble with.
carla jean		Who's he in trouble with then?
bell		Some pretty bad people.
carla jean		Llewelyn can take care of hisself.
bell		These people will kill him, Carla Jean. They won't quit.
carla jean		He won't neither. He never has.
bell		I wish I could say that was in his favor. But I have to say I don't think it is.
carla jean		He can take all comers. Bell looks at her. After a beat:
bell		You know Charlie Walser? Has the place east of Sanderson? She shakes her head, shrugs.
bell		...Well you know how they used to slaughter beeves, hit 'em with a maul right here to stun 'em... Indicates between his own eyes.
bell		...and then truss 'em up and slit their throats? Well here Charlie has one trussed up and all set to drain him and the beef comes to. It starts thrashing around, six hundred pounds of very pissed-off livestock if you'll pardon my... Charlie grabs his gun there to shoot the damn thing in the head but what with the swingin' and twistin' it's a glance-shot and ricochets around and comes back hits Charlie in the shoulder. You go see Charlie, he still can't reach up with his right hand for his hat... Point bein', even in the contest between man and cow the issue is not certain. He takes a sip of coffee, leaving room for Carla Jean to argue if inclined. She does not. Sheriff Bell hands a card across.
bell		...When Llewelyn calls, just tell him I can make him safe. She takes the card. Sheriff Bell sips.
bell		...Course, they slaughter beeves different now. Use a air gun. Shoots out a rod, about this far into the brain... He holds thumb and forefinger a couple inches apart.
bell		...Sucks back in. Animal never knows what hit him. Another beat. Carla Jean stares at him.
carla jean		Why you tellin' me that, Sheriff?
bell		I don't know. My mind wanders.
chigurh		Hello Carson. Let's go to your room.
wells		We don't have to do this. I'm a daytrader. I could just go home.
chigurh		Why would I let you do that?
wells		I know where the money is.  81
chigurh		If you knew, you would have it with you.
wells		I need dark. To get it. I know where it is.
chigurh		I know something better.
wells		What's that.
chigurh		I know where it's going to be.
wells		And where is that.
chigurh		It will be brought to me and placed at my feet. Wells wipes his mouth with his hand.
wells		You don't know to a certainty. Twenty minutes it could be here.
chigurh		I do know to a certainty. And you know what's going to happen now. You should admit your situation. There would be more dignity in it.
wells		You go to hell. A beat.
chigurh		Let me ask you something. If the rule you followed brought you to this, of what use was the rule? Another beat.
wells		Do you have any idea how goddamn crazy you are?
chigurh		You mean the nature of this conversation?
wells		I mean the nature of you. Chigurh looks at him equably. Wells holds his look.
wells		...You can have the money. Anton. The phone rings. Wells looks at the phone. Chigurh hasn't moved. Wells looks at Chigurh, waiting for a decision.
moss's voice		...Hello?
chigurh		Yes? Another beat.
moss's voice		Is Carson Wells there. A longer beat.
chigurh		Not in the sense that you mean. Moss doesn't answer. Chigurh gives him a beat, and then:
chigurh		...You need to come see me.
moss		Who is this.
chigurh		You know who it is. A beat.
chigurh		...You need to talk to me.
moss		I don't need to talk to you.
chigurh		I think that you do. Do you know where I'm going?
moss		Why would I care where you're going.
chigurh		Do you know where I'm going? No answer.
chigurh		...I know where you are.
moss		Yeah? Where am I?
chigurh		You're in the hospital across the river. But that's not where I'm going. Do you know where I'm going?
moss		Yeah. I know where you're going.
chigurh		All right.
moss		You know she won't be there.
chigurh		It doesn't make any difference where she is.
moss		So what're you goin' up there for. A beat.
chigurh		You know how this is going to turn out, don't you?
moss		No. Do you?
chigurh		Yes, I do. I think you do too. So this is what I'll offer. You bring me the money and I'll let her go. Otherwise she's accountable. The same as you. That's the best deal you're going to get. I won't tell you you can save yourself because you can't.
moss		Yeah I'm goin' to bring you somethin' all right. I've decided to make you a special project of mine. You ain't goin' to have to look for me at all. Moss slams the phone onto its hook, then slams it twice more for good measure. Chigurh, in the hotel room, cradles his phone.
bell		The motel in Del Rio? Wendell nods.
wendell		Yessir. None of the three had ID on 'em but they're tellin' me all three is Mexicans. Was Mexicans.
bell		There's a question. Whether they stopped bein'. And when.
wendell		Yessir.
bell		Now, Wendell, did you inquire about the cylinder lock?
wendell		Yessir. It was punched out.
bell		Okay.
wendell		You gonna drive out there?
bell		No, that's the only thing I would've looked for. And it sounds like these boys died of natural causes.
wendell		How's that, Sheriff?
bell		Natural to the line of work they was in.
wendell		Yessir.
bell		My lord, Wendell, it's just all-out war. I don't know any other word for it. Who are these folks? I don't know... He rattles the paper.
bell		...Here last week they found this couple out in California they would rent out rooms to old people and then kill em and bury em in the yard and cash their social security checks. They'd torture em first, I don't know why. Maybe their television set was broke. And this went on until, and here I quote... He looks through his glasses at the paper.
bell		..."Neighbors were alerted when a man ran from the premises wearing only a dog collar." You can't make up such a thing as that. I dare you to even try. He peers over his glasses at Wendell who respectfully shakes his head and tsks. Sheriff Bell rattles the paper again.
bell		...But that's what it took, you'll notice. Get someone's attention. Diggin graves in the back yard didn't bring any. Wendell bites back a smile. Sheriff Bell gazes at him over his glasses for a long beat, deadpan.
bell		...That's all right. I laugh myself sometimes. He goes back to the paper.
bell		...There ain't a whole lot else you can do.
official		Who do you think gets through this gate into the United States of America?
moss		I don't know. American citizens.
official		Some American citizens. Who do you think decides?
moss		You do, I reckon.
official		That is correct. And how do I decide?
moss		I don't know.
official		I ask questions. If I get sensible answers then they get to go to America. If I don't get sensible answers they don't. Is there anything about that that you don't understand?
moss		No sir.
official		Then I ask you again how you come to be out here with no clothes.
moss		I got an overcoat on.
official		Are you jackin' with me?
moss		No sir.
official		Don't jack with me.
moss		Yes sir.
official		Are you in the service?  88
moss		No sir. I'm a veteran.
official		Nam?
moss		Yes sir. Two tours.
official		What outfit.
moss		Twelfth Infantry Batallion. August seventh nineteen and sixty-six to July second nineteen and sixty-eight.
official		Wilson!
guard		Yessir.
official		Get someone to help this man. He needs to get into town.
clerk		How those Larries holdin' up? Moss is walking up in his boots and overcoat and hospital robe.
moss		Good. I need everything else.
clerk		Okay.
moss		You get a lot of people come in here with no clothes on?
clerk		No sir, it's unusual.
voice		She don't want to talk to you.
moss		Yes she does. Put her on.
voice		Do you know what time it is?
moss		I don't care what time it is. Don't you hang up this phone.
voice		I told her what was going to happen, didn't I. Chapter and verse. I said: This is what will come to pass. And now it has come to pass -- Scuffing sounds, a sharp "Mama!", and then, into the phone:
carla jean		Llewelyn?
moss		Hey.
carla jean		What should I do?
moss		You know what's goin' on?  90
carla jean		I don't know, I had the sheriff here from Terrell County --
moss		What did you tell him?
carla jean		What did I know to tell him. You're hurt, ain't you?
moss		What makes you say that?
carla jean		I can hear it in your voice.
moss		Meet me at the Heart of Texas motel in El Paso. I'm gonna give you the money and put you on a plane.
carla jean		Llewelyn, I ain't gonna leave you in the lurch.
moss		No. This works better. With you gone and I don't have the money, he can't touch me. But I can sure touch him. After I find him I'll come and join you.
carla jean		Find who? What am I supposed to do with Mother?
moss		She'll be all right.
carla jean		She'll be all right?
moss		I don't think anybody'll bother her.  91
chigurh		Who are you? A long beat.
chigurh		Yes.
chigurh		He gave Acosta's people a receiver.
chigurh		That's foolish. You pick the one right tool. Chigurh inclines his head toward the pocked glass of the picture window.
chigurh		...For instance. I used birshot. So as not to blow the window.
chigurh		That depends. Do you see me? The man stares at him for a beat.
mother's voice		And I always seen this is what it would come to. Three years ago I pre- visioned it. Wider shows Carla Jean and her mother in the back of the moving cab.
carla jean		It ain't even three years we been married.
mother		Three years ago I said them very words. No and Good.
driver		Yes ma'am.
mother		Now here we are. Ninety degree heat. I got the cancer. And look at this. Not even a home to go to.
driver		Yes ma'am.
mother		We're goin' to El Paso Texas. You know how many people I know in El Paso Texas?
driver		No ma'am.
mother		That's how many. Ninety degree heat.
carla jean		I got it Mama.
mother		I didn't see my Prednizone.
carla jean		I put it in, Mama.
mother		Well I didn't see it.
carla jean		Well I put it in. That one. You just set there. I'll get tickets and a cart for the bags.
mexican		Do you need help with the bags, madam?
mother		Well thank god there's one gentleman left in West Texas. Yes thank you. I am old and I am not well.
mexican		Which bus are you taking?
mother		We're going to El Paso, don't ask me why. Discombobulated by a no-account son-in-law. Thank you. You don't often see a Mexican in a suit.
mexican		You go to El Paso? I know it. Where are you staying?
sheriff bell		Carla Jean, how are you.
carla jean		Sheriff, was that a true story about Charlie Walser?
bell		Who's Charlie Walser. Oh! Well, I, uh... True story? I couldn't swear to ever detail but... it's certainly true that it is a story.
carla jean		Yeah, right. Sheriff, can you give me your word on somethin'?
bell		Yes ma'am?  95
carla jean		If I tell you where Llewelyn's headed, you promise it'll be just you goes and talks with him -- you and nobody else?
bell		Yes ma'am, I do.
carla jean		Llewelyn would never ask for help. He never thinks he needs any.
bell		Carla Jean, I will not harm your man. And he needs help, whether he knows it or not.
chigurh		A driving point-of-view approaching Chigurh, who leans against his Ramcharger, its hood up, stopped on the shoulder on the opposite side of the road. Reverse shows a man in an El Camino. Chickens in stacked cages squawk and flutter in the bed. The man slows and rolls his window down to lean out.
man		What's the problem there, neighbor.
minutes later		The man has pulled his vehicle over nose-to-nose with Chigurh's. He is rummaging in the car behind the seat. His voice comes out muffled:
man		Yeah, that'll suck some power. Over time.
chigurh		You from around here? The man emerges with jumper cables.
man		Alpine. Born 'n bred. Here ya go. He hands one pair of leads to Chigurh.
chigurh		What airport would you use.
man		Huh? Airport or airstrip?
chigurh		Airport.
man		Well -- where ya goin'?
chigurh		I don't know.
man		Just lightin' out for the territories, huh. Brother, I been there... Well... He takes off his hat and draws a sleeve across his brow, thinking.
man		...There's airstrips. He turns with his pair of leads to clamp them onto his battery. On his back:
man		...The airport is El Paso. You want some place specific you might could be better off just drivin' to Dallas. Not have to connect. He turns back around to face Chigurh who stands there, still holding his pair of leads.
man		...You gonna clamp them, buddy? Chigurh is looking at him blandly.
chigurh		Can you get those chicken crates out of the bed. The man stares at him.
man		What're you talkin' about?
coin slot		Quarters are fed in. Wider as Chigurh unholsters the wand at a self-service car wash. He sprays the spatter-pattern rust-colored stain off the roof of the cab of the El Camino. Water drums as he sprays chicken feathers out of the bed.  EXT. MOTEL - EL PASO - DAY  Moss is turning the key in his room door, a new vinyl gun bag slung over his shoulder.
woman		Hey Mr. Sporting Goods. Moss looks. A woman sunbathes at the central court swimming pool. A lot of hard light.
moss		Hey yourself. The woman is pretty in a roadhouse-veteran sort of way. Her voice carries a flat echo, slapping off the surface of the pool.
woman		You a sport? Moss slings the bag into the room onto the bed and then turn and leans against a veranda post.
moss		That's me.
woman		I got beers in my room. Moss holds up his left hand to show the ring.
moss		Waitin' for my wife.
woman		Oh. That's who you keep lookin' out the window for?
moss		Half.
woman		What else then?
moss		Lookin' for what's comin'.
woman		Yeah but no one ever sees that. I like a man that'll tell you he's married.
moss		Then you'll like me.
woman		I do like you. A beat. Lapping water.
woman		...Beer. That's what's comin', I'll bring the ice chest out here. You can stay married. Building jet roar from another climbing plane.
moss		Ma'am I know what beer leads to. The woman laughs. Before the plane overwhelms it:
woman		Beer leads to more beer.
sheriff bell		Driving. As he drives he refers to one side of the road, a commercial strip, looking for something. We hear the fading roar of a large airplane.
bell		Call police. He is still jogging. A glance to the side: Rough point-of-view of a woman's body, belly-down at the lip of the pool, head and upper torso in the water. Rough point-of-view forward: an open room door. Booted feet stick out. Sheriff Bell arrives. Moss is face-up, mostly inside the room. The new gun bag is next to him. The gun is in hand. He is still. Voices. Sheriff Bell glances off.
bell		...Call your local law enforcement. I'm not on their radio.
bell		Carla Jean...
carla jean		No.
bell		I don't know who she is. He puts his hat back on.
roscoe		I thought maybe she was with your boy there.
bell		No ID in her room?
roscoe		Not hardly nothin' in her room. And that establishment was no stickler on registration. Well...
roscoe		...County'll bury her. Here Lies Female, Unknown. Her Number Was Up. A walking beat.
roscoe		...Buy you a cup of coffee before you drive home?
bell		No money in his room there?
roscoe		Couple hundred on his person. Those hombres would've taken the stash.
bell		I suppose. Though they was leavin' in a hurry.
roscoe		It's all the goddamned money, Ed Tom. The money and the drugs. It's just goddamned beyond everything. What is it mean? What is it leading to?
bell		Yes.
roscoe		If you'd a told me twenty years ago I'd see children walkin' the streets of our Texas towns with green hair and bones in their noses I just flat out wouldn't of believed you.
bell		Signs and wonders. But I think once you stop hearin' sir and madam the rest is soon to follow.
roscoe		It's the tide. It's the dismal tide. It is not the one thing.
bell		Not the one thing. I used to think I could at least some way put things right. I don't feel that way no more. A beat.
bell		...I don't know what I do feel like.
roscoe		Try "old" on for size.
bell		Yessir. It may be that. In a nutshell.
roscoe		None of that explains your man though.
bell		Uh-huh.
roscoe		He is just a goddamn homicidal lunatic, Ed Tom.
bell		I'm not sure he's a lunatic.
roscoe		Well what would you call him.
bell		I don't know. Sometimes I think he's pretty much a ghost.
roscoe		He's real all right.
bell		Oh yes.
roscoe		All that at the Eagle Hotel. It's beyond everything.
bell		Yes, he has some hard bark on him.
roscoe		That don't hardly say it. He shoots the desk clerk one day, and walks right back in the next and shoots a retired army colonel. They have reached Sheriff Bell's cruiser and he sits in.
bell		Hard to believe.
roscoe		Strolls right back into a crime scene. Who would do such a thing? How do you defend against it? Roscoe closes the door for Sheriff Bell.
roscoe		...Good trip Ed Tom. I'm sorry we couldn't help your boy. He is walking away. Sheriff Bell sits thinking in the cruiser. He makes no move for the ignition. A long beat.  EXT. MOTEL  Now very late, empty of onlookers and emergency vehicles. Sheriff Bell's cruiser pulls up just inside the courtyard. He cuts his engine. Sheriff Bell sits looking at the motel. Very quiet. After a long beat he gets out of the car. He pushes its door shut quietly, with two hands. He looks up the veranda. The one door, most of the way up, has yellow tape across it. Its loose ends wave in a light breeze. Sheriff Bell looks up the street. Nothing much to attract his attention.  EXT. MOTEL VERANDA
inside		Chigurh is still also. Just on the other side of the door, he stands holding his shotgun. From inside, the tap of the breeze-blown tape is dulled but perceptible. It counts out beats. Chigurh is also looking at the lock cylinder. The curved brass of its hollow interior holds a reflection of the motel room exterior. Lights and shapes. The curvature distorts to unrecognizability what is reflected, but we see the color of Sheriff Bell's uniform. The reflection is very still. Then, slow movement.
outside		Sheriff Bell finishes bringing his hand to his holstered gun. It rests there. Still once again. His point-of-view of the lock. The reflection from here, darker, is hard to read.
inside		Chigurh, still.
from inside		The door finishes creaking open. Sheriff Bell is a silhouette in the doorway. A still beat. At length Sheriff Bell ducks under the chest-high police tape to enter.
a cat		Licking itself on a plank floor, stiffened leg pointing out. It suddenly stops and looks up, ears perked. A frozen beat, and then it bolts. The camera booms up to frame the barren west Texas landscape outside the window of this isolated cabin. A pickup truck is approaching, trailing dust. The cat reenters frame outside, running across the rutted gravel in front of the house as the pickup slows.
ellis		Min back! Sheriff Bell enters.
bell		How'd you know I was here.
ellis		Who else'd be in your truck.
bell		You heard it?
ellis		How's that?
bell		You heard my -- you havin' fun with me?
ellis		What give you that idea. I seen one of the cats heard it.
bell		But -- how'd you know it was mine?
ellis		I deduced it. Once you walked in. Sheriff Bell stares at him.
bell		How many a those things you got now?
ellis		Cats? Several. Wal. Depends what you mean by got. Some are half-wild, and some are just outlaws.
bell		How you been, Ellis?
ellis		You lookin' at it. I got to say you look older.
bell		I am older.
ellis		Got a letter from your wife. She writes pretty regular, tells me the family news.
bell		Didn't know there was any.
ellis		She just told me you was quittin'. Sit down. Sheriff Bell lifts an electric percolator off the counter.
bell		Want a cup?
ellis		'Predate it.
bell		How fresh is this coffee?
ellis		I generally make a fresh pot ever week even if there's some left over. Sheriff Bell pours some.
bell		That man that shot you died in prison.  108
ellis		In Angola. Yeah.
bell		What would you a done if he'd been released?
ellis		I don't know. Nothin'. Wouldn't be no point to it.
bell		I'm kindly surprised to hear you say that.
ellis		All the time you spend tryin' to get back what's been took from you there's more goin' out the door. After a while you just try and get a tourniquet on it. He taps a cigarette ash into a mason jar lid on the table in front of him.
ellis		...Your granddad never asked me to sign on as deputy. I done that my own self. Loretta says you're quittin'.
bell		Yes, you've circled round.
ellis		How come're you doin that?
bell		I don't know. I feel overmatched. A beat.
bell		...I always thought when I got older God would sort of come into my life in some way. He didn't. I don't blame him. If I was him I'd have the same opinion about me that he does.
ellis		You don't know what he thinks.
bell		Yes I do. A beat.
ellis		I sent Uncle Mac's badge and his old thumbbuster to the Rangers. For their museum there. Your daddy ever tell you how Uncle Mac come to his reward? Sheriff Bell shrugs.
ellis		...Shot down on his own porch there in Hudspeth County. There was seven or eight of 'em come to the house. Wantin' this and wantin' that. Mac went back in and got his shotgun but they was way ahead of him. Shot him down in his own doorway. Aunt Ella run out and tried to stop the bleedin'. Him tryin to get hold of the shotgun again. They just set there on their horses watchin' him die. Finally one of 'em says somethin' in Injun and they all turned and left out. Well Mac knew the score even if Aunt Ella didn't. Shot through the left lung and that was that. As they say.
bell		When did he die?
ellis		Nineteen zero and nine.
bell		No, I mean was it right away or in the night or when was it.
ellis		Believe it was that night. She buried him the next mornin'. Diggin' in that hard caliche. A beat.
ellis		...What you got ain't nothin' new. This country is hard on people. Hard and crazy. Got the devil in it yet folks never seem to hold it to account.
bell		Most don't.
ellis		You're discouraged.
bell		I'm... discouraged.
ellis		You can't stop what's comin. Ain't all waitin' on you. The two men look at each other. Ellis shakes his head.
ellis		...That's vanity. After a beat, a fast fade.
carla jean		I knew this wasn't done with. Chigurh sits at the far end of the room in the late-afternoon shadows.
chigurh		No.
carla jean		I ain't got the money.
chigurh		No.
carla jean		What little I had is long gone and they's bill aplenty to pay yet. I buried my mother today. I ain't paid for that neither.
chigurh		I wouldn't worry about it.
carla jean		...I need to sit down. Chigurh nods at the bed and Carla Jean sits down, hugging her hat and veil.
carla jean		...You got no cause to hurt me.
chigurh		No. But I gave my word.
carla jean		You gave your word?
chigurh		To your husband.
carla jean		That don't make sense. You gave your word to my husband to kill me?
chigurh		Your husband had the opportunity to remove you from harm's way. Instead, he used you to try to save himself.
carla jean		Not like that. Not like you say.
chigurh		I don't say anything. Except it was foreseen. A beat.
carla jean		I knowed you was crazy when I saw you settin' there. I knowed exactly what was in store for me.
chigurh		Yes. Things fall into place.
boy 1		Mister there's a bone stickin' out of your arm.
chigurh		I'm all right. Let me just sit here a minute.
boy 2		There's an ambulance comin. Man over yonder went to call.
chigurh		All right.
boy 1		Are you all right? You got a bone stickin' out of your arm.
chigurh		What will you take for that shirt? The two boys look at each other. They look back.
boy 2		What shirt?
chigurh		Any damn shirt. I need something to wrap around my head and I need a sling for this arm. Boy 2 unbuttons his shirt.
boy 2		Hell mister, I'll give you my shirt.
boy 1		Look at that fuckin' bone.
chigurh		Tie this for me. The two boys look at each other.
chigurh		...Just tie it. Boy 2, the one now wearing a T-shirt, ties it. Chigurh pulls a bill clip from his pocket and draws a bill out with his teeth. He holds it out to the boy.
boy 2		Hell mister, I don't mind helpin' somebody out. That's a lot of money.
chigurh		Take it. Take it and you didn't see me. I was already gone.
boy 2		Yessir. Wide on Chigurh limping off.
boy 1		Part of that's mine.
boy 2		You still got your damn shirt.
boy 1		That ain't what it was for.
boy 2		Maybe, but I'm still out a shirt.
bell		Maybe I'll go ridin.
loretta		Okay.
bell		What do you think.
loretta		I can't plan your day.
bell		I mean, would you care to join me.
loretta		Lord no. I'm not retired. A beat. Sheriff Bell sips his coffee.
bell		Maybe I'll help here then. A beat. Loretta takes a sip.
loretta		Better not. They both sip.
loretta		...How'd you sleep?
bell		I don't know. Had dreams.
loretta		Well you got time for 'em now. Anything interesting?
bell		Well they always is to the party concerned.
loretta		Ed Tom, I'll be polite.
bell		Okay. Two of 'em. Both had my father. It's peculiar. I'm older now'n he ever was by twenty years. So in a sense he's the younger man. Anyway, first one I don't remember so well but it was about meetin' him in town somewheres and he give me some money and I think I lost it. The second one, it was like we was both back in older times and I was on horseback goin' through the mountains of a night.
voice over		...goin' through this pass in the mountains. It was cold and snowin', hard ridin'. Hard country. He rode past me and kept on goin'. Never said nothin' goin' by. He just rode on past and he had his blanket wrapped around him and his head down... The rider passes as described, horses' hooves drumming and scattering divots of earth and snow.
voice over		...and when he rode past I seen he was carryin' fire in a horn the way people used to do and I could see the horn from the light inside of it. About the color of the moon. And in the dream I knew that he was goin' on ahead and that he was fixin' to make a fire somewhere out there in all that dark and all that cold, and I knew that whenever I got there he would be there. Out there up ahead. The rider recedes and the image fades, the horn bearing fire going last.
****Dialogues from script :No_Strings_Attached.txt****

emma		I don't know.
adam		What about "Comrades-in-Fuck"?.
emma		No.
adam		What if we say we're in the Axis of Fuck? we formed a Fuck Alliance. We're neighbors 'on.. Fuck Street.
emma		What's wrong with "buddies'?
adam		Who says "buddies"?
emma		Yeah, you're right.
boy		It tickles.
adam		Hey. -
emma		Hey. A 'long' pause'. -They're not looking at each other. Then
adam		Do you want to, freak?
adam		You freak, good.
emma		Okay.
adam		-  "No, I don't want no scrubs"--
emma		I don't get it.'
adam		Urn. She doesn't want a -scrub; Because he's hanging out of his. best friend's ride, trying to -holler at her. Katie, in another part of the dance floor, is in the middle of a big freak-sandwich.
emma		Let's go to the dumpster-
adam		I've enjoyed camp. There's all kinds of fun activities. For example, I learned how to-archer.
emma		That's good. That'll be useful if you ever make a time machine and go back'to the medieval ages:-and then your-time machine breaks, and you get attacked by knights.
adam		You're funny. It's weird.
adam		My parents are gettinga divorce..' That's why I had-to go--to carp. SO. The couple making out next to them rolls over.really close. ..Emma pushes them back over.
emma		Marriage sucks my ' butt .
adam		Yeah. it sucks it. It sucks it. all 'ni-ight.
adam		I just want to find a girl Who's really nice. And she likes to eat hummus. Suddenly, another CAPPER  comes up.'
camper		Are. you guys gonna make out?..
emma		We just got here.
adam		I like frenching with you.
emma		Okay.
adam		Pretty much.'
emma		Why are-you crying?
ada		Because- because camp'-s almost over-
emma		Jesus.. Exwaa pats him a'couple times on the shoulder.
adam		Can I finger you?
adam		Okay.
eli		I'd like to give her a Roman Face Mask.
adam		 ilhat?
vanessa		Uggh. I'm gonna go get more beer. -
vanessa		I'm just getting a beer. Vanessa walks away.
adam		And that'.s totally -fine with me.
sh		e thinks sex is more fun when you re -in love. Eli stares at him, disbelieving. -
eli		okay, well I'm from the United States, and I want to give that girl a penis mask.
adam		Why? That's not even hot.
adam		You think it's hot to just sit there with your penis.on her face?
adam		What do you mean?
eli		Look at it.
adam		Oh yeah. That nipple is definitely more gay.= You can tell by the way it wants to get legally married to' the other nipple.
eli		.,My dads are gay. I'm not ashamed of
adam		Whoa . I know that, girl.
eli		She's got bat.eyes.
adam		What?
eli		She's got angry bat eyes. Like staring at you from the dark. Its. pretty hot . I'd fuck.a bat. A bat in a cave. A hot bat in a cave. Adam starts to walk -over to her.
adam		Hi, T-
emma		Hello Adam Kurtzman,. of Camp Weehawken: I'm Emma. I held you while you cried.,
adam		Emma. Whoa. Yeah. Whoa. I was totally in love with you.
elm		You were?
adam		No. Hi. ,You:'re here. This is crazy. Do you go here?
emma		No, I grew,up 20 minutes away. Ypsilanti,.Midhigan. The land of my birth. 'l go to MIT.
adam		Wow. So grew up-to-be a lot smarter than nip.
emma		Uh-huh. 'It's scary actually, how smart I am. Sometimes my neck gets sore because my:brain is so.big.
adam		My neck gets sore. when I-eat string, cheese. Sometimes.. so what are you' doing Here? -At a party of Frat.
emma		I'm trying,to get someone to rufee me'. I keep holding out my cup..
adam		I'll rufee.you. I was gonna save it for a Freshman but whatever- I'll take you out to.the alley,. I'll light some candles- Some girls near by give Adam a dirty look and walk away.
emma		So. Times have changed. We've grown up. Do you have -a girlfriend?
adam		NO. Yes. Over there. Vanessa. Is her name. ANGLE ON- Vanessa, by the beer, talking to a bunch of other girls. She sees Adam and makes a kissy-mouth.
emma		Oh. The-fat one?
adam		What?
emma		Look at that McDonald's face.
adam		She''s not fat.
emma		Why won't she sleep, with .you?
adam		What? We. sleep together. All night.
emma		Come on. it's obvious. Look how tense your shoulders are. I'd need a flashlight to find: your-balls.
adam		Whoa.
emma		I'm Pre MEd, I'm really comfortable., with talking about the human body, and male genitalia in piarticular. S could fill, a book with' a.11 the dicks -and balls' I've seen.'I'd call that book.. "Disks -and Balls".. Or "Dicks, Balls, and .Dogs" and'i'd ptit -pictures of dogs in it too.  I- don't know, I'm weird, deal with it. So why won't she sleep with you?
adam		Oh yeah. I guess everyone hapsex at - MIT.
emma		MIT can get crazy Kids are pretty much ready to fuck anything-. They know that based on attractiveness, they're on - the bottom of -the ' - biological food chain, so if the' opportunity comes along for procreation, they better fucking. ridethat shit.
adam		What's'up with your.face?
adam		It's like, beautiful.
adam		My girlfriend's not fat-
emma		Oh- yeah-. she seems great-
adam		She is great- He rips open her shirt.
emma		Aren't they cool? They move around and stuff.
adam		You didn't have boobs at Camp. Weehawken. Your boobs were still little stars in the sky. I had such a.big crush-on.you, Jesus. Emma starts taking off his pants.
adam		Hey. Hey. Actually. I can't do. this.
emma		Was the trumpet sound weird?
emma		-Oh. Why not?
adam		Because then I turn into.my dad. And then.my worst fears have been realized. And then that sucks. Where do. you go from there? -Once your worst :fears have been realized. You become Bob. Sagat.. I want to. A lot. 'A lot,-alot. But I can't. , Is that okay?
emma		Yeah, but I'm keeping your pants.
adam		Really? '
emma		No. Here. She gives his pants back.
emma		Your dad-was on that show?
adam		Yeah.-That's him.
emma		I always hated that TV show. T think it first came out when I was. teething, and I've just always associated it' with. pain in my gums.
adam		So do you do this stuff all the . time? It.'s okay if you 'do, I might. call you a ho but it's okay-
emma		No. I don't. But I don't have a problem with it.
adam		What?
emma		The affairs of the. heart. The fleeting passions of a drunken night.-The wayI .see it we're all just these big dumb.. animals. who, for the most .part; just want  to have sex with each other.: So maybe we should stop beating ourselves up for what-we feel and just make sweet bone.
adam		You make a c ompelling  argument .
emma		And also, it's somewhat improbable, but I like you. Adam beams.
adam		What?
emma		You want 'to come with me tomorrow? I have to go to-this-'stupid thing.
adam		Um, I think I... . Yeah. Ii11 go with you. ' What is it?
emma		Some stupid thing.
emma		You have cookie on your face.
emma		Oh. No.
adam		You were burying your father.
emma		Yes. NEIGHBOR DARIA comes up to-the food table.
emma		Yes. That was-probably because he' was wasted.
adam		I'm.her.baby--daddy. Adam. puts his hand on her stomach. Emma looks up at him, getting the joke. Glad to be'saved.
adam		But the truth is, I don't even know- if it's mine.
em		Of course is his. He'.s the only ope I bareback with.
emma		Yeah, thank you for being sorry for me. Have a nice day. Neighbor Dana walks away. Emma looks at Adam, smiles.
adam		You should try the Chex Mix.It',s. theBold Party Flavor.
emma		E3ow-do they make it so bold?
emma		What? Yod were going to stop  him from dying so he could come home, first and lift all the heavy stuff? That would'vejustmade him-want-to die faster.
emma		It's okay.
emma		Yeah. He was not the greatest.-  You should have left.-
sandra		I loved hint. Why?
emma		Because you're crazy. Because you thought he'd change. Because you still root for the Tigers.
sandra		The Tigers are gonna come back.
emma		-Yes..And maybe leprechauns are real.
emma		The Toothfairy. And paying off my student loans.-Are you gonna come back inside-,-Mom? Because it's kind of depressing in there.- It's like. somebody died.
sandra		Yes. I think I will go back in. -You know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna get-so drunk I can't walk and then I.'m gonna watch "Bambi" and cry for a couple hours.
emmz		It's good to have a plan.
emma		Id say- we should hook up or something, but I've gotta get back' before Mom watches "Terms of Endearment."
adam		No- I' get it.
emma		I'm glad you came.
adam		is it weird if during most of-your father's funeral,, i. was thinking about' you naked? Ewa smiles and starts the car.
adm		She works out all the time. All the tine.
husband		I don't know what you're growing
out therel		A roar of laughter. WIDEN TO REVEAL- We're on the set. of a Sit-Com inside .a sound stage..Los Angeles. 2007. Standing next to the bleachers filled with audience are writers and exec utives=-'baseball hats, sneakers, the occasional suit. They're.all laughing and slapping each other high-fives. Further off to the side, A CHILD-ACTOR sits in a 'canvas chair,. punching keys on a blackberry. Adam, wearing a head- set phone and carrying a clipboard,: stands. next to the chair, looking over - at the. group. of laughing men.
adam		Yes. I may.
child actor		 You're... so... awesome.-
adam		Oh wow, thank ..you. Yeah. ,That means a lot.. Let's-be best friends forever.
adam		Dad? is
adam		Wow, I,. should come over and wash my clothes-on your wasbboarcl. abs .
alvin		Hit me in the stomach.
adam		Really? You want me to punch you in the stomach so'you can-show me how ripped you' are but it's going to fucking.hurt my hand?
alvin		Yeah.
alvin		Let's get some ice on that.
alvin		Hey, it's not what you want to be doing after college, but,you have to start somewhere. I spent the first yearI was out here buying horse tranquilizers for Judy' Garland.'
adak		I.know-. I've seen the pictures.
alvin		How's your mom?
adam		Oh,she's clinically depressed. But it looks like she might start' knitting.So. Alvin lights up the-joint.
adam		In my mind?
adam		Since Vanessa. 8 months. Alvin offers him the joint.. Adam takes it:
alvin		Okay. Here's the deal. I'm dating Vanessa. Adam stares., shocked, holding the pot 'smoke''ixi: his 'lungs.
adam		owl-owl OW! OW!
alvin		I ran into her again at a'party. We just started talking. About you actually. Hey.kiddo. Kiddo? Adam says nothing, does. nothing.,
adam		Four years.
alvin		Four years. Okay. Yes. A'couple years. But you've been broken up for a year now.
adam		8 months.
alvin		Okay, but she said for the last year, you were barely. having sex. ' Adam's, in agony, but he's trying not to'-let it show.
eli		At-least I know my gay dads aren't going to eat out my ex--girlfriend.
scottie		Drink this. - .Scottie puts a shot in front-of him. Adam downs it.
adam		Yeah I'm fine.
adam		I.'m totally. ,fine.
eli		No, no, stop. being so nice. Seriously. Remember when:I.-.stole your inhaler as a joke, arid. you , almost died and you didn't yell at'- me. What did you do?.
adam		I threw your toothbrush in the toilet.
eli		You should've just yelled at me. You've got to let some of this stuff out,. Scottie-puts another shot in front of Adam; Adam dawns it.
adam		8 months.
eli		-You broke up 8 months" ago. and now she's-dating' your father: What, are . you going to-do about it?
adam		I'm going to get wasted..:
eli		Perfect.-
adam		And then I'm going to puke in that trash--can. outside.
adam		And then I'm going. to call every girl in my phone and tell them,.all. the things-I remember about Vanessa.
scottie		No, dude--
eli		That's the: worst idea, I've .ever heard, and we're behind you 100 percent.
eli		He`s at G.
scottie		Who's Gretchen?
adam		' You smell so good, Gretchen. I'm gonna make you a sandwich. Of my body.
scottie		Give me your phone dude- He drunkenly lashes out at Scottie.,
scottie		No,.I think I got it-_
adam		. 1 came to.Scotland to raise cropsi and God willing, a family- out of nowhere., Scottie jumps on Adam, he's -taken down-1
adam		I don!t'know who you are. Are you pretty? It doesn'tmatter if you're pretty. You can be ugly, I'm still gonna call you tomorrow,' don't worry about it. I'm gonna take you out.. I'm gonna pay for everything- Emma comes out of the bathroom in a'towel and shoes,.drying her hair. -
emma		I'm gorgeous. Adamlooks at her,.amazed.
adam		You don't live . in LA'.
adam		You're not wearing clothes.
emma		Neither axe you.
adam		Did you take advantage of'me?
adam		My dad's dating my.ex-girlfriend-
emma		You told me last night-
adam		I did? Did I tell you in a funny way? Was X kind 'of charming and funny?
i emma		No you were crying and covered in vomit.
your brea		pts are like 'little elf mountains';:
adam		Condoms, condoms, condoms-
adam		If some guy had a dick,like this, you would be like: Why does your dick have rabbit ears?,
adam		00, "Snow Falling on Cedars "- what did you think of that?
adam		Those are for, me! You don't get to wear one of those!
adam		Wow.
adam		It feels like your vagina- is shaking hands with my, penis,
emma		Is that a..good thing?.
adam		Yes. Yes -it is. JUMP CUB-. In a .different position.
emma		You have a weird sex face.
adam		.What's my sex face?
emma		I don't know- it's like Richard. Nixon and Dan Rather and someone having an asthma attack.. ANGLE ON- His sex face, it does look. like that.
adam		Flip it?
emma		Affirmative. They flip so 'she's on top.
adam		Um. Whee! Ow. Do you want to take your shoes off?
emma		I never take my-shoes oft. What if there's a nuclear attack?
adam		The shoes aren't gonna help.
emma		What if-someone breaks into my apartment, holds me at gunpoint and says: You must run hurdles.
adam		I'm gonna cum.
emma		That's bullshit.
adam		Fine. But you have about-45 seconds to get your shit together.
emma		Fine.
adam		Fine.
emma		Let's.not do the Richard Nixon thing again.
adam		No.
adam		it was a .mistake. . Should we-cuddle or something?
adam		I just like to-cuddle otherwise I feel cheap. Emma starts getting dressed- all business.
adam		Like a peanut - allergy. -
ela		Yeah, like an emotional peanut allergy.
emma		You're on the rebound, you. should be having meaningless yet sate .sex at every free moment of the day. You need another relationship like you need someone to jump :out of that closet'and throw-a brick-at your head.
adam		Oh my god, is that going, to. happen?
emma		Look, I'm attracted to you---
adam		And I of you. To you.
emma		I'm going to be working 14 hour days and I just need someone who's going to be there at'2am, in.my ' bed, and who.I don't have to lie to or eat breakfast with-
adam		I hate breakfast. And lying. And also war.
emma		We need.to-make some ground rules.
emma		Don't call me in the middle-of the - day to tell me you were "just thinking about me." No buying me things. No crying. No jealousy.
adam		Uh- don't sleep with-my dad.
emma		No stealing.
adam		Stealing? I dated.'a guy who pathologically stole stuff out of my apartment and then' brought it .back the ' nest d ay and apologized.
adam		Okay,'so the bar is really-high here.
emma		Don't ask me about my past- relatioziships or my hopes and dreams for the future.
adam		II don't care about your hopes and -dreams.
emma		I don't care about yours. No' flowers.
adam		I'm scared of flowers..
adam		Don't do that passive aggressive shit. Like "Oh I'm:-not upset.
enmma		Oh Ihate that shit.
emma		what do you think about my body?
emma		Thanks. Don't go pee--pee in  front of me.
adam		Don't ever saypee-pee again. Don't talk' about how hard it is to be a woman. Because it's'not.
emma		Don't-list me as your Emergency Contact, because I .Won't".come. This one? She pulls in front of a house. Stops the car.
adam		Yeah. Don't say my penis is "cute". Even if- my penis is ' dressed up like a Care Bear and it's giving.you a care--stare .
emma		Please don't dress up you$ penis. Ever.
emma		And wedo this until one of us starts feeling something more and then we say good-bye.
emma		Okay.
adam		Sex is so great.
emma		Sex is so great! Emma goes down on him.
adam		You're blowing me! That's great! Emma looks up at him.
emma		Your dick tastes like ma tzo.
adam		Really? I should call my mom.'
emma		Yeah, let-'s call your mom. Oh wait, I'have your dick in my mouth.-
adam		What else does,it.taste like?
emma		I don't know-; 'let me see.; Siie'.goes back down to check' it out. -Then comes back up.
adam		That's fascinating.
emma		I go on dick tasting touts of Nappa: Valley.
adam		You taste like candy canes and
sunshinel		Emma laughs.
emma		(still kissing Adam Hey Eli.
eli		I can't focus on my porn when there's so much real sex going on around me.
adam		 Bye Eli.
adam		Oh. god, I love you!' j
adam		I've never really done role'-play before. What do I do?
emma		I don't know. I think we :just start.
adam		okay. He does something with his hands.
emma		What are you doing?
adam		Some mime work.
adam		You don't- think so?
emma		No. I don't think it'-s necessary to the scene..
adam		Okay. -Re-do. Um, sans mime. Adani puts his -hands on his hips.
emma		Hey McFly.
adam		What Doc? Emma climbs on the bed.
emma		There's only one thing to-do.
adam		What is that?
emma		I think you better get in the De Lorean.
adam		Yes. I think I will. He does.
adam		Yeah.
emma		He's so-attractive.
adam		I hate you.
adam		Seriously. You're a terrible person.
emma		So what do you do for, a 1ivin4?
adam		Coffee. I get coffee for 'a I0 'year old girl. Cool.
adam		I want to do stand-up.
emma		So do it.
adam		I'm too scared.
emma		Why?
adam		Am I just a body to yoa?
emma		Yeah. You're my renewable; source of dick. -Your dick is,powering 5 of my lightbulbs.
adam		You have the worst- taste in music I have ever seen. Seriously.- You're like a teenage girl. You're like a tween.
emma		What's wrong, with ,it? He presses a button pn her i-pod and "Since U Been Gone" by Kelly Clarkson comes on.
adam		I don't know if you know, this, but one day, I'm gonna beta big Star. He starts. to dance around.4nd mime a mike. -
emma		Stop. Stop. This is like my- worst nightmare. He- gets more and more into it, dancing arouund.
adam		Did we invent-being "fuckbuddies"?
emma		No.
adam		Who invented it?
emma		I don't know. The cavemen?
emma		Yeah and then they did it.
adam		Probablq;doggy-style.
emma		Definitely. And.-then he was like: I'm gonna go spear some pre- ' historic hog. And she was-'like: Cool, I'm-gonna have a kid and pick- a lot of berries.
adam		That's beautiful.
emma		Yeah, it's really sweet.'
adam		Hey. Emma makes a little sleep sound.
adam		Yeah. I figured that out.:
emma		.' Why- do I look bad?
adam		Noi You look. Fantastic. Maybe it's just the way you're eating Advil like it's a bag of M&Ms.
emma		You don't'have to be here.
adam		Baby, you're a'-woman, and:I think that's a beautiful thing.' (putting his hand on her
emma		Sheddirig the lining of the uterine walls.
adam		Shedding-the ew of the-e', ew. But - hurry up and finish soonl
emma		Oh my god.
nurse		Hers seizing-.he's seizing up-
emma		I know.
sumaire		He sleeps with other people?
emma		I don't know. I don't ask.
connie		Don't. you want someone'you can rake leaves with? And.you're like: "Brr, it's cold. Let's go makesome hot coco." And he's like: "O1 baby, that's.so cute, I respect your body."
emma		Hm. No.
sumaire		I guess my wife is kind of my 'fuckbuddy.. 'Except we don't have sex. And we're not friends.
connie		I don't buy it. You can't sleep with someone and not'feel. something! Come on! Don't you always feel something? Emma and Sumaire look at her, thinking.
emma		Uh-uh.'.
connie		Wow. I.feel like Cindy Lou Who. I'm like-"Have some milk and cookies, because I still believe.
emma		 You've got some-brain on you. Connie flicks. it on Sumaire.
emma		I have brain on my hair, don't I?. Connie nods. DR. HENRY METZNER, still good-looking", ixi his fifties, walks by.
connie		We were just trying to bring some fun into our work day. Like on Grey's Anatomy?
connie		I.hate'him. And I kinda want to do him. But I kinda just -want to go. to
emma		 Yeah.
connie		So what does this guy do?
emma		Adam? I don't really know'.
adam		(into the mike,. too
jim		Oh T thought the shirt had stripes.
emma		Wow. I never really see him in clothes. Everyone looks.,at her.
eli		This is not going to be good.
scottie		Maybe you could distract him and I could run up and take 'the mike? i
eli		Yeah, we could pretend to'be bandits.
eli		That's fresh-territory. That's really edgy.
adam		 My wife, she likes to-shop. Oy.
emma		what?
harold		Does he have a wife?
fat woman		Eat my ass.- She throws a piece of food at him. ..He catches it.
elt		You asked her to throw a "beer at you. -
emma		Why did'you say you had a wife?
adam		1-don't know. Because people make jokes about their.wives. -
emma		Why don't you just talk about your real life? -
adam		Because I suck.
emma		You don't suck. Just.keep doing it.
harold		Thanks for being friends with Eli, I know it can't be easy.
jim		We're going to the bar.
eli		Dad? Jim and Harold both turn around.
eli		Nothing. I just like when you do that. Hey,' I'm getting you a beer. 'Lou should be drunk when that'woman comes back and sits on you.- Emma leaves with them.
scottie		So you guys aren't really-going put?.
adam		No. We don't have.time togo out, we're too busy having Sex. '
scottie		Well do you think I ask her out?'
adam		What?
scottie		Because you're not really. going out.
adam		Look at you, you could hasre sex with any girl in this bar, and-look at me- It's like you're taking food out of the hands of a starving child. Shit. Come on Scottie.-
scottie		What? I just think she's great. They both look over to the  bar . En ma sees Adam, smiles r holds. up a beer. -  -
adam		Do you sleep with other guys? I know I'm not allowed, to ask -or
emma		So.why are you asking?
adam		Scottie wants to_ask you Out.
emma		What did you say?
adam		What do you meat? I told. him No.
emma		Why?
adam		Why?
adam		Emma, you're killing me--
emma		I'm not yours. She'meets his eyes for a minute.
adam		Awesome, you want his number?
emma		Sure. Emma gets out her phone, makes a big show of putting in the number.
adam		I think I'll goout onsome dates.
emma		You should.
emma		You should.
adam		Maybe I'll have. a lot of sex, with a lot"of women that aren't you.
emma		Go for it'.
adam		And maybe that sex .will continue on and on-until the break Of dawn.
emma		That sounds fun.
adam		Oh' yeah. Sex on the couch.: Sex on the floor. Sex on' a boat. In a box. With a fox. in a house.' Ona mouse. .. -Emma.
adam		Oh great.' That's a great reason. What is. it about me  then? Is it because I have hair on my neck?.
emma		It's just so soft--
sandra		He just left, he didn't even say good-bye.
emma		Mom, he's a jerk., you keep going out with these jerks- Did you fill out that form.I sent you with the information about the co--payment?
sandra		I'ma not!
sandra		Oh., he 'was 'a good ' hunter. ; He was really good at... hunting.
emma		 : Mom! Dr. -Metzner walks by, looks at Emma.
adam		Hi. I, deed a., guitar case.
clerk		What kind of guitar do yoiz have?
adam		T don't have a guitar.
adam		It needs to fit a: small body. Like a child's body.
actor		I'm-here for my lesson... TYie Child Actor pops out of the guitar case with striped. stockings and pig-tails.
child actor		Me too ! The audience roars. The group of writers/executives high- - five'. Someone turns-to Adam and mouths: "So Funny." Adam nods and tries to look excited. A HOT WARDROBE. ASSISTANT walk up with a rack of clothes. She watches- the taping for a momenta Shd' s gorgeous. Adam r1ifflea his hair a little. She makes eye. coritact with him and-rolls.. her eyes like "This show sucks." Adam smiles and nods He, watches her walk awray .
emma		What-about "Let's-go get some coffee and bitch about work"?
adam		Girls don't sleep with guys who use the verb "to bitch".
emma		Flipsies?
flipsiesl		They flip so Emma's of top.
emma		Just ask her outl You're sort of
emma		Just try not to seem like ;a.serial killer. Are .:you ready to cuzit? I'm ready.
adam		No f' wait, give me a second, think. about something else: pasta sauce, pasta sauce, old men eating pas.ta
emma		 It's not working--'
emma		Just hurry up ! I
adam		So do you always kiss ass?
hot assistant		. No. What? -
adam		Yeah. Who wants coffee? - Most of the group raise their hands: And at the edge -of the group, ALVIN STANDS THERE, also with his hand up. -
priest		That was my favorite show.
alvin		Thank you, Father. The Priest laughs.
adam		what are you doing here, bad?
alvin		I wanted to see you, buddy.
adam		Oh that's nice, but I 'don't really want to eat in a place where you're also eating.
alvin		Come on. We've got to talk about. this. It would mean alot. Come on. I'm going to stay and take pictures with the priests until you say yes.
sumaire		He said-he knew you.
adam		Do you think it's possible that I unknowingly got bit. by adog and somehow, through a series of genetic mutations, I'm starting.to become. a dog? And now I'm :going to. have dog-powers-. Like smell And the power of bark.
sumaire		 Yeah. Could be. I'll write that down.
adam		And if I shave it,.:am I zapping my body of some sort of strength? Is it secretly "strength hair"?
sumaire		Oh. That's a good point. What if it's "secret strength hair"?
adam		No, Emma, I .don't need to: go to "psych," I'm just a-normal guy who's looking for answers: about his -neck--hair . . Oh my god, -oh my god, it's killing me,- I'm dying, this is dizziness,- check, this is heart-rate= increase, check-' - '
adam		T know that!
sumaire		Yeah, that'll do it.
sumaire		1gave him a milligram of. Benzodiazepine; so that's' the medical equivalent of hitting him with a large heavy object: and leaving him on the side of the road.
adam		Look. My hand is a hammer.-
emma		I just' worked 14 hours. i - Em a is really annoyed. Dr. Metzner,walksby, looking. over.
emma		 Oh Dr. Metzner- he's Um,:he's not
adam		made you.a hat.
adam		Put on the hat.
emma		You don.'t have to put anything on.
at la		Vanessa and Alvin- through the window,- sitting waiting table in a relatively nice restaurant.
adam		I'm all over this. I am 200 percent on my game.
emma		No.
alvin		., So. How long have you two been. dating?
emma		Yes. Yes we are. Awkward.
vanessa		Happy Birthday, Adam.
emma		It's your birthday?
adam		It might be. Yes.
vanessa		I got you a gift-.
adam		I. love it. Thank you.
adam		INSIDE THE HAG! Wow! Adam takes out a set 'of - expensive looking- sheets.
vanessa		I remember you only had one pair so. A tense ' moment .
adam		I -loved you.
emma		Adam's-had a long day: I think he .should probably go home and rest.
vanessa		What happened?
emma		He 'actually- he had an allergic reaction to his own hair. If he hadn't come in when he did,-we might have lost him.
alvin		Oh yeah?
adam		You know what the word 'is'? I've been thinking and 'I figured it out.
emma		Sudden outbursts of emotidn are common. The. patient sometimes shouts out-things like-
adam		want to swordfight you.
vanessa		Adam, we're happy- it's agood thing for everyone---
emma		I think-we're going to call it a
alvin		Hey, I know it wasn't-the right thing to do,but I!m,not good at doing the right thing. I've tried and I'm not .good at it.
alvin		What? You really want to-fight? Alvin stands up. A tense moment. Adam pokes at"the air a couple times with his napkin, but he's moving incredibly slow. -
adam		-Let's get the fuck out of'here. They start to walk out of the restaurant. Adam runs back and hits his dad as hard ashe.can with his napkin,- he runs back to Enuaa.
adam		I. always loved Venice as a kid. Because I thought: Atleast I'm not as crazy as these. people.
adam		Not him. There's a guy coverred'in silver body paint., yelling at'.the top of his lungs, and skating by on :a -skateboard.
emma		I don't know, we'd have to develop an elaborate point'system.
emma		I knoww. I've-never been in love. What does it feel like?.
adam		Home.
emma		Is that good?
adam		Sometimes. Here. Adam gives the sheets Vanessa gave-him to a.guy'dressed as a cat.
emma		So. Sleep.
emma		Oh. I thought we were having fun,
adam		Emma. .
emma		You're breaking a rule.
adam		What rule?
emma		You're not allotaed to say '''Emma and look longingly in my. face.
adam		That's a bad rule. He kisses her- .it's passionate, a grown:-up, kiss. it takes her off guard. He looks at her, serious,, inches from her face. She's uncomfortable, laughs nervously.
adam		Am I running fast? I can't. tell. She turns around and sees him, laughs..
emma		Go back to bed! Emma runs down the stairs, outside.
adam		I can't do this.
emma		What? What am I asking you to do?
adam		I love you.
emma		'
adam		love you. Be my-girlfriend.
emma		Don't operate a motor vehicle. Adam, too tired to chase her, watches her walk to her car.
adam		I'll operate your motor vehicle.
emma		Good night..
adam		Be my girlfriend. ' Be my. girlfriend forever.
connie		Hey, you want to get the Addam's Family?
emma		I got em. . '
connie		Thanks dude.
emma		I don't. I just- I .asked someone if I could borrow it. I mean- you can't borrow a cigarette-. I don't know- I don't smoke.
emma		I'll just. Hold it. Which is weird. So. I hope you're okay-with that.
emma		Yeah, I know that. I'm not, an idiot, Dr. Metzner. Respectfully. With a lot of respect.
emma		My dad smoked cigarettes.,
emma		Be died.
female intern		He's married. 3ust'so you know. Emma throws the cigarette in her hand 'away..
adam		S have a date. So.
emma		Oh. That's great!
adam		I'm trying- to remember what people do on dates.
emma		I don't known don't do that shit. I guess just smile a lot.:Are you. smiling?
emma		Good.
emma		Oh, I'm sorry, I sh.ouldn.'t-- .He touches her face. Kisses her lightly.
emm		Tt's enormous!
emma		You should be. talking about your mother..
emma		What did your therapist telL.you to do about me?
emma		That?
adam		-Flipsies?
carmen		What did you _say?
adam		Do you' want to get on top?
carmen		Can we just do it where you're, like, lying on me?
adam		Yeah, cool. That sounds like fun. Adam continues on,. he's not having the greatest time'..
emma		You're the Old Testament God. - Because you just, like, made me out' of clay.
emma		Okay, An awkward moment.
emma		'Yeah of course.
carmen		I feel- really close to you..
adam		Well. You are really,close to me:
emma		I know. I'm a'jerk.
adam		You're not a jerk, you're just- deeply flawed.
emma		Are you jealous?
adam		No.
emma		Okay.
adam		I got laid tonight too. And she'.s sleeping on all the-pillows. Why does she need all the pillows? Is her head made of paper?
emma		There's an extra. pillow in your closet.
adam		It's just- It's the first time since Vanessa, not counting you,
adam		What's wrong?
emma		Nothing..
adam		You're jealous.
adam		Your voice gets really high when _ you're- lying. -You sound like a munchkin. -
emma		 No' it doesn't!
emma		. .I'm not jealous!
emma		Hey, where have you been?
emma		Doing what?,
adam		Going to gang-bangs. I've been getting. involved in the gang--bang community.
emma		Are you trying to make me jealous?
adam		(pretending to, talk to
emma		This isn't going to work-
adam		I'm sorry, I have to go play her pussy like it'sa'harmonica.
emma		Adam! Adam hangs up.. WIDEN TO REVEAL- He's in front of a synagogue, wearing a kippah.A middle-aged woman. stands looking at him.
adam		Shabbat Shalom.
emma		Those aren't even the words- The Child Actor holds up a box of.tampons- pissed.
adam		. Sorry. Those are for.- A. female producer walksby, grabs the tampons.
emma		Just come over later-
adam		Yeah?
emma		Oh yeah, I'm so naked, Adam,- and I'm just lying on.a big bed with lots of... turkey...
adam		Mustard or mayo?
emma		Both.
joy		You're so funny in class-
joy		Do youthink'I'm funny?
adam		It was funny whenyou were Hillary' Clinton and.you _got eaten by. that bear. I didn't know Hillary Clinton could scream like that-
joy		Yeah?
adam		Wow. Yeah. 'You're so talented.
emma		This is bullshit.
adam		Oh, I'm sorry, can't talk, I'm groping--someone against my car. Joy gives him a funny. look.
adam		Fuck you. Adam hangs up the phone, smiling.
emma		Stop. Stop singing that. Joy walks up to the 'door'.
joy		Hello?
emma		Hello.
adam		Oh Joy, this- is my-
emma		'I'm his doctor. I did his testicle transplant.
joy		Oh my god!
emma		Yeah, we had to do an-emergency, ball. removal. We actually replaced them with the-balls of a small. donkey..
joy		Oh my. god, you have-donkey balls?
adam		I should'have told you.
emma		I just have to do a quick check on them.
joy		But it's so late- Yeah,-isn't it?
emma		Yes, that's right.
adam		I'm sorry, Joy. You're sort of a pawn in a larger game.-It's my
joy		Bitch.
adam		This is amazing.
joy		Slut'.
emma		Pumpkin.
joy		Pumpkin?
emma		You look.like'a pumpkin, bitch.
joy		 What?
emma		Ring, ring, it's-the pumpkin patch, they want their pumpkin back.
adam		Oh my god, you were crazed, I felt like Flava Flav-
emma		Just shut up and fuck me.
adam		Wow.
adam		I noticed you'didn't.say I had a. donkey cock,
emma		-I got you a birthday present. Close your eyes..
emma		open them. Emma is holding-a -rubber chicken with a ribbon tied around its neck in a bow.
abam		Oh my god.
emma		I just-.1 figured you were the kind of guy who'd like a rubber chicken.
adam		Yes.'i am that guy.
emma		It's like: What's funnier than a rubber chicken?
adam		Nothing. Nothing is funnier than a rubber chicken.
emma		You can put it in a pot.
adam		Throw it in the shower when someone is showering.
emma		Hit people with it.
adam		And -they're like:.Aaali, .why are you hitting me with a rubber chicken? They kiss, it's- .tender.
emma		What do you mean?
adam		Like -a.date. Like - I pick you up. We talk about our favorite books and TV shows and I pay for everything and then you reward me with an over- the-jeans cock rub.
adam		Come on, I'll take you to a museum.
emma		Why would I.want to go'to a museum?
emma		Is this what you want?
adam		So much,-so much it's freaking me out.
emma		.Okay.
adam		You look great.
emma		I look like shit on a biscuit. What are those flowers for?
adam		.(hariding her the flowers You.
emma		Why?
adam		- T don't know, because you're my flower.
emma		How long does it take to'go to a museum? An hour?
adam		We're going to the Getty.
emma		2 hours?
adam		Jesus Christ.
emma		I can't believe you made fun of my, music-when all you do is listen to Neil Diamond.
emma		 Oh god..
adam		"rind us a dream that don't ask no questions-- bah, bah.'bah--"
emma		Okay- where'.s the bathroom?
adam		We don't have-.time for the bathroom. You're gonna have to man up. He takes her arm and they run-off..
adam		This one is called The, Tri=ph of Chastity. The swan represents chastity. Emma puts her arm around him. and starts to, kiss his neck.
emma		. Oh yeah? That's so : interesting-
adam		No- no, kissing on the date She keeps kissing him, ..he's enjoying it.
adam		You're right! The painting is literally: A man with a pink flower. JUMP CUTS-- A series of paintings with the Madonna, Jesus, Angels.
adam		This was.Vaness.a's favorite.
emma		Ley, I think T'.ve got' to get back.
adam		No, come on, you've got to see the' garden, it's like a gay Japanese monk had a nervous breakdown with a pocketful of'seeds.
emma		It's beautiful.
adam		I told you.
adam		Do what? Spend time with each other' that doesn't involve ripping our clothes off, time that does't involve you texting me at 1 in'the morning and me running over like your little sexbunny- A nearby kid covers his mouth and starts giggling.
emma		No it's not! Maybe that's what You did with Vanessa or whoev er, but ' that's not who I am, Adam. This stuff freaks me out.
adam		I want -to be nice to you and do nice things for you- -
adam		Because T-can't do it-doing anymore if you're not my girlfriend!
emma		Why does it matter if I'm your girlfriend or not, Adam? Why do I have to be yours?
adam		Because .I'ia tired of pretending' that I don't feel anything, I'm tired of pretending like it doesn't -kill me to think that you're with anyone else- This is what people do, Emma-- they buy each other flowers, they go to museums, they don't sleep with other people-
emma		Oh you mean like your parents? Like my-parents? Why would we let ourselves' get hurt when we don't have to?.
emma		No.
adam		Goddamn .it. You drive me crazy--
emma		You drive Me crazy-
adam		I wish there was some way I could legally cage fight you.
emma		I'll take you down. I'll take you 'down to Chinatown. I'll serve you dumplings filled with me kicking your ass.
adam		what? She slaps his hand. He slaps her hand back. They start "slapping each other's hands.
emma		Why are you messing everything up?
adam		Why are you afraid of being loved?
emma		Why did you get c6ckblocked by your father? A guard comes over.
guard		You guys need to keep it down, this is a medi.tatioix garden.
adam		This is our way of meditating.
guard		 Yeah.
adam		I want to lock you in.atiny, windowless room with just.-my butt.
adam		1 ,wish I was a hamster, so I could play dead, and then when you put your hand .in the cage, I would jutp up and kill you.
adam		Fine,, I'd jump on your face, and I wouldn't let:go, and your whole' life people would be-like: "Why do you have'a hamster on your face?" Why won't you be my girlfriend?
emma		What if-we get-sick of each other and you get angry because I work all the time ,and then. I stop working and then I never do all-the things I want to do- and-
adam		'You think anyone does all- the things. they want to do, Emma?
emma		What if.we have kids and then we hate each otherand-we.have a 'horrible. divorce just like.your parents?
emma		What if I get cancer and you don't want to take care of'me?
emma		What if I'm never around and. sometimes. I'm mean to you and we only have'sex on our anniversary?
emma		I don't want to take.a cruise to spice up our  love-' life !
adam		We'd go to. couples therapy-
emma		What if you have-an.-affair with our couples therapist?
adam		We'll go to a couples therapist with female facial hair.
emma		What if you have an of fair with a model?
adam		You'd, be proud of me !
emma		I don't want a-diamond necklace because you slept with a model! Emma pushes him, he falls into some'flowers.
adam		.I'11 never give you a diamond necklace! Emma' jumps in the flowers frith him.
enma		I want a diamond ziecklacei
adam		I'll give-you one every day l They grab each other and start making out. They pull aWay from each other and keep pushing-each other::
emma		I want to microwave your dick-
adam		I want to tit-fight, that means I want to punch you in the tits a lot. They start Making' out again.. A guard comes over and grabs them one'on each of his arms. A' father, holding his Toddler. daughter, watches then.
father		 Please don't grow up.
emma		I know.
adam		Because I can't keep doing this.
emma		I know,. I get it.
adam		You do?
emma		Yeah. So. Good-bye. Emma gets out of the car.'
adam		I'm really not going to see-you again.
enema		I know.'. I think'that's probably smart. Good-bye..-
adam		Yeah. Bye. See ya! Not! Not gonna see ya.. Emma leaves, shuts the car door. She walks into the hospital, upset, trying to keep it together.
adam		I'm really not going to see you again. Emma looks- up- Adam is standing' across the room, by the doors. The nurses look at her, confused.
emma		I I know .
adam		Seriously. No more. Not going to happen.
adam		Good-bye. They, look at each other- waiting for something. to happen.. . The elevator dings. She gets on. He watches her get on-
emma		Shit.
adam		Fine, great. Adam walks'through.the hospital doors, back to his car.;
adam		Yeah, yeah, we're bumping and we're grindih'- we're in. da club-
some girl		'What?
adam		Let's get out of here.
some girl		I'm not.looking for a relationship-
adam		Me neither!' That's so funny, neither one of us wants to mean. anything t o other one- we just want to hook up! Like fish! Like a fish -hook!  Oo, sex doesn't mean-.anything, aaagh, I.'m a fish! Look at me, I like sex and I'm a fish.
eli		I think what we. have here is an important life lesson: When you hate, everyone and you don't give a shit, a lot of girls want to have sex with you.
adam		I don't want a relationship right
adam		1"'m just not very good with
adam		I just farted right when I threw up. The girl is running away.
adam		I like'to go the extra mile. If I'm drunk and pass out-before you cum, I'll-send you a gift certificate to Berl, Bath, and Beyond. People seem to be digging it, Adam is enjoying it. He seems more comfortable in'his skin.
agent		So I got some commercial auditions. lined up.
adam		Great, I'll do anything that makes any kind of money. Just maybe not something where I.have to ride a. horse-and then underneath it says: Herpes.
agent		Got it. Say hi to your Dad for me.
adam		You know my Dad?
agent		Yeah,' he told me to go see your show.
adam		Dad.
alvin		.Hey, I wanted to call.to'- . I know you're probably mad at me,, but--
adam		Thank you. Dad. For 'a. lot; of . things. Alvin smiles, relieved.
alvin		Yeah kiddo, I can do some-things right.
emma		Oh. I- um.
lucille		Why don't you just sit. here for a moment? Just sit with me. And then try again.
emma		T have a lot of-
lucille		Sit down. Emma sits down, surprised..
emma		I'm sorry. I don't what it feels
lucille		it feels like this. - They just-sit there for a moment.
emma		I don't'.
emma		Your wife? Emma smiles and keeps walking, checking:her voicemail.
adam		 Hey it's Adam, 'l don't know if you're free tonight-but I have a show and you're probably-working, but I just thought 1"d- Emma hangs. up and starts sprinting to her car.-
mike		I do international finance,. I put together financing packages for overseas ventures. if I had to describe it in 'a word, that word would be: Hardcore. So- you're like a nurse?
emma		A doctor. That`s how I know your grandma. She made 'me sit with her till I could talk to her. like a human being. And then she'gave me your number.
mike		Right, I usually don't go out with people my grandma tells me td go out with,. but she promised me you were beautiful. And, you know,. I'm relieved,- because now I know Grandma's not going blind. Emma smiles. Mike puts his hand on hers.
emma		Mike.
mike		'Yeah.
emma		Do you think we could take it slow?
mike		Really? Because my Grandma. also said you looked easy. E r m a's. surprised.
emma		Mom! Hi! Sandra takes out ridiculously larger cheesy sunglasses.
sandra		I'm in Hollywood! Emma smiles and looks over her- mom's shoulder to see a man. coming towards them, big, built-r vacant expression.,
emma		I'm sorry, Mike, I can''.t hear you- I'm on a Celebrities Homes Tour. - Mazri, this is in Spanish.
sandra		It - doesn't matter, wecan still figure out where they, live.
guide		. Spanish--Spanish-Spanish--Harrisonl
sandra		See? I love Harrison. Ford.
tuck		You love Harrison Ford more than me?
sandra		 No, of course not-
tuck		Yeah, you better not, Emma is disgusted.
sandra		 Oh! Do they live-together?
emma		I'm sorry, I only have one day off, T .Wanted-to take you to the places. .1' love . Mom.,.can. we talk about- An artist sits on a stool. surrounded by caricatures'.
sandra		Hey, let-'.s get. h.im to draw. your picture,
artist		For 'a pretty lady, 15 bucks.
sandra		What do you.mean? I like him. He takes care of me.
emma		Why do you need to be taken care - of, Mom? why can't you take care of yourself? '
emma		Thank god he wasn't-.
sandra		Don't say that3
emma		What, Mom? You never, did any of the things 'you wanted to- do---
sandra		I wanted to be there for your father. and I was. I wanted to raise you and I"did. Don't tell me that wasn't important. Now,.I want to be loved. That's what I want-.
emma		By Tuck? '
sandra		Why don't you.take some tine 'out of your schedule-to love someone and :then come talk to me- Tuck comes up.
tuck		Bey,  -co me on, we're going to go back to the hotel, I don't like, it .here.' Bunch of freaks.
emma		why don't'you stop telling her what to do, Tuck? Okay? She can do-what she wants !.- She doesn.'t need, you.
emma		Yeah, Mom.. Sounds great. Sandra and Tack-head back to the car, with their arms 'around each other. 'The artist hands her the drawing; She looks like a monster, with.fangs and claws. People are running away from her,, screaming and scared. -
adam		Sorry- I'm nervous, it's my first. line on a TV show.
adam		I say; "Put down the guns The .make--up artist attaches small chunks of brain down his face.
adam		No,-it looks like he'.doesn't.
emma		 I poofed in my pant's .
emma		'Adam. Adam. I'm stoned and .everyone's talking about weddings.:
adam		I'm there. Adam starts running.
adam		I'm- sorry-- Can 'you tell them I have
mike		Emma?
emma		Adam Kurtzman.-
adam		Emma Franklin. They kiss some more. People walk by, surprised or confused to .see someone with a massive head wound kissing someone. A big scoop of his'brains fall on the sidewalk.
emma		My mom's. in town,. she's wearing big' sunglasses and randomly yelling-out "Hollywood Baby!l"She has -a new boyfriend. I was meaxi to him.-
adam		why?
emma		-I don't know.
adam		You hurt me. A lot. A Lot.
emma		I know.
adam		No, you're just high.
emma		It's beautiful.
adam		What is it about you?'Why can't I get enough' of you?
emma		I missed you so much-
adam		You're gonna kill me--
emma		I love you.-And I can't see how I could'ever love anyone else. Emma slips her shoes off.-Adam sees her do it, this'is everything hers always wanted. He kisses her. back. - This -is a different kind of sex- it's intense, intimate.-I don't'know how much'of it we see, but they're looking into each other's eyes, not speaking. it takes them by surprise'.
emma		That was.
adam		Yeah.
adam		Yeah. That sounds good. Emma looks happy, closes her eyes. Adam keeps his eyes open, scared out of his mind.
emma		Yeah.
sandra		I thought you might call.
emma		I just, I had to. 90 into work,. Emma looks down the hallway. ANGLE ON- Dr. Metzner discretely brushing some hair off the - face-of Connie, the other female resident.. Dr. Metzner sees her looking  at him, Emma has no reaction.
sandra		No, I understand, you're busy. I'm so proud of you, it's such.a great big hospital-.
tuck		We saw Carrot Top.
sandra		Oh! I forgot to tell you! We were, getting a bagelaind he was getting. a bagel too. And that,' s the. whole story.
tuck		Stars- they're just like.us.
emma		(looking at her phone
sandra		Why do you keep looking atyour I .phone? Dr. Metzner walks up.
sandra		Oh. Yes, I am. Hello.
tuck		We saw Carrot Top.
sandra		 Who's he? Emma's.looking at her phone again,-distracted.
emma		What? Sandra looks at Emma, worried- she can tell something's. not right. -
tuck		 Flight leaves in 45 minutes!
emma		You should go-
sandra		Wait. I wanted to say something-
emma		 Okay. Tuck honks the horn again.
sandra		We'll make it, Tuck. Sandra rushes into the car.-Ea grabs her
adam		 Hello Los :Angeles. Emma, with a hoodie over her scrubs, comes in the back.
scottie		.Hey: I'm glad you came-.
emma		Do you know where he is?
scottie		I. don't know- back there?
emma		it's fine, I just wanted to tell you Good Job.
adam		Come. on.
emma		What?
adam		I know-I didn't stay,'and I'm sorry=
emma		I don't need the apology shit.
adam		I don't care if you need It., just stop for a second. so I can' explain--
emma		Explain what?
adam		Emma, you can't just call me and tell me that now everything's different, now, you love me, now you, want to be.my girlfriend- after I spent-months trying to get over you somehow, trying to tell myselfto forget-you- you can't just .call me and, expect me to just come running- which I did, I know, but I can't just jump back in, I can't just start over, all of a sudden.
adam		Maybe-we just-'I don't know, maybe we blew it. Maybe ' our.'timing was
emma		.Maybe, but maybe that's just the way. it. happened. Maybe we were just growing up. But I'm in love with you.
adam		I don't know.
emma		I want that time back. I want to break all those rules. I want to try this. Let's try.
adam		But we should still, you know, see
adam		Wait, Emma, I have to go on again-. A guy comes. out of the club and calls.
man		Hey, Adam, get in here- Adam. runs back to the building.
adam		Don't go anywhere, okay Emma watches h:im - go. She gets in her car, closes the door.
alvin		.Vanessa went home to walk the dog.. We- have: a dog now. She named it Freckle. I don't know what to do about that.
alvin		How'd.you get so screwed up?
adam		I'm just like you- I'm going to fuck it all up. Like you. -Like you gave up on Mom.
alvin		 ' When ' we -first , had you, we hadn't slept in days, we were just shoving' food in our mouths over the sink whenever we could. And finally, I got it together enough to get. some take-out from one of the -restaurants we used to like.
alvin		I don't know. I-think the. simplest answer is: I'm a jerk. And--the. other answer is: Because - at -some point, we forgot how to make each other laugh.. And if that-sounds like a bullshit answer, you're probably right. But if it 'sounds really deep, then - that-'s, good too.
alvin		But you're not. Call her.
adam		Don't tell me what to do. . I'm going to. call her.
emma		So. Great. Let's do this.
emma		I know. i
emma		How does this work--'head on your shoulder, head on- your .chest?
emma		I think I get it, Mom. Emma starts to cry, hard.
sandra		Yeah. It does. They 'don't-say anything- Sandra sits on the front steps of the house and just listens on the other end as. Emma cries.
adam		Emma Franklin--do you know where she is?
nurse		I can't-tell you that, and.no.
adam		Where are. you? Are'you at:home? EMMA 
adam		okay, hold an.
nurse		You can't change the channel-.. Adam gets it on Channel 27- it's Bambi.
nurse		What's wrong with Bambi? Adam runs out of the waiting room, as Dr. Metzner'watches him go.' There's a little regret in  his .face. Nurse is glued ,to the TV. - s
emma		My dad.
adam		I know.
adam		I- know.
emma		 if you come in here, you're never .leaving. Adam steps inside, takes her-in his arms, she really starts to sob.
adam		I know, he's a little baby deer. He just holds her. He starts crying too. They are both crying.
emma		Are you crying?
adam		Yeah.
emma		why. are you crying?
adam		,Are you good?-
emma		i think so. Emma starts crying again.
adam		That's okay, that's.okay.. She holds' onto him. He starts crying again too.
emma		I don't know if I can do it.
adam		You can do it.
emma		'oh god- I can't do it-. Emma starts kissing him. He kisses her back,
emma		'Do you think we'.re the only people, .who've' ever fucked 'while watching Bambi?
adam		-Yes. The only ones not in jail. .She laughs.-He kisses her some more.
emma		I'm gonna: Make you do push-ups when yourre old so your-heart stays healthy.
adam		I'm gonna- I'm gonna build you a log cabin.
adam		We're gonna break all those rules.
emma		Not the one about calling-me ia the middle of the day.
adam		Not that one. But the one about peeing, in front of you. I.'m gonna do that whenever I can. Emma laughs and cries.
emma		I'm so - glad you're alive.
adam		Are you glad I'm making this face? Adam makes a funny face. Emma laughs.
emma		Turn Bambi off- turn Bambi off-
adam		Hey.'
emma		(still with her eyes
****Dialogues from script :Notting_Hill.txt****

william		Spike!
spike		Even he.  Hey, you couldn't help me with an incredibly important decision, could you?
william		This is important in comparison to, let's say, whether they should cancel third world debt?
spike		That's right -- I'm at last going out on a date with the great Janine and I just want to be sure I've picked the right t-shirt.
william		What are the choices?
spike		Well... wait for it...  First there's this one...
william		Yes -- might make it hard to strike a really romantic note.
spike		Point taken.
spike		I suspect you'll prefer the next one.
spike		Cool, huh?
william		Yes -- she might think you don't have true love on your mind.
spike		Wouldn't want that...  Okay -- just one more.
william		Well, yes, that's perfect. Well done.
spike		Thanks.  Great.  Wish me luck.
william		Good luck.
william		Classic.  Absolutely classic. Profit from major sales push -- minus
martin		Shall I go get a cappuccino?  Ease the pain.
william		Yes, better get me a half.  All I can afford.
marin		I get your logic.  Demi-capu coming up.
william		Can I help you?
anna		No, thanks.  I'll just look around.
william		Fine.
william		That book's really not good -- just in case, you know, browsing turned to buying.  You'd be wasting your money.
anna		Really?
william		Yes.  This one though is... very good.
william		I think the man who wrote it has actually been to Turkey, which helps. There's also a very amusing incident with a kebab.
anna		Thanks.  I'll think about it.
william		If you could just give me a second.
william		Excuse me.
thief		Yes.
william		Bad news.
thief		What?
william		We've got a security camera in this bit of the shop.
thief		So?
william		So, I saw you put that book down your trousers.
thief		What book?
william		The one down your trousers.
thief		I haven't got a book down my trousers.
william		Right -- well, then we have something of an impasse.  I tell you what -- I'll call the police -- and,  what can I say? -- If I'm wrong about the whole book-down-the-trousers scenario, I really apologize.
thief		Okay -- what if I did have a book down my trousers?
william		Well, ideally, when I went back to the desk, you'd remove the Cadogan guide to Bali from your trousers, and either wipe it and put it back, or buy it.  See you in a sec.
william		Sorry about that...
anna		No, that's fine.  I was going to steal one myself but now I've changed my mind.  Signed by the author, I see.
william		Yes, we couldn't stop him.  If you can find an unsigned copy, it's worth an absolute fortune.
thief		Excuse me.
anna		Yes.
thief		Can I have your autograph?
anna		What's your name?
thief		Rufus.
thief		What does it say?
anna		Well, that's the signature -- and above, it says 'Dear Rufus -- you belong in jail.'
thief		Nice one.  Would you like my phone number?
anna		Tempting but... no, thank you.
anna		I think I will try this one.
william		Oh -- right -- on second thoughts maybe it wasn't that bad.  Actually -- it's a sort of masterpiece really. None of those childish kebab stories you get in so many travel books these days.  And I'll throw in one of these for free.
william		Very useful for lighting fires, wrapping fish, that sort of things.
anna		Thanks.
martin		Cappuccino as ordered.
william		Thanks.  I don't think you'll believe who was just in here.
martin		Who?  Someone famous?
william		No. No-one -- no-one.
martin		Would be exciting if someone famous did come into the shop though, wouldn't it?  Do you know -- this is pretty incredible actually -- I once saw Ringo Starr.  Or at least I think it was Ringo.  It might have been that broke from 'Fiddler On The Roof,' Toppy.
william		Topol.
martin		That's right -- Topol.
william		But Ringo Starr doesn't look anything like Topol.
martin		No, well... he was quite a long way away.
william		So it could have been neither of them?
martin		I suppose so.
william		Right.  It's not a classic anecdotes, is it?
martin		Not classic, no.
william		Right -- want another one?
martin		Yes.  No, wait -- let's go crazy -- I'll have an orange juice.
anna		Oh Jesus.
william		Here, let me help.
anna		What are you doing?!
william		Nothing, nothing... Look, I live just over the street -- you could get cleaned up.
anna		No thank you.  I need to get my car back.
william		I also have a phone.  I'm confident that in five minutes we can have you spick and span and back on the street again... in the non-prostitute sense obviously.
anna		Okay.  So what does 'just over the street' mean -- give it to me in yards.
william		Eighteen yards.  That's my house there.
william		Come on in.  I'll just...
william		It's not that tidy, I fear.
william		The bathroom is right at the top of the stairs and there's a phone on the desk up there.
william		Would you like a cup of tea before you go?
anna		No thanks.
william		Coffee?
anna		No.
william		Orange juice -- probably not.
william		Something else cold -- coke, water, some disgusting sugary drink pretending to have something to do with fruits of the forest?
anna		Really, no.
william		Would you like something to nibble -- apricots, soaked in honey -- quite why, no one knows -- because it stops them tasting of apricots, and makes them taste like honey, and if you wanted honey, you'd just buy honey, instead of apricots, but nevertheless -- there we go -- yours if you want them.
anna		No.
william		Do you always say 'no' to everything?
anna		No.  I better be going.  Thanks for your help.
william		You're welcome and, may I also say... heavenly.
william		Take my one chance to say it.  After you've read that terrible book, you're certainly not going to be coming back to the shop.
anna		Thank you.
william		Yes.  Well.  My pleasure.
william		Nice to meet you.  Surreal but nice.
william		'Surreal but nice.'  What was I thinking?
william		Coming.
william		Oh hi.  Forget something?
anna		I forgot my bag.
william		Oh right.
william		Here we go.
anna		Thanks.  Well...
william		I apologize for the 'surreal but nice' comment.  Disaster...
anna		Don't worry about it.  I thought the apricot and honey business was the real lowpoint.
william		Oh my God.  My flatmate.  I'm sorry -- there's no excuse for him.
spike		Hi.
anna		Hi.
william		Hi.
spike		I'm just going to go into the kitchen to get some food -- and then I'm going to tell you a story that will make your balls shrink to the size of raisins.
anna		Probably best not tell anyone about this.
william		Right.  No one.  I mean, I'll tell myself sometimes but... don't worry -- I won't believe it.
anna		Bye.
spike		There's something wrong with this yogurt.
william		It's not yogurt -- it's mayonnaise.
spike		Well, there you go.  On for a video fest tonight?  I've got some absolute classic.
michael		Smile.
anna		No.
michael		Smile.
anna		I've got nothing to smile about.
michael		Okay in about 7 seconds, I'm going to ask you to marry me.
spike		Imagine -- somewhere in the world there's a man who's allowed to kiss her.
william		Yes, she is fairly fabulous.
william		No, we're a travel bookshop.  We only sell travel books.
william		No, that's a novel too.
william		Martin -- your customer.
martin		Can I help you?
spike		Hey.
william		Hi...
william		Just incidentally -- why are you wearing that?
spike		Ahm -- combination of factors really. No clean clothes...
william		There never will be, you know, unless you actually clean your clothes.
spike		Right.  Vicious circle.  And then I was like rooting around in your things, and found this, and I thought -- cool. Kind of spacey.
spike		There's something wrong with the goggles though...
william		No, they were prescription, so I could see all the fishes properly.
spike		Groovy.  You should do more of this stuff.
william		So -- any messages?
spike		Yeh, I wrote a couple down.
william		Two?  That's it?
spike		You want me to write down all your messages?
william		Who were the ones you didn't write down from?
spike		Ahm let's see -- ahm.  No.  Gone completely.  Oh no, wait.  There was -- one from your mum: she said don't forget lunch and her leg's hurting again.
william		Right.  No one else?
spike		Absolutely not.
spike		Though if we're going for this obsessive writing-down-all-messages thing -- some American girl called Anna called a few days ago.
william		What did she say?
spike		Well, it was genuinely bizarre... she said, hi -- it's Anna -- and then she said, call me at the Ritz -- and then gave herself a completely different name.
william		Which was?
spike		Absolutely no idea.  Remembering one name's bad enough...
william		Hello.
william		Ahm, look this is a very odd situation.  I'm a friend of Anna Scott's -- and she rang me at home the day before yesterday -- and left a message saying she's staying with you...
ritz man		I'm sorry, we don't have anyone of that name here, sir.
william		No, that's right -- I know that.  She said she's using another name -- but the problem is she left the message with my flatmate, which was a serious mistake.
ritz man		Yes, sir.  I have him in my mind.
william		And then double it -- and that is the -- what can I say -- git I'm living with and he cannot remember...
spike		Try 'Flintstone.'
william		 What?
spike		I think she said her name was 'Flintstone.'
william		Does 'Flintstone' mean anything to you?
ritz man		I'll put you right through, sir.
william		Oh my God.
william		Hello.  Hi.  Hi.
william		 Oh hi.  It's William Thacker.  We, ahm I work in a bookshop.
william		No, I've never played anything cool in my entire life.  Spike, who I'll stab to death later, never gave me the message.
william		Perhaps I could drop round for tea or something?
william		Right.  Great.  Classic.  Classic.
william		Which floor?
tarquin		Three.
william		Are you sure you...?
tarquin		Yes.
william		Oh.  Right.
karen		Hello, I'm Karen.  Sorry -- things are running a bit late.  Here's the thing...
karen		What did you think of the film?
tarquin		Marvellous.  'Close Encounters' meets 'Jean De Florette.'  Oscar- winning stuff.
william		I agree.
karen		I'm sorry.  I didn't get down what magazines you're from.
tarquin		'Time Out.'
karen		Great.  And you...
william		 'Horse and Hound.'  The name's William Whacker.  I think she might be expecting me.
karen		Okay -- take a seat.  I'll check.
tarquin		You've brought her flowers?
william		No -- they're... for my grandmother. She's in a hospital nearby.  Thought I'd kill two birds with one stone.
tarquin		I'm sorry.  Which hospital?
william		Do you mind me not saying -- it's a rather distressing disease and the name of the hospital rather gives it away.
tarquin		Oh sure.  Of course.
karen		Mr. Thacker.
karen		You've got five minutes.
william		Hi.
anna		Hello.
william		I brought these, but clearly...
anna		Oh no, ho -- these are great.
william		Sorry about not ringing back.  The whole two-names concept was totally too much for my flatman's pea-sized intellect.
anna		No, it's a stupid privacy thing.  I always choose a cartoon character -- last time out, I was Mrs. Bambi.
jeremy		Everything okay?
anna		Yes, thanks.
jeremy		And you are from 'Horse and Hound' magazine?
anna		Is that so?
william		So I'll just fire away, shall I?
william		Right.  Ahm... the film's great... and I just wondered -- whether you ever thought of having more... horses in it?
anna		Ahm -- well -- we would have liked to -- but it was difficult, obviously, being set in space.
william		Obviously.  Very difficult.
william		I'm sorry -- I arrived outside -- they thrust this thing into my hand -- I didn't know what to do.
anna		No, it's my fault, I thought this would all be over by now.  I just wanted to sort of apologize for the kissing thing.  I seriously don't know what got in to me.  I just wanted to make sure you were fine about it.
william		Absolutely fine about it.
jeremy		Do remember that Miss Scott is also keen to talk about her next project, which is shooting later in the summer.
william		Oh yes -- excellent.  Ahm -- any horses in that one?  Or hounds, of course.  Our readers are equally intrigued by both species. ANNA It takes place on a submarine.
william		Yes.  Right... But if there were horses, would you be riding them yourself or would you be getting a stunt horse person double sort of thing?
william		I'm just a complete moron.  Sorry. This is the sort of thing that happens in dreams -- not in real life.  Good dreams, obviously -- it's a dream to see you.
anna		And what happens next in the dream?
william		Well, I suppose in the dream dream scenario.  I just... ahm, change my personality, because you can do that in dreams, and  walk across and kiss the girl but you know it'll never happen.
jeremy		Time's up, I'm afraid.  Sorry it was so short.  Did you get what you wanted?
william		Very nearly.
jeremy		Maybe time for one last question?
william		Right.
william		Are you busy tonight?
anna		Yes.
anna		Well, it was nice to meet you. Surreal but nice.
william		Thank you.  You are 'Horse and Hound's' favorite actress.  You and Black Beauty.  Tied.
tarquin		How was she?
william		Fabulous.
tarquin		Wait a minute -- she took your grandmother's flowers?
william		Yes.  That's right.  Bitch.
karen		If you'd like to come with me we can rush you through the others.
william		The others?
karen		Mr. Thacker's from 'Horse and Hound.'
male lead		Pleased to meet you.  Did you like the film?
william		Ah... yes, enormously.
male lead		Well, fire away.
william		Right, right.  Ahm -- did you enjoy making the film?
male lead		I did.
william		Any bit in particular?
male lead		Well, you tell me which bit you liked most -- and I'll tell you if I enjoyed making it.
william		Ahm right, right, I liked the bit in space very much.  Did you enjoy making  that bit?
william		Did you identify with the character you were playing?
interpreter		Te identicaste con el personaje que interpretabas?
foreign actor		No.
interpreter		No.
william		Ah.  Why not?
interpreter		Por que no?
foreign actor		Porque es un robot carnivoro psicopata.
interpreter		Because he is playing a psychopathic flesh-eating robot.
william		Classic.
william		Is this your first film?
girl		No -- it's my 22nd.
william		Of course it is.  Any favourite among the 22?
girl		Working with Leonardo.
william		Da Vinci?
girl		Di Caprio.
william		Of course.  And is he your favourite Italian film director?
karen		Mr. Thacker?
william		 Yes?
karen		Have you got a moment?
anna		Ahm.  That thing I was doing tonight -- I'm not doing it any more.  I told them I had to spend the evening with Britain's premier equestrian journalist.
william		Oh well, great.  Perfect.  Oh no -- shittity brickitty -- it's my sister's birthday -- shit -- we're meant to be having dinner.
anna		Okay -- fine.
william		But no, I'm sure I can get out of it.
anna		No, I mean, if it's fine with you, I'll, you know, be your date.
william		You'll be my date at my little sister's birthday party?
anna		If that's all right.
william		I'm sure it's all right.  My friend Max is cooking and he's acknowledged to be the worst cook in the world, but you know, you could hide the food in your handbag or something.
anna		Okay.
william		Okay.
max		He's bringing a girl?
bella		Miracles do happen.
max		Does the girl have a name?
bella		He wouldn't say.
max		Christ, what is going on in there?
max		Come on in.  Vague food crisis.
bella		Hiya -- sorry -- the guinea fowl is proving more complicated than expected.
william		He's cooking guinea fowl?
bella		Don't even ask.
anna		Hi.
bella		Hi.  Good Lord -- you're the spitting image of...
william		Bella -- this is Anna.
bella		Right. 
max		Okay.  Crisis over.
william		Max.  This is Anna.
max		Hello, Anna ahm...  Scott -- have some wine.
anna		Thank you.
max		Hi.
max		Yes, Happy Birthday.
max		Look, your brother has brought this girl, and ahm...
honey		Hi guys.  Oh holy fuck.
william		Hun -- this is Anna.  Anna -- this is Honey -- she's my baby sitter.
anna		Hiya.
honey		Oh God this is one of those key moments in life, when it's possible you can be really, genuinely cool -- and I'm going to fail a hundred percent.  I absolutely and totally and utterly adore you and I think you're the most beautiful woman in the world and more importantly I genuinely believe and have believed for some time now that we can be best friends.  What do you think?
anna		Ahm... I think that sounds -- you know -- lucky me.  Happy Birthday.
honey		Oh my God.  You gave me a present. We're best friends already.  Marry Will -- he's a really nice guy and then we can be sisters.
anna		I'll think about it.
max		That'll be Bernie.
max		Hello, Bernie.
bernie		I'm sorry I'm so late.  Bollocksed up at work again, I fear.  Millions down the drain.
max		Bernie -- this is Anna.
bernie		Hello, Anna.  Delighted to meet you.
bernie		Honey Bunny -- happy birthday to you.  It's a hat.  You don't have to wear it or anything.
max		You haven't slept with her, have you?
william		That is a cheap question and the answer is, of course, no comment.
max		'No comment' means 'yes.'
william		No, it doesn't.
max		Do you ever masturbate?
william		Definitely no comment.
max		You see -- it means 'yes.'
bernie		So tell me Anna -- what do you do?
anna		I'm an actress.
bernie		Splendid.  I'm actually in the stock- market, so not really similar fields, though I have done some amateur stuff -- P.G. Wodehouse, you know -- farce, all that.  'Ooh -- careful there, vicar.'  Always imagined it's a pretty tough job, though, acting. I mean the wages are a scandal, aren't they?
anna		Well, they can be.
bernie		I see friends from university -- clever chaps -- been in the business longer than you -- they're scraping by on seven, eight thousand a year. It's no life.  What sort of acting do you do?
anna		Films mainly.
bernie		Oh splendid.  Well done.  How's the pay in movies?  I mean, last film you did, what did you get paid?
anna		Fifteen million dollars.
bernie		Right.  Right.  So that's... fairly good.  On the high side... have you tried the nuts?
max		Right -- I think we're ready.
anna		 I wonder if you could tell me where the...?
bella		Oh, it's just down the corridor on the right.
honey		I'll show you.
bella		Quickly, quickly -- talk very quickly what are you doing here with Anna Scott?
bernie		Anna Scott?
bella		Yes.
bernie		The movie star?
bella		Yup.
bernie		Oh God.  Oh God.  Oh Goddy God.
honey		I don't believe it.  I walked into the loo with her.  I was still talking when she started unbuttoning her jeans... She had to ask me to leave.
bella		What do you think of the guinea fowl?
anna		 I'm a vegetarian.
bella		Oh God.
max		Having you here, Anna, firmly establishes what I've long suspected, that we really are the most desperate hot of under-achievers.
bernie		Shame!
max		I'm not saying it's a bad thing, in fact, I think it's something we should take pride in.  I'm going to give the last brownie as a prize to the saddest act here.
william		Bernie.
bernie		Well, obviously it's me, isn't it -- I work in the City in a job I don't understand and everyone keeps getting promoted above me.  I haven't had a girlfriends since... puberty and, well, the long and short of it is, nobody fancies me, and if these cheeks get any chubbier, they never will.
honey		Nonsense.  I fancy you.  Or I did before you got so far.
max		You see -- and unless I'm much mistaken, your job still pays you rather a lot of money, while Honey here, she earns nothing flogging her guts out at London's seediest record store.
honey		Yes.  And I don't have hair -- I've got feathers, and I've got funny goggly eyes, and I'm attracted to cruel men and ... no one'll ever marry me because my boosies have actually started shrinking.
max		You see -- incredibly sad.
bella		On the other hand, her best friend is Anna Scott.
honey		That's true, I can't deny it.  She needs me, what can I say?
bella		And most of her limbs work.  Whereas I'm stuck in its thing day and night, in a house full of ramps.  And to add insult to serious injury -- I've totally given up smoking, my favourite thing, and the truth is... we can't have a baby.
william		Bella.
bernie		No.  Not true...
bella		C'est la vie... We're lucky in lots of ways, but... Surely it's worth a brownie.
max		Well, I don't know.  Look at William.  Very unsuccessful professionally.  Divorced.  Used to be handsome, now kind of squidgy around the edges -- and absolutely certain never to hear from Anna again after she's heard that his nickname at school was Floppy.
william		So I get the brownie?
max		I think you do, yes.
anna		Wait a minute.  What about me?
max		I'm sorry?  You think you deserve the brownie?
anna		Well... a shot at it.
william		You'll have to prove it.  This is a great brownie and I'm going to fight for it.  State your claim.
anna		Well, I've been on a diet since I was nineteen, which means basically I've been hungry for a decade.  I've had a sequence of not nice boyfriends -- one of whom hit me: and every time my heart gets broken it gets splashed across the newspapers as entertainment. Meantime, it cost millions to get me looking like this...
honey		Really?
anna		Really -- and one day, not long from now...
anna		... my looks will go, they'll find out I can't act and I'll become a sad middle-aged woman who looks a bit like someone who was famous for a while.
max		Nah!!!  Nice try, gorgeous -- but you don't fool anyone.
william		Pathetic effort to hog the brownie.
anna		That was such a great evening.
max		I'm delighted.
anna		And may I say that's a gorgeous tie.
max		Now you're lying.
anna		You're right.  I told you I was bad at acting.
anna		 Lovely to meet you.
bella		And you.  I'll wait till you've gone before I tell him you're a vegetarian.
max		No!
anna		Night, night, Honey.
honey		I'm so sorry about the loo thing. I meant to leave but I just... look, ring me if you need someone to go shopping with.  I know lots of nice, cheap places... not that money necessarily...  nice to meet you.
anna		You too -- from now on you are my style guru.
bernie		Love your work.
william		Sorry -- they always do that when I leave the house.
anna		Floppy, huh?
william		It's the hair!  It's to do with the hair.
anna		Why is she in a wheelchair?
william		It was an accident -- about eighteen months ago.
anna		And the pregnancy thing -- is that to do with the accident?
william		You know, I'm not sure.  I don't think they'd tried for kids before, as fate would have it.
william		Would you like to come... my house is just...?
anna		Too complicated.
william		That's fine.
anna		Busy tomorrow?
william		I thought you were leaving.
anna		I was.
anna		What's in there?
william		Gardens.  All these streets round here have these mysterious communal gardens in the middle of them. They're like little villages.
anna		Let's go in.
william		Ah no -- that's the point -- they're private villages -- only the people who live round the edges are allowed in.
anna		You abide by rules like that?
william		Ahm...
william		Heck no -- other people do -- but not me -- I just do what I want.
william		 Whoopsidaisies.
anna		What did you say?
william		Nothing.
anna		Yes, you did.
william		No, I didn't.
anna		You said 'whoopsidaisies.'
william		I don't think so.  No one has said 'whoopsidaisies,' do they -- I mean unless they're...
anna		There's no 'unless.'  No one has said "whoopsidaisies" for fifty years and even then it was only little girls with blonde ringlets.
william		Exactly.  Here we go again.
william		Whoopsidaisies.
william		It's a disease I've got -- it's a clinical thing.  I'm taking pills and having injections -- it won't last long.
anna		Step aside.
william		Actually be careful Anna -- it's harder than it looks...
william		Oh no it's not -- it's easy.
anna		Come on, Flops.
william		Now seriously -- what in the world in this garden could make that ordeal worthwhile?
william		Nice garden.
anna		'For June, who loved this garden -- from Joseph who always sat beside her.'
anna		Some people do spend their whole lives together.
william		Bollocks, bollocks, bollocks.  Have you seen my glasses?
spike		No, 'fraid not.
william		Bollocks.  This happens every time I go to the cinema.  Average day, my glasses are everywhere -- everywhere I look, glasses.  But the moment I need them they disappear.  It's one of life's real cruelties.
spike		That's compared to, like, earthquakes in the Far East or testicular cancer?
william		Oh shit, is that the time?  I have to go.
william		 Thanks for your help on the glasses thing.
spike		 You're welcome.  Did you find them?
william		Sort of.
anna		So who left who?
william		She left me.
anna		Why?
william		She saw through me.
anna		Uh-oh.  That's not good.
lawrence		No - No- No!  Give me Anna Scott any day.
gerald		I didn't like that last film of hers. Fast asleep from the moment the lights went down.
lawrence		Don't really care what the films are like.  Any film with her in it -- fine by me.
gerald		No -- not my type at all really.  I prefer that other one -- blonde -- sweet looking -- has an orgasm every time you take her out for a cup of coffee.
lawrence		Meg Ryan.
gerald		Drug-induced, I hear -- I believe she's actually in rehab as we speak.
lawrence		Whatever, she's so clearly up for it.
lawrence		You know -- some girls, they're all 'stay away chum' but Anna, she's absolutely gagging for it.  Do you know that in over fifty percent of languages the word for "actress" is the same as the word for "prostitute."
lawrence		And Anna is your definitive actress -- someone really filthy you can just flip over...
william		Right, that's it.
william		I'm sorry to disturb you guys but --
lawrence		Can I help you?
william		Well, yes, I wish I hadn't overheard your conversation -- but I did and I just think, you know...
william		...the person you're talking about is a real person and I think she probably deserves a little bit more consideration, rather than having jerks like you drooling over her...
lawrence		Oh sod off, mate.  What are you, her dad?
william		I'm sorry.
anna		No, that's fine.  I love that you tried... time was I'd have done the same.
anna		In fact -- give me a second.
anna		Hi.
lawrence		Oh my God...
anna		I'm sorry about my friend -- he's very sensitive.
lawrence		No, look, I'm sorry...
anna		Please, please -- let's just leave it there.  I'm sure you meant no harm, and I'm sure it was just friendly banter and I'm sure you dicks are all the size of peanuts.  A perfect match for the size of your brains.  Enjoy your meal.  The tuna's really good.
gerald		You prick.
anna		I shouldn't have done that.  I shouldn't have done that.
william		No, you were brilliant
anna		I'm rash and I'm stupid and what am I doing with you?
william		I don't know, I'm afraid.
anna		I don't know either.
anna		Here we are.  Do you want to come up?
william		 There seem to be lots of reasons why I shouldn't.
anna		There are lots of reasons.  Do you want to come up?
anna		Give me five minutes.
anna		Hiya.
william		Hi.
william		To be able to do that is such a wonderful thing.
anna		 You've got to go.
william		Why?
anna		Because my boyfriend, who I thought was in America, is in fact in the next room.
william		Your boyfriend?
anna		Yes...
william		Ahm... room service.
jeff		How you doing?  I thought you guys all wore those penguin coats.
william		Well, yes -- usually -- I'd just changed to go home -- but I thought I'd just deal with this final call.
jeff		Oh great.  Could you do me a favour and try to get us some really cold water up here?
william		I'll see what I can do.
jeff		Still, not sparkling.
william		Absolutely.  Ice cold still water.
jeff		Unless it's illegal in the UK to serve liquids below room temperature: I don't want you going to jail just to satisfy my whims...
william		No, I'm sure it'll be fine.
jeff		And maybe you could just adios the dishes and empty the trash.
william		Right.
anna		Really -- don't do that -- I'm sure this is not his job.
jeff		I'm sorry.  Is this a problem?
william		Ah -- no.  It's fine.
jeff		What's your name?
william		Ahm... Bernie.
jeff		Thank you, Bernie.  Hey -- nice surprise, or nasty surprise?
anna		Nice surprise.
jeff		Liar.  She hates surprises.  What are you ordering?
anna		I haven't decided.
jeff		Well, don't over-do it.  I don't want people saying, 'There goes that famous actor with the big, fat girlfriend."
william		I better leave.
william		-- this is a fairly strange reality to be faced with.  To be honest, I don't realize...
anna		I'm sorry... I don't know what to say.
william		I think goodbye is traditional.
spike		Come on -- open up -- this is me -- Spikey -- I'm in contact with some quite important spiritual vibrations. What's wrong?
william		Well, okay.  There's this girl...
spike		Aha!  I'd been getting a female vibe. Good.  Speak on, dear friend.
william		She's someone I just can't -- someone who... self-evidently can't be mine -- and it's as if I've taken love-heroin -- and now I can't even have it again. I've opened Pandora's box.  And there's trouble inside.
spike		Yeh.  Yeh... tricky... tricky... I knew a girl at school called Pandora ... never got to see her box though.
william		Thanks.  Yes -- very helpful.
max		You didn't know she had a boyfriend?
william		No -- did you?
william		Bloody hell, I can't believe it -- my whole life ruined because I don't read 'Hello' magazine.
max		Let's face facts.  This was always a no-go situation.  Anna's a goddess and you know what happens to mortals who get involved with the gods.
william		Buggered?
max		Every time.  But don't despair -- I think I have the solution to your problems.
william		Really?
max		Her name is Tessa and she works in the contracts department.  The hair, I admit, is unfashionable frizzy -- but she's as bright as a button and kisses like a nymphomaniac on death row.  Apparently.
max		Now -- try.
max		Tessa -- this is Bella my wife.
tessa		Oh hello, you're in a wheelchair.
bella		That's right.
max		And this is William.
tessa		Hello William.  Max has told me everything about you.
william		 Has he?
max		Wine?
tessa		Oh yes please.  Come on, Willie, let's get sloshed.
max		Keziah -- some woodcock?
keziah		No, thank you  -- I'm a fruitarian.
max		I don't realize that.
william		And ahm -- what's a fruitarian exactly?
keziah		We believe that fruits and vegetables have feelings so we think cooking is cruel.  We only eat things that have actually fallen from the tree or bush -- that are, in fact, dead already.
william		Right.  Right.  Interesting stuff.  So these carrots...
keziah		Have been murdered, yes.
william		Murdered?  Poor carrots.  How beastly.
rosie		Delicious coffee.
max		Thank you.  I'm sorry about the lamb.
rosie		No -- I thought it was really, you know, interesting.
william		Interesting means inedible.
rosie		Really inedible -- yes that's right.
rosie		Maybe we'll meet again some time.
william		Yes.  That would be... great.
max		Well?
william		She's perfect, perfect.
bella		And?
william		I think you have forgotten...  what an unusual situation you have here -- to find someone you actually love, who'll love you -- the chances are... always miniscule.  Look at me -- not counting the American -- I've only loved two girls in my whole life, both total disasters.
max		That's not fair.
william		No really, one of them marries me and then leaves me quicker than you can say Indiana Jones -- and the other, who seriously ought to have known better, casually marries my best friend.
bella		 Still loves you though.
william		In a depressingly asexual way.
bella		 I never fancied you much actually...
bella		I mean I loved you -- you were terribly funny.  But all that kissing my ears...
william		Oh no -- this is just getting worse. I am going to find myself, 30 years from now, still on this couch.
bella		Do you want to stay?
william		Why not -- all that awaits me at home is a masturbating Welshman.
anna		Hi.  Can I come in?
william		Come in.
anna		They were taken years ago -- I know it was... well, I was poor and it happens a lot -- that's not an excuse -- but to make things worse, it now appears someone was filming me as well.  So what was a stupid photo- shoot now looks like a porno film. And well... the pictures have been solid and they're everywhere.
anna		I don't know where to go.  The hotel is surrounded.
william		This is the place.
anna		Thank you.  I'm just in London for two days -- but, with your papers, it's the worse place to be.
anna		These are such horrible pictures. They're so grainy... they make me look like...
william		Don't think about it.  We'll sort it out.  Now what would you like -- tea ... bath...?
anna		A bath would be great.
spike		Christ alive... brilliant... fantastic .... magnificent...
anna		You must be Spike.
anna		Hi.
spike		Just checking.
spike		Thank you, God.
anna		I'm really sorry about last time.  He just flew in -- I had no idea -- in fact, I had no idea if he'd ever fly in again.
william		No, that's fine.  It's not often one has the opportunity to adios the plates of a major Hollywood star.  It was a thrill for me.  How is he?
anna		I don't know.  It got to the point where I couldn't remember any of the reasons I loved him.  And you... and love?
william		Well, there's a question -- without an interesting answer.
anna		I have thought about you.
william		Oh no no -- no.
anna		Just anytime I've tried to keep things normal with anyone normal -- it's been a disaster.
william		I appreciate that absolutely.  Is that the film you're doing?
anna		Yes -- start in L.A. on Tuesday.
william		Would you like me to take you through your lines?
anna		Would you?  It's all talk, talk, talk.
william		Hand it over.  Basic plot?
anna		I'm a difficult but brilliant junior officer who in about twenty minutes will save the world from nuclear disaster.
william		Well done you.
william		'Message from command.  Would you like them to send in the HKs?'
anna		'No, turn over 4 TRS's and tell them we need radar feedback before the KFT's return at 19 hundred -- then inform the Pentagon that we'll be needing black star cover from ten hundred through 12.15' -- and don't you dare say one word about how many mistakes I made in that speech or I'll pelt you with olives.
william		'Very well, captain -- I'll pass that on straightaway.'
anna		'Thank you.'  How many mistake did I make?
william		Eleven.
anna		Damn.  'And Wainwright...'
william		Cartwright.
anna		'Cartwright, Wainwright, whatever your name is, I promised little Jimmy I'd be home for his birthday -- could you get a message through that I may be a little late.'
william		'Certainly.  And little Johnny?'
anna		My son's name is Johnny?
william		Yup.
anna		Well, get a message through to him too.
william		Brilliant.  Word perfect I'd say.
anna		What do you think?
william		Gripping.  It's not Jane Austen, it's not Henry James, but it's gripping.
anna		You think I should do Henry James instead?
william		I'm sure you'd be great in Henry James. But, you know -- this writer's pretty damn good too.
anna		Yes -- I mean -- you never get anyone in 'Wings of a Dove' having the nerve to say 'inform the Pentagon that we need black star cover.'
william		And I think the book is the poorer for it.
anna		I can't believe you have that picture on your wall.
william		You like Chagall?
anna		I do.  It feels like how being in love should be.  Floating through a dark blue sky.
william		With a goat playing a violin.
anna		Yes -- happiness wouldn't be happiness without a violin-playing goat.
spike		Voila.  Carnival Calypso, for the Queen of Notting Hill -- pepperoni, pineapple and a little more pepperoni.
anna		Fantastic.
william		I don't mention that Anna's a vegetarian, did I?
spike		 I have some parsnip stew from last week. If I just peel the skin off, it'll be perfect.
anna		You've got big feet.
william		Yes.  Always have had.
anna		You know what they say about men with big feet?
william		No.  What's that?
anna		Big feet -- large shoes.
anna		The thing that's so irritating is that now I'm so totally fierce when it comes to nudity clauses.
william		You actually have clauses in your contact about nudity?
anna		Definitely.  'You may show the dent at the top of the artist's buttocks -- but neither cheek.  In the event of a stunt person being used, the artist must have full consultation.'
william		You have a stunt bottom?
anna		I could have a stunt bottom, yes.
william		Would you be tempted to go for a slightly better bottom than your own?
anna		Definitely.  Ths is important stuff.
william		It's one hell of a job.  What do you put on your passport?  Profession -- Mel Gibson's bottom.
anna		Actually, Mel does his own ass work. Why wouldn't he?  It's delicious.
william		The ice cream or Mel Gibson's bottom?
anna		Both.
anna		Today has ben a good day.  Which under the circumstances is... unexpected.
william		Well, thank you.  Anyway -- time for bed.  Or... sofa-bed.
anna		Right.
william		 Hello.
spike		Hello.  I wonder if I could have a little word.
william		Spike.
spike		I don't want to interfere, or anything ... but she's split up from her boy- friend, that's right isn't it?
william		Maybe.
spike		And she's in your house.
william		Yes.
spike		And you get on very well.
william		Yes.
spike		Well, isn't this perhaps a good opportunity to... slip her one?
william		Spike.  For God's sake -- she's in trouble -- get a grip.
spike		Right.  Right.  You think it's the wrong moment.  Fair enough.  Do you mind if I have a go?
william		Spike!
spike		No -- you're right.
william		I'll talk to you in the morning.
spike		Okay -- okay.  Might be too late, but okay.
william		Oh please sod off.
anna		Okay.
william		No! No.  Wait.  I... thought you were someone else.  I thought you were Spike. I'm delighted you're not.
william		Wow.
anna		What?
william		Nothing.
william		It still strikes me as, well, surreal, that I'm allowed to see you naked.
anna		You and every person in this country.
william		Oh God yes -- I'm sorry.
anna		What is it about men and nudity? Particularly breasts -- how can you be so interested in them?
william		Well...
anna		No seriously.  I mean, they're just breasts.  Every second person in the world has got them...
william		More than that actually, when you think about it.  You know, Meatloaf has a very nice pair...
anna		But... they're odd-looking.  They're for milk.  Your mum's got them.  You must have seen a thousand of them -- what's the fuss about?
william		 Actually, I can't think really -- let me just have a quick look...
william		No, beats me.
anna		Rita Hayworth used to say -- 'they go to bed with Gilda -- they wake up with me.' Do you feel that?
william		Who was Gilda?
anna		Her most famous part -- men went to bed with the dream -- and they didn't like it when they woke up with the reality -- do you feel that way with me?
william		 You're lovelier this morning than you have ever been.
anna		 Oh.
anna		I'll be back.
anna		Breakfast in bed.  Or lunch, or brunch.
anna		Can I stay a bit longer?
william		Stay forever.
anna		Damn, I forgot the jam.
anna		You get the door, I'll get the jam.
william		Jesus Christ.
anna		What?
william		Don't ask.
anna		You're up to something...
anna		Oh my God.  And they got a photo of you dressed like that?
william		Undressed like this, yes.
anna		Jesus.
spike		Morning, daring ones.
anna		 Damnit.
william		I wouldn't go outside.
spike		Why not?
william		Just take my work for it.
spike		How did I look?
spike		Not bad.  No bad at all.  Well-chosen briefs, I'd say.  Chicks love grey. Mmmmm.  Nice firm buttocks.
william		How are you doing?
anna		How do you think I'm doing?
william		I don't know what happened.
anna		I do.  Your furry friend thought he'd make a buck or two telling the papers where I was.
william		That's not true.
anna		Really?  The entire British press just woke up this morning and thought 'Hey -- I know where Anna Scott is.  She's in that house with the blue door in Notting Hill.'  And then you go out in your goddamn underwear.
spike		 I went out in my goddamn underwear too.
william		Get out, Spike.  I'm so sorry.
anna		This is such a mess.  I come to you to protect myself against more crappy gossip and now I'm landed in it all over again.  For God's sake, I've got a boyfriend.
william		You do?
anna		As far as they're concerned I do.  And now tomorrow there'll be pictures of you in every newspapers from here to Timbuktu.
william		I know, I know -- but... just -- let's stay calm...
anna		You can stay calm -- it's the perfect situation for you -- minimum input, maximum publicity.  Everyone you ever bump into will know.  'Well done you -- you slept with that actress -- we've seen the pictures.'
william		That's spectacularly unfair.
anna		Who knows, it may even help business. Buy a boring book about Egypt from the guy who screwed Anna Scott.
william		Now stop.  Stop.  I beg you -- calm down. Have a cup of tea.
anna		I don't want a goddamn cup of tea.  I want to go home.
william		Spike, check who that is... and for God's sake put some clothes on.
spike		Looks like a chauffeur to me.
anna		And remember -- Spike owes you an expensive dinner.  Or holiday -- depending if he's got the brains to get the going rate on betrayal.
william		That's not true.  And wait a minute... this is crazy behavior.  Can't we just laugh about this?  Seriously -- in the huge sweep of things, this stuff doesn't matter.
spike		What he's going to say next is -- there are people starving in the Sudan.
william		Well, there are.  And we don't need to go anywhere near that far.  My best friend slipped -- she slipped down- stairs, cracked her back and she's in a wheelchair for the rest of her life. All I'm asking for is a normal amount of perspective.
anna		You're right: of course, you're right. It's just that I've dealt with this garbage for ten years now -- you've had it for ten minutes.  Our perspectives are different.
william		I mean -- today's newspapers will be lining tomorrow's waste paper bins.
anna		Excuse me?
william		Well, you know -- it's just one day. Today's papers will all have been thrown away tomorrow.
anna		You really don't get it.  This story gets filed.  Every time anyone writes anything about me -- they'll dig up these photos.  Newspapers last forever. I'll regret this forever.
william		Right.  Fine.  I will do the opposite, if it's all right by you -- and always be glad you came.  But you're right -- you probably better go.
william		Was it you?
spike		I suppose I might have told one or two people down the pub.
william		Right.
honey		Have we got something for you. Something which will make you love me so much you'll want to hug me every single day for the rest of my life.
william		Blimey.  What's that?
honey		The phone number of Anna Scott's agent in London and her agent in New York. You can ring her.  You think about her all the time -- now you can ring her!
william		Well, thanks, that's great.
honey		It is great, isn't it.  See you tonight. Hey, Marty-- sexy cardy.
bella		I have a little speech to make -- I won't stand up because I can't... be bothered. Exactly a year ago today, this man here started the finest restaurant in London.
tony		Thank you very much.
bella		Unfortunately -- no one ever came to eat here.
tony		A tiny hiccough.
bella		And so we must face the fact that from next week, we have to find somewhere near to eat.
bella		I just want to say to Tony -- don't take it personally.  The more I think about things, the more I see no rhyme or reason in life -- no one knows why some things work out, and some things don't -- why some of us get lucky -- and some of us...
bernie		... get fired.
bella		No!
bernie		Yes, they're shifting the whole outfit much more towards the trading side -- and of course...  I was total crap.
tony		So we go down together!  A toast to Bernie -- the worst stockbroker in the whole world!
honey		Since it's an evening of announcements ... I've also got one, Ahm... I've decided to get engaged.
honey		I've found myself a nice, slightly odd looking bloke who I know is going to make me happy for the rest of my life.
william		Wait a minute -- I'm your brother and I don't know anything about this.
max		Is it someone we know?
honey		Yes.  I will keep you informed.
honey		By the way -- it's you.
spike		Me?
honey		Yes.  What do you think?
spike		Well, yes.  Groovy.
max		Any more announcements?
william		Yes -- I feel I must apologize to everyone for my behavior for the last six months.  I have, as you know, been slightly down in the mouth.
max		There's an understatement.  There are dead people on better form.
william		But I wish to make it clear I've turned a corner and henceforward intend to be impressively happy.
bella		I'm really horribly drunk.
max		So -- you've laid the ghost.
william		I believe I have.
max		Don't give a damn about the famous girl.
william		No, don't think I do.
max		Which means you won't be distracted by the fact that she's back in London, grasping her Oscar, and to be found filming most days on Hampstead Heath.
william		 Oh God no.
max		So not over her, in fact.
security		Can I help you?
william		Yes -- I was looking for Anna Scott...
security		Does she know you're coming?
william		No, no.  She doesn't.
security		I'm afraid I can't really let you through then, sir.
william		Oh right.  I mean, I am a friend -- I'm not a lunatic but -- no, you basically...
security		... can't let you through.
anna		This is certainly... ah...
william		I only found out you were here yesterday.
anna		I was going to ring... but... I didn't think you'd want to...
third		Anna.
anna		 It's not going very well -- and it's our last day.
william		Absolutely -- you're clearly very busy.
anna		But... wait... there are things to say.
william		Okay.
anna		Drink tea -- there's lots of tea.
karen		Come and have a look...
karen		Are you a fan of Henry James?
william		This is Henry James film?
karen		This is Harry -- he'll give you a pair of headphones so you can hear the dialogue.
harry		Here we go.  The volume control is on the side.
william		That's great.
james		We are living in cloudcuckooland -- we'll never get this done today.
anna		We have to.  I've got to be in New York on Thursday.
james		Oh, stop showing off.
james		God, that's an enormous arse.
anna		I'm not listening.
james		No, but seriously -- it's not fair -- so many tragic young teenagers with anorexia -- and that girl has an arse she could perfectly well share round with at least ten other women -- and still be beg-bottomed.
anna		I said I'm not listening -- and I think, looking at something that firm, you and your droopy little excuse for an 'arse' would be well-advised to keep quiet.
anna		So I ask you when you're going to tell everyone, and you say...?
james		'Tomorrow will be soon enough.'
anna		And then I... right.
james		Who was that rather difficult chap you were talking to on the way up?
anna		Oh... no one... no one.  Just some... guy from the past.  I don't know what he's doing here.  Bit of an awkward situation.
william		Of course.
william		Thank you.
harry		Anytime.
spike		What's going on?
william		I'm going to throw out these old videos.
spike		No.  You can't bin these.  They're classics.  I'm not allowing this.
william		Right -- let's talk about rent...
spike		Let me help.  We don't want all this shit cluttering up our lives.
martin		I have to disturb you when you're cooking the books, but there's a delivery.
william		Martin, can't you just deal with this yourself?
martin		But it's not for the shop.  It's for you.
william		Okay.  Tell me, would I have to pay a wet rag as much as I pay you?
anna		Hi.
william		Hello.
anna		You disappeared.
william		Yes -- I'm sorry -- I had to leave... I didn't want to disturb you.
anna		Well... how have you been?
william		Fine.  Everything much the same.  When they change the law Spike and I will marry immediately.  Whereas you... I've watched in wonder.  Awards, glory ...
anna		Oh no.  It's all nonsense, believe me. I had no idea how much nonsense it all was -- but nonsense it all is...  Well, yesterday was our last day filming and so I'm just off -- but I brought you this from home, and...
anna		I thought I'd give it to you.
william		Thank you.  Shall I...
anna		No, don't open it yet -- I'll be embarrassed.
william		Okay -- well, thank you.  I don't know what it's for.  But thank you anyway.
anna		I actually had it in my apartment in New York and just thought you'd... but, when it came to it, I didn't know how to call you... having behaved so... badly, twice.  So it's been just sitting in the hotel.  But then... you came, so I figured... the thing is... the thing is ...
william		What's the thing?
william		Don't even think about it.  Go away immediately.
william		You were saying...
anna		Yes.  The thing is... I have to go away today but I wondered, if I didn't, whether you might let me see you a bit... or, a lot maybe... see if you could... like me again.
william		But yesterday... that actor asked you who I was... and you just dismissed me out of hand... I heard -- you had a microphone... I had headphones.
anna		You expect me to tell the truth about my life to the most indiscreet man in England?
martin		Excuse me -- it's your mother on the phone.
william		Can you tell her I'll ring her back.
martin		I actually tried that tack -- but she said you said that before and it's been twenty-four hours, and her foot that was purple is now a sort of blackish color...
william		Okay -- perfect timing as ever -- hold the fort for a second will you, Martin?
martin		Can I just say, I thought 'Ghost' was a wonderful film.
anna		Is that right?
martin		Yes... I've always wondered what Patrick Swayze is like in real life.
anna		I can't say I know Patrick all that well.
martin		Oh dear.  He wasn't friendly during the filming?
anna		Well, no -- I'm sure he was friendly -- to Demi Moore -- who acted with him in 'Ghost.'
martin		Oh right.  Right.  Sorry.  Always been a bit of an ass.
martin		Anyway... it's lovely to meet you.  I'm a great fan of yours.  And Demi's, of course.
william		Sorry about that.
anna		That's fine.  There's always a pause when the jury goes out to consider its verdict.
william		Anna.  Look -- I'm a fairly level- headed bloke.  Not often in and out of love.  But...
william		... can I just say 'no' to your kind request and leave it at that?
anna		... Yes, that's fine.  Of course.  I... you know... of course... I'll just... be getting along then... nice to see you.
william		The truth is...
william		... with you, I'm in real danger.  It took like a perfect situation, apart from that foul temper of yours -- but my relatively inexperienced heart would, I fear, not recover if I was once again ... cast aside, which I would absolutely expect to be.  There are too many pictures of you everywhere, too many films.  You'd go and I'd be... well, buggered, basically.
anna		I see.  That reality is a real 'no,' isn't it?
william		I live in Notting Hill.  You live in Beverly Hills.  Everyone in the world knows who you are.  My mother has trouble remembering my name.
anna		Okay.  Fine.  Fine.  Good decision.
anna		The fame thing isn't really real, you know.  Don't forget -- I'm also just a girl.  Standing in front of a boy. Asking him to love her.
anna		Bye.
william		What do you think?  Good move?
honey		Good move: when all is said and done, she's nothing special.  I saw her taking her pants off and I definitely glimpsed some cellulite down there.
bella		Good decision.  All actresses are mad as snakes.
william		Tony -- what do you think?
tony		Never met her, never want to.
william		Brilliant.  Max?
max		Absolutely.  Never trust a vegetarian.
william		Great.  Excellent.  Thanks.
spike		I was called and I came.  What's up?
honey		William has just turned down Anna Scott.
spike		You daft prick!
bella		This painting isn't the original, is it?
william		Yes, I think that one may be.
bernie		But she said she wanted to go out with you?
william		Yes -- sort of...
bernie		That's nice.
william		What?
bernie		Well, you know, anybody saying they want to go out with you is... pretty great... isn't it...
william		It was sort of sweet actually -- I mean, I know she's an actress and all that, so she can deliver a line -- but she said that she might be as famous as can be -- but also... that she was just a girl, standing in front of a boy, asking him to love her.
william		Oh sod a dog.  I've made the wrong decision, haven't I?
william		Max, how fast is your car?
max		If anyone gets in our way -- we have small nuclear devices.
bernie		And we intend to use them!
max		Where's Bella?
honey		She's not coming.
max		Sod that.  Bernie -- in the back!
max		Come on, babe.
bella		Where are you going?
max		Down Kensington Church Street, then Knightsbridge, then Hyde Park Corner.
bella		Crazy.  Go along Bayswater...
honey		That's right -- then Park Lane.
bernie		Or you could go right down to Cromwell Road, and left.
william		No!
max		Stop right there!  I will decide the route.  All right?
all		All right.
max		James Bond never has to put up with this sort of shit.
bernie		Bloody hell, this is fun.
william		Is Miss Scott staying here?
ritz man		No, sir.
william		How about Miss Flintstone?
ritz man		No, sir.
william		Or Bambi... or, I don't know, Beavis or Butthead?
ritz man		No, sir.
william		Right.  Right.  Fair enough.  Thanks.
ritz man		There was a Miss Pocahontas in room 126 -- but she checked out an hour ago.  I believe she's holding a press conference at The Savoy before flying to America.
bernie		We have lift off!!
spike		Bugger this for a bunch of bananas.
spike		Go!
honey		You're my hero.
max		Go!
william		Excuse me, where's the press conference?
william		Yes...
william		That's right... I work for their in- house magazine.  'Movies are our business.'
bella		He's with me.
bella		Writing an article about how London hotels treat people in wheelchairs.
honey		 Run!
jeremy		Yes... You -- Dominic.
questioner 1		How much longer are you staying in the UK then?
anna		No time at all.  I fly out tonight.
jeremy		Which is why we have to round it up now. Final questions.
questioner  2		Is your decision to take a year off anything to do with the rumours about Jeff and his present leading lady?
anna		Absolutely not.
questioner 2		Do you believe the rumours?
anna		It's really not my business any more. Though I will say, from my experience, that rumours about Jeff... do tend to be true.
questioner 3		Last time you were here, there were some fairly graphic photographs of you and a young English guy -- so what happened there?
anna		He was just a friend -- I think we're still friends.
jeremy		Yes, the gentleman in the pink shirt.
william		Yes -- Miss Scott -- are there any circumstances in which you two might be more than just friends?
anna		I hoped there might be -- but no, I'm assured there aren't.
william		And what would you say...
jeremy		No, it's just one question per person.
anna		No, let him... ask away.  You were saying?
william		Yes, I just wondered whether if it turned out that this... person...
other journalist		 His name is Thacker.
william		Thanks.  I just wondered if Mr. Thacker realized he'd been a daft prick and got down on his knees and begged you to reconsider, whether you would... reconsider.
anna		Yes, I'm pretty sure I would.
william		That's very good news.  The readers of 'Horse and Hound' will be absolutely delighted.
jeremy		Dominic -- if you'd like to ask your question again?
questioner 1		Yes -- Anna -- how long are you intending to stay here in Britain?
anna		Indefinitely.
spike		What happened?
honey		It was good.
****Dialogues from script :Nurse_Betty.txt****

nurse betty		 Screenplay by John C. Richards & James Flamberg
david		 Close her up, will you?
blake		There's been a train crash near Santa Barbara. They're flying an aortal trauma here now.  How can I ask you this, David...
david		I can do it, Blake.
chloe		Is he crazy, Jasmine?   He's been on his feet for fourteen hours.
jasmine		Chloe, it's been this way since Leslie died.  Losing himself in his work, poor thing...
older man		Miss?
older man		 Did anybody see that?
older man		 Thank you.  Could I bother you for a little more...?
betty		Skim, right?  And half a pack, if I remember correct...
younger man		You want a tip when I'm through?
betty		It's your body...
younger man		 That's right, so why don't you get up off it...
older man		Wesley...  I've told him the same thing.  Thanks for the suggestion.
betty		No problem.
roy		Hi, Betty.  You're looking good...
betty		Thanks, Roy, you're sweet... a big liar, but sweet.  I liked your editorial this morning...
roy		Oh, appreciate it.  I was trying to, ahh, give a sense of history to...
ballard		 Yeah, it was great.  Really put the whole idea of "church bake sales" in perspective...
roy		You know, Elden, some people actually read more than just the Classifieds...
ballard		Why don't you go back to doing something you're good at... like that Lonelyhearts column?  I'll take a refill there, Betty...
betty		Hey, Sheriff.  How's everything?
ballard		Oh, you know, the usual... keeping the world safe.
betty		... I meant your food.
ballard		Oh, right... 's fine.  Thanks.
roy		I thought you said the eggs weren't...
ballard		It's fine.  Mind your own meal...
roy		You should get the order you want.
ballard		And you should keep your nose out of another man's omelette...  It's no big deal, Betty.
betty		There's yolks in there, huh?  It's no prob'... gotta keep you on track.
ballard		Why you always gotta embarrass me?  I been eating lunch with you since grade school and you always gotta embarrass me!
roy		They're just eggs, Elden, how embarrassing can eggs be?
ballard		... plenty
roy		Who eats eggs for lunch, anyhow?
ballard		Mind your own business.  You just said that shit so you could look at her a little longer, anyway...
betty		Come on, guys, I told you it's egg whites only for the Sheriff...  ... I put him in that 'zone' thing.
lonnie		Blake, I can handle that transplant!
blake		We need someone with the right kind of experience, Lonnie.
lonnie		Even if he's falling asleep on his feet?
blake		Lonnie, it's a complex procedure.  Why don't you observe?
lonnie		I'm not some snot-nosed resident fresh out of medical school, Blake.
blake		No, you're not.  You're a good doctor, Lonnie, but you're not David Ravell. I've made my decision.  Now, if you'll excuse me ...
betty		Hey!  We were watching that!
betty		It's "Nielson"...
darlene		When you gonna get those things fixed, anyhow?
betty		... alright, I get it, no more TV. Sorry.
darlene		On the goddamn internet, where else?
betty		You're joking...
darlene		One candle... uh-oh, you're getting up there!  Doesn't David like 'em young?
betty		I'm over the hill, what can I say?
darlene		... but keep putting off thanks to a certain husband we won't mention...
betty		Oh, guys, you didn't have to do that!
darlene		So how you gonna celebrate?  Del takin' you into Wichita for a big fancy dinner?
betty		Yeah, Dairy Queen, maybe...  Oh, I should probably call him.  Thanks, you guys...
answering machine		 Hello there!  You've reached Sizemore Motors, home of the best selection of used General Motors cars in the Big Springs - Fair Oaks area.  We can't come to the phone right now 'cause we're out making a sale, so leave us a message; better yet, come on down and steal one 'a these beauties right out from under us! Coffee's always on!
del		Whoa, whoa, whoa!  Hang on a second there, baby.  Why do you need one of the new Buicks?
del		I ran back in to get the phone.
del		What's so special about it?
del		Nothing... it's, ahh, busy here.  Look, you don't need a LeSabre to go out with Sue Ann.  Take the blue Corsica.  I'll see you when I get home.
joyce		Uhh, no, we haven't picked a date yet... well, once he dumps her we will.  He's out pricing banners... I don't expect him back.
betty		"Banners?"
joyce		You know, flags and shit... he said "for a livelier look" or something.
betty		No, I was just... How you doing?
joyce		Great.  Good.  Content...
betty		Oh.  How come?
joyce		I dunno.  Job satisfaction, I guess...  How's things at the Tip Top?
betty		They're fine... you miss it?
joyce		You must be joking.
betty		Hmm.  So, Del get that car he sold you up and running yet?
joyce		Oh, yeah, he's got things up and running, alright...
betty		'Kay, good.  Bye, then...
joyce		Uh-huh.  Anyway, I'm thinking Easter, 'cause I just fucking love pastels.
betty		Oh, Christ, what am I gonna do with you?
betty		We deserve this.
sue ann		Hey, darling... oww!  Sorry, got my own little Gulf War going on here.
betty		Did you watch it yet?
sue ann		Sure did. I'll tell you, if that man was any better looking it'd be a crime 'a some sort...
betty		Yep.  Hey, I got a surprise for tonight. We're going to the Starlite in style!
sue ann		Oh, Betty--
betty		I'll give you a hint.  If you scrunch up your eyes a bit it looks just like a Jaguar...
sue ann		Honey, I'm really sorry, I was gonna call you about tonight. Larry's got a lodge meeting. There's no way I can get a sitter this fast.
betty		 No... what about your sister?
sue ann		I can't ask her again-- Nathan, stop it! Jesse, don't take that, hit back!-- I feel terrible, hon.
betty		It's all right.
sue ann		You sure?  Maybe next week we could...
betty		Uh-huh.  No, we'll do it later.  'S only a birthday, right?  I'll have another one next year...
sue ann		Aahhh...  So what color is it?
betty		What?
sue ann		The LeSabre!
betty		Maroon.  I stole it.
sue ann		What?
betty		He wasn't going to let us use it, so I just took it.
sue ann		Oh, I wish we could just get in it and drive, and drive, and drive!
betty		Yeah, me too.
sue ann		Sorry, hon.  Happy Birthday...
betty		I gotta go make dinner.
betty		Sure you don't want any salad?
del		No, I do not want any goddamn... what was all that shit on the phone about the new Buicks?
betty		I told you.  Sue Ann was gonna take me out tonight, but...
del		She's not comfortable in a Corsica?  'S got air and leather...
betty		I took the blue Corsica, Del.  Relax.
del		All right, then.  Actually, I'm glad you're going out.  I got something going on tonight.  Some serious clients, with real potential.
betty		... like the water purifiers?
del		What?
betty		Or the vitamins?  Or the...?
del		Hey, the FDA screwed me on that when they changed the law, and you know it!  Anyway, 'least I try shit, still got some dreams left... you're a goddamn waitress, what do you got?
betty		I got you, Del...
del		... well, then you ain't got much.
betty		Oh, I know.  So, who're these clients?
del		Couple 'a guys in from outta town.  They want to see the new LeSabres.
betty		Just knock it off, 'kay?  Anyhow, they're 97's, they're not even new.
del		They're new to us...
betty		Yeah, I guess there's nothing like watching those tenpins fall, huh, Del?
del		That is a skill!
betty		What the hell am I doing?
lonnie		Tell me something good, Sugar.
chloe		We're all set.  I told him my car's in the shop.  He said he'd be happy to give me a ride home.
lonnie		 You're beautiful.
chloe		Tell me something I don't know...
chloe		Thanks for pulling over, David... I can't go that fast without taking a breather.
david		Sorry... it's nice to see what this little beauty can do, though.  I guess, somehow, all that speed helps me forget the past...
chloe		I'm sure it does...  Mmm, leather.  How far do they recline?
betty		Damn!
del		... you can have the best damn running backs in the world, somebody's still gotta block for 'em.
charlie		You're a hundred percent right.  They rely on what's-his-name's arm too much...  Del stops and looks around, deflated by the mess.  The den is only a short flight of steps from the living room and the kitchen.  Betty has a clean view of both from where she sits on the couch.
del		Now, what can I get you gentlemen to drink?
charlie		Bourbon, little water, thank you.
wesley		Beer, please.
del		You got it.
wesley		Hey... you got a fine one right here!
charlie		Wesley...  Your wife's a very lovely woman.  Have I seen her before?
del		If you ate at the Tip Top you did.
charlie		Oh, yes, with the coffee...
del		Yep, Betty pours a pretty mean cup.
charlie		I like this.  I like doing business in the home. It's cozy...  Who's birthday?
del		Ahh... my wife's.
wesley		What'd you get her?
del		Huh?  Oh, umm, a car.  So, to a successful transaction...
david		I'm sorry, Chloe.
del		All right gentlemen, let's get down to it.  I need to know if you're for real.
charlie		If we're for real?
del		You don't exactly look like drug dealers.
wesley		Isn't that the point?
del		Yeah, well,  I don't have time to screw around.  I got buyers in Dallas, Houston and Vegas who are ready to snap this stuff up.
charlie		We appreciate that.  But you just poured me a drink, I'd like to enjoy your hospitality for a few minutes.
del		Fine.  You got five...
charlie		It's a nice place you got here.  Real comfortable.  Sweet little town, Fair Oaks.  You like it here?
del		 Are you kidding me?  What's to like?
wesley		Seems like a nice place.
del		It is, if you like idiots...
charlie		What do you mean?
del		It's a small town, man.  I never should have left Omaha.  People here think
wesley		Really?
del		You better believe it.
charlie		Could you give us an example?
del		Of what?
charlie		I'm asking you for an example of one of these dumb fucks being a dumb fuck.
del		I don't follow...
charlie		You're not a dumb fuck, are you, Del?
del		 No...
charlie		I didn't think so.  So, give me an example of a stupid person doing a stupid thing.  Not being stupid, you're equipped to recognize it.
del		Are we gonna do business here, or not?
wesley		Relax, we brought the cash.
charlie		I'm just curious.  Can't you give me an example?
del		 All right ... lemme see ... okay, new Burger King opens up.  These assholes get excited and start lining up.  Like it's some five star restaurant.  The place is mobbed.  Right?
charlie		Hmmmm.  "Five Stars," huh?  Is that stupid, Wesley?
wesley		No, that's ignorant.  They just don't know any better.
charlie		That's what I thought.  You better give me another example.
del		This is bullshit, can we get down to business here, please?
wesley		He's waiting...
del		Okay, uh... the, umm, Injuns're stupid.
wesley		"Injuns?"
charlie		You did not just say "Injuns," Del.
del		The Indians, Injuns, whatever.  They're always drunk and doing stupid things.
charlie		Like what?
del		Driving their cars into trees... puking on the sidewalk... stupid shit!
charlie		Let's see... around here that would be Kiowa, Kickapoo or Osage, if I'm not mistaken.
del		I... I don't know...
charlie		Well, my idea of stupid is very different from yours.  So here's how this is gonna work.  Would you take your socks off, please?
del		My socks?
wesley		You heard the man.
charlie		I'm gonna talk to you and when I'm finished, you can answer.  But I don't like being interrupted.  Now roll them into a ball...
del		Oh, Jesus, please...  Please, God.
charlie		... and put them in your mouth.
david		 You're wonderful, Chloe, you are... But I just know there's something special out there for me.
charlie		Now I'm gonna tell you what stupid is. Stupid is taking something that doesn't belong to you.  Right Wesley?
wesley		That's right.
charlie		Stupid is trying to sell it to other people who are, by their very nature, untrustworthy.
wesley		That is so right.
charlie		Stupid is calling people in Kansas City who are affiliated with the rightful owners of the thing you stole, and trying to sell it to them.  Right Wesley?
wesley		Now, that's really stupid.
charlie		So you see, we have totally different ideas of what's stupid and what's not. Don't we?
wesley		Hell of a way to die.
charlie		It wasn't always fatal, Wesley.  We could scalp Del right now, and he'd be plenty alive to tell us how it feels.
wesley		A mark, huh?
charlie		Now.  I want to know the particulars of your stupid act:  how you got what doesn't belong to you, who helped you get it, and of course, where it is now.
del		It's in the Buick!  I swear to God it's all there!
david		You wanted to see me, Blake?
blake		I wish I could say I had good news.  David, I'll get right to the point. Chloe Jensen has filed charges of sexual
del		I got it from a truck driver named Duane Cooley, out of Amarillo.  He brings my cars down from Detroit.  But I haven't touched it, I swear to you... Please! Please!  Please!
charlie		Consider yourself lucky.  Luckier than those 'Injuns' you have such contempt for.
wesley		IT SURE IS!!
charlie		JESUS CHRIST!!!
charlie		Are you out of your mind?  You scalped him!
wesley		You told me how to do it!
charlie		That was to get him to talk!  Get rid of that thing, will you?
wesley		He told us it's in the Buick.
charlie		We don't know which Buick, do we?
wesley		Well, why'd you shoot him?
charlie		I had to shoot him!  It was the only decent thing to do.
sue ann		 Happy Birthday to you!  Happy Birthday to you!  Happy Birthday, dear--
david		... you're wonderful, Chloe, you are... But I just know there's something special out there for me.
deputy		Hang on there, Roy.  Nobody comes in.
roy		Elden called me.  He wants to, ahh, make a statement for the paper...
roy		Hey, Betty.  Are you okay?
betty		I'm great, good, content.  What happened to your arm, Roy?
roy		Oh, nothing, it's fine. I just need to keep it wrapped for a few...
betty		Make sure it's elevated...
roy		Uh-huh.
betty		You want me to make you a sling? It's no problem...
roy		Well, I was worried about you and I wanted to make sure you were alright... and I guess I was sort of hoping I could ask you about what happened...
betty		Oh, that... Sure, I saw the whole thing. It was disgusting!
roy		My God... did you get a look at who did it?
betty		Yes.
roy		You did?  Was it anyone that you...?
betty		It was Chloe...
ballard		Hey, you guys wanna try not stepping directly in the evidence, please?  Ostrey, you and your goddamn police scanner! I leave for ten minutes and... Betty, I'm sorry about this.
betty		'Night, guys...
ballard		Okay, let's go... I got nothing for the record yet.
roy		Oww! My arm, careful!
ballard		Ahh, what'd you do now... fall off your bike again?
roy		No, it's nothing, I... my piranha just mauled me a little when I layed their food out.
ballard		Good God...they're meat eaters, Roy, just drop the shit in there!
roy		I can't...they prefer a more formal presentation. I don't usually go so close to the surface, but I was...
ballard		...you are so goddamn weird.  Oh, and by the way, get the hell outta here!
roy		No, Elden, I need to...
ballard		You need to get yourself gone from my crime scene. And leave Betty alone, she's...
roy		She knows who killed Del.  Elden, she said it was a woman.
ballard		It wasn't a woman.
roy		Yes it was.  Betty saw the whole thing! Your killer's name is Chloe...
ballard		I'm tellin' you it wasn't no woman, Roy!
roy		Jesus...
ballard		You think a woman did that?!
ballard		Kinda' looks like a burnt out roman candle, don't he?  Del must've sold a lemon to the wrong Indian, and got paid back the old fashioned way.  Them Kickapoos get pretty mean when they drink...
roy		So, you think you're gonna find his scalp hanging in some tepee?
ballard		They no longer live in tepees, Mr. College Graduate.
roy		Did you send anyone out there?
ballard		You bet I did.  I got a squad car on the way to the reservation right now.
roy		Bad idea ...
ballard		You just go write your little story, Roy. I'll handle the police work...
roy		You better handle what's in this garbage can first.
wesley		I still don't understand how you knew Del was telling the truth.
charlie		I saw his soul Wesley.  He was face to face with his God, and no one lies in that situation.  But your Geronimo act rattled me, and I abandoned my instincts.  Never abandon you instincts.
wesley		I didn't.  You gave me a look!
charlie		What 'look'?
wesley		That one look you got!  I thought you were done, so I took him out...
charlie		I wasn't done, I was just sick of hearing him whine.  And you didn't take him out, you scalped him.  Christ, I almost puked, did I tell you that?
wesley		Well, why'd you have to tell that Indian story?
charlie		What the hell does that mean?  If I'd told a Ty Cobb story would you have clubbed him to death with a bat?
wesley		You just gonna leave these cars sitting here like this?
charlie		Why not, it'll confuse 'em... gotta do something, now that you fucked it up.
wesley		I wanted to make a statement.
charlie		Let me tell you something.  In our business you can't put food on the table if your phone doesn't ring.  The guys who get the calls are good - not flashy, just good.  They get in, they get out.  Nobody knows a goddamn thing.  Understand? Boom, boom, boom.  Three in the head and you know they're dead.
wesley		... that's a good motto.
charlie		Fine, I'll get you a bumpersticker, but you better start believing it!  It's the only statement you need to make.
doctor		And did your husband know these people?
betty		Sort of...but he ignored them.
doctor		And how did that make you feel, Betty?
betty		I felt all cold inside.  And angry.
ballard		I questioned Joyce about all this...
roy		Yeah?
ballard		Seems she was pretty familiar with 'ol Del. On a regular basis, if you get my drift...
roy		... and half the other guys in this town. Including you, I believe...
ballard		Junior year!
roy		Anyway, so what?
ballard		So? ... Suppose Betty found out about them?
roy		You said a woman couldn't have done it.
ballard		A woman can write a check.
roy		So you're saying Betty Sizemore - our Betty Sizemore--who you were in swing choir with--has now hired somebody to scalp her husband in her own kitchen while she watched?  You're amazing.
ballard		'S just a theory...just 'cause I'm thinking it don't mean I like it.
doctor		She's in a kind of shock. I see all the signs of a post-traumatic reaction with possible dissociative symptoms.
ballard		Could I have that in American?
doctor		It's a type of altered state...it allows a traumatized person to continue functioning.
ballard		So she did witness it?
roy		Oh, you're sharp as a tack, Elden.
ballard		That's it!  YOU'RE GONE!
roy		Oww, the arm, the arm!
ballard		You just don't know when to quit, Roy! You were jealous of me when I got hall monitor in seventh grade, and you're still jealous now!!!
roy		One question, Doctor, please!  You can't do this! I'm the press, I have rights!!
ballard		That's right, you have the right to remain silent.
doctor		I was saying that it seems probable that she witnessed the murder, but her memory of it is gone, at least for the time being. I also think you ought to have her
ballard		No... Friends from the diner maybe?
doctor		Well, you should find out.  She keeps talking about them...
sue ann		Let me know if you need anything, okay?
betty		Are you and Larry happy?
sue ann		Oh, I dunno... enough, I s'pose.
betty		Then you should treasure that... you gotta hold on to whatever you got that's any good, even if it's only a little bit.
sue ann		All you been through... I ever tell you what a good friend you are?
betty		All the time...
sue ann		Well, you are.
betty		Something bad happened to Del and me, didn't it?
sue ann		Yeah, hon.  Real bad.  You just get some sleep, everything's gonna be fine.
betty		Sue Ann, I'm sorry about all this, but I just know there's something special out there for me...
wesley		So you got Asian women?
duane		 Sure, I got Asian.  Got black, white, any color you like, video and magazine.  Got fat chicks and animals too, if you want 'em.  They're extra...
charlie		Mmmm.  Well, it was a piece of luck running into you, Duane. I thought I was
wesley		I like 'em small.  When you're inside a little Asian chick, it's like your dick is the axle that holds her body together.
duane		That's nicely put.  You outta get yourself to Thailand...
charlie		What part of Dixie are you from, Duane?
duane		Georgia.  In case I didn't tell you, it's cash only, gentlemen.
wesley		We can live with that.
charlie		I'm a Yankee, myself.  Massachusetts.
duane		Here's Ghengis Kunt and The Demilitarized Zone. Get it?  They're Korean, so they're pretty hot.
charlie		You know, it's interesting.  The South lost the Civil War, but they still seem to get all the glory.
duane		Huh?
charlie		Jeb Stuart, Stonewall Jackson, Jefferson Davis - they're all losers in my book.
duane		The fuck you talking about?
charlie		Even Robert E. Lee was a loser.
duane		 He goin' crazy on us, or what?
charlie		Did you know the most brutal, inhumane prison of the entire war was in Georgia?
duane		Really.  And where was that, old man?
charlie		Andersonville.  They did horrible things to men there...
lonnie		I think you better tell me what's going on here, Chloe.
chloe		I just feel... funny about what we did.
lonnie		 You feel guilty?  Let me remind you of something, sweetheart.  You're in this up to those fabulous eyes of yours. Understand?
charlie		... So, at a rest stop outside Logansport you noticed that two guys were slipping something extra in one of your cars, and you decided to see what it was.  Then you figured you'd take this valuable commodity and go into business yourself, even though it didn't belong to you.  But you needed a crackerjack salesman to move it, so you made the biggest mistake of your short life and chose Del.  Sound right so far?
wesley		Actually, I scalped him, and then you killed him.
charlie		Exactly.  Now, the one thing I don't get is that we checked all the Buicks on that lot.  Four '97 LeSabres and nothing in 'em.
wesley		Should I kill him now?
charlie		Wait.  Any last words, General Lee?
duane		Suck my dick, you Yankee piece of shit.
charlie		God, I admire that.  Ya see that, Wesley? That's why they get all the glory.
wesley		...why'd you spit on me?
charlie		Come on, Wesley, three shots.
wesley		Well, no one ever spit in my face before. Especially some cracker fuck.
charlie		You have to rise above it.  The professionals rise above that kind of thing...
newscaster		... small town of Fair Oaks ... has left people shaken ... owner-manager of Sizemore Motors ...
newscaster		 ... police are still investigating.
deputy		Sheriff, it's Betty Sizemore, on two!
ballard		SHHH!...  BETTY?   WHERE ARE YOU?
betty		I'm in a motel.  Has something happened to Del?  Did he do something stupid?
betty		IF THIS IS ABOUT DEL, FORGET IT!  I'M NOT COMING BACK!
betty		I'M THROUGH TALKING NOW!  GOODBYE!
ballard		The Assistant Manager, Mr. Wylie.
ballard		Only to say he was wearing green.
roy		What if the killers didn't see her?  You published her picture - you're gonna get her killed!
ballard		No, we're bringing the community into the effort to find her.
roy		You're lying!
ballard		I spoke to Betty Sizemore yesterday.  That's right.  There's no doubt in my mind, folks... she's on the run.  Whether or not she's mixed up in all this remains to be seen...
roy		That's bullshit, Sheriff!  You think she's a suspect!
ballard		I'd like to apologize for our local boy. He's been in love with Betty since the fifth grade, y'see.  He means well, but he's in over his head on this.
wesley		So how do we know that car's still in Fair Oaks?
charlie		We don't.  But a '97 Le Sabre'll be easy to find if it's here, town this size...  He said he gave his wife some car as a gift, remember?
wesley		I can eat because I know we didn't kidnap that woman.  I can eat because they aren't looking for us.  And I can eat 'cause I'm fucking hungry...  ... relax.  She's gonna end up on a milk carton and that's about it.
charlie		I hope you're right...
wesley		... I know I am.  Let's just do what we gotta do here, and get the fuck gone.
charlie		She got out of town awfully fast. And wasn't she quiet in that house?  I think most women would have screamed, don't you?  I know they would've... 
wesley		Mrs. Rogers?  I'm Dwight Campbell, with Neighborly Life Insurance.  I'm looking for Betty Sizemore.
sue ann		I wish I could help you, but I can't.
wesley		Aren't they precious?  Ma'am, she has a substantial death benefit coming to her from the tragic loss of her husband.  Does she have any relatives in the area?
sue ann		No.  Well, her grandparents are down in Oklahoma, but that's it...
wesley		I see.  And are you in touch with Mrs. Sizemore?
sue ann		No.  But I'm taping her show every day so she can watch it when she comes back.
wesley		Her show?
sue ann		"A Reason to Love."
wesley		I see.  Did Chloe testify?
sue ann		 I don't think she will. She's a slut, but I just don't think she's that mean. Jasmine'll bring her around...
wesley		Jasmine... Do you have yesterday's show on tape, by any chance?
charlie		... and how long did she work here?
darlene		Oh, five years, give or take.
charlie		Hmm... you two in high school together?
darlene		Aren't you a sweetheart... no, not quite. Anyway, she's been with us awhile.
charlie		But she wanted more out of life, right?
darlene		No... she just wanted something outta life.  Anything.  And with Del, she wasn't getting nothing.  That's her husband, Del.  I'm sorry about what happened and all, but that's the way I feel about all of this...
charlie		I see.  May I?
darlene		If it helps bring her back, be my guest...
charlie		Thank you for your cooperation.  Just one more thing... did she ever talk about getting rich?
darlene		... who doesn't?
wesley		... and what kind of car does she drive?
joyce		Well, she wanted a LeSabre, but Del made her use that blue Corsica...  So, is this what you boys'd call 'pumping me for information?'
wesley		Did you say LeSabre?
joyce		Look, she didn't kill Del over no car if that's what you're thinking.
wesley		But she could have taken one, right?
joyce		Maybe, but I don't think she had the nerve. I know her.  And I'm a pretty good judge of character...
wesley		... yeah, I can see that.
betty		Would you mind very much if I changed the channel at three o'clock?
merle		Yes.
betty		Please?  It's very important to me.  "A Reason to Love" comes on at three around here.
merle		ARE YOU DEAF?!!
betty		That's real funny.  Why don't you have another drink?
ellen		What's the matter here?
betty		I begged him to let me put that on!
ellen		He's a prick.  Merle?... You're a prick.
betty		Hi, I'm Betty.  I'll take a Miller, if you got it...
chloe		Lonnie?  It's Chloe.  We need to talk ... I don't think I can go through with this.
betty		Do you have a phone?
ellen		If it's long distance you can leave me a buck when you're done.
betty		Sue Ann?  It's Betty. I just wanted to let you know I'm okay ... Huh?  I'm at the Canyon Ranch Bar in ... 
merle		Phoenix...
ellen		Shut up, Merle... Williams.
betty		Williams, Arizona.  About halfway there, I guess.
sue ann		Halfway where? You've gotta come home. We've been worried sick about you.  Are you alright?
sue ann		Betty, honey, listen to me.  A man came by from Mutual Life Insurance.  He says you've got money comin' to you from Del's policy.  Del's life insurance policy-- Are you with me?
betty		Tell Del I'm sorry.  I left so quick, but I need to do this.
betty		I gotta go.  SUE ANN  Betty!  Listen to me!  Del is ...  Betty hangs up.
lonnie		How you holding up, amigo?
david		I just wish I knew why she's doing it.
lonnie		Yeah. Women are an unsolved mystery.
ellen		Where you headed, Betty?
betty		Los Angeles, California.
ellen		And you called your friend, and she's telling you not to go?  When I went to Europe my friends told me I was crazy.
betty		Europe?  The Europe?  This is my first time out of Kansas.
ellen		I should call you Dorothy.  When I left here I went straight to Italy.  Everybody told me not to go.  But I wanted to go to Rome ever since I saw Audrey Hepburn in "Roman Holiday," and goddamnit, I went.
betty		Did you love it?
ellen		Sure I loved it!  It was great.
betty		That's horrible!
ellen		No, he was a toad. Even more of a toad than Merle... I just wear the ring to keep the flies away.  Rome was the best thing I ever did, because I DID IT!  And I swear to you, it changed me.  I've been to Rome, Italy!  I sat every morning at the Cafe Sistina and had my cappuccino, and watched the pilgrims walk to mass, and no one can ever take that away from me.
betty		I left my husband two days ago.
ellen		Really?
betty		I'm getting back with my ex-fianc.  He proposed to me right around here, so I guess this is just sort of a sentimental stop...
ellen		Wait, I thought you said you'd never been outta Kansas...
betty		Oh.  I mean, except for that.  Yep.  I'm trading in a car dealer for a heart specialist, so that's pretty good...
ellen		Nice move.  Cedars Sinai?
betty		No.  Loma Vista.
ellen		 I s'pose his name's David Ravell.
betty		 How did you know?
ellen		What's his real name?
betty		Dr. David Ravell.
ellen		You mean... George McCord, the actor?
betty		No, I mean David Ravell. He's a surgeon.
ellen		Yeah, I know, we just watched him together, remember?  Up there on the TV.  Good God Almighty ... You're serious. I've heard about people like you.
betty		I'll go to the Hospital.
ellen		What if you can't find him?  What if you get out there, and nothing's the way you thought it was gonna be?
betty		Like Rome?
ellen		Worse.
betty		You made out alright.
ellen		Yeah, but at least I knew Rome was gonna be there when I arrived...
betty		Ellen, this is the biggest thing I've ever done, but I've gotta do it.
ellen		You take care of yourself then, Betty, and don't let anybody stop you...
betty		To tell you the truth, I can't believe I've made it this far.  It may not be Europe, but I just know there's something special out there for me...
merle		What planet is she from?
charlie		So she gets rid of the asshole and is set for life in the same day.
wesley		You think so?  Joyce says she's timid.
charlie		Joyce was screwing Del.
wesley		... among others.
charlie		I'd say that about torches her credibility, wouldn't you?
wesley		Yeah, well, if the wife's trying to sell it she'll fuck up.  She's an amateur, just like Del was.
charlie		Maybe...  Yes?
charlie		Sorry, you've got the wrong number.
wesley		A 'Finn?'  What is a Finn?
charlie		You should read more.  Listen to me.  I think this woman was waiting for a chance to do this, and we gave it to her.  She kept to herself for years, living with a pompous asshole.  Then she sees her opportunity, and BOOM! - she leaves that little mudpatch in the dust.  These heartlanders can't figure it out, 'cause that's not their sweet little Betty. Hah!  We've been tracking her for, what, three days and I already understand her better'n most the people in that shitty little burg.
wesley		So what the fuck's a Finn?
charlie		Oh, for Chrissakes.  It just means the kind of person who can eat shit for a long time without complaining, then cut their momma's throat and go dancing the same night.
wesley		Like... us?
charlie		No,... like a worthy adversary, Wesley. Like a very worthy adversary.
ballard		What the hell do you want?...  Hey, Sue Ann, what's up?
roy		We think we know where Betty is.
ballard		Ah, shit... Do I have to hear this now?
sue ann		What's with the tupperware, Elden, did Meredith run outta baggies?
ballard		No reason to get a plate dirty.
roy		I see you're sticking to the diet Betty put you on...
ballard		Worry about your own goddamn lunch!
roy		 Tell him what you told me.
sue ann		Betty is a big, big fan of the soap opera, "A Reason to Love." Look...
ballard		Why do I need to see this?  Did he ask you to...?
roy		Listen!  I saw 'Chloe' and 'Lonnie' on T.V.  They're television characters.
sue ann		Betty's in love with Dr. David Ravell, from the show.  What if she's out in Los Angeles looking for him?  The actor, I mean...
ballard		That's the dumbest thing I've ever heard.
roy		Yeah?  Well, she called Sue Ann yesterday from Arizona.
ballard		She said she was in Arizona, did she?
ballard		You people are even more stupid than I thought.  The woman's on the run and she's gonna just phone in her location?
sue ann		Come on, Elden, she's not on the run. Couldn't you at least call the Los Angeles Police Department?
roy		You gotta do that much.
ballard		Hey, I'm the law.  I don't gotta do nothing...
elizabeth		This is Betty at twelve.
charlie		Very graceful.  Perfect form.
elizabeth		Betty was a lovely child.
jerrold		And she always had such spirit!  But, after her mother died...
wesley		Would you say she was ambitious?
jerrold		Oh, there's no tellin' what that girl could've accomplished, and she never had it easy.  Never really had a childhood... caring for her father, going to school.
charlie		Wise beyond her years, I'm sure, and such poise, too.  Very, very impressive...
wesley		Well, then, did you ever get any indication that she wanted to leave her husband?
elizabeth		I don't like talking bad about the dead, but now that he's gone I can tell you she put up with things in that marriage I wouldn't have.  And yes, she, of all people, was the one who defended him. And that's why what that sheriff said makes me so angry.
charlie		What do you mean?
elizabeth		If anyone had paid to have that husband of hers killed, it would have been me.
charlie		 Mrs. Blaine?  I can tell you right now, without a doubt, that your granddaughter is alive, and did not kill Del Sizemore.
jerrold		You've got to be missing a piece of your soul to kill someone. That's not our Betty...
wesley		 ... why do you think you have to be missing a piece of your soul to kill somebody?
jerrold		Because it ain't natural, young man.
wesley		What are you talking about?  Killing's totally natural.  It's dying that isn't natural...
charlie		 Now, if Betty was running from someone, where do you think she'd go?
betty		God... I still look like a waitress.
chief nurse		Of course, I don't know every doctor who works here...
betty		Dr. Ravell's the finest surgeon on the staff.  You must know him.  He's incredibly handsome, gentle, considerate. He's being sued for sexual assault right now, but--  It's not true.  He was set up.
chief nurse		Well, I certainly would have heard about that.
betty		Of course, he's only here two days a week.  He's also on staff over at Loma Vista.
chief nurse		... I don't think I know that hospital.
betty		It's in a very pretty area that gets a lot of sun, has palm trees out front, mountains in the background...
chief nurse		Really?  You've just described all of Southern California.
chief nurse		 Well, I'm sorry, but I can't even consider you without references or a resume.  And frankly, I don't know how you could have forgotten them.
betty		There... you rest now.
older woman		Who... who're you?
betty		I'm... I'm Nurse Betty.
rosa		SOMEBODY HELP US!  PLEASE, SOMEBODY!
rosa		Please!
betty		He has no heartbeat!
rosa		You're hurting him!!
betty		I'm massaging his heart.  I saw it done once.
rosa		ARE YOU CRAZY?!!  STOP IT!!!
betty		LISTEN TO ME!  IF I DON'T DO THIS, HE'S DEAD!
rosa		Is he gonna live?
doctor		He's got a chance.  Thanks to what that nurse did.
administrator		 Harriet?  Who is that remarkable nurse?
chief nurse		That's Betty Sagamore.  I hired her today.
betty		May I have my key, please?
wesley		Thas' it, thas' it... conquer that bitch.  What time're they coming?
charlie		It's not an exact science, Wesley.  He said they'll be here... My Houston contact has always been very reliable.
wesley		And then we're gonna do her right here. Right?
charlie		You're always so coarse... "Do her right here."  Let's just see what happens, okay?  "I wish that I could find a way; To speak my thoughts on Mother's Day.  There are no words that quite express; My gratitude or happiness.  A pleasant smile perhaps a kiss; I would not fail to give her this. I'd make her glad the whole day through; By sayin' 'Mother', I love you!'  P.S. I wish I could say this to my mother's face, but I can't anymore."
charlie		Wait, wait a minute.  We have a major miscommunication here.  This not Betty. This is not even close to Betty...
woman		What the fuck're you talking about?  My name's Betty...
charlie		Then I'm sorry... Wrong Betty.
wesley		Let's get out of here.  We got another long drive ahead of us.  ... the fuck where I do not know, but I know it's gonna be long.
charlie		 Betty would never dress like that.  She's not some trailer park slut!
woman		Fuck you!
charlie		And she doesn't have a sewer for a mouth...
wesley		Okay, thank you, goodbye... Keep in touch...
charlie		... She's got class, and poise.  Lots of poise...
wesley		Will you ease off on the 'poise' shit, you're spooking me here...
chief nurse		What you did yesterday was reckless at best.  You are not an employee of this hospital!  If that boy dies I don't even want to think of the lawsuit that'll follow.  Are we communicating here?
betty		Yes, ma'am.
chief nurse		Good.  I'm prepared to offer you a job. You can help out in the pharmacy until your California certification and references arrive, but you are not to touch anyone.  Is that totally clear?  Fine...
chief nurse		 Is that issue?
betty		Umm... yes.  Back home.
chief nurse		Alright.  Oh, and one more thing about what you did yesterday... Well done.
rosa		Hey, it's Supernurse!  Betty, right?
mother		No podremos olvidar lo que hizo ayer.
rosa		 We can't forget what you did yesterday ... How can my family ever repay you?
betty		Tell her I was just--
mother		Yo s que es su empleo, pero...
rosa		She doesn't care if it was just your job...  Danny would be dead now but for you.
betty		I'm not.  I just drove in from Kansas.
rosa		So why'd you come to L.A.?
betty		I came for love.  My fianc  is here.
mother		Bravo! Mi hija no hace nada para amor...
rosa		You're making me look bad... My mother says I wouldn't move across the street for love.
betty		It's something I had to do.  For David.
rosa		'David.'  That's your guy.  So, you staying with him?
betty		No... I don't really know where he is yet.  I'm at a hotel around the corner.
rosa		Man, that is love.
mother		Ella debe quedar contigo.
rosa		What?  Ahh, Mom says you should stay with me... Okay, yeah, why not?
betty		No, that's not, I couldn't...
rosa		Listen, when someone does the kind of thing you did, you gotta do something in return.  So, you stay with me until you find your David and live happily ever after.  Okay?
rosa		You okay?  This neighborhood, you get used to it...
betty		The one you were telling me about?
rosa		No, this one was worse...I had to have the place sprayed when he left.  Twice... He was two guys before the last one--not counting a little office thing in there, which I'm trusting you with, 'cause if it gets out, I'm on the street...
betty		It's lovely...I really like your aquarium.
rosa		Yeah, well, at least fish don't use your razor or pee on the seat...
betty		Hmmm. Sounds like you've had a pretty tough go of it with men...
rosa		Oh, I dunno...but just once I wish I'd run into a guy who noticed the Koi before my tits.
charlie		 I understand.
wesley		What'd they say?  Can we go back to Detroit?
charlie		They said find it.  Find her, find it. Finish the job you were paid to do.
wesley		Half.
charlie		What?
wesley		They paid us half.  They still owe us half...
charlie		 They don't owe us shit, Wesley!  WHEN YOU FINISH THE JOB, YOU GET PAID!!  WE HAVEN'T FINISHED THE GODDAMN JOB!!
wesley		I know that.
charlie		AND TURN THAT FUCKING MUSIC OFF!
wesley		Worse... you're in Texas.
charlie		Well, I should be in FLORIDA now!  If Carl hadn't gone in to get those stones removed, you wouldn't be here and I'd be on my way to the Keys.  On my boat, RELAXING WITH A GLASS OF PORT!!  Re-ti red!
betty		I can't find Loma Vista Hospital...
clerk		I never heard of Loma Vista Hospital.
betty		I don't believe this!  You're the second person here who's told me that.  That's like Ford saying they never heard of GM!
clerk		Try another county...
rosa		Tustin?  Take the Hollywood Freeway to the Five...
rosa		Just look for the really crowded road and follow that.
rosa		Huh?  Sure, look in my closet, take any dress you want!  We're still on for tonight, right?
rosa		You made it! Hey, that looks great on you.  'S classy...  So, how'd it go today? You find him?
betty		Ummm...no, no. Different 'Ravell.'
rosa		What are you talking about?  This bar is packed with professional people!  Everybody says if you're going to get married, this is the spot to meet someone...  Luckily, I'm currently off men, so I've got the luxury of not giving a shit.
betty		I know what you mean, I recently had some trouble with a man, a different man...and David's still getting over Leslie.  His wife.
rosa		He has a wife?!
betty		Had. She died in a car accident last year.  She was decapitated.
rosa		God, that's awful!
betty		It may not have been an accident.  They never did find her head...
rosa		Her 'head'?! You're making this up...
betty		No, no! Well, see, she was having an affair with a Russian diplomat who I believe was mixed up with the Mafia...
rosa		Jesus, I thought my love life was crazy...
betty		David isn't hiding from me, I left him standing at the altar six years ago and now I'm...
rosa		Fuck the details, they're always to blame...  Look, too many of these guys duck out on us, especially after they become doctors or lawyers.  I see it at my company all day long!  So I'm just gonna make sure you get your, you know, fairy tale ending or whatever...  One of us should.
betty		Rosa, I can't believe you're doing all this for me...thank you.
rosa		Hey, how 'bout a card for me?  What is that?  "Please call if you have any information on David Ravell."  This is my phone number!  How many of these have you given out?
betty		How many men have I talked to?
rosa		Jesus!  They're all gonna be calling me!
betty		You said in L.A., anything goes.
rosa		I was talking about what you could wear!
charlie		See, in a LeSabre Betty's probably getting twenty-two, maybe twenty-five miles to the gallon, where we're topping out at fifteen.  She's probably all cool and fresh, and comfortable in that nice air-conditioned car right now.
wesley		What the hell's the matter with you?
charlie		That was a really shitty thing to do.
wesley		I'm sick of looking at her mother-fucking face.
charlie		Don't talk like that.  She's my last one, Wesley, my final target.  Don't you realize your special, that you represent something?
wesley		What?  What does she represent?!  What could some cornbread white bitch from Kansas who's dragging our sorry asses up and down the Louisiana Purchase possibly mean to you?!!  I'd just love to know...
charlie		I dunno... something.  Why is she doing this to me?  Why?...
wesley		I don't know, but when we find her she's gonna die for it.
wesley		Can you describe her to me?... Okay... Yeah, that sounds like her... Thanks.
charlie		How'd they describe her?
wesley		You know, blonde, thin, whatever...
charlie		Not so fast!  Slower... 'blonde, thin', yes... Did they say she had style?  A kind of grace or anything?
wesley		 How do I get this fucking thing down?
mechanic		I wouldn't if I were you.  He got pretty upset when I tried it...
mercedes		What do you think my father would do if I told him I didn't want to be a lawyer anymore?
rosa		Probably the same thing my mom would do if I got engaged... have a heart attack.
mercedes		So how's it going with your new roomie? What's her name?
rosa		Betty.  It's O.K. except I'm worn out. We spent all weekend looking for her
mercedes		So tell her to settle for the old one in Orange County.
rosa		She's gonna have to 'cause I'm out of ideas.
mercedes		Maybe we're suing him for malpractice. What's his name again?
rosa		David Ravell.
mercedes		God, that sounds so familiar.  Ravell, Ravell... where's he out of?
rosa		I'm not sure now.  She said he used to be over at Loma Vista.  I never heard of it.
mercedes		Loma Vista?  You mean like the guy on "A Reason to Love?"
rosa		Guess who I saw today.
betty		Who?
rosa		Doctor David Ravell.
betty		What?  Where was he?!
rosa		ON TELEVISION!!  Cut the shit, will you!
betty		I have no idea what you're talking about.
rosa		I'M TALKING ABOUT DAVID RAVELL!!
betty		Shhh!  I heard you the first time.
rosa		 I spent my weekend looking for someone who does - not - exist.  I should have been here at the hospital with my brother, but I was with you.
betty		If you didn't want to do it, you should have said so!  Is this about gas money?
rosa		IT'S NOT ABOUT GAS MONEY!!  You have a thing for an actor on a stupid white soap opera, and we searched all over town for his character!  Not the actor - whose name is George, by the way. His character!
betty		Are you having a nervous breakdown?
rosa		I helped you because I'm an idiot!  Ask my mother, I love it when people take advantage of me!  I TRUSTED YOU!! I THOUGHT HE WAS REAL!
betty		HE IS REAL!!
rosa		You need help, Betty! Even if this is your idea of a joke, you need SERIOUS HELP!!  Necesitas un mdico! Pront simo!
betty		Fine.
joyce		You're wastin' your time, Roy.
roy		Look Joyce, I need your key to the files, not advice, okay?  This is a complex case.
joyce		Nothin' complex about it. Del's dead, Betty's gone.  She's probably dead, too.
roy		You'd like that wouldn't you?  You've hated Betty since you were in Pep Squad together...
joyce		No... before that.
roy		Ahh, I hate this town!  Places like this just make you small...  I should have never come back here after college.
joyce		Blah - blah - blah...  Hurry up, will ya, I got a date tonight...
joyce		What did you say?
joyce		 No, about... Are you talking about Duane Cooley?
joyce		 Know him?  We were gonna get married! He was gonna leave his wife for me! Fuck!!...
ballard		I know you don't use them, but if you wanna keep 'em you'll back out of there slowly...
roy		Come on, Elden, think about it.  The driver, all them trunks standing open like that... something's going on here!
ballard		I know that...
roy		Well, do something, then, damnit!
ballard		You watch your mouth when you're in a goddamn county vehicle... You don't think I see what's going on?  Del, now this Cooley fella, both of 'em mixed up with Joyce... 'S not no conspiracy, not some episode off the X-Files... 's just a crime of passion, plain and simple. Betty's on some kind'a pre-minstral rampage, that's what is going on here.
roy		Oww... Did you have to make these things so tight?
ballard		No, I didn't have to.  He grins at Roy in the rearview mirror.
mercedes		Hey... Is Betty still trying to find that soap opera guy?
rosa		Oh, yeah... Man, I'd love to find that actor just to see the look on her face, watch her bubble burst in mid-air.
mercedes		Here's your needle... He's supposed to make an appearance here tonight.
betty		Don't worry, I'm looking... just taking a tiny break.
rosa		This is crazy.  I come home, you go to your room.  You go in the kitchen, I go to my room.  It's stupid.
betty		...okay.
rosa		Oh, it's a charity dinner.  The money goes to a good cause, but I don't have anybody to go with...
betty		Umm...
rosa		...you hungry at all?
charlie		We should go.
wesley		We don't have time to look at a hole in the ground.  We can make Vegas in four hours.  This one's got to be her.
charlie		It's a very moving experience, trust me.
wesley		No.
charlie		One of the Seven Natural Wonders of the World.
wesley		No... be dark before we get there.  You wanna see the Grand Canyon at night?
charlie		What difference does it make?  She wasn't in Kansas City, or Houston, or Dallas. We
wesley		I said, 'No.'  N-O.
charlie		"When I grow up I'm going to become a nurse or a veterinarian.  I always want to help people and value all life, be it animal, plant or mineral..."  Does that sound like a goddamn showgirl to you?
wesley		Do you hear yourself right now...?  Like a fucking madman...
charlie		Every American should see the Grand Canyon.  Are you an American?
wesley		Yes, I am and we're not going.  Act professional.
charlie		If you don't take the next turn for the canyon, I'm blowing my goddamn brains all over this car.
rosa		Sorry.
betty		Looking for someone?
rosa		You never know who you'll see.
george		Do I know you from...?
betty		...of course you do.  You don't remember me?
george		I take it I should.  I'm sorry.
betty		We were engaged.
lyla		Oh good, another one...
george		I beg your pardon?
betty		But I'm the one who's sorry.  Letting you go was the biggest mistake of my life.  And I hope you can put it behind you. I've missed you... David.
george		That's very kind of you.
betty		The day I left you I just drove and drove.  I drove all day and all that night, and I didn't go anywhere.  I just kept driving.  I stopped at a little country church, and the pastor let me in, and I sat--
lyla		... in the very first pew, where we would have sat on our wedding day.
betty		Betty Sizemore.  What do you mean you wrote it?
lyla		I'm Lyla Branch.  I'm the Producer.
george		No, wait...what happened next, Betty?
lyla		Are you sure you want to encourage this?  No, you're right, let's have some fun. So, what did happened next, "Betty"?
betty		Well, David moved out here and started his residency.  Then he met Leslie--
lyla		No, no, no.  We know all that.  What happened with you?
betty		I married a car salesman.
betty		Why are you calling him George?
george		Oh, you mean Fred.
betty		No, Del.
george		Right, Del.  Del was one hot salesman. Of cars.  He could talk anyone into anything.
betty		You knew Del?!
george		Honey, I didn't want to tell you at the time, but Del and I go way back.  We went to school together.  In fact, he saved my life.  Two more minutes in that icy water and I would have drowned.  But Del jumped in and grabbed me.  We fell out of touch eventually, but I still owe him one.
betty		He never told me anything about...that's unbelievable!
lyla		Funny, that's just what I was thinking...
george		I can't tell you how much it hurts me to hear that you married him.
betty		I'm so sorry.  Life makes us do awful things sometimes.
george		I tried to tell myself it was for the best, that there was a reason behind it. But... Del?
betty		There was no plan!  I was just young and stupid and scared!
george		You never gave us a chance...
betty		I know that.  I can't tell you how many times I've said that to myself in those exact words.
george		Hey, don't... come on, I was just... you're not really crying, are you?...  I was just playing along...
betty		Why do they keep calling you George?
george		I don't know.  Why do you keep calling me George?
lyla		Listen - David - It's getting late.
george		 But... I'd be honored if you'd come.
lyla		Yeah, bring your friend along. I'm sure you got a lot of catching up to do...
charlie		You don't know what you're missing, asshole.
wesley		Yeah?
wesley		Huh?
wesley		 Oh, umm, yes, this is Dwight Campbell.
wesley		... you have a good time?  You make a little wish?
charlie		Where?  Where is she?
wesley		I'm not telling.
charlie		What?
wesley		I'm not telling 'til you straighten up. You been acting like fucking Jerry Lewis on me and this shit's gotta stop or you can forget about your Betty... I mean it.
charlie		Wesley, I'm fine... just tell me where she is.
lyla		Really?  I put a hundred and thirty thousand miles on mine.
betty		Huh. I had no idea our little lot was so popular...
george		I guess we all did.  You know, I didn't marry Leslie because I loved her.  I married her to forget you...
betty		Oh, David...I'm sorry I caused you that much pain.
george		You're late, Eric.
eric		I know.  Why are you guys leaving?
lyla		We did our twenty minutes.
betty		You bastard!  How can you even show your face around here?  Do you think we're not onto you?
eric		Who the hell is this?
george		Sorry.  She thinks you're someone else.
betty		I know exactly who you are!
charlie		This doesn't look like the kind of place Betty would go to.
wesley		Maybe she had to use the bathroom.  She pees, doesn't she?!...
charlie		Be careful with that!  Charlie takes it back and gingerly secures the tape.
ellen		What can I get you?
wesley		We're Federal Marshals, ma'am.
charlie		We're looking for this young lady.
ellen		I haven't seen her.
merle		Sure you have!  That's ...
ellen		Shut up, Merle.
wesley		Ma'am, if you've seen this woman--
merle		Betty!  That's her name - Betty.
ellen		I never saw that woman before, and neither has Merle.  He drinks too much. And don't try to tell me you're cops.  I
charlie		You haven't been very forthcoming with us.
charlie		What's your name, dear?
ellen		Ellen.
charlie		That's a nice name.
wesley		That's a really nice name...
betty		Lyla's very nice.
george		Yes, she is.
betty		She told me I was charming and relentless, and would go far in this town.  And she said that unlike the other charming, relentless people she knew, she liked me.
george		She's a good person to know.  So where did you study again?
betty		Carleton School of Nursing.  Two semesters, but Del made me give it up...
george		Alright, okay... I think you broke the record for staying in character about three hours ago.
betty		You told me that two hours ago.
george		What happened when you were twelve?
betty		For Mother's Day, I used all my allowance that I'd been saving to take my mother to Kansas City.  We got our nails done and had lunch at "Skies," a restaurant at the top of a building from where you can see the whole city.  It was the last outing we took together.  She died the following year.
george		Wow ... You just gave me goosebumps, you know that?  You make it all sound so real.  Great improv...
betty		I just want everything to be perfect between us.
george		I know. Listen, we need to take a time out here.  Can we talk seriously for a minute?
betty		Of course.
george		At last!  I know how much you want this. You're gifted and extremely determined, but ... it's not up to me.
betty		I know. It's up to us.
rosa		Were you with him this whole time?
betty		Oh, God!  You scared me!  Yes...
rosa		You still in love?
rosa		Does he know you think he's real?
betty		He is real.
rosa		Uh-huh... So, what'd you talk about?
betty		Oh, my gosh, everything! My trip out here, what we've both been doing, you know...
rosa		No, I'm not sure I could begin to imagine... So, where'd you go?
betty		To a party in the Hollywood Hills.
rosa		Was it a huge place?  With a view of the whole world?
betty		Yes.  I'd never been in a place like that before.
rosa		I have, lots of times.  My mother used to clean them.  I used to piss in their pools.
betty		No, almost never.
rosa		But, you're in love with someone who doesn't exist.  You come here, you meet this guy, who should laugh in your face, and instead you leave with him!  Betty, you are one-of-a-kind...
roy		Elden, let me out of here. Now! This is ridiculous, I need medical attention!
ballard		That's a nice name for what you need...
roy		Come on, I have to get this dressing off...it itches!  And what about my fish? Who is taking care of them?
ballard		Just shut up a second and listen... That, uh... that bar in Arizona?  Where you said Betty was?
roy		What about it?
ballard		Any idea where it is?
roy		Little place called "Williams," why?
ballard		I just got something off the wire. The woman who owns it was murdered last night.  Now, I'm not saying I agree with you or nothing, but... what else do you know?
roy		I know plenty.
george		She makes me stretch!  I got inside my character last night like I haven't done in six years on "Reason".  It was a totally rejuvenating experience.
lyla		I know, George, I was there.  I'm not denying that she's good.
george		She's even taken a job as a nurse!  David Ravell's getting boring, Lyla.
lyla		We know that...
george		Can I have an evil twin?
lyla		No, George, we've already done that with Lonnie.  The blind one last year, remember?
george		Oh, of course.  Who can forget the Emmy?  Then let me bring Betty to the set and see what happens.
lyla		I don't know, George...
george		I'll tell the cast ahead of time. What do you say?
lyla		I'll think about it.
george		It'll be like live television!  Let's live on the edge a little.  You and I can break the mold here!
lyla		I said I'll think about it.
george		Fine, but promise me one thing.  If we use her, I want to direct those episodes. She's my discovery.
lyla		Actually, she was my discovery... just like you.
george		Hmm?
lyla		"Would you like ground pepper on that salad, Ms. Branch?"  Remember?
george		... yeah.
charlie		So you believed the bartender.  Why?
wesley		Well... I think I saw her soul.
charlie		That's good.  You're learning.  But let me tell you why I know she was lying.  First off, Betty would never fall for a soap star.  It's beneath her.
wesley		I dunno, that lady sounded pretty sure...
charlie		No, no, Betty came here strictly for business, 'cause it's the biggest market for what she's selling.  I should have known it all along.  I'm kicking myself as I shave here.  So, first thing we...
wesley		Wait, wait, wait a minute... that doesn't make sense.
charlie		What doesn't?
wesley		You gimme this bullshit Psychic Friends theory, you believe that dumbshit trucker, you believe this woman...
charlie		I never said that I believed...
wesley		No, you believed her, we drove all the way to L.A. so that means you trusted her that much... so why's the rest of her story suddenly so kooky?  Huh?
charlie		'Cause I just don't buy it.  Call it instinct.  Call it 35 years of professional know-how...
wesley		I call it 'nutty' as my shit after I eat Almond Roca...
charlie		You need to remember who you're talking to...
wesley		I need to get my goddamn head examined.  You can't rule something out on a whim. Or because she's cute.  I've been following your whims all across the U.S. of A. and now I'm tired!  Me!
charlie		Wesley...
wesley		"It's beneath her..."  She's a mother fucking housewife... nothing's beneath her!
charlie		Boy, you need to get outta my face... now! You got a feeling, then you do what you gotta do, but don't you ever try to tell me my job.  Not ever.
wesley		Fine.  Just fine... I'll go check some shit on my own then.  And don't call me 'boy...'
wesley		... what kinda car's Jasmine drive?
guard		Ahh, Mercedes, I think.  Black.
wesley		Yeah?  The sport utility?
guard		Uh-huh.
wesley		Damn, that's sweet...  She really that good-looking in person?
guard		Better.
wesley		Oh fuck...
guard		Sure.
charlie		Betty Sizemore, she's got ten kilos... Blonde hair, a great figure... sort of a whole Doris Day thing going on.  That's what I said-- Doris Day.  You could see her working at the U.N., or something. 'The U.N.'  "United Nations."  Forget it...  Nobody like that?  You're sure?  Yeah, Detroit by way of Kansas... Alright, let me know if you hear anything, okay?  He hangs up.  Deletes another one off the list and looks out the window.  Checks the now well-worn photo of Betty.  He's starting to doubt himself.
betty		Are you sure I can borrow this?
rosa		No, please.  Go ahead, it's your funeral...
betty		Rosa...
rosa		Well, what if this guy's just playing with you?  What if he's lying about who he is?
betty		You should have a little faith in people.
rosa		Does he ever talk about medicine?  His patients, the hospital?
betty		All the time.  It's always "Loma Vista" this, "Loma Vista" that.
george		You must be Rosa.  I've heard so much about you...  I'm George McCord.
rosa		Not as much as I've heard about you. She's a very nice girl and you better not hurt her.
george		What?
betty		Rosa, so you've met David?
rosa		Sure did!  And a funny thing, Betty, he introduced himself to me as George!
betty		Oh, he does that.  It's this silly game he plays.  Half the people who know him call him George.
george		I don't think your friend likes me.
betty		She's a little jealous, I think.  And confused when it comes to men...  So where are we going?
george		Well, first I thought Patina, and then the Ivy, but then I thought of somewhere a little more romantic.  Like my place.
george		God, I haven't felt like this since I was with Stella Adler in New York.  You're so...real.
betty		You never mentioned a 'Stella' to me.
george		Didn't I?
betty		No, I would have remembered that name. The only Stella I ever knew was a parrot.  Was this before Leslie?  Before us?...
george		I've never met anyone like you, Betty.
betty		I know, that's why we were meant to be together...
george		No, I mean your dedication scares me...
betty		It's easy to be dedicated, when you care about something...
george		Yeah, I felt that way, too, when I first started, but now... the hours, the repetition... it's not all glamour and mall openings anymore. Maybe I should've listened to my people and tried to make the crossover to nights earlier, I don't know...  ...I just hope it's not too late for me. God! Listen to me, "Me, me, me." It's so easy to get caught up in the whole ego cycle of this business and make it all about yourself. Stop, right? That's it, no more about me tonight, I promise... Let's talk about you...what do you think about me? I'm kidding... Seriously, Betty, I'm doing all the talking here...
betty		...but I love listening to you, so that's okay...
george		Thanks. But I'd like to hear what you're feeling...
betty		Well, I just feel that life'll be much sweeter for you now with me around.  I promise...
george		You know, I almost believe that... you're like a warm breeze that's suddenly blown into my life...  I said that to Leslie, once, at her funeral, remember?...
betty		I remember.  You said it to her, but it was meant for me, wasn't it?
george		Yes... maybe it was.
wesley		...so I'm standing there, minding my own business on Hollywood Blvd., checking out Gladys Knight's star-thing there, I look up at this little souvenir shop dude, Chinese dude, reading a paper... and who do I see?  I found out where they shoot it, and where the dressing rooms are.
charlie		Who's this?
wesley		A doctor on the show... why?
charlie		It just didn't fit her profile...
wesley		Fuck the profile!  That's the same guy!!
charlie		She can't be here because of a... a soap opera.  Not a soap opera.  That'd make her...
wesley		... crazy!  No shit, Shaft!!  And you ain't far behind...
charlie		... but she's, no, Betty's smarter than that.  She wouldn't be here for a...
wesley		I do not know how the fuck you lasted an hour in this job!  Dragging our asses around with the answer to our prayers in your motherfucking jacket... a picture of that cunt right next to the...
charlie		Don't  Don't you talk about Betty like that.  I don't care who she ends up being, you never use that word again. Got it?
wesley		Man, you have got to get some therapy.
charlie		I said 'got it?'
wesley		... yeah, I got it.  Come on, you're stretching out my vest...
charlie		You made your point...  I was wrong.
george		Just a little further... come on...
betty		Oh my gosh...I didn't know I was going to meet your friends today...I dressed a little casual.
george		That's cute...listen, you got the part, and I'm directing.  You've only got four lines today, so I thought I'd just spring it on you.  No blocking or anything, just stand near the nurse's station... we're gonna do a quick walk-through.  Alright?
george		Traffic was terrible...
lyla		No, that's fine, we've only got seventy pages to shoot...take your time.
betty		Excuse me.  What are you doing?
stage manager		We'll get you into hair and make-up after this, just put this on...
chloe		 Hi.  I hear you're great.  Good luck...
betty		What are you doing here?  David...
george		Your lines'll are in the script, but you can ad lib.
betty		Ad lib?
george		In fact, I want you to ad lib, that's the magic I'm after.  I wanna give a whole new feel to the show.
voice		Slate it!
george		Just do what you've been doing.  Watch the scene and on your cue take off from there.
george		Betty?
chloe		Are you all right?
blake		 I think you stepped on my first line...
chloe		... I was talking to her.  Do you need anything...?
george		Betty, I thought this would be the best way.  You know, throw you into it...
lyla		What the hell's going on?
george		If you need a minute, that's okay. But I thought you'd want to--
betty		David, I don't...  Can we talk privately for a second?
george		Stop calling me David.  We're on set, for Christ's sake, you don't have to call me David here.
betty		Why are you doing this to me?
george		Why am I doing this to you?  Isn't this what you wanted?
lyla		Is there a problem, George?
george		No!  No problem, there is no...  What is the problem?  Just do that... thing... you do!  Come on!  You drove me nuts with this for three days, now do it!
lyla		All right, everybody!  That's ten minutes!
george		No!  Let me try this!
jasmine		 This is bullshit!
lyla		Forget it, George.  It was a gamble, it didn't work.  Nice try.
george		Let me try this, goddamnit!  SHE'S BEEN DOING IT ALL WEEK, SHE CAN DO IT NOW!
lyla		I SAID FORGET IT!
george		Well, I don't know what you had in mind, but I hope you're happy.  I put myself on the line for you, my reputation, and you're making me look like an idiot.
betty		What do you mean?  What did I do to you...
george		Who put you up to this?  Did my ex-wife ask you to...?
betty		David, please--
george		STOP CALLING ME THAT!  MY NAME IS NOT DAVID, AND IF YOU REALLY DON'T KNOW THE DIFFERENCE, YOU'RE MORE FUCKED UP THAN I THOUGHT YOU WERE!
stagehand		Leave her alone, George!
george		SHUT THE FUCK UP!! You're a fucking grip, go grip something!!!  And you're not an actress, you're nothing but a soap opera groupie, aren't you? YOU HAVE NOTHING BETTER TO DO!  DO YOU?? Well, why don't you get a fucking life, and stop ruining mine!
betty		I'm sorry...Oh my gosh, are you George McCord?!
george		...What?  What did you call me?
betty		George...McCord. You're my favorite actor on...
lyla		She called you 'George,' George.
betty		...did I win some contest?
george		But I'm David... I mean, I'm not David, but she thinks I am!  You heard her...  Stop staring at me... I'm not crazy, she is!
betty		Why are you screaming at me?  I mean, what am I... why am I here?  I don't...
george		You're doing this now?  After all the.. are you sick?  Are you going to kill me now?
betty		No, I... I'll leave.  Forgive me if I caused you all any trouble... I just, I don't know how I...  ... I'm sorry.
george		What?!
george		What can I do for you, gentlemen?
charlie		How do you do, Mr. McCord.  We're trying to locate a deranged fan of yours,... a Ms. Betty...
george		Deranged.  That would be the right word.
charlie		Thanks so much.  You must get bothered by this kind of thing a lot.
george		More than you know.  Is there anything else?
charlie		No, that should be more than--
george		Good.
wesley		Actually, there is one more thing.
george		You thought wrong.
wesley		It's just for an autograph.  It's not for me...
george		It never is.
wesley		You need to learn some manners, friend... reach out to your goddamn fan base a little more.
betty		I came for love...
del		You're not on that soap opera thing again, are you?  'Cause you know what that is?
betty		It's people with no lives watching other people's fake lives.
del		That's right.  So, if you know it, why are you in trouble?
betty		I don't know.
del		You sure don't.  Who do you think you are coming to Hollywood, anyway?  You should remember where you came from. And who you really are.
man		Who are you talking to?  Are you crazy?
rosa		Bet-ty!?  Did the pizza guy show up yet?
betty		I'm going back to... I need to... I don't know.
rosa		Where are you going?
betty		I have to leave now.
rosa		What?  No, I'm not gonna let you just run out of here... You need to talk about what's going on...
betty		You think I'm crazy, Rosa, but you don't know the half of it.  My husband was, ahh...
rosa		Your husband?!
betty		Yes, I had a husband and he was killed two weeks ago in my kitchen.  I was right there...
rosa		Jesus!... What are you saying?
betty		I don't know.  I'm just starting to remember it now.  I don't...
rosa		Yeah, but your running away isn't going to help you with all this...
betty		There was blood everywhere, Rosa. I saw it, I think I watched the whole thing happen... Oh my God...
rosa		Okay, okay, look, ummm... Let's just talk a little first and you'll feel better, I promise.
wesley		Whoa!  What the fuck're you doing here?
charlie		Well, you were right about what that bartender said.
wesley		But you were right first.  You gotta follow your instincts.
charlie		What do your instincts tell you to do now, kid?
wesley		Leave.  Take this shit back to Detroit and get the rest of our money.
charlie		We could do that.  I could be on my way to Florida, and you could go to Thailand and fuck your brains out.
wesley		...but that's not what we're gonna do, is it?
charlie		No... if we don't finish this job, how are we gonna look at ourselves in the mirror?  This is it for me, Wesley, she's the last one.  My instinct says I gotta see this through with her, and if there's one thing I've tried to teach you here--
wesley		It's to follow my instincts.  And my instincts say get the fuck out of Dodge.
charlie		No, I said to follow 'my' instincts. Now, we go up there and conclude our business.  Case closed.
wesley		... oh, that's fucking democratic.
charlie		I'm Detective Jefferson--
rosa		Oh... Did Betty call you?
rosa		She's got problems, but she's no killer. I hope you guys can straighten this out...
charlie		We'll do what we can.  Where is she?
rosa		Bet-ty!  Please, go easy on her.  She's had a really rough day.
betty		I don't think so.  Rosa, I didn't kill Del... they did.
charlie		We meet again.
wesley		 What's wrong with you?
rosa		That's our pizza.
charlie		Get rid of them.  You understand?
roy		Betty!  Boy, am I glad to see you!
betty		Roy!  What are you doing here?
roy		You're in serious danger!
betty		Ahh, look, right now's not very...
roy		I woulda' been here sooner, but Ballard put me in jail.  He still thinks you had Del scalped.
ballard		I never said that!  Open the door, Betty.
betty		Sheriff, I don't...
ballard		C'mon, Betty, open up! I got some questions for you about...
roy		Have you checked the trunk of that car you're driving, Betty?  I think there might be...
betty		It's not really a good time, guys...
ballard		Don't give me that.  I've come two thousand miles for this!
charlie		Two thousand miles?  That's nothing!
betty		This is Roy Ostrey, he's a reporter.  And this is Sheriff Ballard.  We all went to Fair Oaks High together...
charlie		Oh, this is wonderful...
wesley		Come here.
ballard		I got two kids and a dog...
wesley		Act professional, remember?
betty		... I s'pose you did that so I could take my sweater off or something.
charlie		No, just stand there... lemme look at you a minute.
betty		... I... I know what you are.
charlie		Do you know why I'm here?
betty		I've got a pretty good idea. You're here to kill me, so kill me.  You want me to be afraid, but I'm not.  I don't care who you are, or why you two killed my husband...
charlie		You really... didn't have anything to do with what Del was doing, did you?
betty		I have no idea what he was mixed up in... it was always something.
charlie		So you weren't involved with him in his pathetic attempt to diversify?  Were you mixed up in the drugs, Betty?
betty		Drugs?  God, no!  I'm totally against drugs.
charlie		Damn, life is strange.  I had you figured for this cold-blooded, calculating bitch-- Not that I didn't admire you for it.
betty		... well, if you're not going to slit my throat, why'd you come up here?
charlie		... to see you.
ballard		You killed that bartender in Arizona and the trucker in Texas, didn't you?
wesley		How did you find Betty?
ballard		I just put it all together. I knew David, Lonnie and Chloe were from that show.
wesley		What do you want?!
roy		That's a lie!  I figured it out!  I've been trying to tell this dumbass--
ballard		Fuck you, Roy Ostrey!
roy		--small-time, pissant, Barney Fife--
wesley		SHUT UP!  Shut the fuck up, both of you, before I kill you!
roy		I'm the one who watched the show...I was...
wesley		Did Chloe crack?
roy		Totally.  She came apart like a house of cards.  They dropped the charges...
wesley		Goddamn... how 'bout Jasmine?
roy		She's a lesbian.
wesley		You lie, motherfucker...
roy		I swear to God!
wesley		What?!  You scream, you die.
rosa		I have a tape of today's show.
charlie		... I never meet people like you.  I'm a garbageman of the human conditon. I deal with trash, mostly, people willing to trade any part of themselves for a few more minutes of their rotten lives.  But you... you're different.
betty		I am?
charlie		Sure. You could probably have any thing you wanted... somebody as beautiful and stylish as yourself, and you don't even realize it.
betty		Umm, I don't think that...
charlie		Wait.  Let me get this out.  I like the symphony, walks in the rain, sunsets, animals and children.  I read passionately, and I like to discuss things.  I'm basically conservative, but flexible.  I've been involved in the death of thirty-two people, but I can live with that because the world is lighter by thirty-two pieces of shit, excuse my language.
betty		"Thirty-two?"
charlie		Well, thirty-three, but I'm not counting Del, on account of you... so, what do you think?
betty		I don't feel that, no. I just....I'm not really who you think I am.
charlie		No one is, honey.  Here, listen to this...  "If who I am and who I hope to be should meet one day, I know they will be friends."  Now that's beautiful.
betty		I wrote that when I was twelve... where'd you get that?!
charlie		 I've chased you across the country, Betty, and I come to find out we're a lot more alike than you'd think.
betty		I thought you were a garbageman of humanity, or something.
charlie		Yes, but I'd sort of like to put that behind me now...
wesley		... goddamn!
charlie		Wesley??!
roy		Those're Japanese koi!
rosa		Yes!  How'd you know that?
roy		You gotta get 'em in water right away!
ballard		We're in a shootout, Roy!  Shut up about the damn fish!
roy		YOU shut up!  They're beautiful, but get them some water.
charlie		Oh, Christ, they shot my boy!
betty		I'm sorry.
charlie		You're sorry? YOU'RE THE REASON WE'RE HERE!
betty		WAIT A SECOND!  I AM NOT THE REASON YOU'RE HERE!  I WAS MINDING MY OWN BUSINESS, LIVING A PERFECTLY BORING LIFE UNTIL YOU CAME ALONG!
charlie		Oh shit...
ballard		 We need ammo... Go check his jacket, I'll cover you.
roy		I'm not going out there!  Let's wait for the real police...
ballard		You gotta go, we're pinned down!
rosa		So why can't we just sneak outside?  Huh?
ballard		Lady, you don't just run away from crime... besides, Betty's in there.
roy		 You wanna see if he has more shells, go ahead.  I say we wait...
ballard		No, no, no... you don't know shit about procedure!  You don't send your best...
roy		I've got the working gun, Elden, me!  You wasted all your bullets so you crawl out there.
ballard		Goddammit...
charlie		If we went out that window right now we'd have a chance...
betty		I better go check on them.
charlie		Wait, Betty... you still haven't answered me.
betty		This is really awkward...
charlie		Ahh, it's too late, anyway.  It's too late.  Listen, I could shoot my way out, maybe take one of them with me... If you'd gimme my gun back.
betty		I'd rather not...
charlie		Betty, I don't wanna shrivel up alone in some stinking prison.  No way.  I've got some professional pride.  And I don't want anybody else to get the credit for taking me out.
betty		...what're you saying?
charlie		When a Roman general knew a battle was lost, he'd throw himself on his sword.
betty		Yes... Not the actor, though, the doctor. I think.
charlie		So all this...really was because of that soap opera?  My son is dead because you came out here to be with that doctor?  A fake doctor?
betty		I wouldn't have put it quite that way, but...
charlie		Wesley didn't even want to come up here. He warned me, but I insisted...  I have to ask you, Betty...are you crazy?
betty		I don't think I am.
charlie		I want you to listen to me, Betty. People don't lie when they're about to die.
anchorman		In a story that police say is bizarre, even for Hollywood, a father-son team of killers tracked a Kansas soap opera fan halfway across the country, only to find themselves the victims in a final, bloody confrontation...
lyla		This story is beyond belief, which is perfect for us.  It's free advertising and it's gonna run for months.
george		I don't think she can do it.  You saw what happened.
lyla		You fucked it up.  Who wouldn't freeze in those circumstances?  And I don't care what her problems are.  She wouldn't be the first one in that cast with problems. We have nothing to lose by making her an offer.
george		What about me?  Don't you wanna know how I feel about it?  I'm the one who...
lyla		Why would I give a shit how you feel. And I got news for you. I loved your 'icy water' idea the other day... I'm toying
george		That's not a bad idea.  How many episodes before he comes back?
lyla		Then do as you're told. Get her back.
george		I'm sorry for what I did.  It was inexcusable.  I'm sorry for the things I said, and for not respecting you, and for all the stupid things that...
darlene		When you have a minute...
george		Look, I don't really like the whole idea of autographs, and I'm kind of in the middle of...
darlene		Don't flatter yourself.  It's the check.
george		Oh.  Of course... sorry.
betty		 My treat.  You were saying... something about how stupid you've been?
george		Right... I was.  I was an idiot, plain and simple, and I hope you can find it in your heart to forgive me.  How's that?
betty		Kinda like you'd been saying it since you got on the plane...
george		I have... did it sound that bad?
betty		Mmm-hmm.  Listen, I forgive you, Mr. McCord...
george		George...
betty		... George.  I do.  My best friend once said if you were any handsomer it would be a crime...
george		Thanks...
betty		... it's too bad you're such an asshole. 'S the only thing that Del was ever right about.
george		No, that's... okay.  Fair enough.  So, now that we've sort of settled the 'asshole' thing, is there any chance you'll come back to the show?  At all?
betty		... there's always a chance, David.
david		Right.  But will there be a tomorrow, and the next day, and the next?
betty		 Doctor, if you were any handsomer it'd be a crime...
david		I guess that means you're free tonight. Of course, it's up to you...
betty		No, it's up to us.  I love you, David. And I want to see you tomorrow, and the next day, and the next day... 
sue ann		That's my best friend!
betty		Could I get some service here, please?
****Dialogues from script :Oblivion.txt****

draft: march 27, 2011		 1.  FADE IN:  EXT. THE PLANET - MORNING  Huge mountains, destroyed STRUCTURES. Buildings enveloped by flows of earth. Awe-inspiring beauty.  JACK  Well, almost everyone.
victoria		Today we will be running support on five Resource Gatherers working the seaboard. Coordinates coming to you... now. Please do confirm. On Jack's heads-up display, five icons glow to life.
jack		Yeah, I got 'em. You got 'em, Bob? The Bobblehead bobs.
victoria		Drone perimeter defense is intact, although one went offline last night. How's the drop?
jack		Oh, you know. Same ole' same. In front of Victoria, almost a hundred years of technological advances. Most prominent a MAP overlaid with environmental, meteorological, radiation levels... Other screens stream cam-footage from the Bubbleship.
victoria		Alright, you're blind in five, four, three... INTERCUT WITH JACK IN THE BUBBLESHIP. JACK watches the cloud wall RUSH UP at him.
jack		You should come with me sometime.
victoria		No, thank you. Have a nice ride. The Bubbleship HITS CLOUDS, goes completely blind. Just vapor and water HAMMERING the canopy like bullets. On the heads-up display, GPS numbers roll. The readouts deal with climate, terrain below... Even in this hell, Jack takes the controls, starts to pilot on instruments. One of Victoria's boards flashes. She squints as a large MASS forms near Jack's ship.
jack		What do you call this? What does a storm look like inside a storm? Like this. The WALL OF WEATHER comes out of the wind and rain from behind Jack's ship, simply eats it up. Suddenly Jack's going end over end, helpless. Warning lights flash. Jack punches controls that won't respond.
jack		 "Talkin' 'bout my girl..." Jack shifts the Bubbleship, in the distance a series of RESOURCE-GATHERERS on the horizon. Essentially titanic vacuums, sucking up the oceans. In front of her console, VICTORIA charts the Gatherers, and the patrol arcs of their defensive Drones. One blinks, stalled.
victoria		Okay, we've got another Drone downed last night.
jack		Send it. NUMBERS FIRE across the heads-up. Jack touches a button. A BAR GAUGE begins to fill, like a street racer turning on the NOX before dragging...
victoria		Would you like to set a course to reserve fuel?
victoria		Yo no se. No data. It's not transmitting.  Tet coverage will go live in 11 minutes. Jack stares forward at a huge broken sign: "Home of the 2015 World Champions..."
jack		You know, I actually read about this game. Giants are literally on their own seven with 25 seconds on the clock...
victoria		Please do not reminisce on my Comm, thank you very much. He puts the Bubbleship into a soft descent. Victoria observes it on her console.
jack		Anyway... QB lets off this mile- high bomb... The weather's fast and erratic like this. As Jack starts moving towards the Drone, a heavy mist forms, shrouding it in grey. There's almost no sound, just Jack's feet on earth...
victoria		Jack I have no scope. The Tet is still offline. He pauses. A faint sound on the wind... like a whine.
jack		And at the one yard line... interception. Devastation. It's all over.
jack		But the guy's too eager. He starts running it back. Everyone's yelling "Fall down, just fall down!" Jack goes to his knees, examining it, his hands expertly locate an empty tube-like space on the side of the Drone.
victoria		What do you mean taken? Was it a malfunction? Jack looks at the casing... beaten, pried open? He glances at the ground around him, the dark tunnels. REVERSE ANGLE. From inside a caved-in tunnel entrance, Jack looks small, vulnerable. Something watches Jack...
jack		No... It's a master drone, too. 166. Looks like it was hit mid flight, managed to limp its way here. Watch my back, I'm starting field repair. INTERCUT: VICTORIA AT SKY TOWER. Glances at the arc of the Tet's vision - still six minutes away.
victoria		Jack, you need to get out of there. Bring it home to the shop. Jack has a panel open. He pulls a lead from the sleeve of his suit, connects it to a board. We see FLIGHT DATA transfer to the Bubbleship.
jack		So the guy keeps running. 30, 40, 50 yards and BAM! He gets pasted. Ball goes loose...
victoria		Jack, you know they can weaponize a fuel cell. Now a DRIVER shoots out of the tool cuff of his suit.
victoria		I'm reading the whole central core off alignment, you don't have the necessary tools. Jack's got an arm and half his chest inside. He takes his CHEWING GUM, presses it in next to a board... Systems go green on Victoria's console.
jack		 Bob, I said I needed... He turns to find that the ROVER is already there, a DEUTERIUM FUEL CELL sitting in its payload bay. A SOUND now reaches Jack. Distant, an animal in pain? Jack listens, but it's gone. He slots the cell. A HUMMMM as the Drone powers up, systems coming online. Jack looks around at the stadium.
jack		Hey there, boy. Easy... Jack moves forward, hand out.
victoria		Jesus, Jack. What the hell was that? INTERCUT VICTORIA. The Tet's scanners finally giving her a high-rez thermal view of Jack. Her display burning red from the residual plasma fire.
victoria		Jack, what happened? Nowtrudging to the ship:
jack		I'll see you at the house later. You want anything? Milk? Bread? Anything else that doesn't exist?
victoria		You. He leans against the ship. Smiles tired. It's a nice thing to hear.
jack		Well if you want anybody else, you're out of luck. He boards the BUBBLESHIP.
victoria		We only have two more months, Jack. Please try to resist the urge to do something stupid.
jack		No... ON JACK. The captured Drone data right there in front of him on the heads-up. He's too curious.
victoria		There's no Drone signal there.
jack		One day when we get to Mars, someone will want to know about this. From someone who was here. He stares at the HUGE columns of water draining upwards.
victoria		It's not doing anyone any good here. JACK nods, starts to turn away when something GLINTS on the horizon. He raises the Binocs, PANS to a gallows- like structure. He ZOOMS, but it is still unclear.
jack		Actually I've got a bit of a problem with a gyro here, call you when I've fixed it. He releases a catch, pulls a WHITE RECTANGULAR CASE from a slot in the Bubbleship. He kneels down, hands working expertly, producing a full UNFOLDING MOTORCYCLE. As Jack locks the rear wheel in place, the bike HUMMS to life. He gets on and opens up the throttle, rooster- tailing off. The bike's electric, but it MOVES.
jack		.There you are. An instant of BLACK... And we're suddenly looking at Jack THROUGH ALIEN BINOCULARS. High tech, symbol readouts changing. Something is watching him.
jack		Vika, you're not going to believe... WHITE NOISE on the comm. There's no signal down here.
victoria		Mission, this is Lieutenant Victoria Kohl, requesting Drone intercept at coordinates sending now. Her AUDIO goes through a SCRAMBLING PROCESS, then is uploaded where a few seconds later its receipt is acknowledged: STATUS: "APPROVED." She stares up at the map, sees one of the Drones turn towards Jack's location. She settles back, watching.
jack		.Jackpot.
victoria		Check your seven. Jack touches his controls and the Bubbleship Canopy REVOLVES so Jack's facing away from the direction he's traveling in. Low on the HORIZON, the TET floats in the sky. It's setting, glows a dull orange, like a Harvest Moon. INTERCUT VICTORIA. She's leaning back in her command chair, her feet propped on the console, also staring out at the Tet. Strangely quiet. In Jack's face a curious mixture of nostalgia, and confusion... This small metal planet is his home.
jack		Goodnight, folks... See you back here tomorrow. Same time, same channel... He punches the throttle, and screams across the tops of the clouds through the beautiful light, arriving at...
victoria		 You're not supposed to bring up surface items. JACK sips water, then waits even longer before...
jack		No. I'm not supposed to bring them in the house. He's right. He exchanges his water for a glass of something stronger, and goes and sits down.
victoria		I tried to reach you earlier... If we're going to be an effective
jack		You're right.
victoria		Then you can't just -- Jack leaps up, only to return a second later with a small bundle held together by an old rag. He hands it to her, pleased, watching her reaction. She opens it to reveal a small GREEN SEEDLING in a pocket of fresh, rich soil. Her eyes play over it...
jack		Ah-ha. So it's okay when I bring you something. But if I -- She MOVES suddenly, opening one of the glass doors of the Sky Tower and heading outside where she holds the seedling away from her body, off the edge, lets it drop.
victoria		I know you think I'm a stickler for the rules, but you have no idea what sort of toxins could be in something like that. He chuckles...
jack		It was just a plant, Victoria.
victoria		That's not the point. We have two more months and the last thing we need is you putting it all at risk. He shakes his head, grimaces as he limps away.
victoria		This is gonna pinch a little...
jack		Hit me. She activates the wand, shines ultra violet light onto the substance. A beat, then he BENDS OVER in pain. Through the healant we see the FLESH begin to knit and repair. Skin and sinew literally regenerating... to new.
victoria		.I'm not saying you can't go into your caverns, I'm saying we have a job and if I'm trying to reach you and you're off on one of your adventures --
jack		Look, they trained me to fix drones. That's my job, I get that. But it's not what I am. I can't simply do the same thing over and over again, every day, with that... world down there.  And if mission has a better Drone tech, they can get him to baby- sit. He gets up, tries out his leg. Stiff, but healed.
victoria		It's only a little while longer. The Gatherer's have collected most of the resources we need for Mars. Pretty soon --
jack		Pretty soon, there won't be anything left down there. No more plant life, no more water.
victoria		You act like there's not a war going on down there but there is and we can't leave even two of those things alive...
jack		Actually, it was like they were trying to... catch me.  Guess I look tasty. He goes over to her, puts his arms around her.
victoria		Please be careful. If they get to you, what happens to me? JACK puts a finger to her lips, then kisses her.
jack		Come on.
victoria		Can you imagine when we go back up? Having a face to face conversation again? I can't believe it's finally ending.
jack		It's not so bad down here. They certainly don't have anything like this.
victoria		I wonder what duty I would have pulled. Probably programming the Mars boats.
jack		I'd have been overhauling the zero- G toilets.
victoria		Stop!
jack		It's awful. Just thinking about it, I get afraid... She LAUGHS, reaches for her wine, accidentally knocks the glass which tips over, and rolls right off the Sky Tower. They watch it disappear into the darkness below.
jack		Here, let me show you... He reaches up PULLS her into the pool. She screams, laughing as she goes in. She surfaces, pulling her soaking shirt over her head and tossing it to the side.
victoria		I should have seen that coming. Jack smiles, then takes a breath and goes under. He floats face-down, staring through the bottom of the pool into the lightening-stung clouds below... .and then Victoria's form glides underneath him, looking up at him, smiling. She stops moving and her body rises towards his. He opens his arms, and she floats up and against him. They embrace, kiss... Two bodies, intertwined underwater, a thousand feet above a roiling thunderstorm. Their lips part, he pulls back to look at her ... But it's the BRUNETTE WOMAN who stares back at him!!
victoria		Don't go out today until we get a signal. Jack looks back. She's never said this before. She's genuinely worried.
jack		.Then what would you say in your report? Victoria looks away, stuck.
jack		One, Two, Three. Jack Harper. Lights sparkle across the board. Activation sounds. Jack hits switches. Outside, protective barriers lower. The stratospheric wind VIBRATES the bubbleship.
jack		Just thinking I'd take Bob manual for the dust-off. Feeling the need.
victoria		A hundred terraformed acres on Mars is all you have to think about.
jack		Drone? Already she's got the signal analyzed on six different screens. No matches...
jack		Don't be embarrassed, there's always a first time.
victoria		On its way. Be careful, okay?
jack		All right, I'm coming up to the location. Jack begins flying slowly up the twelve hundred foot wall of falling water which almost seems to conceal a Petra behind its veil. Jack reaches the top... JACK'S POV - THE SPIRE AND OBSERVATIONAL DECK of the EMPIRE STATE BUILDING, now part of a cliff, set in shifted sea-bed, a gushing river pouring past.
jack		 New York, New York... It's a wonderful town. The Bronx is up, and the Battery's down... He can hear nothing over the wind and the water. He moves to the balcony edge, looks "downtown" at the sunken city. A Venice set in a matrice of rubble and sea-bed.
victoria		Jack, you're right on top of it. What do you see? Jack starts a circuit of the deck. A pile of old deck chairs in his way, he pushes at them with his foot... finds a WIRE, running below them, linked to two CAR BATTERIES, hidden under the rubbish. He traces the path of the wire... up.
jack		Bob, give me audible on this signal. Almost immediately from the Bubbleship comes the intermittent electronic SQUACK of the signal.
victoria		What did you find?
jack		It's an old radio system. It's been reactivated.
victoria		Define reactivated. Jack looks at the batteries, the wire...
jack		It's the Empire State --
victoria		It's ancient history, Jack. You know the procedure. Blow it. He pulls several CHARGES from the Bubbleship's storage, starts to set them... He pauses, staring at the railing, the old telescope. Change of plans. He walks towards the batteries, a blade sliding out of the cuff of his suit. He reaches them and SEVERS the lines. The signal dies.
victoria		Check your course, you're headed right at the border.
jack		Yeah, I may have seen another drone trap...
intercut victoria		She checks her map. Jack's Bubbleship is headed straight at a large red swath of territory marked out, toxic radiation levels constantly monitored. A small ALARM goes off in the Bubbleship cabin.
victoria		You're at the edge of range, Jack. You're starting to break up.
jack		It's okay --
jack		-- will cook me from the inside before I know it. Don't worry, I'm still more than five clicks from the beacons... IN THE BUBBLESHIP. A BIGGER ALARM goes off, Red skull- and-crossbones flash across the heads-up. Jack DIVES the ship, down over huge rocky outcroppings. Jack, intent on piloting. Static. Some GARBLED SOUNDS. Victoria's voice barely coming through.
victoria		What are -- you ---- out there Jack? The signal goes to pure static as Jack steers into a steep canyon, rock on all sides. Barely room to squeeze, but Jack's not worried. This is all familiar.
jack		That's right, Bob. You know where we're going.
victoria		Jack...? Victoria works the panel, upping signal, boosting reception. The static is again MIXED WITH GARBLED SOUNDS. She listens, confused, ups the volume... BLIP! That signal from the Empire State starts again. This time it LOCKS ON, a loud and continuous electronic pattern.
victoria		Jack? Jack, I really need you online...
victoria		Mission, this is Lieutenant Victoria Kohl, requesting a link. I may have a situation... A beat while the connection is made, then...
victoria		I have a rogue signal of unknown origin. I'm sending you a relay.
victoria		 Technician is... experiencing technical difficulties... She winces, that wasn't the greatest lie. Waits...
victoria		Yes, we're an effective team.
victoria		Will communicate findings on next Tet cycle. Understood. Victoria clocks off. Stares at the border area on the map where she last saw Jack. A KLAXON goes off in her workspace. Victoria STARTS. For the first time she seems confused as she works the console. She can't immediately figure it out... Suddenly she brings up a WIDE SCAN for tracking the Tet, The whole Eastern Coast of the continent. And something is closing, coming over the poles, FAST.
jack		So, um... Victoria. The ROVER shifts, confused.
jack		Bob! Let's get going! The Bubbleship is already powering up by the time Jack piles in. He touches a control and the ship shoots up into the air.
jack		Vika? Vika, did you get that? An object hit near here. A ship.
victoria		Where the hell have you been? Jack's silent, not wanting to lie. INTERCUT VICTORIA, looking at streaming info from TET.
jack		I saw it through optics in the last minute. I'm not sure it was alien.
victoria		Turn around, Jack. The Drones will handle the situation.
jack		The Drones'll kill anything that moves.
victoria		Just for once wait for your orders on this one, Jack. This is serious. Jack is silent, unsure. The crash site growing closer...
jack		Vika...
victoria		You heard me. Another hard beat. Jack hating this but...
jack		Negative. I'll report when I get to the site.
jack		I'm here, and it's definitely one of ours.
victoria		I'm not confirming this from the Tet.
jack		I'm confirming it. I'm right here. Vika works her displays, scanning, wanting to keep him safe. The wreckage has strewn out thousands of flaming pieces of debris, all which register heat signatures.
okay		SVUNK! SVUNK! Behind Jack, plasma rounds impact the Pod with the man in it, the metal going nova, collapsing...
jack		There are people here, and they're killing them! Victoria opens her mouth to respond. She can't.
jack		Get out of here! Go away! Get! A moment of insane bravado, Jack un-shoulders his weapon, strafes the Drone with gunfire which knocks it back. It re-centers, weapons chugging with energy. INTERCUT VICTORIA. Staring at the feeds. A screen catching a half-image of Jack firing at the Drone. She's absolutely still, holding her breath... Jack stares at the Drone, at certain death.
jack		It's you...
jack		Open it! Victoria obeys, opens the glass doors. WIND fills the living room as Jack hauls the Pod in. Then Victoria touches a control and the walls SEAL.
jack		She came off a NASA shuttle. The drones were specifically targeting the pods --
victoria		I don't know what the machinery did or didn't do. There's protocol...
jack		Protocol? Protocol?! Who's the machinery now, Victoria? VICTORIA stares at him. Then retreats from the question into the task at hand. She kneels by the Pod.
victoria		Go get the cutter, and a breather, and my big bag. Now. The Pod's been damaged, she's not doing well, let's get her out of there. Jack moves. Victoria, almost holds back, but...
jack		I know it does. And when we report it, we'll also report that drones slaughtered the other human survivors from one of our ships. See what they make of that. He goes for the equipment. Victoria stares at the woman's face, deeply unsettled... Jack returns with Victoria's bag, and firing up a CUTTER.
victoria		Right there, be careful... Jack directs the blue arc towards a seal. The Pod depressurizes with a sudden exhale of dead air. Jack pulls back the pod door. Inside, the woman lies in a gauzy sleep suit. Her hair is matted. Her body looks frail, her skin translucent, veins dark, lips blue, like a drowning victim. Vika pulls her feeding tube, takes her pulse, checks her eyes, lifting the lids.
jack		You're safe. You're in a skytower, on Earth.
woman		.Jack. Victoria gives a sharp look at Jack. He's stunned. Now completely exhausted, the woman SLUMPS into unconsciousness. Jack catches her. Victoria comes close, slides an oxygen breather mask over her face.
victoria		We need to get her cleaned up.
victoria		We have to get her up to the Tet.
jack		I know.
victoria		I don't have the facilities here. Once she's stable...
jack		I know. The glass door slides open behind them. Neither move.
victoria		What's going on? He shakes his head. He has no idea.
victoria		Here. Drink this. You're dehydrated... You've been in a very bad crash. Your ship came down. This DISTURBS the woman. She tries to sit up.
woman		What about the others? How did you get out?
victoria		What's your name?
woman		.Julia. Julia. The woman, JULIA, sinks back down, exhausted.
victoria		You need to rest quietly. You've been in delta sleep for a long time.
julia		How long...?
victoria		Best guess? About 65 years. Julia takes that in...
julia		Where's Jack...? Julia STARTS. Looks down at her arm where Victoria has just slid a needle under her skin. She stares at her, almost afraid. Victoria depresses the plunger.
victoria		Shhhhhh...
victoria		Tomorrow, I'll report that we have her. Jack nods, but won't look at her. Deep in thought.
jack		It's a Greek funeral vase. Which I want my ashes in, incidentally. Victoria collects the dishes, heads for the kitchen.
victoria		Jack, please. This isn't why we're here. This is just what we have to do before our real lives begin. We've given them five years and now we get to go home.
jack		And what if I can't? They stare at each other, each obscurely frightened.
jack		I read these books, of what it was like down here, before... He sits, his legs dangling into the water. She pulls up close, her arms on the side.
victoria		I know. That was the world before. Your little obsession...
jack		What was so wonderful about life on the Tet? She looks away...
victoria		Please. Please. Don't you understand? We have a chance to be on the first boats out, to be the first to settle Mars, raise a family. Five years. Proof that we are an effective team.
jack		I don't know if it is or not, Victoria. I can't remember. She starts to reply... has nothing. Shakes her head. She grabs blankets and pulls them around herself, her back to him, her eyes open, scared. Jack also lies down, staring upwards. And then Jack asks the 64,000 dollar
jack		It's beautiful, isn't it? It's your home now.
julia		A bit more... located.
jack		What was your shuttle's mission? She turns to him, watches him carefully in the dim light. And then, lying:
julia		I don't remember. I should get back to the ship. I might be able to find the flight recorder.
jack		Your ship... it's pre-war.
julia		 Have you ever seen a ship like that?
jack		No. No, of course not. This answers something important for Julia.
julia		I wonder what brought us back?
jack		.There was a transmission. I don't know who sent it.
julia		We'll never really know without the flight recorder.  She says we can't go down there, that it's too dangerous. He laughs a little, shakes his head.
jack		Funnily enough, you've found your man.
jack		How did you know my name?
julia		.You look like someone I once knew.  I understand I owe you my life. Thank you, Jack. They shake. A weird moment. She breaks away, looks back at the Tet which now glows a pale orange on the horizon.
jack		In a few hours, the Tet will come online. Victoria will report your rescue and I imagine they'll send someone down for you.
julia		From... the `Pet?
jack		Yes. She gestures out to the Bubbleship on its pad.
julia		You fly that thing?
jack		.You could say that. She SMILES, pleased. A twinkle in her eye...
julia		Alright then. Don't you want to know?
victoria		Jack! What are you doing?
jack		I'll bring her back before Tet- Rise. We just want to try to find the flight recorder. You can't know everything watching from a mile up.
victoria		She shouldn't be -- Julia turns on Victoria, quickly.
julia		Thank you. I feel very well. Then, coldly, she boards the ship.
jack		She's the flight officer, she wants. to see the wreck of her ship and secure items there. You'd want to do the same thing.
victoria		Jack, please.
jack		Don't worry, we'll be back before you have to make your report.
victoria		That's not it. I can't protect you with the Tet offline and I just have a very bad...
jack		I'll be fine. He turns and boards. Julia is staring at her through the bubble-canopy. The bubbleship rises and then falls off to the side, plummeting towards earth.
victoria		Jack... This isn't just about protocol. I'm trying to understand.
julia		So I guess I'm around... a hundred years old.
jack		The Scavs assumed taking out the moon would wipe us out, and it almost did. But we re-grouped, fought back. We beat them in the end. She glances at him.
julia		A dry planet... He nods at the Tet, rising in the distance.
jack		Yeah. What's left of us are up there now, ready to go where you were headed, Mars. 40 acres and a mule. What we've got left. What you've got. Julia stares out at the Tet.
julia		What about you?
jack		We were born and raised up there. Vika's the A-student. I'm just a tech... I fix things. I...
julia		Sorry. She stares back down at the landscape.
julia		No! NO! It's been taken. DAMN
jack		Look, it doesn't matter --
julia		It matters, okay!? You don't... you can't understand... I need that flight recorder. I need to know what happened.
jack		We should stay close to... She ignores him, moves on. Deeper in the wreckage, she locates the empty moorings that held the Steel Cylinder Jack saw. It's also gone.
victoria		 Jack! Jack! There's something coming your way. JACK!!"
julia		 You're staring at me.
jack		I'm sorry. INTERCUT: Victoria watches as MORE AND MORE Alien figures pass the camera feed. Moving towards Jack and Julia's position. Victoria, HELPLESS. Julia looks up at Jack, directly for the first time. He stares at her...
beech		MonteCristo, #2. Do you have any idea how long I've waited, for this? He EXHALES a stream of smoke into the beam, then moves closer, into the light. Beech's face is lined with age and exposure, his skin scarred from battle. His teeth yellowed and crooked, but his arms and body are strong. Jack TENSES. Beech's voice is calm, with a barely held- back malice lurking just under the surface.
jack		Who are you? Where is this? BEECH inhales again. There's a piercing curiosity to Beech's gaze, studying him.
beech		We're deep underground. Very deep underground.
jack		We were taken by the Scavs...
beech		Oh... The "Scavs".
jack		The Scavs took everything from us. And if you're working with them --
beech		Interesting, Jack. Interesting. You're worried I might be some kind of... Collaborator. Jack doesn't respond.
jack		No, they're programmed to
beech		To what, Jack?
jack		Anyone would have...
beech		Anyone. Would have. Interesting. Julia comes around, her eyes flickering open, She SCREAMS, looking frantically for an escape. Jack GRABS her, protecting her, calming her. Beech gets CLOSE, studies Jack, what he's doing. Nods.
beech		We grow what we can, under the lights. It isn't much; Wheat- grass, some vegetables, what beans and soy we can. The general state of our health proves that human beings are not herbivores, but the alternative is not appetizing to anybody.
jack		When we get you up to the Tet, there's plenty -
beech		There is? Plenty. Plenty of what?
jack		Food.Foreveryone.
beech		The zones... the area you don't patrol...
jack		No one does. You go there ---
beech		-- Your organs boil from the inside. I've heard. Beech moves on, turning down another corridor. There are PAINTINGS, stacked against the walls. Picasso, Monet, Kandinsky, Warhol. SCULPTURES in piles.
julia		It reminds me of home...
victoria		He's disappeared.
victoria		.Six hours.
victoria		The Scavs took him. I witnessed it. He has a... A beat. Victoria experiencing jealousy she didn't fully understand before...
victoria		I told you, she's with the Technical Officer. I'm requesting permission to re-task the Drones for search and rescue.
julia		Jack, what he said about the Tet...
jack		 It took three decades to build the Tet. And when it was finally ready and it was time to go up, there were people who refused. Leaders, who told their people to stay. Staring at Beech, the glint in the man's eyes...
victoria's voice		Jack! Jack! There's something coming your way. JACK!!!! Victoria LISTENS, chilled. She hits REWIND, then PLAY:
jack's voice		.It'll be fine. Trust me.
victoria's voice		I'm trying to.
jack's voice		I'll be home for breakfast. Alone in the Sky Tower, this hits Victoria hard. REWIND. Victoria STARES at the counter, letting it go further back. Then, PLAY. Just STATIC. Then we hear Victoria's end of a conversation we already witnessed:
victoria's voice		What are you doing out there so far, Jack? Then the static for a moment filled with GARBLED SOUNDS. Victoria hits STOP. She stares. Makes an adjustment, plays the SOUNDS again. Something drawing her in...
julia		The bomb... She REALIZES something, wheels on Beech, angry.
beech		I know what I did. But tell us, Commander, why did you have a bomb on board, what was it for? Tell him. She looks at Jack, reluctant to say it, but...
julia		The Tet... is an alien ship, Jack. The odyssey's mission --- Our mission, was to investigate it. Jack shakes his head no. Angry...
beech		It attacked us. First it destroyed our moon. Then it unleashed its primary weapon, a brilliant weapon...
jack		I was born there!
beech		I was born in Chicago, Jack. I used to go to baseball games with my father. I used to get two big hot dogs, fill 'em up with relish, and mustard. Just go to town. Me and my pops, watching the sox.  You have any memories like that Jack?
jack		No, my father was a --
beech		Was what? Tall? Fat? He yell at your mom? Ever go to a baseball game, Jack?
beech		Right, sorry. Tell me how your mother smelled.
jack		What?
beech		My mother, smelled like warm fruit. Like oranges, sitting in the sun. Jack starts to speak... Stops. Beech moves to one of the scavenged DELTA SLEEP PODS, runs his hand over the embossed name-plate...
julia		It was you, Jack.
jack		What?
julia		You and Victoria. We were all on the Odyssey. We were supposed to make contact...
jack		No.
beech		The Tet is an alien vessel, Commander Jack Harper. It came and destroyed our moon and most of humanity when it did. And ever since, with your help, it's been trying to finish the job.
jack		You're insane. This is insane. He turns to Julia, but she won't help him.
beech		What? People like you? We are the last real people.
sykes		It followed him here. I told you this was a mistake! Beech, processing. All around the periphery, REACTION. This is a disaster.
beech		Well well, we may be out of time. Set the Drone to return to the Tet upon reactivation. It needs to go right to the center --
jack		No! It will kill -
jack		No. I won't do it.
sykes		He won't help us. We bury them both, make our run as soon as we can load up.
jack		You know I stare into weapons every day, so you can put that away. Because here's what I can tell you...  If the Rover found us, the Drones will too. Unless you want them to find you, let me get somewhere where I can send a signal. Somewhere far from here. Beech... caught.
jack		The Drones would kill you. Let me try to stop that.
sykes		You can't trust him!
jack		 You're wasting time. On Beech, Sykes...
jack		I can fix this.
beech		Well, you're the repairman. Jack powers up the bike and gets on. He looks at Julia who hesitates, then she climbs on the back of the bike.
jack		I'll get to the antenna, send a signal with my location. The Tet will call off the search. .You should be safe, for now. Jack starts to go.
beech		Jack... What if I told you that I had been to your radiation zones. And what I found there... Would change everything you think you know about the world.
sykes		What makes you think he's any different from the others? Beech stares at him a moment, then back out.
beech		She does. Beech turns away.
julia		What happened...? She's staring into the distance where an old WRECK of a RESOURCE GATHERER lies shattered against a cliff-face.
jack		The Scavs brought it down ten years ago. All. this time, I thought we were at war with the Scavs... but it turns out we were just killing each other. He turns, heads off on foot. After a moment, she follows.
jack's voice		I don't think they'll have those on Mars, Honey.
victoria's voice		Okay, fine. No dishwasher. How about just you. All the time.
jack's voice		Yes. When we get there. ON VICTORIA. Her face totally still. Strangely frozen in the face of this sweet little exchange...
julia		What will you do now? Jack doesn't answer. He moves to the edge of the deck, stares out, unwilling to meet her eyes.
jack		That old man is smart. Those fuel cells, the way he's got them tied in with your device... He could blow the whole station.
julia		Jack, you can't turn them in. He glances at her, shakes his head.
jack		What do you want from me? I'm just a repairman.
jack		Look, stop, okay? Just --
julia		But for you, it was always the stars. You wanted to fly further and faster than any one else.
jack		I don't know who you're talking
julia		I'm talking about a man I knew, who was fearless. A man who wouldn't bow out of a fight, ever.
jack		STOP! You and that old man have this story... Except I know who I am, okay? I know who I am!
julia		No, you don't. That thing brainwashed you, it erased your
memories		He turns, starts to lean on the old telescope, draws back, staring at the thing like it bit him.
jack		Why do I... what is it about this place?
julia		Ten days before we got our go- ahead, you asked me to meet you here.
jack		When I sleep. You're always there. She kisses him.
younger jack		There, right there. Take a look. She smiles, puts her eye to the telescope.
younger julia		Oh, okay. I don't understand. YOUNGER JACK nervously produces an ENGAGEMENT RING from his pocket.
younger jack		Now, pan to the right, slowly...
julia		There are a few pages missing, but it's the same book.
jack		Vika, it's me. I'm... all right. I'm coming in. Don't report in to Mission, not until I get back. No response. Dead air. Julia is pressed far back in her seat, watching Jack.
jack's voice		.I'm 20 minutes out. A TONE makes Victoria look over. The Tet, checking in.
victoria		Go to hell. Beat. Beat.
jack		Vika... the Scavs. They're humans, like us. The war has become some giant... mistake. She turns. The heartbreak in her face clear.
victoria		I saw you. I saw you two.
victoria		 Stay away from me with the truth! I don't want the truth. I preferred oblivion. Victoria looks up, sees Julia in the distance...
jack		 Vika, she was my wife. She looks at the infinite sky, the clouds, and as the TET appears... He steps towards her and she backs towards the edge.
victoria		I told them. The drones will be here. For her. For you.
jack		Then come with me.  Don't you see what it means? There are still people, living on Earth. Surviving on earth. People like us. Victoria hears that and laughs, bitter.
victoria		Oh, Jack. I think they made us. Victoria steps backwards. Jack LUNGES forward.
nooo1		PETALS are falling towards us from the skytower, and then, so is VICTORIA.
jack		This is Technician Jack Harper. The signal goes out. Beat. Beat...
jack		She's dead.
jack		Did you hear what I said? She's dead!
jack		I want to talk to somebody. Beat.
jack		DAMN YOU! I want to hear your voice! Beat. Beat. Tet Comm Status: "Communication Ended." He stares at this last transmission. Then looks up to the big map. From all over the sector, DRONES are closing on the Sky Tower. Closing on him.
jack		We have to go.
julia		Where are we going?
jack		Beech said to look in the radiation zones. I have to go there.
julia		And if he's just a crazy old man? Jack looks at her. It'd be a funny moment, but it's not.
jack		I've been wrong about everything else. He dives the ship towards the clouds below.
jack		There... He punches the throttle. The Bubbleship with Drone 166 attached blasts in the direction of A CLIFF FACE. DRONE 166 gets free of one restraint, rotates so its cannon come to bear on part of the undercarriage. OPENS UP, blasting the storage to bits... And Jack PULLS UP, just clearing the ridge, Drone 166 IMPACTING ROCK. The Drone blasts clear through, CRASHES
jack		You okay?
julia		No. Jack nods, turns the ship north again. The Bubbleship shaking and smoking. Up ahead, the RIDGELINE approaching. WARNING ALARMS trigger on the Bubbleship's display Claxon-like.
jack		Radiation warning. We're five clicks from the border. Jack makes an adjustment, the Bubbleship SURGES with more speed. It sounds like it's going to tear itself apart.
julia		Jack...
jack		I got this. Jack hits it. They're both propelled back into their seats. The radiation zone coming up fast... They CROSS
jack		Son of a bitch, old man... Words die on his lips as he tracks the plume of smoke from the downed Drone 166, lifting over a nearby ridge. He turns back to the ruined ship, grabs his carbine.
jack's voice		No! Wait! The Repairman hears the voice, even as he flips the switch. He LEAPS BACK, spinning around, his carbine coming off his back, lined on Jack fifteen feet away who
julia's voice		Jack!? Julia has just crested the rise, sees the two Jack's. Also understanding...
jack		Julia! Stay back! Jack 2 senses her movement, SPINS and AIMS his rifle as Jack rushes forward --
jack		I'll be back for you.
victoria 2		You're early...
jack		.Just a bit of a dust up.
victoria 2		Are you all right? He nods. She comes over to him. He marvels at her beauty, the simplicity of life here...
jack		I cut myself, I just came by for...
victoria 2		I'll get it.
jack		No, I'll get it. He kisses her. Gentle, loving...
victoria 2		We should watch a movie tonight. He sits, looking around himself. He belongs here. He fits here. Victoria munches on something.
victoria 2		Hey, you didn't say goodbye.
jack		This is gonna pinch a little.
jack		I always thought that plateau up there could be for a house someday. I thought about remaining here, letting the rest of humanity run off to Mars. And we'd just stay here. Jack stops himself, realizing how easily he said "we."
julia		I'm sorry. Jack...
jack		No. He moves away from her, lights the fire, it starts to crackle. He gets up and goes, walking down to the lake. She stands near the fire, glad for its warmth, watching him out there, silhouetted in front of the lake. WITH JACK. He stares out over the water. Letting the truth wash over him. And then MUSIC from the grotto... the opening bars to the Temptation's "My Girl."
julia		He loved this song. Jack sits, shivering, looking out at the lake. She moves to him, wraps a blanket around him.
jack		What was he like?
julia		He was arrogant, and annoying, and the best man I'd ever known. Some distant part of Jack smiles at that.
jack		I'm not that man.
julia		Shhhhh. Yes you are. She rests her head against on his shoulder, holds him. Simple, caring. His eyes... close.
younger jack		We should just tell everybody.
younger julia		No, when we come home... They KISS...
younger julia		Hey... He looks over, smiles. She's naked under the sheets, happy, smiling back at him.
jack		We can't stay here. She smiles, nods.
jack		Stay here...
beech		 The first ones were soldiers, programmed only to kill. Beech slowly, painfully, looks at him. Little emotion in Beech, just resigned recognition.
jack		I'm the weapon of this war. BEECH smiles sardonic, nods.
beech		The Tet. The clockmaker God. Such brilliant, complex machinery... For such a simple task. To steal our water, our life... all for fuel.
jack		Why didn't you tell me?
beech		Not the kind of news that.  .motivates a man. Beat,then low, defeated.
jack		The device...?
beech		 No Drone. It will go on, devouring world, after world...
julia's voice		There is a way. Julia stands in the doorway to the library.
julia		It wants me. Bring me to it.  I'm right. You know I am. It's the only way.
julia		Is it ready? Julia is standing at the entrance to the room. He nods and she approaches, STARES at what will be her coffin.
jack		Julia...
julia		Let's just do it. She moves to climb in, then turns to Jack and kisses him. It's a kiss filled with a lifetime of kisses missed. Finally, it breaks. She backs away, into the Pod, next to the BOMB. Trembling as the door starts to CLOSE. Suddenly, she's very scared. Fighting back panic.
jack		Dream about us.
original jack		 So far, from this distance, we're still reading zero heat signatures, no sign of organic life. Did I mention we're still really far away?
original victoria		Mission plan has us approaching to one hundred kilometers, doing our initial readouts...
original jack		Yes, because everyone knows, if you want to really know something, one hundred kilometers is the best
original victoria		Stop. We don't know what it is, if it has intentions.
original jack		 I think she just made my point --
jack		Bob, let's prep for outer atmosphere. OUTSIDE, the Bubbleship starts to transform for outer space as it RISES higher and higher...
the tet		 Technician Harper.
jack		Finally. There you are.
the tet		Your ship has converted to space mode. This is not authorized.
jack		I am delivering the survivor from the crash of the NASA ship. ON JACK. The Tet reflected in his eyes.
the tet		.Proceed. Jack... exhales. The TINY BUBBLESHIP climbs towards the massive artificial moon as the audio from the flight recorder surrounds him again...
original victoria		It could be inert. Anything on it could be long gone by now.
original jack		Which is why we need to make contact, before it just blows on by like some...
original victoria		Which is why we need to make contact.
original victoria		Mission control says maintain one thousand meters. Original Jack touches a control. The Shuttle pushes forward, a little.
original jack		This is a once in a lifetime opportunity.
original victoria		We have our orders, Jack. We're to let it proceed without --
original jack		We are. We're going to let it proceed whereever it's going... He lifts out of his seat, floats back towards the mid- section of the Shuttle.
original victoria		Jack...
original jack		I'll be right back...
jack		Let's make history. FLASH. The birth of the picture of the two of them, eyes filled with anticipation. The photo in Jack's locker.
jack		It's okay Bob, I'm scared too. In front of him, a SLOT opens in the Tet wall.
the tet		Enter at headway speed only.
jack		Entering at headway speed. He flies into the Tet, carrying the POD.
the tet		Leave the survivor and return to your duties. Breathable atmosphere has been provided. A PAD is illuminated for Jack to land.
the tet		Leave the survivor and return to your duties.
jack		 You know, you made a mistake, Tet. You left me curious.
the tet		Reverse course. Leave the --
jack		And right now, I want to see what you're made of... Jack GUNS his ship at the large doors, OPENING UP with canons as he does. In front of him, the door IMPLODES just as Jack's ship reaches it, passing into...
jack		Do you like books, Tet!? I like books. Can I tell you something that I read? BEHIND THE BUBBLESHIP. DRONES detach from the walls of the Tet, beginning pursuit.
jack		There was a guy named Horatius... and he held a bridge, alone. And when they told him to run, to give up, he said -- BOOM! A drone blast EXPLODES A whole engine of the ship. The Bubbleship goes into an uncontrollable SPIN, headed straight at a WALL...
jack		.What Horatius said, what his argument was, was this... He opens the pod, revealing... -- BEECH'S BODY, and on his chest the raw BOMB. The nuclear warhead from the odyssey surrounded by ten Deuterium fuel cells.
the tet		That is not the Survivor.
jack		No. BEHIND HIM. The Drones blast away the last bit of the Bubbleship, push through...
jack		How can a man die...
julia		Jack?
jack		How can man die better Than facing fearful odds, For the ashes of his fathers, And the temples of his gods... The DRONES are on him, weapons lining!
julia		Well, almost everyone. A MAN stands at the edge of the water, on the opposite side. He wears the wrecked remains of a worksuit, and carries a pack. It is Jack 2. He's aged three years, his hair has grown, his boots are scavenged. He has travelled a long way, and we know that as he stares across the water, he knows exactly what he is looking at.
child		Who is that? ON JULIA. It's been a long journey to this moment for her as well. She smiles.
julia		It's your father. Come on, let's go pick him up.
****Dialogues from script :Observe_and_Report.txt****

mark		Ladies, please, we're doing everything we can to handle the situation. Nothing is more important to us than the safety of our shoppers. Now in the meantime, feel free to check out some of our wonderful back-to- school sales. Excuse me for a minute.
mark		Have you seen Ronnie?
receptionist		I haven't seen him all morning.
mark		Ramon, have you seen Ronnie?
janitor		No, senor.
mark		Where is Ronnie?
ronnie		 Pull over to the sidewalk, NOW!
stevie		Fuck off, Ronnie, it's just a parking lot.
ronnie		Sir, pull over to the sidewalk, NOW!
hector		Leave us alone.
stevie		Yeah, skating's not a crime, dick.
ronnie		Skateboarding is not allowed on mall premises. Pull over now!
stevie		We're not leaving.
hector		Yeah, fuck you!
ronnie		That way I could handcuff you smoothly and take you in. You know, never mind, just get in the goddamn golf cart.
ronnie		It seems like we go through this every day. What's it going to take for you all to realize that I won't tolerate this horseplay and just do whatever you want to and don't worry about the rules attitude?
stevie		Ronnie, I hear what you're saying and I just want you to know that personally, it pains me to see you all worked up and I just want you to know that I'm really sorry because you can't do shit and you can take your little rules and stick'em up your ass, you fuckin' rent-a-cop.
hector		Yeah, suck my dick.
ronnie		That's funny, guys. I try to be a mentor to the youth, but it seems like you boys have gone straight past boydom to the land of street- hardened criminals. I'm left with no choice. You call me rent-a- cop, but I call myself the law's right hand. I see the crime... and I phone it in. And that's what I'm getting ready to do right now.
ronnie		 317, this is Ronnie Barnhardt over at Carolina Mall. Come in, over.
ronnie		While I won't have you arrested today, I am going to suspend each of you for one week. For those of you who don't know how this works, here it is. This is official documentation. If you step foot on mall property, it is considered trespassing. At that point, I call the police, they come down, you go directly to jail.
ronnie		Amen.
ronnie		Nothing, Nell.
ronnie		Slow it down. Watch your speed there. This ain't a race. Hey, second time, slow it down.
mark		I've been looking all over for you.
ronnie		I haven't been hiding, but some things that I have to do are better to keep hidden from you and 'official' eyes. Trust me, it's best all around if there are no bodies to clean up.
mark		So you may or may not have heard, but this morning, several women were assaulted just outside the front doors by a crazy Pervert.
ronnie		For the love of God.
mark		I know, it's horrible.
ronnie		You want me to phone this one in to the police?
mark		Not just yet. See if we call the police, they'll be a big scandal and something like that could kill what little traffic we have at this mall. What I need you to do is watch out for this Pervert and if you see him, try to stop him or quietly phone it in so we can handle this discreetly.
female reporter		Excuse me, sir, but we would like to ask you a few questions.
ronnie		I'm sorry, but I can't answer anything.
female reporter		We heard a report that an unidentified man was spotted earlier today exposing himself to several women. Do you care to comment?
ronnie		I'm not allowed to comment on that situation.
female reporter		So you admit there is a situation.
ronnie		I'm trained to resist torture for up to 72 hours, you really expect me to break now? Get real, lady.
female reporter		 We're wasting our time here. Let's go find some police to interview.
ronnie		Good luck.
female reporter		What's that supposed to mean?
ronnie		It just means you won't find any police.
female reporter		Are you telling me the police haven't even been called!
ronnie		 Ewww, alert the media.
female reporter		Jesus, well who'd they leave in charge, you?
female reporter		Yeah, right. Why would they leave you in charge?
ronnie		First of all, if there was a situation to be handled, I don't see why you find it so goddamn ridiculous that I would be in charge.
female reporter		 Look, there is no way you're in charge of this investigation.
ronnie		Well for your information, I'm in charge of this whole fucking operation. 
ronnie		 I warned you about parking in the fire lane, Saddamn!
ronnie		 Step away now!
ronnie		Sir, I will be forced to take action if you do not step back!
ronnie		As I was saying, the pervert situation here is real bleak. For all you people out there thinking of coming to the mall, please for your own safety, stay away.
saddamn		 I can't believe you tased me.
ronnie		 That's right and I've got another one waiting right here for you.
ronnie		I'm here on official business. See, I don't know if you know this, but I have recently been made Head of Mall Security. Did you hear about that?
ronnie		Dennis, man, I'm glad we've got a minute to talk. There's no easy way to say this so I'm just going to come right out with it. Mark offered me the position of Head of Mall Security. I know this isn't easy for you to hear seeing as you've been here longer than me. But I want you to know that you're my best friend and I'm only going to accept the job if you're okay with that.
ronnie		Hey, you want to go and grab a beer or something?
ronnie		Yeah, you're right. You're probably in no mood to party after that news. Well, try not to take it too hard. See you later, buddy.
mom		You think you're ready for a shot at the title, motherfucker?!
ronnie		I'm ready, Mom.
mom		Ding ding.
ronnie		Ow!
mom		What's wrong, baby?    Is your pussy hurting?
ronnie		Fuck you!
mom		Ah!
ronnie		You give?
mom		Fuck you!
mom		Ow!
ronnie		You move with me, you go down. You move against me and your arm breaks.
mom		I give!
ronnie		What's that?
mom		I give!   Let me go, goddamn it.
mom		I can't believe you got that lucky shit on me.
ronnie		Luck has nothing to do with it.
mom		You almost broke my arm.
ronnie		I'm sorry, Mom. Are you okay?
mom		Not really.
mom		 I'm so proud of you, Ronnie.
ronnie		Do you think I did good?
mom		Hell yes.   You were great.
ronnie		Ah, you're just drunk.
mom		Nah, you did good.
ronnie		Yeah, I usually don't come out to the forefront like that. 
ronnie		You working the door here?
bouncer		That's what they tell me. They needed to hire a little security here in case the drunks get out of line or whatever.
ronnie		Kind of funny they thought they needed more security here. Ha. You do realize that if anyone gets out of hand, you need to call me to handle the situation.
bouncer		I work for O'Charley's, not for the mall.
ronnie		Granted, but you realize that my jurisdiction supersedes any and all other forms of security when under the roof of Carolina Mall?
bouncer		You know, I thought about getting a job as a Mall Security.
ronnie		You did?
ronnie		My young friend, you are sorely mistaken. Do you know how much stuff I'm in charge of?
bouncer		What about it?
bouncer		Okay.
bouncer		Oh yeah?
mark		 Alright, people, she's doing good. We're just gonna get her down to my office and everything's going to be fine, so the best thing for you employees to do is just get on back to your stations and you customers can go ahead and enjoy the back to school savings here at Carolina Mall.
bruce		Just let it out, baby.   He should be ashamed!
mark		Brandi, please, Dennis has called the police and let's just take this down to my office.
bruce		A Pervert attacked Brandi is what's going on!
mark		They're on the way.
mark		I'm trying, but she just keeps crying.
ronnie		Brandi! I came as soon as I heard. Jesus, are you alright?
mark		She's fine, Ronnie.
ronnie		This is one of the most heinous things I've seen. Jesus, I tried to tell you about the skirts. It's not your fault, you little fighter you. Ronnie's not mad, okay?
mark		Ronnie, can you get her down to my office so the Police can talk to her in private when they arrive.
ronnie		Rogers.
ronnie		Don't worry.   I'll carry you.
mark		Oh, fucking Jesus.
detective harrison		Your secretary told me to come on in. I'm Detective Harrison, Cabarrus County Police.
mark		Mark Talbert, I manage the mall. This is Brandi, she's the one who saw the deviant.
detective harrison		Hello, Brandi.     Are you doing okay?
detective harrison		Yes, ma'am, I'm sure you are after all you've been through, but I'm here to tell you that we're going to work together to make sure we catch the person who did this.
ronnie		My name is Ronnie Barnhardt, chief inspector on the case and head of Mall Security here at Carolina Mall and this is my lieutenant, Dennis. From one law enforcement officer to another, I just want to welcome you and say that we will do whatever it takes to coordinate with your department in order to bring this assailant to justice.
detective harrison		Great.  Okay, Brandi. Did you get a look at the suspect?
ronnie		Did you get a blood sample?
mark		Go ahead, Detective.
detective harrison		Thank you. Brandi, can you remember anything specifically? What color was his hair? Was he tall or short?
detective harrison		Was his hair long or short?
detective harrison		Did he say anything?
detective harrison		What was he wearing?
ronnie		This is what I got so far.
ronnie		What's yours look like?
detective harrison		I just wrote a description.
ronnie		Oh.
detective harrison		Okay, Brandi, I think that's good for now. I think the best thing at this point is to just follow up with the other ladies who saw the perpetrator yesterday and see if they remember anything.
detective harrison		That's highly unlikely. These incidents are usually random and unpredictable. I'm sure you'll be safe.
ronnie		I'm afraid I'm going to have to disagree with you there, Detective. By my math, it seems pretty clear that Brandi's been targeted.
detective harrison		Targeted? What gives you that impression?
ronnie		Well, how about the fact that she was the first employee to get assaulted? Not to mention the fact that she is the prettiest girl who works at this mall. To me it seems obvious that this is some sort of methodical villain that plans on returning to finish what he started by murdering Brandi.
detective harrison		That's not going to happen.
detective harrison		Well don't worry. I'm on the case and I'm going to do everything in my power to bring this guy down.
ronnie		That's right, Brandi, you've got the best team in law enforcement working for you.
detective harrison		Look, I've got to get going. Here's my card. I'll even write my home phone number on the back, just in the event you need to get a hold of me.
detective harrison		Give me a call when you aren't working and I'll have you come to the station to look through some mug shots.  Don't worry okay.
detective harrison		What?
detective harrison		Oh, okay.
detective harrison		Don't do that.
ronnie		Oh shit.
detective harrison		My team just checked all the doors and there are no signs of forced entry. I've also checked out the crime scene, but we didn't see any fingerprints on the glass. The suspect was probably wearing gloves.
mark		That doesn't sound good.   How did they do it?
detective harrison		My guess it was an inside job. Probably someone who has access to keys like a janitor or a security guard.
detective harrison		Whoever did this would have to had keys to the Security Room so they could shut off the camera.
ronnie		Look, my record speaks for itself and as for Dennis, well I can certainly vouch for him. Dennis is one of the finest men I know, so just take my word, you're barking up the wrong tree. Now, let's put this little squabble behind us and get back to busting the guys that robbed this mall.
detective harrison		Ronnie, nobody is accusing anybody, but I would like to stick around for a while and interview some of the employees.
mark		Okay, but all I ask is that you do it quietly, so that the hoopla is kept to a minimum.
detective harrison		I understand.
mark		Ronnie, you are to leave Detective Harrison alone and let him handle the investigation.
ronnie		No can do, Mark. When you appointed me Head of Mall Security, I swore an oath to protect this mall and aid in bringing crime to its knees.
ronnie		Okay, Dennis. I've gotta hang with Detective Harrison. 
detective harrison		So, have you seen any suspicious people hanging around the mall? Anybody who might have been casing the stores?
saddamn		Nah, man.   I ain't seen nothing.
detective harrison		Okay, well if you can think of anything, here's my card.
ronnie		 My turn, Rookie.
detective harrison		What are you doing, Ronnie?
ronnie		Solving the whole case right before your eyes.
detective harrison		Ronnie, this is official police business.
ronnie		Hello, Saddamn.
saddamn		What the fuck you want, Ronnie?
ronnie		I want your ass to face the music is what I want.
saddamn		Don't come any further, bitch. The restraining order says 20 feet so just back the fuck up.
detective harrison		Ronnie, I appreciate your enthusiasm, but just let me handle this.  Have a good day, sir.
ronnie		So you're just gonna let him slip right through your fingers?
detective harrison		I have no reason to make him a suspect.
ronnie		No reason? Look at him. There's every reason in the goddamn book.
saddamn		Why are you saying that, man?
ronnie		I think it's obvious, Saddamn.
saddamn		That's fucked up. You're racist, man.
ronnie		You're not even black.
detective harrison		Ronnie, stop. We're finished here. Now if you're going to tag along, I'm gonna need you to just stay back; are we clear?
saddamn		What's up, girl, you got a boyfriend? Free cell phones with a month trial and I throw in my phone number for free.
detective harrison		Did you let anybody borrow your keys?
janitor		No, senor.
detective harrison		Have you seen anything suspicious?
janitor		No, senor.
detective harrison		Okay, sir.   Thank you for your time.
ronnie		Alright, I believe I can be of some assistance here.
detective harrison		Ronnie, we talked about this.
ronnie		Communication skills, watch and learn.
ronnie		Que pasa?
janitor		Long drawn out conversation in Spanish?
ronnie		Como?
janitor		More Spanish dialogue.
ronnie		Si.  Yeah, this guy definitely did it.
detective harrison		What did he say?
ronnie		I don't know, I don't speak Spanish, but judging from his tonal inflections, it's safe to say that he's hiding something. The only question is where.  Okay, Ramon, I'm giving you one chance and one chance only to come clean. Or else Detective Harrison is going to come over to your house and deport your whole family back to Mexico.
detective harrison		No, I'm not.
ronnie		Good cop, bad cop, just play along.  Where are you hiding the jewels?
janitor		No se.
ronnie		Alright, you're gonna make me be the bad guy here? Well, that's a role I'm comfortable playing. Let's just see what you're hiding.
ronnie		Think you're pretty slick, don't you? Guess what? I'm pretty slick too.
ronnie		Alright, you're free -- Wait a minute.
ronnie		Okay, my mistake. Sir, you're free to go. Uh, you might want to have someone clean this up which in this case is you, so, uh, chop- chop. Wouldn't want anyone to slip on this mess.
hot clerk		Hello, can I help you?
detective harrison		I'm Detective Harrison with the Cabarrus County Police.
ronnie		And I'm Ronnie Barnhardt, head of Mall Security.
detective harrison		Okay, seriously, would you back the fuck off?! I'm trying to do my job and you're fucking it up.
ronnie		Come on, we're working here.
detective harrison		I'm working!
detective harrison		 Sorry. Hi. I'm doing a check with all the mall employees to see if anybody has any information on the robbery that took place here last night?
hot clerk		I'm sorry, but I haven't noticed anything out of ordinary.
sexy worker		Tracy, do you think my boyfriend would like these?
detective harrison		That's fine, thanks for the help.
ronnie		You're gonna let them distract you with a little bit of panty showing.    You have got a lot to learn, my friend.  Who are you protecting, toots?
hot clerk		What are you talking about?
ronnie		Look, I'm sure you and your little friend have made a real lifestyle for yourselves here. It's probably easy for you to blind most men with your beauty, but I'm not most men. I can see through the sexuality to the truth. Jewelry, gold, diamonds, you don't really expect me to think that a man wants that crap. I'm putting you on my list of top suspects. I don't think you did the crime, but I do think you are an accomplice.
detective harrison		I'm sorry, ma'am. He's not with me. Here's my card. If you think of anything, just give me a call.
ronnie		You should be ashamed of yourself.
ronnie		Is that pot I smell?
detective harrison		Shut up, Ronnie!
salesman		It's sage.
ronnie		Whatever, hippy. If I find you doing drugs or killing cats or whatever you devil worshippers do, I'll come back here and bust you. I swear to God.
detective harrison		Get the hell out, Ronnie. I'm here to ask questions about the robbery.
ronnie		Just forget that, we're on to something bigger here.  Tell me more about this 'sage.'
ronnie		Now, maybe I'm crazy or maybe I'm the smartest man alive, but it seems kind of convenient to me that you sell hammers like this one that could easily be used to smash a glass case in, oh say, a jewelry store.
sears manager		Couldn't you smash the glass with anything?
ronnie		You really think you're gonna talk your way out of this one?
ronnie		You guys should have been there today. We were just solving shit left and right. I mean, that's what this job is supposed to be like. Busting loiterers and kids who steal pennies from the fountain has its rewards, but really getting in there and closing cases is where it's at. It's rewarding too because at the end of the day, you know you've done something good for the world.
bouncer		What are we doing here, Ronnie? I thought you said they were giving away free Chick-fil-A sandwiches.
ronnie		Well -- What is your name anyway?
bouncer		Charles.
ronnie		Well, my young apprentice. I called you here today because as Head of Mall Security, I have decided that it's time to take protection to the next level. In other words, I alone cannot combat this recent crime wave. In order to help me in my personal journey, I have decided to divide up the tasks between my soldiers. So, for now on, Dennis, my right-hand man, you will be in charge of solving the case of who is robbing the mall. Little Chucky, you will be on the case of the Pervert. You are both to collect data and provide it to me. I will analyze the data, draw conclusions, and solve these crimes as well as coordinate and strategize with various law enforcement agencies.
ronnie		Anyway, our new unit will operate under the name, 'Special Elite Task Force.' You will answer directly to me and no one else. Now, let's all put our hands in the middle and do a unifying cheer.
ronnie		Okay, so now I say we all take a celebratory trip to Sears because, as we all know, today is half- price day on all automotive parts for mall employees.
ronnie		Just doing my job with a little something extra especially for you.
ronnie		Brandi, um... I was just thinking, would you like to go to dinner this weekend?
ronnie		Look, it's not like that. I've got a girlfriend... who doesn't work in this mall.
ronnie		Is $20 enough?
brandi		Nah, fifty.
ronnie		Hey, Brandi.
brandi		What?
bodyguard		My eyes!
stevie		I'm listening.
ronnie		Come on.   Why do you have to bring that up?
slick salesman		Can I help you, sir?
ronnie		Yeah, um, I've got a really special date tonight with a hot young lady -- Do you know Brandi?
slick salesman		No.
ronnie		Never mind. Anyway, I need something that's really 'cool.' Something that will impress her and I guess you could say I'm not exactly in the know with what the hipsters are up to these days.
slick salesman		Let's see. Are you looking to fall in love or are you looking to get laid?
ronnie		Um, I guess love, but uh...
slick salesman		You want to get laid, too?
ronnie		Watch it, man.     She's a lady.   But yes.
slick salesman		Alright, I got just the thing. Something classy is what you want. Show her you're a man with taste.
mom		Come on, Ronnie, just get out here.
ronnie		It's too tight in the butt.
mom		Let me see.
mom		Ronnie, you look so handsome! RONNIE Really, you don't think I look like a phony.
mom		Hell no.   You look like a stud muffin.
ronnie		Yeah, I guess these clothes are kind of cool.
mom		Nell is a lucky girl.
ronnie		She is, Mom. She's the most perfect girl in the whole world.
mom		I remember when your father picked me up for our first date. I swear he was the most handsome man that I had ever laid eyes on. I knew right then and there that this would be the man that I married.
ronnie		I hope that happens tonight.
ronnie		Mom, why did Dad leave?
mom		Well, he kind of freaked out when you were born. You had so many special needs that he just couldn't handle the pressure. One day, he just couldn't take it anymore.
ronnie		Do you think it was my fault that Dad left?
mom		Definitely. You don't think it was mine do you?
ronnie		Well, I didn't know, with the drinking and all.
mom		Nope, it was all you.
mom		I love you, Ronnie.
ronnie		I love you, too, Mom.
ronnie		Damn, that was pretty impressive.
ronnie		Well, Brandi, can I just say that you look absolutely beautiful tonight.
ronnie		Yeah, yeah.   No problem.
ronnie		Oh, it's nothing.
ronnie		It's just a pill I'm supposed to take.
ronnie		The Doctor.
ronnie		Yeah, I guess I party like this every four to six hours as needed.
ronnie		Help yourself.
brandi		Hell yeah!
ronnie		So, how do you like working at the mall?
ronnie		Yeah, I see how that could get to you.
ronnie		That's a lot.
brandi		It's Friday.
ronnie		So, Brandi, I hope I'm not being too forward, but do you have a boyfriend?
ronnie		Yes!
ronnie		Yeah, I understand. I hate ties. I recently cut mine and now I'm free like a bird.
ronnie		To new beginnings.
ronnie		Okay.
ronnie		No more.    I'm sticking to beer.
ronnie		God, you remind me so much of my mother.
ronnie		You are so beautiful.
ronnie		Brandi, this is the most fun I've ever had on a date.
ronnie		Wooo! Um, so, Brandi, it's no secret that I'm attracted to you. I think everybody in the mall is. As you know, I recently split with my girlfriend and basically, I was wondering if, since you don't have a boyfriend, that I could maybe be your boyfriend and you could be my girlfriend?
ronnie		Brandi, I had a wonderful time tonight.
ronnie		Are you okay?
ronnie		I love you, Brandi.
bruce		Okay.   Thanks.
ronnie		You have?
ronnie		What color of roses do the women like anyway?
flower salesman		Well, it depends on what you are trying to say. The white roses symbolize innocence and purity.
ronnie		Yeah, we're way past the color white if you know what I mean. What about the yellow ones?
flower salesman		Joy, happiness, appreciation.
ronnie		I don't even know what to make of that.
flower salesman		The pink rose means thank you.
ronnie		Next.
flower salesman		The red rose is the most powerful. It symbolizes love.
ronnie		Why didn't you just say that?    I'm a busy man here.
flower salesman		I'm sorry.
ronnie		Forget it. Give me a big bag of the red ones.
flower salesman		Um, can I ask a question?
ronnie		Go ahead.
flower salesman		Do you really like Brandi?
ronnie		I've only been on one date with her, but I could see myself being with her for all of eternity.
flower salesman		Well, in that case, the greatest symbol of love is just a single red rose.
ronnie		Seems   like a big bag of roses would   be more love than just one, but I   guess you're the expert. Gimme   one.
ronnie		Brandi?
ronnie		I came here to see you. And to present you with this single red rose. It symbolizes 'love.'
ronnie		Well, after last night,   I just wanted you to know that   it wasn't just some fling to me.    It meant something special and I   felt it deep in my soul.
bruce		You fucked the Security Guard?  You are such a little slut!
ronnie		I'm here to become a police officer.
policeman		We're always on the hunt for new recruits. Do you have at least a high school diploma?
ronnie		I have a GED.
policeman		We usually prefer an actual diploma, but GED is technically acceptable. Are you a citizen of the United States?
ronnie		You bet your ass I am.
policeman		Okay, Mr. Barnhardt, there are several steps you have to complete in order to be eligible for the police academy. Physical evaluation, psychological test, background check. 
ronnie		That sounds fun. Sign me up.
detective harrison		Well, just pay attention tonight and make sure you stay out of the way.
ronnie		Right, we're not back at the station anymore so we can cut the charade.
detective harrison		What are you talking about?
ronnie		Well, I know that policy demands I stay out of the way, but between you and me, I just want you to know that if anything pops off tonight, I'm going to jump right in there and take 'em down with you.
detective harrison		No, no. Ronnie, policy says you have to stay in the car.
ronnie		I get you. You have to say this in order to keep you safe 'legally' speaking. I should probably follow along too. 'I swear I won't get out of the car and fight justice tonight.'
detective harrison		Ronnie, you really can't.
ronnie		I know.
ronnie		Yeah, so then I basically saw his ass trying to circumvent around the ped exit and slip through the employ exit. Not allowed. The two ped exits are to be used only --
detective harrison		You see that corner there, Ronnie?
ronnie		Yeah, I see it.
detective harrison		That corner used to be the worst corner in this whole town. It was riddled with drugs, prostitution, and gang violence. It was nicknamed 'The Crossroads.'
ronnie		Shit, I've heard of that.
detective harrison		That's right, but myself and the other officers worked on cleaning it up for years so that the good folks of this neighborhood wouldn't have to worry about being safe. Yes, sir, that corner is a testament to the fine police work of our force.
ronnie		I don't know.    It looks pretty shitty to me.
detective harrison		Well, it's a low income area, Ronnie. You're being kind of prejudiced.
ronnie		Oh, yeah, I can see that it's basically a fine neighborhood.
detective harrison		That's right, but it hasn't been easy. We still patrol this area every night just to keep our presence up.
ronnie		I use that same technique at the mall.
detective harrison		I'm sure. I usually do the foot patrols myself, but because I like you, I'm going to let you do it tonight.
ronnie		Really?
detective harrison		Yeah,   really. But I told you about   department policy, so I'm going   to need you to keep quiet about   this one.
ronnie		You can count on me.     Thank you for the honor.
detective harrison		Of course, Ronnie. I just really believe in you.
ronnie		I won't let you down.
ronnie		Where are you going?!
ronnie		Hey, no horse play. You guys get on home.
kid		You want some crack?
ronnie		No, I don't want any crack. In fact, I didn't want to do this, but you leave me no choice in the matter. I'm placing you under citizen's arrest.
kid		Let me go, motherfucker!
ronnie		I place you under citizen's arrest for the crime of selling a Schedule 1 Narcotic. You have the right to remain silent...
ronnie		... If you cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed to you. Now I guess we just wait here for my ride to come back.
ronnie		Who, this little guy right here?
ronnie		Well, I hate to be the one to tell you this, but it appears that your little brother has tried to sell me illegal drugs. I know it's hard for you to hear that.
ronnie		Is that so? Well then, it looks like you got one less employee because I'm taking little brother down. I'll die right here before I let crime prevail.
ronnie		 Free to go, little brother. My mistake completely. Good luck with the crack.
ronnie		Alright, so I guess I'll be seeing you folks.
ronnie		Oh, no. That's really not necessary, Tone.
ronnie		Oh, Jesus, I don't want to die. Don't let me die, don't do it!
ronnie		No, please!   I'm sorry!
detective harrison		Trust me, you would have done the same thing. This guy is without a doubt the biggest fucking idiot I have ever met.
detective harrison		Good! Fuck him, I hope he does get killed.
detective harrison		Ronnie, what are you doing here?
ronnie		I know what you did!
detective harrison		Ronnie, look, I didn't do anything --
ronnie		You're not going to talk your way out of this one. You set me up!
detective harrison		Ronnie, look --
ronnie		Don't try to deny it! You set me up and that's all there is to it.
detective harrison		Ronnie, I --
ronnie		And I just want to thank you for it.
detective harrison		Thank me?   Why?
ronnie		Because I'm proud to report that I passed the test. I know you wanted to see if I had the chops to cut it on the police force and I'm glad to say that I passed. I knew I would get initiated some time, but I didn't think it would be so soon. Thank you, Detective Harrison. Thank you for believing in me.
detective harrison		Ronnie, I don't know what to say.
ronnie		You don't have to say anything. Your actions speak for themselves. Thank you for giving this rookie a shot. Get used to seeing Ronnie Barnhardt around here, boys.
ronnie		With Charles on my team, I can now devote more time to the robbery and Pervert case. I plan on having these wrapped up by the end of the week.
psychologist		Okay, Ronnie, today I'll be giving you a psychiatric evaluation to determine if you're competent to enter into the Police Academy. It's really just a formality. Don't want any serial killers working for us, now do we?
ronnie		No, ma'am, we don't.
psychologist		Okay, Ronnie, so let's start with your background. Where are you from?
ronnie		Born and raised right here.
psychologist		Local boy. Okay, and, Ronnie, have you ever been convicted of any crimes?
ronnie		No, ma'am.   My record is totally clean.
psychologist		Do you now take any illegal drugs or have you taken any in the past?
ronnie		No, ma'am. I believe drugs are the path to self-destruction and should be purged from the face of the earth with ruthless vengeance.
psychologist		Any prescription medications?
ronnie		Yes, for my nerves. A man in my line of work has a lot of stress to deal with. If you've seen the bloodshed I've seen, you'd be on the meds too. I -- Where are you going with this?
psychologist		Are you presently or have you ever been affiliated with the Communist Party?
ronnie		I can't believe you'd even ask me that.
psychologist		Have you ever been in the military?
ronnie		Yes.
psychologist		What branch of the military were you in?
ronnie		The kind of branch that doesn't exist on paper.
psychologist		Okay, here's a real world scenario. You have a gun --
ronnie		Finally.
ronnie		Would I? Yes. Would I be more useful working alone, I would say definitely. I see myself more like a Rambo kind of guy. A man who rolls solo. Taking care of business on his own terms. Kind of like a Superhero or something.
psychologist		Why do you want to become a cop?
ronnie		I want to become a cop to help people. The world is a scary place with lots of evil everywhere. See, I have this vision of evil trying to get at the world from every angle and there I stand at the top of it all with my gun, just kind of blowing it away. Just me and my weapons, cleaning up this whole town. I know I could do some good if I was just given a chance and everybody would be a lot better off.
ronnie		Ronnie Barnhardt reporting for duty.
detective harrison		I can see that. Listen, I don't really know how to say this, but we're not going to be able to let you join the academy.
ronnie		What?!   Why not?
detective harrison		It seems you had a little trouble passing the minimum requirements.
ronnie		Did I fail one of the tests?
detective harrison		Ronnie, I personally did your background check and this is the fifth time you've been turned down for the police academy.
ronnie		You guys keep records on that?
detective harrison		We sure do. Look, I tried to talk to them, but there's no way they're gonna let you in. I'm sorry, but your dreams of becoming a Police Officer just aren't going to happen.
ronnie		I understand. Thanks for believing in me, Detective. And just for the record, I'm not crazy.
ronnie		Hey, Nell.
ronnie		No, I'm not cool, Charles. In fact, shit is seriously fucked up. I've got to protect the whole mall by myself. Now, I got you this fucking job, when are you going to stop being a little baby and do something for a change.  'I don't want to do anything hard. I just want to be a little bitch and brag about dropping out of college.' Grow a fucking pair, will you, Chucky?
charles		I'm gonna go check the parking lot.
ronnie		 I'm sorry, Charles! I didn't mean it, buddy!
ronnie		You know, Dennis, for the longest time I made this job my whole life. I looked at this mall as a kingdom and I looked at Mark as the King. I thought of myself as the first Knight and the customers, well, they were the peasants. I lived by an old code where one was bound by duty and honor. But now I don't know if I believe in that code anymore. I've lost my way. Now I just feel like it's one big kingdom of shit. Right now, I got half a mind just to let this whole place burn. Burn it to the fucking ground!
dennis		 I've been waiting on you to get on my page this whole time. You look at this mall as a Kingdom?! Shit! I look at this place like a motherfucking jail sentence. You put on that uniform every morning, but what are you really protecting? Commerce and corporations and money. Well I say, fuck that! I'm a fucking outlaw and I'm going to live that until the day I die. Now, I can show you the way, but you've got to be willing to accept it. So I'm gonna ask you now, Ronnie. Are you ready for a trip to the other side?
ronnie		You're goddamn right I'm ready.
dennis		Alright then.    Let's party.
dennis		So, yeah, usually I take a joint straight to the head before I start work in this motherfucker, but on really stressful days, I like to get drunk too.
ronnie		Fuck it, give me the bottle.
dennis		So then I usually come in here and perv out on girls for about an hour or two. I hooked up twice last week. One was this Asian chick and the other was this mom. She wasn't that hot, but what else do I got to do?
dennis		Sweet Jesus in the morning.
dennis		Dressing rooms are a great place to hide out, because nobody is really going to think of looking for me here. You can nap or just kind of hang out and just really have some personal time. Hey, hand me that camera.
dennis		Thanks, Ronnie.
dennis		Right before lunch I usually blaze up again real good.
dennis		Hey, what's up, motherfuckers?!
stevie		What up, Big Den?!
dennis		You know, smokin' that good good.
stevie		Dude, why are you hanging out with Ronnie?
ronnie		Fuck you, Stevie!
dennis		Hey, Ronnie's alright.   Let me see that stick.
ronnie		Dennis, I got to thank you for today. Man, I was so down, but you taught me that I don't need to take things so seriously here. We have a pointless existence. Who gives a fuck?
dennis		Don't mention it, homey. I'm just glad I got me a partner in crime.
ronnie		A partner. I like that. You know, I've never really had a friend before, but I think that this could be the beginning of a real good thing.
dennis		You ain't even seen the best part. After everybody leaves, I rob the shit out of this place.
ronnie		What do you mean?
dennis		I steal shit!
ronnie		You're the one who's been robbing the mall?
dennis		Hell yeah!   Who'd you think it was?!
ronnie		I can't believe this. Right in front of my goddamn face this whole time!
dennis		This probably will look good with my complexion.
ronnie		Dennis, I can't take part in this.
dennis		Ronnie, I thought you were down?! What the fuck?! Here I am opening up myself to you and you're just gonna stick it to me like this. What the fuck has this place ever done for you? Don't you know that people see us as jokes?! A useless tool that's left in the shed. Well that's not me. Not now, not ever. I told you, I'm an outlaw.
ronnie		I can't let you rob the mall.
dennis		What the fuck you mean you can't let me?
ronnie		Come on, Dennis. We're best friends, so just put that stuff back and let's go get a beer.
dennis		Alright, Ronnie, you're right.
dennis		I don't really know what I was thinking. Robbing the mall? Let's just go get that beer.
ronnie		Good, man.   That makes me feel better.
ronnie		Ramon, get your ass over here! Go get my spare keys out of the office.
ronnie		Ramon! Goddamn it get back here! Go get my goddamn keys.
mark		How fucking stupid do you have to be?! I mean Dennis. What the fuck, Ronnie? How could you not have known it was Dennis? Then, how the fuck could you be so stupid as to let him get away. OBSERVE AND REPORT. Those are the only two things you have to do and you can't do those worth a shit.
ronnie		Can I speak now?
mark		Go ahead.
ronnie		Are you sure?
mark		Just start talking, Ronnie!
ronnie		It seems only natural that 'some people' would want to blame me and truth be told I do put a lot of that blame on myself. But some people might say that the cops are to blame for not catching them. Some people might say that the reason this happened was the undeniable fact that I was under- equipped and quite frankly, lacking a sufficient firearm. But not me. I carry this loss alone deep inside my heart.
mark		Good.   Because you're fired.
ronnie		 Fuck you.
mark		I'm serious, Ronnie. I've always liked you, but there's just no excuse for this. Somebody is going down and I'll be damned if it's going to be me. Now, don't make a big thing out of this. Just pack your shit and get out by the end of the day.
ronnie		Wait a minute. I thought I could trust you, Mark, and now you're telling me that you're going to be the one to put the knife in my back. Fair weather friend you are.
mark		I'm not your friend, I'm your boss.
ronnie		This isn't happening! Everybody is fucking me over?! I hate you all.
ronnie		Wait a minute.     I'll work for free, Mark.
mark		No, Ronnie.
ronnie		I'll pay you.
mark		Nope.
ronnie		I love you.
mark		Ronnie, Jesus have a little self- respect.
ronnie		You don't love me, Mark?
mark		Ronnie, it's over.
mom		What's on the agenda for today?
ronnie		I guess maybe look for a job or something.
mom		Well, I know you're sad about it, but try to look on the bright side.
ronnie		There is no bright side.   My life is over.
mom		Ronnie, you may not be smart or handsome, but you've got dreams inside of you and dreams make you special. No matter what this world tries to throw at you, they can never take those dreams away.
ronnie		What the fuck are you talking about, Mom?
mom		I don't know. I'm drunk. I just know that mothers are supposed to talk like that to their children when they're sad, so I tried. What do you want from me?
ronnie		Thanks, Charles.
nell		Ronnie, what are you doing here?
ronnie		I got something I want to say.
ronnie		Son of a bitch!!!
nell		Oh, my God!
ronnie		Are you alright?
nell		I'm fine.
ronnie		Shit, we should call somebody.
nell		Ronnie.
saddamn		What the fuck, man?!
ronnie		Get out of the way! Get out of the way!
stevie		Dude, that's fucking disgusting!
stevie		Hey, Ronnie, here!
stevie		What a fucking douche!
ronnie		Turn it down.     Turn it down.
mark		Okay, show's over. Enjoy your shopping experience at Carolina Mall.
mark		Jesus.  Charles!
ronnie		Fuck yeah!
ronnie		Hell no.   I'm taking him down myself.
mark		Hey, Ronnie.
mark		Good job, Ronnie.
ronnie		Thank you, sir.
brandi		Good job, Ronnie.
ronnie		I caught the Pervert.
detective harrison		I see that. Well, you better turn him over to me and I'll take him inside and book him.
ronnie		Since you're a real Cop, right?
detective harrison		Hey, Ronnie, you may not be an officer of the law, but you're the law's right hand. Good job.
ronnie		Well, being a mall security guard basically requires the same skill set that someone in say the FBI has. You have to use logic and evidence and old-fashioned common sense as well as the latest technology to deduce the criminal mind. It's what I do.
female reporter		Any last words for the folks at home.
ronnie		Yeah, I'd just like to say that Carolina Mall is back on track and safer than ever...
****Dialogues from script :Obsessed.txt****

woman's voice		Derek?
beth		What are you going to do with that? CUT TO:
beth's voice		This is coming down.
derek's voice		Why? BETH'S VOICE Do you want people to think we put it up?
derek's voice		 I don't know. I kind of like it.
beth's voice		Please tell me you're joking.
derek		All I'm saying, before we take it down... maybe we should try it out.  You know. Christen the new house.
beth		And what do you suggest we use for a bed?
derek		What do we need a bed for when we've got a fine shag carpet?
beth		 Because I'm gonna have fine shag carpet tattoos all over my --
derek		 Told `em I'd be late.
beth		What about...
derek		Kyle? That boy wouldn't wake up if a nuclear bomb went off.
beth		Maybe not, but the movers...
derek		Won't be here for another hour.
beth		Derek, you are so bad.
3.		CONTINUED:
derek		Isn't THAT why you married me?
derek		Want me to stay?     Crack the whip on these guys?
beth		No. Go to work and earn that promotion. Somebody's got to pay for all this.
4.		CONTINUED:
isa		Gage/Bendix?
derek		Excuse me?
lisa		I couldn't help but notice we're both going to Seven.
5.		CONTINUED:
derek		Right.   Gage/Bendix.   I work there.
lisa		I thought you might.
derek		Do you have an appointment with us?
lisa		Why?   Do I look like a client?
derek		Actually, you do.
lisa		 W ell, I hate to shatter the illusion but I'm just a lowly temp.
derek		 You're a temp?
lisa		Just here for the day.
derek		Well, you could have fooled me.
lisa		I'm beginning to think these heels were a big mistake.
6.		CONTINUED: 
derek		No problem. Happen to anybody.
isa		Thanks.   I owe you one.
derek		 Are you following me?
lisa		No. I'm taking these files to Mister Charles' office. They said it was this way.
derek		Derek Charles?
lisa		I guess you probably know him.
derek		Oh, yeah, I know him.  Kind of an asshole, takes himself waaaay too seriously. But don't tell him I said that.     L ISA I could get you into trouble?
derek		Deep trouble.
atrick		Morning, Derek. How's the new house?
7.		CONTINUED: 
derek		Total chaos. Lucky for me, I sneaked out as soon as the movers showed up.
patrick		Beth must have loved that.
derek		If she calls mad -- and she will -- tell her I'm in a meeting.
patrick		Remember who used to sit at this desk? She'll know I am lying.
derek		 Good point.
patrick		 Can I help you?
lisa		That's Derek Charles?
patrick		Yes.
lisa		The good ones are always married.
patrick		 Or straight.
derek		Matter of fact, I just got off the line to Berlin.
gage		And?
derek		Ganz doesn't like the way the Stock Market's been gyrating and he thinks the hedge fund wave is about to crest.
age		You think he's right?
derek		Hell, no. I think he's a hundred percent wrong. We haven't even gotten close to that point yet. Hedge fund demand is coming from individual investors which is why it's gaining mainstream acceptance. You know Ganz. He gets paranoid when anything goes mainstream. He started making Auf Wiedersehen noises but I managed to talk him into a private equity portfolio instead... to the tune of 155 mil.
age		 I knew there was a reason I promoted you. No offense, Ben.
ben		None taken, Joe. I'm just honored to be allowed to exist in Derek's world.
9.		CONTINUED:
gage		Good. I want you to throw Derek all your support on this one. T hat's when Lisa walks by on the other side of the glass. Gage perks up.
ben		Never seen `em before.
derek		I think she's one of the temps.
ben		You mean temptress...
gage		Remind me to call that agency and have them send over a couple more just like her. Doesn't hurt to have a little eye candy around the office, does it, boys?
ben		I scored an extra Lakers ticket for tomorrow night. Think you can get free?
derek		I'm moving into a new house.
en		So?
derek		Do I look like a man who wants a divorce?
en		I could call and say it's a work emergency.
10.		CONTINUED:
derek		Thanks, but I think I'll stay married instead.
ben		 Coward.
lisa		Good night, Mister Charles.
derek		 Sorry but you set me up.
lisa		 Don't worry. I'll get my revenge.    And by the way, you might like to know everybody who works here strongly disagrees with you.
derek		About what?
lisa		About Derek Charles being an asshole. They all say he's the nicest guy in the firm.
derek		Well, that just proves he's got `em all fooled.
lisa		And he's humble, too.   I'm Lisa, by the way. Lisa Sheridan.
derek		Well, it was nice to meet you, Lisa Sheridan. Good luck with your next job --
11.		CONTINUED: 
lisa		Actually, they're keeping me on a few more days, so I'll probably see you on Monday.
derek		Damn.   Almost made it.
beth		Your turn.
derek		Hey, little man. What's wrong?    You should be...  Uh oh. Poopy diaper. Beth...
beth		 I've been changing him all day.
derek		Whew.   What's that woman been feeding you?
beth		Well, we toasted the house --
derek		Toasted Kyle --
beth		Your promotion --
derek		But I've saved the most important toast for last...  To my beautiful wife who I love and adore more than anything in the world.
beth		And to my handsome husband. I asked for the moon and he gave me the stars.
derek		 Uh huh?
beth		How would you feel about trying out that mirror again? This time in our own bed.
derek		 Yeah? Give the magic mirror another test drive?
beth		You know how I like looking at your sexy butt.
13.		CONTINUED:
derek		 Beth, you are so bad.
beth		Isn't that WHY you married ME?
lisa		Hi.   Remember me?
derek		Lisa Sheridan, Girl Temp.     Where's Patrick?
lisa		Out with the flu. I did some trading with the other temps and wrangled your desk. I hope that's okay. D EREK Uh... sure.
marge		Good morning, Derek.
derek		Grab your pad and follow me.
14.		CONTINUED:
lisa		I put a memo on your desk about the Christmas party this Friday.
erek		Is it that time already?
lisa		Why don't they invite spouses?
derek		How's that?
lisa		To the Christmas party.    It says "for employees only."
derek		It's like that in most companies. They think people are more inhibited in front of their spouses, less likely to kick back and enjoy themselves and mingle with co-workers, which is what the party is about.
lisa		So, does this party get pretty wild?
derek		Just the opposite.
lisa		Well that's no fun.
derek		 No, it's perfect.
15.		CONTINUED: 
lisa		Fire away.
derek		Well, it's Monday and first thing on Monday...
lisa		I took care of that.
derek		Took care of what?
lisa		On Mondays you always send your wife a dozen long-stemmed red roses.  I called to confirm they've been delivered.
derek		Thanks.
lisa		I think that's incredibly sweet.   How long have you two been married?
derek		Three years in March.
lisa		And you still send her flowers every Monday morning? Lucky girl.
derek		It's kind of a tradition.
lisa		Patrick said you started sending them back when Beth worked here as your assistant. Is that how you won her heart?
derek		Well, it took a little more than roses.  We need to run some calls.
lisa		 Ready when you are.
16.		CONTINUED: 
derek		 Are you always this efficient?
lisa		Does that surprise you?
derek		Well, it's just that most of the temps we get here...
lisa		I think you'll find I'm not your typical temp.
derek		No.   Definitely not.  Okay not your typical temp... start with Phil Trendle at Emerson... set up a lunch for end of the week. Wherever he wants but push the Water Grill. Then Terry Mills at Imagio. Am I going too fast for you?
lisa		No.    Go faster.   I can handle it.
beth		It's a beautiful little park with a duck pond and close enough to push Kyle.
derek		I don't know. It's shaping up to be a work weekend.
17.		CONTINUED:
beth		You can work at home and then we'll go to the barbecue. A s Beth chats on, Derek gets a weird feeling. Still on the phone, he slowly gets up from his desk and moves quietly to the door. He looks out, expecting to catch Lisa listening in. Instead, she's not at her desk. She's standing several feet away at a file cabinet. She turns and smiles at him.
lisa		Do you need me?
beth		Work at the office.     This is home.   Come to bed.
derek		In a sec.
beth		The card that came today with the roses...
erek		Uh huh?
beth		... was addressed "To Betty."
erek		Betty?
beth		 Your other wife? Yeah. Who's Betty?
18.		CONTINUED:
derek		Blame it on the new girl. Patrick called in sick and I had a temp on my desk. B ETH I thought we had a deal. No female assistants.
derek		Honey, I don't control the temp pool.
beth		She pretty?
derek		Yeah, she's pretty... plain.
beth		 I don't care. I want her fired immediately.
derek		Actually, she did a great job... aside from the card.
eth		Night, Derek.
derek		Night... Betty.
19.		CONTINUED:
beth		Hope you don't mind us dropping in unannounced.
derek		You kidding? This is a treat.
beth		Sheila's meeting us for lunch at Central Market. Then I'm taking Kyle to the Grove.  And who are we going to see at the Grove?
kyle		 Santa!
beth		 You want to come?   Get your picture taken on Santa's lap?
derek		I'd love to but I'm all jammed up.     But say hi to your sister.
beth		That guy she was seeing, the one we met at Thanksgiving... Jack. D EREK The one she said was perfect.
beth		Apparently he's not so perfect.   He told her he just wants to be FWB.
derek		FWB?
beth		Friends With Benefits.
derek		What does that mean?
beth		You know.    Sex but no commitments.
derek		And Sheila's got a problem with that?
20.		CONTINUED: 
lisa		Excuse me.
derek		Lisa, this is my wife Beth.       Beth, Lisa. She's temping for Patrick.
beth		 Hi.
lisa		It's great to meet you, Mrs. Charles. eyes lighting up) And this must be Kyle. I can already tell he's going to grow up to be a heartbreaker.
derek		Kyle, say hello.
beth		He can say hello. He's usually not this shy around strangers.
lisa		What a handsome boy.  He looks just like you.
derek		Actually, most people think he takes after Beth.
lisa		Talk about the perfect family. The three of you should be on a magazine cover.
beth		I hope my husband's not working you too hard.
21.		CONTINUED: 
lisa		 Joe Gage needs to see you when you get a minute.
beth		Well, that's our cue to leave.    We just dropped in to say hi.  Come on, big boy.
lisa		It was great to meet you... Beth.
eth		You, too... Laura.
lisa		Lisa.
beth		Excuse me?
lisa		It's Lisa.      You said Laura.
beth		I did?
lisa		 Bye, Kyle. Say hi to Santa for me.
derek		 That was intentional.
22.		CONTINUED: 
beth		Wasn't me. Blame "Betty."    So what's the deal with her?
derek		What do you mean?
beth		She knew I was taking Kyle to Santa.
derek		So?
beth		So she was obviously listening at the door.
derek		Well, she probably didn't know when to come in.
beth		I thought you said she was plain. Derek, that girl may be a lot of things but one of them is not plain.
derek		How would I know?    I only have eyes for you.      B ETH  Oh, you are so slick.
derek		Come on. I'll walk you to the elevator. You can say hi to the old gang.  Ever miss it?
beth		I like to think I traded up.
23.		CONTINUED:
patrick		Much. Thanks.  You know it's going to take more than the flu to keep me away from that Christmas party.
erek		You get around don't you?
patrick		Yeah... She's not speaking to me at the moment.
24.		CONTINUED:
derek		Alright.   You two behave yourselves out here...
patrick		 So, how many times did you get busted listening in on Derek's calls?
lisa		 I'm way too devious to ever get caught. Besides, I thought all you assistants listened in.
patrick		 We do.
lisa		How long have you worked here?
patrick		Ten years this Spring.
isa		I'll bet you know more about what goes on behind these closed doors than anybody.
patrick		Oh you got that right girl.    I know all the dirty little secrets. L ISA Well maybe we should grab a drink some night after work for a little girl talk.
patrick		 Listen, honey, if you think you can buy my silence with a couple of Cosmo's... you're right.
lisa		Sorry.     I thought everybody was at lunch.
derek		No. Stay. I was just gonna take this back to my office.
lisa		It's nothing.
derek		Most people I know don't cry over nothing.
lisa		 You think I was crying?     This is just my allergies.
derek		Uh huh.     What are you allergic to?
lisa		Men, apparently. Actually it's more like they're allergic to me.
26.		CONTINUED:
derek		Boyfriend trouble?
lisa		It's stupid really.  This guy I've been seeing just calls and dumps me. Middle of the day. No warning. No explanation. Just "I don't think we should see each other anymore."
derek		OUCH!!! That's pretty cold.    How long were you together?
lisa		Two months. small laugh) Actually, it was one of my longer lasting relationships. I don't know what it is but sooner or later I just seem to scare men off.  I'm starting to think there's something wrong with me.
derek		 Nothing wrong with you. Your boyfriend's a fool, that's all.
lisa		I wish I could believe that.
derek		Maybe you just haven't met the right guy yet.
lisa		I'm beginning to think all the good ones are taken. D
erek		Look, I'm no expert but if it didn't work out, maybe it wasn't meant to be. When the right guy comes along... you'll know it.
27.		CONTINUED: 
lisa		Is that how it was with you and Beth?
derek		Actually, yeah.      We both knew pretty quick.
lisa		Love at first sight?
derek		It does happen.
isa		Great.     Now I'm jealous.
derek		Why?
lisa		She's got it all.   Perfect husband, perfect child, perfect marriage.
erek		Nobody's perfect. There are problems in every relationship. The important thing is to keep moving forward. trying to buck her up) Don't get down on yourself. You're a bright, attractive girl. Any man would be lucky to have you.
lisa		Oh, yeah.     Right.
derek		No, really. If I was single...
lisa		But you're not.
erek		I just meant...
lisa		I know. You're just trying to make me feel better.  And you have.
28.		CONTINUED: 
derek		 Hang in there. It'll happen.
ben		What was that all about?
derek		Poor kid got dumped by her boyfriend.
ben		Really? I wouldn't mind taking up the slack. That is one hot piece of ass there.  Like you haven't noticed.
derek		 Hey, I'm a happily married man.   And so are you.
ben		Doesn't mean we can't look.
derek		Ben, if you're looking to start something with that girl...
29.		CONTINUED: 
ben		You saw her first?
derek		Fuck off.
ben		Besides, I don't think I'm her type.     Now you on the other hand...
erek		Ben, do me a favor...
ben		All I'm just sayin' is a lot of these single gals see the work place as a hunting ground. cocking his finger like a gun) And this one's got you in the cross hairs.
30.		CONTINUED:
beth		On your way home, can you pick up those Baby Einstein DVD's for you know who.
derek		I'll have to do it tomorrow.      Office party's tonight.
beth		I forgot. Well, if you drink too much, take a cab, okay? D EREK If it's anything like last year, I'll be home early.  Kyle, I want you to eat this.
kyle		Santa!
derek		Yeah, Santa. And he's coming soon. So eat. Don't you know Santa only brings presents to boys who eat all their food?
31.		CONTINUED:
lisa		 This seat taken?
derek		 No. Be my guest...
lisa		 Really?
derek		We used to cut loose here after a long day at work.
lisa		Work hard, play hard.   Right?
derek		 How's that boyfriend trouble coming?
lisa		Keep moving forward, right? D EREK Exactly.
lisa		How about you, Derek?   What's the grand plan?
32.		CONTINUED: 
derek		You know, run the company by 35. Jet by 40. Retire to my private island and own
isa		Lakers suck.
derek		Not with me in charge.
isa		You want one?
derek		What?
lisa		A margarita?
derek		Oh, I don't know.
lisa		C'mon big talker... it's Christmas time. Works dead --
derek		All right. One.     What do you like? Strawberry?
lisa		Rocks. Salt...
33.		CONTINUED:
derek		That's Mister Office Asshole to you.
lisa		I'm impressed.      You can dance.
derek		All those years watching Soul Train.
lisa		 I wasn't sure I was going to come tonight.
derek		Why not?
lisa		Well, it's not like I've been here that long.
derek		I'm sure everybody's glad you decided to show up.
lisa		Even you?
derek		What do you mean "even me?" I'm your number one supporter around here.
34.		CONTINUED: 
lisa		 Uh oh.
erek		How did that get there?
lisa		 Maybe a quick one on the cheek? If we don't, people will really suspect there's something going on.
derek		Guess we'll just have to take that chance.
lisa		 Coward.
ben		You're not thinking about bailing, are you? Fun's just getting started. Remember last year? Sally Sloane did a table dance. H e indicates a pretty secretary LAUGHING and accepting another drink.
derek		With Beth and Kyle.       I'm gonna take a piss and sneak out.
35.		CONTINUED: 
ben		You're no fun.
derek		 What are you doing?
lisa		Why?
derek		Are you out of your --
36.		CONTINUED:
lisa		Oh, come on...
drunk		 Hey, who's there?
lisa		 Wait. Where are you going?
derek		 You've got the wrong idea!
37.		CONTINUED: 
patrick		Living dangerously, aren't we?
lisa		Oh, Patrick, you're such an old queen.  Come on. Dance with me.
patrick		Honey, I've never been this close to an actual man.
beth		 How was the party?
derek		I only stayed for two drinks.
beth		That dull, huh?
erek		Beth...
beth		Not tonight, honey, okay?   I'm really tired.
lisa		Good morning.
derek		Morning.
39.		CONTINUED:
ben		You okay, bro?
derek		Yeah.   I'm fine.
ben		You should have stuck around.
derek		What?
ben		The Christmas party. Hank in Human Services tossed his cookies on the Christmas tree.
derek		 Really? Sorry I missed that.
lisa		Bad time?
derek		 No...
lisa		Joe wants to know if you're done with the Ganz portfolio.
derek		Tell him he'll have it end of the day.
40.		CONTINUED:
lisa		 Thanks.
derek		You're working Joe's desk?
lisa		Just for today. light laugh) He's a real screamer, isn't he?
derek		Don't let him fool you.   His bark really is as bad as his bite.
patrick		Okay if I take off?
derek		Yeah, go home.
patrick		See you tomorrow.
41.		CONTINUED:
derek		 What are you --
lisa		I owe you an apology for the Christmas party. I think I sort of took you by surprise.
derek		 We both had a few drinks.   Just forget it.       L ISA What if I can't?
derek		Lisa... nothing happened.
lisa		All right, have it your way.   Nothing happened.
derek		 You really need to get out of my car.
lisa		Why?
derek		This is so not right.
lisa		Relax. Nobody's around to see us now. God, I almost went insane today, didn't you? Having to go pretend like I was concentrating on work when all I could think about --
derek		 Lisa, get out of my car!
lisa		 Derek, what's wrong? What did I do?
42.		CONTINUED: 
derek		I don't know if you're just dense or what's wrong with you but I want you to understand something. There's nothing going on between us. I would never -- never -- jeopardize my job with a co- worker.
isa		Maybe you are an asshole. Wow.
derek		Get out!
derek		 Beth? Honey?
beth's voice		In here.
derek		There's something I need to...
beth		I've been on the phone for the last hour with Rachel MORE) ( Hendricks.
43.		BETH CONTINUED: She found out Tim's been having an affair with a neighbor and it's been going on for the last year and a half.
erek		 Tim? Really?
beth		At first I couldn't even conceive of it. They've always seemed to be so much in love, totally devoted to each other.
derek		Tim... told her?
eth		Just blurted it out last night when he came home from work. Then he said he was moving out. You know they've got three kids. Poor Rachel's a wreck.
derek		Yeah.    That's tough.
beth		Tough?    It's a disaster.   If it was me...
derek		Beth, you know I'd never cheat on you.
beth		I know.
derek		Tim's an idiot. B ETH He's a son of a bitch.  What did you want to tell me?
derek		Forget it. Just a little problem at work.     
44.		DEREK Nothing I can't take care of.
ben		Why didn't you tell me?
derek		There was nothing to tell.
ben		Nothing to tell? She grabbed your cock? Flashed her tits in your car? Come on, man. I thought I was your best friend.
derek		You think this is funny?
ben		I just... jeez. I mean, I kinda got she was interested but I never figured she'd...
derek		What the hell did I do?    I was nice to her, that's all.
en		Sure you didn't lead her on? Just a little? I mean, a pretty girl... it would be normal...
derek		I didn't do a damn thing.
ben		Maybe she thinks she can make the jump from assistant to wife, too?
derek		Thanks.   You're a big help.
ben		Sorry... What are you going to do?
derek		Report it to Human Resources...
45.		CONTINUED:
ben		Get her fired?
derek		I don't have a choice.
ben		I'd be very careful if I were you. What if she makes trouble and says you came on to her? D erek gives Ben a look.       C'mon man...
erek		Then I need to get my side on the record first.
ben		 Wouldn't it be cheaper to just have her killed?
secretary		Morning, Mister Charles.
derek		Hi, Connie. Is Hank in?     I need to talk to him.
hank		 Derek? That you?
46.		CONTINUED:
derek		Hey, Hank.
hank		What's up?
derek		Well, it's sort of a personal matter.   I need to talk to you about one of the temps, Lisa Sheridan.
hank		Right.   She worked your desk for awhile.
derek		 Listen, Hank, this going to be a little awkward...
hank		If you're here to file a complaint about her performance, save your breath. Her agency called this morning and said she wouldn't be coming in any more. They already sent over a replacement. D EREK  She quit? They give a reason?
hank		No. Did you have some kind of a problem with her?
derek		Well, I just thought she was unqualified, sort of in over her head. But if she already quit...
hank		Looks like she beat you to it.
derek		 Yeah.
hank		Anything else?
derek		No.   I guess not.
47.		CONTINUED: 
hank		How's the new house?
derek		New house is great. a smile) Couldn't be better.
hank		Tell Beth I said hi.
derek		I will. Listen. We'll have you and Kathy over some night when we're more settled.
hank		Sounds like a plan.
ben		Well?
derek		She quit.
ben		Really?
derek		Yeah.
en		Come on, bro.     That's good news.   Problem solved.
derek		 Looks that way, doesn't it?
ben		Not a bad little Christmas present.
derek		Hans? Derek. How was your Christmas? Well, you people invented it. You got the prospectus? Great. Look it over. I think it's gonna be a happy new year for all of us.
beth		God,   it's after three. That's the last time   I'm going out on New Years Eve. Next   year we'll celebrate here at home. Just   you, me and Kyle.
derek		I'm just gonna check my e-mail and come to bed.
beth		Can't it wait?
derek		It's already tomorrow in Berlin. Ganz was supposed to send me his approval. That's probably him.
49.		CONTINUED:
beth		Ganz?
derek		 Nothing. I gotta get a new spam blocker.
beth		Forget it. He'll call you in the morning. Come to bed.
50.		CONTINUED:
beth		Remember the last time Joe had one of his weekend work retreats?
derek		How could I forget?   I had a hangover for a week after.
beth		Any women coming this year?
derek		No, just the usual suspects. Joe says it's going to be a male bonding experience.
beth		I can just picture you guys in the hotel jacuzzi, getting in touch with your innermost feelings.
derek		 Hopefully, they'll all get drunk and crash early. Or if I'm really lucky... drown in the jacuzzi.
beth		Call me tonight.
51.		CONTINUED:
derek		I will.
derek		I didn't order this.
waitress		It's from the lady at the bar. D erek turns and peers at the crowded bar area. He catches a flash of a young woman in a tight dress seated on a stool. But a crowd of people move into his line of vision and when they clear, the woman is gone.
joe		Derek, you okay?
derek		I'm fine.      Just thought I saw somebody.
joe		Somebody you know?     Or somebody you'd like to know?
ben		No way.   You can't tempt this guy.
oe		Who could blame him with a wife like Beth.
52.		CONTINUED:
derek		Speaking of Beth, I said I'd give her a call before she puts Kyle to bed. I'll be right back.
joe		Hurry back. This party's just getting started.
derek		Hey, honey. It's me.
beth		How's the male bonding?
derek		They're all getting wasted. Any minute now, Joe's going to suggest the Jacuzzi.
beth		Well, if your future depends on putting on a bathing suit and hot tubbing it with a bunch of drunks... Derek? You there?
beth		Wait.   Kyle wants to say good night.
derek		 They're yelling for me to come back.
beth		It'll just take a second...
53.		CONTINUED:
derek		 Beth, I'll call you later.
beth		I'll be in bed -- Derek?
lisa		I can always tell from the pained look on your face when you're talking to Beth.
derek		 How did you know I'd be here?
lisa		I've got my sources. slight frown) What's wrong? You don't look happy to see me.
derek		Why did you come here?
lisa		You said you could never be with someone you work with.  That's why I quit. So we could be together.
derek		 Lisa, you need to leave.
54.		LISA Call security? What would Joe and Ben and the others think? I'll tell you what they'd think. They'd think we arranged it. And in a way, we did.
lisa		One of us   has to take control and I guess it's me.    So you go back, say your good nights to   the boys and I'll be waiting in
derek		I'm not coming to your room.
lisa		Would you rather I came to yours?
derek		You're crazy... sick.      You need help.
lisa		I know. I need help.  Help me, Derek.
derek		Stay away from me!
lisa		All right, Derek. You play your games...  ... and I'll play mine.
derek		Beth, I'm sorry --
55.		CONTINUED: 
ben's voice		Beth?   It's Ben. Where the hell are you, bro?
erek		I'm right here.     Coming back in.
ben		Come on, it's early. We'll go to my room and plunder the mini-bar, charge it all to Joe.   D EREK Can't, man. That last drink totally kicked my ass. I need to lie down.
ben		All right, be that way. But don't forget. Nine o'clock in the California Room. Joe's big rah-rah to the troops.
56.		CONTINUED:
lisa		Shhhhh.
derek		 No..
lisa		Hush, baby.
woman's voice		Housekeeping!
57.		CONTINUED:
derek		 Later! Come back later!
woman's voice		Okay.    I come back.
lisa		Morning.
derek		You've got to get out of here!
lisa		What are you talking about?
derek		Leave!   You've got to go!
lisa		Derek, come on... D EREK I want you out of here!
58.		CONTINUED: 
lisa		Why?   You worried somebody's gonna catch us?
derek		Just get the hell out.
lisa		 We woke up a little grumpy this morning, didn't we?
derek		 Fuck... fuck... fuck.
joe		 Thank god. We were about to send out a search party.
derek		Sorry.   Overslept.
59.		CONTINUED:
ben		What about her?
derek		She's here. MYSTIFIED) I'll be right back.
clerk		Here's your wife, sir.
lisa		I thought you might need an excuse to get out of there. How about some lunch?
derek		Lunch?
lisa		It's gorgeous outside and I made a reservation at --
derek		What do you think this is?
lisa		The morning after?
derek		 We didn't do anything last night.
60.		CONTINUED:
lisa		But you can't remember, can you?
derek		It didn't happen!
lisa		Derek, not so loud.   You'll cause a scene.
derek		That's exactly what we Right.   A scene. need.
lisa		What are you doing?
derek		What I   should have done last night. Taking   you inside to tell Joe and the others   whatever you want. They'll know you're   out of your mind. H e yanks her toward the door.
lisa		 Why are you trying to ruin this?
erek		THERE IS NO THIS!!!
lisa		Don't say that.
derek		Godammit!
lisa		What's wrong with you?   You're acting like a stranger.
61.		CONTINUED: 
derek		Yeah! That's exactly what I am. A stranger, a person you don't know. Now either go inside and tell them your bullshit lies or get the hell out of here.
lisa		 You think you can use me, then throw me away? I'm not some piece of garbage, Derek. I'm a human being...
derek		How else do you look at somebody who sickens and repulses you? L ISA Derek, please...
derek		I don't care what you do or what you say. What goes on in that twisted mind of yours. It doesn't matter because the truth is, there's never going to be anything between us. So go ahead, Lisa... do your worst.
62.		CONTINUED: 
ben		Derek, you drinking?
derek		Not tonight, man.   I'm sticking to ice tea.
erek		 No. No fucking way...
63.		CONTINUED:
reyes		All right, Mister Charles, let me get this straight. E) (MOR
64.		REYES CONTINUED: This girl you barely know, works in your office, fantasizes you're having an affair and when you reject her, she tries to commit suicide in your bed.
derek		I know how it sounds but, yeah, that's pretty much it.
reyes		This affair...
derek		There WAS NO affair.
reyes		So she just... made it up in her head? With no help from you?
derek		Maybe I was too nice to her, said something she took the wrong way, I don't know. All I know is I did not lead her on.
reyes		And you had no idea she'd be at the hotel?
derek		None. I don't even know how she got in my room.
reyes		Apparently she told one of the housekeepers she was your wife and lost her key.
derek		Doesn't that prove she did this on her own?
reyes		All it proves is she lost her key.
derek		She never had a key.
reyes		Look, Mister Charles, I don't care if you were or weren't banging this girl. I just need to get your version for my report.   
65.		REYES Besides, if it's a question of innocence, I'm not the one you have to convince. D EREK What do you mean?
reyes		Let's just say I wouldn't like to explain a situation like this to my husband.
derek		How is she?
reyes		They pumped her out in time. Doctor says she's groggy and disoriented. Probably tomorrow they'll move her out of ICU and up to the fifth floor for a psychiatric evaluation. All suicides are put on 72 hour hold, it's standard.
erek		Did she say anything?
reyes		As a matter of fact, she was lucid long enough to give the doctor a name to call in case of emergency. He wrote it down. Here.
66.		CONTINUED:
beth		 Tell me everything.   From the beginning.
beth		How could you let this happen?
derek		You think I encouraged it?
beth		Maybe you liked it.
derek		Beth...
beth		What man wouldn't? The attentions of a pretty young girl? I can just see those adoring blue eyes batting at you every time you told her how pretty she looked or what a nice dress --
derek		Stop it, Beth. You know I never said those things.
beth		You must have said something. Done something to give her the idea.
derek		If I did, it wasn't intentional. B
eth		She was in your bed, Derek! You spent the night together and you want me to believe nothing happened?
67.		CONTINUED:
derek		I was passed out... drunk.     Nothing happened.
beth		Damn you, Derek.   Damn you.
derek		I love you, Beth. I love Kyle and the life we have together. I would never do anything to screw that up. This girl is disturbed. She's seriously disturbed and for some reason, she fixated on me. B ETH Why?
derek		I don't know. She's crazy.
beth		You should have told me. From the very beginning, you should have told me.
derek		I know.
beth		Why didn't you?
derek		At first I thought it was no big deal. And then... I was just embarrassed. I didn't know how to explain it to you without looking...
beth		Guilty?
derek		I said I was wrong.
beth		Did she know about us, Derek?
derek		What?
68.		CONTINUED: 
beth		How we met?
derek		Don't do this, Beth.    You'll make yourself sick.
beth		I'm already sick.
derek		Honey, I know I screwed up...
beth		 I don't know what to believe. All I know is, I need to be alone for awhile.
derek		Beth, don't --
beth		I need to be alone --
69.		CONTINUED:
reyes		Miss Reynolds? I'm Monica Reyes.
lisa		Come in. I'm sorry I'm such a mess but they won't let me take a shower or wash my hair.  Apparently I'm still on suicide watch.
reyes		I'm a police officer assigned to your case. How are you feeling?
lisa		Well, still a bit groggy from the medication. But it isn't stopping me from feeling ashamed for all the trouble I've caused.
reyes		Do you feel like talking about the other night?
lisa		Have you spoken to Derek?
reyes		Yes.
lisa		And he's all right?
reyes		Relatively speaking.
isa		When can I see him?
eyes		See him?
lisa		Derek.
reyes		I'm afraid that's not possible.
70.		CONTINUED: 
lisa		Why?
reyes		Miss Sheridan, I don't think Mister Charles wants to speak to you or continue any kind of contact.
lisa		Then why did he send these? Really?
reyes		 He sent you flowers? L ISA Peonies.   My favorite.
reyes		When did these show up?
lisa		A few hours ago.    They're lovely, aren't they?
reyes		Can you tell me what happened at the hotel, why you were there.
lisa		Didn't Derek tell you?
reyes		I'd like to hear your version.
lisa		There's not a lot to tell. We got together at the hotel and you can guess what we did.
eyes		Slept together.    Had sex.
71.		CONTINUED: 
lisa		Of course.
reyes		Derek denies it.
lisa		He's just being a gentleman, trying to protect me.
reyes		I see.     Go on.
lisa		The next day when Derek told me his wife wouldn't give him a divorce and that we could never see each other again, I guess I over reacted. BEAT) I didn't realize he was just being noble.
reyes		Noble?
lisa		He was thinking about his little boy, Kyle... what the breakup might do to him. He's not even two, you know. My parents broke up when I was pretty young. It leaves a scar that never really heals.
reyes		So you believe Mister Charles is in love with you? L
isa		Read the card. Derek and I belong together and nothing can change that. But I do feel bad about his wife.
eyes		You do?
lisa		I'm not a home-wrecker. I'm not stealing him away. Their marriage is dead and Beth is in denial. It can't be easy to find out that the man she loves is in love with another woman. I just hope she doesn't do something foolish. strange smile) You know the old saying.
72.		CONTINUED: 
reyes		What's that?
lisa		"Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned."
reyes		You take it easy now.   We'll talk again.
joe		I don't have to tell you how an incident like this could impact the company. Even the slightest whiff of impropriety...
derek		There was no impropriety, Joe. This is just the sick fantasy of a very disturbed girl.
joe		Who might retaliate by hitting us with a sexual harassment lawsuit.
derek		There was no sexual harassment. If anything, I'm the one who was sexually harassed.  I can't believe this is happening to me. It's like a nightmare.
joe		By now, you're probably wishing you had fucked her.
73.		CONTINUED:
derek		Goddamit, Joe, if there's an injured party here, it's me.
joe		Derek, calm down. I believe you and you know I'll back you up all the way. But if I find out there was something going on, I won't have a choice.
derek		That's not going to happen because there's nothing to find out.
oe		Good. Then you have nothing to worry about. Meantime I'm going to put Ben on the Ganz account.
derek		But Ganz is my client --
joe		Look, maybe you should take some time off. Just til this blows over.
marge		Sorry to interrupt. Derek, there's a Detective Reyes here to see you.
derek		She obviously ordered the flowers for herself.
reyes		With your credit card.
derek		My secretary keeps all my personal information on her computer. Lisa must have accessed it when she was working my desk.
74.		CONTINUED:
reyes		There's more.
derek		More?
reyes		This is a print out of Lisa's blog. It's sort of a diary she was keeping.
erek		What?
reyes		You can read them for yourself but I should warn you they're a little... X- rated.
derek		 This is... none of this ever happened. I was never at her apartment. I never even touched her, let alone did any of this...
reyes		According to those entries, you're quite the accomplished lover, Mister Charles. And you made promises to her, promises to divorce your wife and marry her...
derek		You can't possibly believe this.
75.		CONTINUED: 
reyes		Whether I believe it or not is irrelevant. The only thing that matters is that she believes it.
derek		There's got to be something I can do to protect myself... my family.
reyes		You could file a restraining order.    But that may not be necessary.
derek		Why not?
lisa		Lisa's left town. She was released in the custody of an older sister yesterday. Her sister flew down from San Francisco and took her back. Lisa's agreed to check herself into a neuropsychiatric hospital up there.
derek		 Well, I can't say I'm unhappy to hear she's gone. Maybe now she can get the help she needs.
reyes		W ith any luck, Mister Charles, you'll never hear from her again.
derek		 "Four little ducks went out one day... over the hill and far away..."
beth		You've got our cell numbers so if there's any problem, don't hesitate to call us, okay?
derek		Come on, honey.     Samantha knows what to do, don't you?
samantha		I've got four little brothers.    Trust me. I'm really good at this.
beth		 I don't know. Maybe we should...
derek		No way. Do you know how hard it was to get these reservations? Come on, we agreed. This is an important night. And I am not gonna waste you in that outfit.  She looks fantastic, doesn't she?
samantha		Like a movie star. D erek takes Beth by the arm.
derek		Everything's gonna be fine.
beth		 Okay, but you call us.
derek		Lock this.     We'll be back by ten.
77.		CONTINUED:
samantha		Have fun.
erek		I haven't seen you looking this relaxed and beautiful in weeks.
beth		I'd forgotten what this was like... the two of us out together.
derek		Yeah.    It's been awhile.
beth		It's not that easy.
derek		I need you to believe me.
beth		Derek, not everybody gets drunk and does things they regret.
derek		I keep telling you I didn't do any thing to regret.
78.		CONTINUED:
beth		 I am telling you... you did.
lisa		 Hi, I'm Beth's friend Allie.      She's expecting me.
samantha		Mister and Mrs. Charles are out.
lisa		Out?
samantha		They went to dinner.
lisa		What? Beth told me to drop by. That's strange. Oh well, I have something for Kyle. I'll just run up and give it to him.
samantha		You can't.     He's sleeping.
lisa		Oh, I won't wake him.
79.		CONTINUED:
samantha		Maybe you should come back.
lisa		But I'm here right now. Why should I... oh, I see. Just doing your duty. Good girl. You know what, let me call Beth.
80.		CONTINUED:
lisa		Thanks, Samantha.   Nice meeting you.
samantha		 You, too.
beth		It's his birthday tomorrow.
derek		I know.
beth		I told him we'd take him to Legoland.
derek		I'll go on-line tonight and order the tickets. Unless you think you should take him alone.
beth		No. Whatever we're going through, he needs us to be together.
81.		CONTINUED:
samantha		Hey! You guys got back so fast--
beth		Any trouble with Kyle?
samantha		No.  He was a doll. THEN) But you just missed your friend.
beth		What friend?
samantha		You know. Allie? She was just here... called you on the cell?
beth		 Nobody called me...
derek		Someone was here?     Inside the house?
samantha		 You said it was okay.    She said she had something for Kyle...
beth		 Oh my god! Where's Kyle?
samantha		In his crib.
82.		CONTINUED:
derek		How long since she was here?
samantha		A couple minutes. What's wrong?
lisa		She took him! She took my baby!
erek		Call 911!
derek		Kyle...
83.		CONTINUED:
doctor		We pumped his stomach. X-ray and cat scan came back normal. We'll wait for the blood work but it appears he's completely fine. I don't see any reason why you can't take Bhim home in a couple hours.
eth		 Thank you, Doctor.
reyes		Apparently Lisa stole her sister's ID to buy a ticket and board a plane to LA earlier today, then used her sister's credit card to rent a car. The sister didn't even know she was gone until a few hours ago. She said Lisa had been doing well in therapy. She didn't know she checked herself out this morning...
beth		 She was in our house -- alone with our son.
derek		he doctor says he's fine.
beth		Well, I'm not fine. to Reyes; demanding) I want you to find her.
reyes		We will. She violated the restraining order so we can arrest her. Look, Mrs. Charles, I know you're upset. I'm a mother, too...
beth		How would you feel if it was your child?
reyes		Exactly the same as you.
84.		CONTINUED:
beth		Find her.
derek		Now what? Am I supposed to go out and buy a gun or something?
reyes		She didn't physically harm him.
derek		No, but she could have. Is that the message she's trying to send? R EYES Either that or...maybe she was trying to show you she could love him. off Derek's sickened reaction) People like Lisa... their emotions can turn on a dime. What you don't want is her feelings for you to change to rage. I don't know. But there's a good chance she'll try to get in touch. If she does, you need to call me right away. Meanwhile, you might want to beef up your home security.
beth		Derek!
85.		CONTINUED: The closet is open and clothes are strewn about. Derek discovers Beth on her knees, holding up a family photograph in which Beth's head has been torn off.
beth		She never left.   She was here the whole time.
derek		It's all right, it's all right...
beth		No Derek! It's not all right!!! We have to do something. We can't live like this.
beth		 Right. Thank you.
derek		Who are you calling?
beth		Guess.
derek		You're not...
86.		CONTINUED:
beth		 I got her home number from Patrick.
derek		She won't be there.
beth		She can still pick up her messages.
derek		Beth, why are you doing this?
eth		I want her to know who she's dealing with now.
lisa's voice		Hi, this is Lisa. I'm not here right now so please leave a message after the beep and I'll get back to you. Have a good one.
beth		 L isten to me, you little bitch. This is Beth Charles and I just want you to know that if you ever... ever... come near my child or my house again... I'll kill you.
security man		You're all set, folks. You want me to show you how the system works?
beth		Definitely.
87.		CONTINUED:
derek		Make sure you set this.
beth		You don't have to tell me.
derek		It can't go on much longer. They're bound to pick her up soon.  Look, if you want me to stay, I'll call in...
beth		No. Go to work. If anything happens, the security patrol can be here in two minutes.  Go. I can take care of myself.
security voice		SET.
beth		Hello? Oh hi, Dad.  What's wrong?
88.		CONTINUED:
patrick		Derek Charles' office.      Oh, hi, Beth.
derek		Yeah?
derek		Thanks.     Hi, honey.   Everything okay?
beth		We're fine but I had some not so great news from my Dad.
derek		What's wrong?
beth		Mom went back in for more tests. They wanted to do another biopsy and she's pretty scared. D EREK I can imagine.
beth		I'm sure it'll be fine but I thought I'd drive down to San Diego to hold her hand, take Kyle with me.
89.		CONTINUED:
derek		I'm gonna be stuck here pretty late but I could drive down after...
beth		I don't think that's a good idea. Friday night traffic's gonna be a nightmare and they won't know the results til tomorrow. Why don't you do what you need to do and drive down in the morning?
derek		Are you sure?
beth		Yes.
derek		All right. Say hi to your dad and tell your mom everything's going to be fine, I love her. And call me when you're leaving the house.
beth		I will.
kyle		 Legoland?
beth		Much more fun than Legoland.     We're going down to Nana and Poppa's.
yle		Daddy, too?
beth		No. We'll see Daddy tomorrow.     Now... what toys do you want to take?
90.		CONTINUED: 
patrick		Derek Charles' office.
lisa's voice		 Hey there, girlfriend.
patrick		 L isa?
lisa's voice		How are you?
patrick		I've missed you.
lisa's voice		I've missed you, too. Everything okay around the office?
patrick		 Well, actually...
lisa's voice		What?
patrick		I'm a little concerned. I heard the Charles' took out a restraining order against you.
lisa's voice		 Oh, that. That was Beth's doing. She's not handling this very well. Derek's just waiting for the right time to tell her he's leaving. P
atrick		I don't think that's gonna happen.
91.		CONTINUED:
lisa's voice		Of course it is...
patrick		I'm not sure I should be telling you this...
lisa		Patrick, don't be such a drama queen.   I thought we were friends.
patrick		We are, we are.
lisa		Well?
patrick		Well... Beth's headed down to San Diego tonight. Her mother is having some tests done. Derek is driving down first thing in the morning to be by her side. when she doesn't respond) Lisa? Did you hear me?
lisa's voice		Patrick, I have to go.
patrick		But you just...
lisa's voice		I'll talk to you later.
patrick		Wait. I wanted to tell you about my date I last night. The one my friend set me up with? The graphic artist? Lisa, you'd be so proud of me. I met him for drinks at -- L ISA'S VOICE Patrick.
patrick		Yes?
lisa's voice		 I really don't care whose dick you sucked last night. I have to go.
92.		CONTINUED: 
93.		CONTINUED:
dere		 Hey.
beth		We just left the house.
derek		Good.    Did you set the alarm?
beth		The... I think I did. I had to run back in and I can't remember if I re-set it.
erek		Look, don't worry about it.
beth		No, I'm barely down the hill.     I'll do it and call you back.
beth's voice		 Mommy will just be a minute.
beth		Girl, you're even dumber than my husband said you were.  Or did you just forget to take your meds?
96.		CONTINUED:
isa		 Please...
beth		Please?   Please what?   Please don't hurt you?
lisa		No!
lisa		 Please... I'm sorry...
beth		Too late, bitch.   Sorry won't cut it.
97.		CONTINUED: 
lisa		He doesn't love you! I'm the one he wants!  Why can't you get that through your head?
beth		 Careful. You don't want to fall down the stairs.
98.		CONTINUED:
lisa		 Please... Beth...
beth		Oh, it's Beth now?    What happened to Betty?
lisa		Please. I'll go... I'll leave... I swear I'll never bother you again...
beth		You got that right.
derek's voice		 Beth? Are you there?
99.		CONTINUED: 
lisa		Derek!
derek's voice		Beth?
lisa		Derek!    Oh, Derek, thank god!
derek		Lisa?
beth		Derek, I'm right in the middle of something... let me call you back.
derek		Beth --
100.		CONTINUED: 
lisa		Please....
101.		CONTINUED: 
beth		 Let go of the chandelier.
lisa		 No...
beth		Let go, Lisa.
102.		CONTINUED: 
reyes		Beth?    Is everything alright here?
beth		 I have to go. My mother needs me.
eyes		Beth, I need to speak with you.
beth		Call me on my cell.
eyes		What happened here?
beth		I think you know what happened...  (M
103.		BETH CONTINUED: Now my child has been waiting too long. I am sure my husband will be home soon...
beth		 It's Daddy...
derek		 Beth, I spoke to Reyes.   Are you okay?
beth		It's over, Derek--
derek		Beth...  Tell me baby-- are you hurt?
beth		I should have believed you...
derek		It's gonna be okay, honey.     We're gonna be okay--
beth		 I love you, Derek.
derek		And I love you--
****Dialogues from script :Ocean_s_Eleven.txt****

danny		Good morning.
danny		Daniel Ocean.
danny		As you say, ma'am, I was never charged.
danny		My wife left me. I was upset.    I got into a self-destructive pattern.
danny		She already left me once. I don't think she'll do it again just for kicks.
danny		 I don't know. How much do you guys make a year?
danny		My wife's.
danny		I'm a free man.
danny		Hello, Frank.
frank		I beg your pardon, sir. You must have me confused with someone else. My name is Ramon. See?
danny		My mistake...  Table's cold anyway.
frank		You might try the lounge at the Grand, sir. It gets busy around one.
danny		 Thanks.
danny		Ramon?
frank		Glad to meet you. Frank Catton wouldn't get by the gaming board.  You just out?
danny		This afternoon.
frank		 And already turning over a new leaf.
danny		 You seen him?
frank		Last I heard he was in L.A. Teaching movie stars how to play cards.  Why? You don't have something planned already?
danny		You kidding? I just became a citizen again.
frank		Jesus...
frank		It's tough now, our line of work. Everybody so serious. Too many guns, too many computers. Whadda you gonna do? Steal from ordinary people?
danny		That would be criminal.
frank		So what's left? Banks? Hah. Banks got no money. It's all electronic. Only place that still takes cash is...
danny		Casinos.
frank		 Oh, no...
danny		Oh, yes...
frank		When?
danny		Soon.   Interested?
danny		Yes, Officer Brooks? My name is Danny Ocean. I'm just out, I'm supposed to check in with you within twenty-four hours.  No, sir, I wouldn't even think of leaving the state.
topher		Hey, I don't know if you're, uh, you know, incorporated or anything, like Rusty Ryan. And, I don't know, incorporated, but you should think about it, really, 'cause I was talking to my manager yesterday --
rusty		Bernie?
topher		No, not Bernie, I mean not, not that Bernie, my business manager, he's also Bernie, he was telling me that since this, what we do, could be considered research for, you know, a future gig, that I should be able to write it off as a business expense. So he suggested that it'd be better if I wrote you a check, and thereby --
topher		Or, or we could keep it cash.
rusty		Alright.   Who's here?
topher		Josh is here. Seth is here. David couldn't make it. He's got two weeks of reshoots on Lusitania because somebody just figured out forty percent of the budget is coming from Germany.
rusty		That's a problem.
topher		Barry is here.
rusty		I thought they let him out to do that H.B.O. thing in Vancouver.
topher		Couldn't work the dates. Oh, and he brought his girlfriend.
rusty		Not the one from --
topher		Uh-huh.
rusty		 I quit watching when Kate left Don after his accident.
rusty		Good evening, guys. Let's play some cards...
rusty		... and let's play some cards.
topher		A hundred bucks to me...  Ah, what the hell. Pocket change. Call.
rusty		Why you bet a certain way is your business. But you have to make them think you're betting for a reason. Understand?
rusty		Seth. You know what you have. Looking at them doesn't change them. Leave 'em where they are and make your bet.
rusty		You're showing. Yeah, I know she's your girlfriend, Barry, but you can't... Thank you.
rusty		Josh.   Deal to your left.
waitress		One McCallum neat. And four bottled waters.
seth		 Two pair -- nines and twos.
rusty		 Let's take a little break.
bartender		 How's the game going?!!
rusty		It's been the longest hour of my life.
bartender		What?!
rusty		 I'm running away with your wife.
bartender		Cool, man!
topher		Hey, Rusty, we got another player, if that's alright.
rusty		What's this?
danny		The bouncer mentioned there was a game in progress. I hope I'm not intruding.
topher		No intrusion at all --
rusty		What was his name, the bouncer's?
danny		I don't remember.
rusty		A card player with amnesia.    This should be fun.
topher		What do you do for a living, Mr. Ocean? If you don't mind my asking.
danny		Why should I mind? Two cards, please...  I just got out of prison.
topher		Really?  Really...
rusty		 Barry, you're showing again.
josh		What'd you, uh, go to prison for?
danny		I stole things.
josh		What, like jewels? Diamonds?
rusty		Incan matrimonial headmasks.
josh		From a museum?
danny		Gallery.
seth		There a lot of money in those? Incan matrimonial...
danny		Headmasks.   Some.
rusty		Don't let him fool you, Seth. There's boatloads. If you can move the things...  ... but you can't.
danny		My fence seemed confident enough.
rusty		If you're dealing with cash, you don't need a fence.
danny		Some people just lack vision.
rusty		Probably everybody in cell block E.
danny		Well, that's all behind us now.
rusty		I should hope so.
danny		I raise you five hundred dollars.
rusty		Guys: Day One: what's the first rule of poker?
rusty		That's right. My friend here just raised me out of pique.  Seth, raise him.
seth		Okay. Uh, your five hundred and... another two?
rusty		Tophe...
topher		Seven to me.   Plus three.   What the hell.
rusty		Indeed. But be careful you don't push him too high too fast. Want to keep him on the leash. I call.
josh		What's that to me? A thousand?
rusty		All you have to do is call.
danny		 What? Your girlfriend holding your purse?
danny		Contrary to what Mr. Ryan may say, Seth, I always check my cards before I make a bet. But be cafeful. I could tell from your face you're holding three of a kind or better.  Five hundred to call. And two grand more.
rusty		Guys, you're free to do what you like. It's a lot of money. But I'm staying in. He's trying to buy his way out of his bluff.
rusty		We call.
rusty		Shit. Sorry, guys. I -- I was sure he was bluffing.
danny		Thanks for the game, fellas.  Hey, I hate to ask this, but could you sign something for me? It's for the guys in the joint. They just love all your shows.
rusty		That was, that was just...
danny		Unprofessional.
rusty		How was the clink? You get the cookies I sent you?
danny		Why do you think I came to see you first?
danny		Ten grand.   Half of it's yours.
rusty		You barge into my new workplace, ruin my professional reputation, least you could do is tell me you've got something better for me.
danny		I've got something better for you.
rusty		How's Tess?
rusty		Alright.   Tell me.
danny		It's tricky. No one's ever done it before. Needs planning, a large crew.
rusty		Guns?
danny		Not loaded ones. It has to be very precise. There's a lot of security. But the take...
rusty		What's the target?
danny		Eight figures each.
rusty		What's.    The.    Target.
danny		 When's the last time you were in Vegas?
rusty		What? You wanna knock over a casino?
danny		The vault at the Bellagio.
rusty		If I'm reading these right -- and I think that I am -- this is probably the least accessible vault ever designed.  Oops. Actually, you know what, I'm wrong. It's definitely the least accessible vault ever designed.
danny		Yep.
rusty		You said three casinos...
danny		 But every dime ends up here.
rusty		The Bellagio, Mirage, and... These are Terry Benedict's places.
danny		Yes, they are.     Think he'll mind?
rusty		More than somewhat.
rusty		You'd need at least a dozen guys, doing a combination of cons.
danny		Like what, you think?
rusty		Well, off the top of my head, I'd say you're looking at a Boesky, a Jim Brown, a Miss Daisy, two Jethros, and a Leon Spinks. Oh, and the biggest Ella Fitzgerald ever.  Where do you think you're gonna get the money to back this?
danny		As long as we're hitting these three casinos, we'll get our bankroll. Terry Benedict has a list of enemies.
rusty		But does he have enemies with loose cash and nothing to lose...  Aha.
danny		 Aha.
rusty		Reuben.
danny		So...
rusty		So, here's what I think: You should take this plan, kick it around for a week or two. Sleep on it. Turn it over in your head. Then: never bring it up to me again.
danny		Uh-huh.    So what are you saying?
rusty		I'm saying: this is like trying to build a house of cards on the deck of a speeding boat.
danny		Really? I thought it was much harder than that --
danny		Jesus, Oscar, lower it a little, will ya? 
security guard		Sorry.  You two done up here?    Find what you wanted?
danny		Yeah, thanks. You mind if we borrow a couple drawings for the night? Make some copies.
security guard		Whatever you need.
danny		'Preciate it.
rusty		I need a reason. And don't say money.  Why do this?
danny		Why not do it?
danny		Because yesterday I walked out of the joint wearing my entire wardrobe and you're colddecking TeenBeat coverboys.  Because the house always wins. You play long enough, never changing stakes, the house takes you. Unless, when that special hand comes around, you bet big. And then you take the house.
rusty		You're been practicing that speech, haven't you?
danny		A little. Did I rush it?   It felt like I rushed it.
rusty		No, it was good.
rusty		I wonder what Reuben will say?
tishkoff		Are you listening to me? You are, both of you, nuts. I know more about casino security than any man alive. I invented it, and it cannot be beaten. They got cameras, they got watchers, they got locks, they got timers, they got vaults. They got enough armed personnel to occupy Paris. Okay, bad example...
danny		It's never been tried.
tishkoff		Oh, it's been tried. A few guys even came close. You know the three most successful robberies in Vegas history?
tishkoff		And the closest any man has gotten to robbing a Las Vegas casino...
tishkoff		Outside of Caesar's in '87.   He came, he grabbed, he got conquered.
tishkoff		But what am I saying? You guys are pros, the best. I'm sure you can make it out of the casino. Of course, lest we forget, once you're out the front door, you're still in the middle of the fucking desert!
rusty		You're right.  He's right.
danny		Reuben, you're right. Our eyes are bigger than our stomachs.
rusty		That's exactly it. Pure ego.
tishkoff		Yeah yeah blah blah.
danny		Thank you so much for setting us straight. Sorry we bothered you.
tishkoff		Look, we all go way back. I owe you from that thing with the guy in the place, and I'll never forget it.
danny		It was our pleasure.
rusty		I'd never been to Belize.
tishkoff		Give Dominic your addresses, I got some remaindered furniture I wanna send you.
tishkoff		Just out of curiosity, which casinos did you geniuses pick to rob?
danny		The Bellagio, Mirage, and the M.G.M. Grand.
tishkoff		 Those are Terry Benedict's casinos.
rusty		Say, you know, he's right.
tishkoff		You guys... Whadda you got against Terry Benedict?
danny		What do you have against him? That's the real question.
tishkoff		He torpedoed my casino, muscled me out, now he's gonna blow it up next month to make way for another fuckin' eyesore. Don't think I don't see what you're doin'.
rusty		What are we doing, Reuben?
tishkoff		You gonna steal from Terry Benedict, you better goddamn know. This sorta thing used to be civilized. You'd hit a guy, he'd whack you. Done. But Benedict...  At the end of this he better not know you're involved, not know your names, or think you're dead. Because he'll kill you, and then he'll go to work on you.
danny		That's why we've got to be very careful. We have to be precise. We have to be well-funded.
tishkoff		Yeah, you gotta be nuts, too. And you're gonna need a crew as nuts as you are.  Who do you have in mind?
livingston		D-don't, don't-don't... touch... it.
livingston		Do you see me pulling the gun out of your holster and firing it?
rusty		 Munitions.
danny		Phil Turentine.
rusty		Dead.
danny		No shit?   On the job?
rusty		Sun cancer.
danny		You send flowers?
rusty		Dated his wife a while.
danny		 Basher...
rusty		 We may be too late.
basher		Sweet...
basher		 You know, you guys had one job to do.
cop		And that's all you used during the event? Nothing else?
basher		Are you accusing me of booby- trapping?
cop		Well, how 'bout it?
rusty		Isn't that right, Basher?
basher		That's right.
rusty		 That's our man. Tell me something else. Have you checked him for booby traps on his person? I mean really checked, not just for weapons...
rusty		Will you go find Griggs and tell him I need to see him?
cop		Who?
rusty		 How fast can you put something together with what I passed you?
basher		Done.   Thirty seconds all right?
rusty		From when?
basher		 Now.
rusty		Ten seconds?
basher		Not quite.   Is Danny here?
rusty		Around the corner.
basher		Be good working with professionals again.  Okay: go.
rusty		Everyone down! Get down!      There's a bomb in the...
danny		So he can walk on a rope.
rusty		More than that.
danny		So he can juggle. We need a grease man, not an acrobat. Who else is on the list?
rusty		He is the list.
danny		Who else?
rusty		Watch.
rusty		There's your grease man.
danny		We need Saul.
rusty		He won't come. He swore off the game a year ago.
danny		He get religion?
rusty		Ulcers.
danny		You can ask him.
rusty		I can ask.
saul		I saw you in the paddock before the second race, outside the men's room, when I placed my bet. I saw you before you even got up this morning.
rusty		How ya been, Saul?
saul		Never better.
rusty		What's with the orange?
saul		My doctor says I need vitamins.
rusty		So why don't you take vitamins?
saul		You come here to give me a physical?
rusty		I got a box seat. Come on.
rusty		I thought you drank bloody Mary's at the track, Saul.
saul		A man shouldn't drink on the job.
rusty		 Who we rooting for here?
saul		Number four.
saul		You gonna ask me? Or should I just say no and get it over with?
rusty		Saul, you're the best there is. You're in Cooperstown. What do you want?
saul		Nothin'. I got a duplex now, I got wall-to-wall and a goldfish, I'm seeing a nice lady, she works the unmentionables counter at Macy's. I've changed.
rusty		Guys like us don't change, Saul. We stay sharp or we get sloppy, but we don't change.
saul		Quit connin' me.
rusty		That your hound way in the back there?
saul		He breaks late. Everyone knows this.
saul		You gonna treat me like a grownup at least? Tell me what the scam is?
danny		Ten should do it, don't you think?  Okay. We'll get one more.
linus		Sorry 'bout that.
stockbroker		No problem, guy.
danny		Hi, Linus.   Sit down.
linus		Who are you?
danny		A friend of Bobby Caldwell's.   Sit down.
danny		Bobby told me about you. Said you were the best set of hands he ever saw. Didn't expect to find you working wallets on the subway.
linus		That wasn't work, that was practice.
danny		You're either in or out, right now.
linus		What is it?
danny		A plane ticket. A job offer.
linus		You're pretty trusting pretty fast.
danny		Bobby has every faith in you.
linus		Fathers are like that.  He doesn't like me trading on his name.
danny		You do this job, he'll be trading on yours.
linus		What if I say no?
danny		We'll get someone else who won't be quite as good. You can go back to feeling up stockbrokers.
danny		That's the best lift I've seen you make yet.
linus		Las Vegas, huh?
danny		America's playground.
livingston		Trick or treat.
tishkoff		What, you guys get a group rate or something?
turk		You make it out to Utah much, Saul?
saul		 Not as much as I'd like.
turk		You should.   You'd like it.   You'd like Provo.
virgil		 Anybody see the salsa goes with this?
danny		Everybody eaten? Good. Everybody sober? Close enough. Most of you know each other already. You probably haven't met Linus Caldwell before, he's Bobby's kid outta Chicago.
danny		Okay. Before we start, nobody's on the line here yet. What I'm about to propose to you happens to be both highly lucrative and highly dangerous. If that doesn't sound like your particular brand of vodka, help yourself to as much food as you like and safe journey. No hard feelings.  Otherwise, come with me.
basher		What the hell.
linus		Hi.
tishkoff		You're Bobby Caldwell's kid, huh?
linus		Yeah.
tishkoff		From Chicago?
linus		Yeah.
tishkoff		It's nice there. You like it?
linus		Yeah.
tishkoff		That's wonderful. Get in the goddamn room.
danny		Gentlemen: the 14000 block of Las Vegas Boulevard. Otherwise known as the Bellagio, the Mirage, the M.G.M. Grand. Together, they're the three most profitable casinos in Las Vegas...
danny		Gentlemen: the Bellagio vault. Located below the Strip, beneath two hundred feet of solid earth. It safeguards every dime that comes through each of the three casinos above it.  And we're going to rob it.
linus		Smash-and-grab job, huh?
rusty		It's a little more complicated than that.
danny		Courtesy of Frank Catton, new blackjack dealer at the Bellagio, security tapes from the three casinos.
danny		Okay.    Bad news first. This place houses   a security system which rivals   most nuclear missile silos. First:    we have to get within the casino   cages --
rusty		 -- here, here, and here --
danny		-- which anyone knows takes more than a smile. Next: through these doors, each of which requires a different six-digit code changed every twelve hours. Past those lies the elevator, and this is where it gets tricky: the elevator won't move without authorized fingerprint identifications --
rusty		-- which we can't fake --
danny		-- and vocal confirmations from both the security center within the Bellagio and the vault below - -
rusty		-- which we won't get.
danny		Furthermore, the elevator shaft is rigged with motion detectors --
rusty		-- meaning if we manually override the lift, the shaft's exit will lock down automatically and we'll be trapped.
danny		Once we've gotten down the shaft, though, then it's a walk in the park: just three more guards with Uzis and predilections toward not being robbed, and the most elaborate vault door conceived by man. Any questions?
rusty		 No. Tunneling is out. There are Richter scales monitoring the ground for one hundred yards in every direction. If a groundhog tried to nest there, they'd know about it. Anyone else?
turk		You said something about good news...
danny		 Now there are eleven of us. Each with an equal share. You do the math.
rusty		That's what I said.
saul		I have a question.  Say we do get into the cage, and through the security doors there, and down the elevator we can't move, and past the guards with guns, and into the vault we can't open...
rusty		Without being seen by the cameras.
danny		 Oh, right. Sorry. I forgot to mention that.
saul		Say we do all that. We're just supposed to walk outta there with a hundred million dollars in cash on us without getting stopped?
danny		Yeah.
danny		Alright.   Here's how we'll begin.
better view		 REVEALS: On his crossword, Frank has scribbled a transcript of the Technicians' conversation. As he glances up at an electronic keycard clipped to one Technician's belt...
livingston		Well, it's not the least accessible system I've seen, but it's close. I don't suppose they have a closed-circuit feed I could tap into?
livingston		Then this is definitely a black bag job. Do they employ an in- house technician?
rusty		Two.   And one of them is lonely.
dancer		I'll be right back, honey.    Don't move a muscle.
technician		 Depends on the muscle.
rusty		Thanks, Charmaine. I'll have it back within the hour.  Say hello to your mom for me.
dancer		Say it yourself. She'll be onstage in five minutes.
tourist		Hey, watch it, bud...
slim		433, we have visual impairment on the east door camera.
sentry		Excuse me, sir: You're going to have to move your balloons.
virgil		Who you calling 'bud,' pal?
virgil		Who you calling 'friend'...  ... bud...
virgil		You hear about this new medical discovery they made? It's called a 'sense of direction.' Apparently we're all supposed to have one...
turk		Yeah yeah yeah, whatever, balloon boy.
sentry		Gentlemen, gentlemen...
danny		Why do they paint hallways that color?
rusty		They say taupe is very soothing.
danny		Uh-oh.
fat		Hiya.
livingston		Fine, thanks.
fat		Hey...
virgil		Hey... get your own balloons.
fat		 Hey...
fat		You dropped this.
livingston		Thanks.
danny		Well...
rusty		Yeah...
danny		Fourth task:    construction...
danny		Fifth task: intelligence. We need those codes, Linus. From the only man who has all three.
linus		Benedict.
danny		Learn to love his shadow.  Sixth task: transport...
linus		 Wait, wait, wait. All I get to do is watch him?
danny		For now. You gotta walk before you crawl.
rusty		 Reverse that.
danny		 Sixth task: transport...
billy tim		I'm sorry: eighteen-five each is the best offer I can make you.
frank		 Oh, I understand perfectly. They are beautiful vans. Well, I thank you for your time, Mister...?
billy tim		Denham.   Billy Tim Denham.
frank		Yes, Denham, like a jean.  You know: you have lovely hands -- do you moisturize?
billy tim		I'm sorry?
frank		I swear by it. I try all sorts of lotions. I went through a fragrance-free period last year, but now I'm liking this new brand fortified with rose hip. My sister, you know, she uses the aloe vera with the sun screen built in...
billy tim		 Uh-huh. You said you'd be willing to pay in cash?
frank		I did. You know: they say cinnamon is wonderful for your pores. Read that on the internet. And that ideally you should be wearing gloves to bed, but I find that would interfere with my social agenda. Problem is: I get a reaction to camphor so I can't use traditional remedies...
billy tim		If you could pay cash, I could probably drop the price a little. To, say, seventeen...  ... sixteen each.
frank		 That would be lovely.
danny		... Power, surveillance, transport...
tishkoff		Anything I can do?
danny		Get your wallet.
saul		This is nice material.
danny		It's Armani, Saul.
saul		It's very nice.
danny		Saul, you sure you're ready to do this?
saul		If you ever question me again, Daniel, you won't wake up the following morning.
danny		You're ready.
saul		Hello.  My name is Lyman Zerga...  My name is Lyman Zerga...
saul		My name is Lyman Zerga... My name is Lyman Zerga...
danny		There's a little over twenty grand there, Saul. Try to make it last.
saul		You seen my...
danny		 Bought you a fresh roll.
virgil		Mr. Zerga, we're here.
danny		Good luck, Lyman.
saul		 Luck is for losers.
saul		My name is Lyman Zerga.   I'd like a suite, please.
saul		 I don't make reservations.
rusty		Okay.   Tell me about Benedict.
linus		The guy is a machine.
linus		Give him another ten seconds.
linus		As I said:   a machine.
rusty		And that portfolio contains the codes to all the cage doors?
linus		Two minutes after they've been changed, he's got 'em in hand.  I'll tell you: you guys picked a helluva target. He is as smart and ruthless as they come. The last guy caught cheating here, Benedict not only sent him up for ten years, he got the bank to seize the guy's home and bankrupted --
rusty		-- his brother-in-law's tractor dealership, I heard.
linus		He doesn't just go after your knees, he goes after your livelihood. And everyone-you- ever-met's livelihood.
rusty		You scared?
linus		You suicidal?
rusty		Only in the morning.  Now what?
linus		Now comes the girl... if she comes in after he does, that means they're in a snit.
rusty		Where's she come from?
linus		The museum downstairs. She's the curator there. Wait... here she is. You'll like this.
linus		I don't know if we can use her yet. I haven't even caught her name.
rusty		Tess.
linus		What?
rusty		 Her name is Tess.
tishkoff		This looks familiar. Where'd you get this?
virgil		Off your Rolls.
tishkoff		Danny!   Tell 'em not to touch the Rolls!
rusty		But what doesn't beat the shit out of being a circus performer?
danny		What is it?
rusty		Tell me this isn't about her. Or I'll walk off the job right now.  Tess. She's with Terry Benedict now. Tell me this isn't about screwing the guy who's screwing your wife.
danny		Ex-wife.
rusty		Tell me.
danny		It's not.   About that.   Entirely.
danny		You said you needed a reason. Well, this is mine.  When we started in this business, we had three rules. We weren't gonna hurt anybody. We weren't gonna steal from anybody didn't have it coming. And we were gonna play the game like we had nothing to lose. Well, I lost something. Someone. That's why I'm here.
rusty		Here's the problem: we're stealing two things now. And when push comes to shove, if you can't have both, which are you gonna choose? And remember: Tess doesn't divide eleven ways.
danny		If things go to plan, I won't be the one who has to make that choice.
danny		How'd she look by the way? Tess...
rusty		I've seen her happier.
tess		He painted it in the summer of 1912, after the break-up with Fernande Olivier.
seller		She must have put him through hell.
tess		You can see the conflict. He makes her both erotic and grotesque. He's hopelessly drawn to her, and yet she drives him crazy.
tess		Mr. Benedict is never late.
benedict		Am I late?
tess		Not at all, Mr. Benedict.  Allow me to introduce to you Mr. Jean Santaniello.
benedict		 Mr. Santaniello, I apologize if I kept you. I had to iron out a few issues with my fight promoter. I gave him an unlimited budget, and he exceeded it.
seller		I understand it's going to be a hell of a fight.
benedict		We hope.
tess		Here it is.
benedict		Magnificent! I've been following her for fifteen years now. At last I've made her a home.  All the arrangements and so forth...
seller		Done.   She's yours.
benedict		Not mine. She belongs to everyone who comes into my hotel. Isn't that right, Ms. Ocean?
tess		Yes, Mr. Benedict.
benedict		She's lovely, isn't she?  I can't be the only one who was after her.
seller		You're the only one who met my price.
benedict		Ah, but this... You can't put a price on beauty. But I shouldn't philosophize. I own casinos, after all.
benedict		Of course, of course.
tess		You like it?
benedict		I like that you like it.  I have some bad news from the world of high fashion. It seems Mike Tyson will be wearing red on Saturday night. Red trunks with a white stripe.
tess		Oh?
benedict		And you, as I recall, will be wearing a red Donna Karan? And when the TV cameras pick us up in the front row, that red dress...
tess		I see.
benedict		He's a charming man, but no one's going to be watching him when they can make a study of you. I've asked Paolo to find three or four things for you to try. I hope you're not too disappointed.
benedict		Are you sure?
benedict		I'll see you tonight.
tess		What?    We're alone.
benedict		In my hotels, there's always someone watching.
tess		I'll see you tonight.
benedict		Actually, I do like it.
saul		I don't believe in weakness. It costs too much. I don't believe in questions, either.
benedict		Eddie.    Anything for me?
pit boss		Mr. Zerga, sir. Lyman Zerga. In the third position. Wishes to speak with you privately.
benedict		Who is he?
pit boss		Businessman of some kind, working mostly in Europe. He's very vague, but I asked around. Word is he deals primarily in arms. One of the biggest.
benedict		Zerga?    Never heard of him.
pit boss		Yessir.    That's why I don't doubt it.
benedict		He's staying here?
pit boss		Checked in two nights ago, sir. He's in the Mirador suite.
benedict		How's he doing?
pit boss		Up.   Almost forty grand.
benedict		 Good for him...
tess		 Danny...
danny		 Hello, Tess.
tess		 What are you doing here?
danny		I'm out.
tess		You're out.
danny		Of prison. You remember. The day I went for cigarettes and never came back. You must have noticed.
tess		I don't smoke.  Don't sit --
danny		 They said I'd paid my debt to society.
tess		Funny, I never got a check.
danny		You're not wearing your ring.
tess		I sold it. And I don't have a husband. Or didn't you get the papers?
danny		My last day inside.
tess		I told you I'd write.
tess		Danny.   Go.   Now. Before...
danny		Benedict?
danny		 -- whiskey.
tess		Danny...
danny		You're doing a great job curating the museum.
danny		The Vermeer is quite good. Simple but vibrant. Although his work definitely fell off as he got older.
tess		Remind you of anyone?
danny		And I still get Monet and Manet confused. Which one married his mistress?
tess		Monet.
danny		Right.   Manet had syphilis.
tess		They also painted occasionally.
danny		You don't know how many times I played this conversation out in my head the last two years.
tess		Did it always go this poorly?
danny		Yes.
tess		Sounds frustrating.
danny		You were never easy.  Okay. I'll make this quick. I came here for you. I'm gonna get on with my life, and I want you with me.
tess		You're a thief and a liar.
danny		I only lied about being a thief. But I don't do that anymore.
tess		Steal?
danny		Lie.
tess		I'm with someone now who doesn't have to make that kind of distinction.
danny		No, he's very clear on both.
tess		Nice.   Work on that for two years, too?
danny		Year and a half.
tess		Do you know what your problem is?
danny		I only have one?
tess		You've met too many people like you.  I'm with Terry now.
danny		Does he make you laugh?
tess		He doesn't make me cry.
high roller		 You don't want to get in the hole too heavy to this Benedict. A friend of mine once borrowed a hundred g's from the guy. Two months went by, Benedict hadn't heard from him, he calls my friend up, asks 'Where's my money?' I'll get to it when I get to it,' my friend says. Half hour later Benedict's in my friend's hotel room, dangling him off his 10th floor balcony by his feet. 'You gonna get to it now?'
frank		Bank wins -- natural nine.
high roller		Hiya, Terry.
benedict		Mr. Weintraub.     How's everything?
high roller		Eh. They put too much grenadine in my Shirley Temple.
benedict		And here I thought you were drinking vodka.  Mr. Zerga.
saul		Mr. Benedict. I recognize you from the TV. You know, nine casinos out of ten, owner comes up in the middle of the hand to ask me what I want. I respect your waiting.
benedict		You're the guest, sir.
saul		And I have to impose on your hospitality. Can you sit in for a hand?
benedict		I'd love to, Mr. Zerga, but the gaming board would feed me to my white tigers.
saul		That's a shame. You're the king of Vegas and you have to play craps in the alley.
benedict		No shame at all. Reminds me of my youth.
saul		The fight is Saturday, is it not?
benedict		Yes.   I can get you seats...
saul		No, no. Hand-to-hand combat doesn't interest me. I have a package arriving here Saturday evening. A black briefcase, standard size, the contents of which are very valuable to me.
benedict		I'd be happy to put it in the house safe for you.
saul		The house safe is for brandy and grandmother's pearls. I'm afraid I need something more secure.
benedict		I can assure you, the house safe is utterly...
saul		 I can assure you, Mr. Benedict, your generosity in this matter will not go overlooked. Now: what can you offer me besides the safe?
tess		See, the kind of people you steal things from, they have insurance to compensate them. They get made whole again. I had to leave New York to get away from what happened. How do I get my five years back, Danny?
danny		You can't. But what you can do is not throw away another five years.
tess		You don't know anything about --
danny		 Listen, you don't love me anymore, you want to make a life with someone else? Fine, I'll have to live with that. But not him.
tess		Spoken like a true ex-husband.
danny		I'm not joking, Tess.
tess		I'm not laughing.  You have to admit there's a conflict of interest when you give me advice about my love life.
danny		Yes. But that doesn't mean I'm wrong.
tess		Do you remember what I said to you when we first met?
danny		You said: you better know what you're doing.
tess		Do you? Now? Because -- truly -- you should walk out the door if you don't.
danny		I know what I'm doing.
benedict		What are you doing?
danny		Catching up.
tess		Terry, meet my ex-husband...
danny		 Danny Ocean.
benedict		 Forgive me for being late. A guest required my attention.
tess		Danny was just walking through the restaurant and spotted me.
benedict		Is that right?
danny		I was shocked myself.   Imagine the odds.
benedict		'Of all the gin joints in all the world...'  You've been in prison until recently, isn't that right? How does it feel to be out?
danny		About the same. Everything you want is still on the other side.
benedict		There's the human condition for you.
tess		Terry, Danny was just about to...
danny		I just wanted to say hello.   For old time's sake.
benedict		Stay for a drink, if you like.
tess		He can't --
danny		 -- I can't.
benedict		Well, then I don't imagine we'll be seeing you again, Mr. Ocean.
danny		You never know.
benedict		I know everything that happens in my hotels.
danny		So I should put those towels back.
benedict		The towels you can keep.
danny		 Good seeing you, Tess.
tess		Take care, Danny.
tess		I'm sorry --
benedict		 Don't be.
basher		 Just jumping into the shower, can you come back later?
reporter		... and here's Reuben Tishkoff, former owner of the Paradiso, come to bid farewell to his fabled resort and wish Terry Benedict all the best with his future plans for the property...
benedict		Good to see you.
reuben		Go shit in your mouth.
benedict		I hope there's as much dynamite in the Paradiso as there will be in this Saturday's fight.
reuben		G'bye, honey...
basher		Shit.
rusty		Call is at five-thirty. Makeup and costume. Saul's package arrives at seven-fifteen, and Linus grabs our codes. All goes well there and we're a go. Seven- thirty Virgil and Turk deliver Yen and we're committed. From that point, we have thirty minutes to blow the power or he suffocates.
rusty		Okay: they've put you in the middle of the room, far from everything. You have to get from here to the door without touching the floor. What do you do?
frank		Fin says he shorts it.
livingston		Make it a sawbuck.
basher		 We're in deep shit.
basher		The damn demo crew didn't use a coaxial lynch to back the mainline! Onioned the mainframe couplet!
reuben		You understand any of this?
livingston		I'll explain later.
basher		Blew the backup grid one by one! Like dominoes!
danny		 Basher. What happened?
danny		So...
basher		So unless we decide to do this job in Reno, we're screwed.
rusty		We could --
danny		By tomorrow?
basher		 We could use a pinch.
danny		What -- is a pinch?
rusty		For how long?
basher		About ten seconds.
danny		Could a pinch take out the power of an entire city? Like, I don't...
basher		Las Vegas?  But there's only one pinch in the world big enough to handle it.
danny		Where?
basher		 Pasadena.
danny		 You two ready?
danny		What are you doing?
linus		Coming with you.
virgil		Are you a man?
turk		Yes.    Nineteen.
virgil		Are you alive?
turk		Yes.    Eighteen.
virgil		Evel Knievel.
turk		Shit!   Okay, your turn...
virgil		.04-five-five.
turk		One-five.
virgil		You're so wrong.
turk		You don't know your string theory, bitch.
virgil		Mom told me she loves me more.
turk		She told me she was going to tell you that.
on linus		 TURK  Make me.  They can be heard WRESTLING. Linus has had enough.     He sneaks out the van's back door without the Malloys hearing him.
danny		We got it.   Let's go.
danny		Wait a minute.
danny		Where's Linus?
danny		There he is.
danny's pov		 of the lab, and its beveled-glass stairwell. Linus scrambles up its steps, a flight ahead of a duo of chasing guards. As he ascends out of sight...  Danny shifts his focus to -
danny's pov		 The other side of the building, and two more guards arriving on the roof and moving toward the staircase: Linus will be trapped.
basher		 Then there'll be two of us who need saving.
danny		He knows where we are.
turk		 Would you -- shouldn't someone be behind the wheel?
danny		Alright, back it up, back it up!
danny		 C'mon, c'mon...
yen		Ahhh!
danny		I say stay in the van, you stay in the van, got it? 'Cause you lose focus for one second in this game, and someone gets hurt.
linus		 I got it.
jim lampley		... and even though it's still five hours 'til the opening bell, the energy here is fever-pitched.
manager		How we doing?
tishkoff		Where are they? That's what I want to know. Where are they?
saul		 They'll be here.
tishkoff		 'They'll be here.' Thanks a lot, Fidel.
livingston		Yikes.
rusty		You boys have a nice trip?
livingston		We have a problem.
livingston		You've been red-flagged. It means the moment you step on the casino floor, they'll be watching you. Like hawks. Hawks with video cameras.
danny		This is a problem.
rusty		Saul:   time to get out.
rusty		Now!
rusty		 You have any idea how this happened?
linus		I do. He's been chasing Benedict's woman. Got into a real snarl with him two nights ago.  I was tailing you.
danny		Who told you to do that?
rusty		I did.  I knew you couldn't leave Tess alone.
tishkoff		Who's Tess?
danny		My wife.
rusty		Ex-wife.
saul		 Tess is here?
rusty		 You're out, Danny.
tishkoff		He's out?!
rusty		It's that or we shut down right now. His involvement puts us all at risk.
danny		This isn't your call.
rusty		You made it my call. When you put her ahead of us. You made it mine.
danny		This is my job.
rusty		Not anymore.
tishkoff		But, but... he can't just be out. Who's gonna take his place?
rusty		Kid, you up for it?
rusty		 Find everyone else. Let 'em know the change in plan. Curtain goes up at seven.
saul		Tess is with Benedict now?  She's too tall for him.
benedict		 Then inform Mr. Levin he'll find a better view of the fight in front of his television. Surely he must have H.B.O.
benedict		What are you thinking about?
tess		You.
benedict		Any sign of Ocean?
benedict		 Put a guy on him. He's here for a reason. I'd like to know what it is. But if he comes anywhere near Tess, take it to the next level.
manager		Bruiser?
saul		Mr. Benedict.
benedict		Mr. Zerga. It's a very busy night for me. Are we on schedule?
saul		I have no reason to suspect otherwise. My couriers should be here momentarily.
benedict		It's a nice evening. Shall we wait outside?
turk		Mr. Zerga.   A gift from Mr. Hesse.
saul		Thank you, Friedrich, Gunther.
frank		 Lookin' like a bad night for the house.
benedict		Find Mr. Walsh. Tell him Mr. Ocean's in the west slots.
benedict		I'm afraid I can't allow my private security personnel inside the casino cages. I hope you don't mind...
saul		Of course not.
racetrack denizen		Saul?   Saul Bloom, is that you?
racetrack denizen		Saul, it's me. Bucky Buchanan, remember? From Saratoga.
saul		Friedrich, Gunther.
saul		Mr. Benedict...  Please: I have never enjoyed the touch of steel to my skin.
danny		Pops, you won.
rusty		Where you gonna put your hands?
rusty		No...
rusty		Not the pockets, either. And don't touch your tie. Look at me...
rusty		That how you gonna stand?
rusty		Wrong again. I ask you a question, you have to think of the answer, where you gonna look?
rusty		Death. You look down, they know you're lying --
rusty		-- and up they know you don't know the truth. Don't use three words when one will do, don't shift your eyes, look always at your mark but don't stare, be specific but not memorable, funny but don't make him laugh, he's gotta like you then forget you the moment you've left his sight, and for God's sakes whatever you do, don't under any circumstances --
rusty		 Sure thing.
benedict		They're very beautiful.   A gift.
benedict		Can you lift them out, please?
benedict		Alright, Mr. Zerga. I acknowledge that the case does not contain any dangerous or illicit material. I further agree to take custody of your case for a twenty-four hour period to store in our secured vault. While I cannot permit you to accompany the case to the vault...
saul		Why not?
benedict		Insurance, for one. Security, another. And I don't trust you.
benedict		Mr. Zerga, this is Mr. Walsh, my casino manager. If you will allow, he will arrange for your briefcase to be stored inside our vault while you watch on a security monitor.  Those are my terms. Yes or no?
saul		You leave me no choice.
linus		 Thanks.
turk		Who ordered the penne?
rusty		You ready?
walsh		This is our security center, where we oversee all gaming in the casino as well as our vault. You'll be able to monitor your briefcase from here.
saul		Don't let me keep you.
benedict		Mr. Zerga...
rusty		Linus... you're up.
linus		Deep breaths, deep breaths.
linus		Mr. Benedict...
benedict		Yes?
linus		 Sheldon Wills. Nevada Gaming Commission. Could I have two minutes of your time?
benedict		Of course.   Anything for the N.G.C.
rusty		Okay: when do you make the deposit?
turk		Not until we get your signal.
virgil		Hey. What do we look like: a couple of peckerwood jackasses or something?
rusty		 Want something to read? Magazine?
rusty		Okay. I'm counting down.    Thirty minutes of breathing time starts... now.
livingston		You get no tip.
benedict		If he is who you say he is. 
pit boss		Certainly, Mr. Benedict.
rusty		Did you make it out?
livingston		His head blocked the last two numbers.  We missed it, Linus. You gotta grab the combination yourself.
benedict		You new at the commission?
linus		Been there about two years.
benedict		I know Hal Lindley over there. You work with him at all?
linus		 Not since he died last year.
benedict		Mr. Escalante. Would you come with us, please?
frank		What's this about?
benedict		I think it's better if we talked off the floor.
tishkoff		Good evening, Marcel. My nieces and I would like a table. Something quiet before the fight.
tishkoff		Quick as you can.  The meter's running here.
danny		Try to keep your tongue in your mouth.
tishkoff		 Yeah, pal, well only if you take your thumb out of your...
tishkoff		 Hey: you have any idea who I think I am?
tess		Danny:    No.
danny		I'll just be a moment.
tess		I'm having you thrown out of here.
tess		You're up to something, Danny. What? And don't say you came here for me. You're pulling a job, aren't you?
danny		Tess...
tess		Well, know this: no matter what it is, you won't win me back. I can't afford it.
danny		I just came to say good-bye.
tess		Oh... then... good-bye.
danny		Good-bye.
danny		Be good.
tess		 Good-bye, Danny.
danny		 I thought he might.
linus		Thank you for your cooperation, Mr. Escalante.  Or should I call you Mr. Catton?
linus		You are Frank Catton? Formerly of the Tropicana, the Desert Inn and the New York State penitentiary system? 
frank		 Goddamn cracker...
linus		 Pardon me.
frank		 You heard me. Just 'cause a black man tries to earn a decent wage in this state...
linus		That has nothing to do with...
frank		 ... some cracker cowboy like you's gotta kick him out on the street. Want me to jump down, turn around, pick a bale of cotton, won't let me deal cards, might as well call it whitejack.
linus		 ... I mean...
frank		Okay, okay, I'm cool.
benedict		 You alright?
linus		 Yeah.
rusty		 Virgil, Turk: deliver your package.
virgil		Aw, I think... Jesus.    I lost my card.
security officer		What's going on here?
virgil		I think... Jesus! I lost my keycard.
security officer		 Take this cart inside.
walsh		There it is now.
saul		 Wonderful.
on monitors		 The yen-filled cash cart joins Saul's briefcase on the elevator. PULL OUT to...
rusty		That's my cue.  Give Basher the go.
livingston		 Bash, what's your status?
basher		 No need to yell.
basher		I'm there.
benedict		Please show this man off the premises.  Don't step foot in my casino again.
frank		 Cracker.
benedict		Mr. Wills, if you don't mind...  Mr. Wills?
linus		Of course.
linus		My beeper.   I'm sorry.   I forgot it.
benedict		You know how to get back out?
linus		Of course.   Enjoy the fight.
benedict		 Thank you.
frank		Thanks, fellas.
danny		How much longer do you think Mr. Benedict will be?
danny		No cameras in this room, huh? Don't want anyone seeing what happens here?
danny		He's not coming, is he?
danny		Who is?
danny		I guess Mr. Benedict didn't like me talking to his girl.
danny		Jesus, Bruiser, not 'til later.
bruiser		Sorry, Danny.    I -- I forgot.
danny		S'okay.  How's the wife?
bruiser		Pregnant again.
danny		Then we better get to work.
livingston		Oh shit...
walsh		Does that satisfy you, Mr. Zerga?
saul		Yes, I'm very satisfied.
walsh		 Close it up.
fat		You alright, sir?
livingston		Almost there, kid.
fat		Who's that?
livingston		Going to video now.
walsh		 Call for a doctor.
danny		You didn't really think I was gonna sit this one out, did you?
linus		What, didn't you trust me?
danny		I do now.
ring announcer		Ladies and gentlemen!!
rusty		Someone called for a doctor?
linus		How'd you get here?
danny		Crawlspace. And I had to give away a couple mil.
linus		But what about -- I mean, that whole thing with Rusty...
danny		You think the kid bought it?
rusty		Hell, I think Reuben bought it, and he knew we were screwing around.  You sure about this?
danny		 Bobby Caldwell threw me into the pool first time. Least I could do is give his kid a push.
linus		Why'd you make me go through all this? Why not just tell me?
danny		Well, where's the fun in that?  C'mon: Yen's got about three minutes of air left.
rusty		He's gone.
walsh		You're too late, guys.   He's dead.
virgil		 I told you to hurry.
danny		Who do you like tonight?
linus		Huh?
danny		Tyson or Lewis.
linus		The fight...?  How strongly do you feel about it?
danny		You looking for action?
linus		 I'd go in for a buck.
danny		A buck it is.
danny		 Livingston, we're set.
rusty		 Livingston, we're set.
livingston		 Basher, we're set.
basher		 Just give me a minute.
basher		Then give me thirteen seconds.
linus		You ever rappelled before?
danny		Never.   You?
linus		Nope.
basher		 Ready.
basher		... One...
flamingo		 Every pink light vanishes.
bellagio		 The fountain goes flaccid.  BASHER  ... two, three...
danny		Now!
basher		... eight, nine...
linus		Aaaaahhhhh!
basher		... ten...
ref		... One, two, three...
benedict		What the hell was that?
benedict		 The first goddamn round.
basher		Viva Las Vegas.
linus		You alright?
danny		No, but you're sweet to ask.
frank		Are they in?
livingston		One second.  I thought you got kicked out?
livingston		This tape's from last night.   Same guards, same...
livingston		... shift.
danny		Not yet.  Okay.
linus		You think Yen made it out okay?
danny		I'm sure he's fine.
linus		 Jesus...
danny		There's a Chinese man with a hundred sixty million dollars behind that door. Let's get him out.
frank		Fin says he shorts it.
livingston		No bet.
livingston		 Shit.
danny		Okay.
frank		That's it?
livingston		There's still the five pins and the floor sensor. Not much we can do about that from this side of the door. But from this side...
basher		... a little bit of Semtex should do the trick.
danny		Counting down from twenty --  -- now.
danny		-- seventeen, sixteen, fifteen --
danny		-- eleven, ten, nine --
livingston		 Linus, can you read me? Linus, do not blow the door, you're about to kill Yen.
linus		-- five, four, three --
danny		-- one --
linus		What's wrong?
danny		I don't know.
linus		You check the batteries?
saul		Everything going okay?
linus		You know, you lose focus for one second in this game --
danny		-- and someone gets hurt, yeah yeah. I don't hear Yen complaining.
danny		Do it.
danny		Amazing?
yen		 Where the fuck you been?
saul		Ever been in love?
frank		 No, I guess not. Not really.
saul		This is better.
benedict		You gonna answer it?
tess		I don't have a cell phone.
tess		It isn't mine.
benedict		See who's on the other end.
tess		Hello?
tess		It's for you.
benedict		Who the hell is this?
rusty		The man who's robbing you.
benedict		What the hell is going on down there in the vault?
fat		Nothing, sir.    All normal.
benedict		Show me.
fat		All quiet.
benedict		 I'm afraid you're mistaken.
benedict		Jesus Christ...
benedict		 Find out how much money we have down there.
danny		Good-bye.
benedict		 Alright. You've proved your point. You've broken into my vault. Congratulations: you're a dead man.
benedict		May I ask: how do you expect to leave here, hmm?
benedict		Do you believe I'll simply allow you to parade bags full of my money out my casino doors?
rusty		No.   You're gonna carry it out for us.
benedict		 And why would I do that?
rusty		Take a closer look at your monitor...
rusty		You let our eighty million go, and you get to keep your eighty. That's the deal. You try and stop us, we'll blow both cash loads.
rusty		 Mr. Benedict: you can lose eighty million dollars secretly tonight or you can lose a hundred sixty million dollars publicly. It's your decision.
rusty		Hi.
benedict		 Make the call.
walsh		We have an incident here...
benedict		 Okay.   You have a deal.
tess		Where's Danny?
rusty		He's fine. He wants you to go upstairs, and watch TV.
tess		 He does?
rusty		It's alright, Tess. I promise.  Good. Here's what you do. Five minutes from now, the men in the vault are going to deposit six bags in the vault elevator.
rusty		If they take more than twenty seconds to reach the casino floor or if there's any indication a switch has been made, we'll blow the money in the vault and the money in the bags.
benedict		 He's in the casino right now.
benedict		Sir, I have complied with your every request, would you agree?
benedict		Good.   Now I have one of my own.
benedict		 Run and hide. That's all I ask.
walsh		Our guys say the van is headed toward McCarren Airport.
benedict		Get everyone in position. I want my vault back before that van hits the tarmac.
benedict		 Mr. Zerga? With the briefcase?
walsh		He's -- he died.
fat		Ready when you are.
benedict		Do it.
benedict		 What's the situation down there?
benedict		 Find out how they fiddled with our cameras.
head goon		Get out of the van, now!   Now!
swat leader		Mr. Benedict...
benedict		Yes.
swat leader		We couldn't find any survivors. Or, I'm afraid, any of your money. I'm sorry, sir.
benedict		 Take your men out now.
swat leader		Okay, guys, grab your gear and clear out.
benedict		 Walsh: How are we with the van?
head goon		Out of the van now! Hands up!
employee		 Hey, what's going on here?
tishkoff		Enough monkey business.
benedict		Yes?
benedict		And?
benedict		 Shit.
benedict		What, Walsh?
benedict		What?!
benedict		What do you mean there was no money in the bags?
benedict		Walsh, cue up the tape of the robbery.
walsh		 No, sir. It doesn't. I -- I don't understand...
benedict		We had that installed on Tuesday. The image we saw of the men robbing us was a tape.
benedict		Someone built a double of my vault, then made a tape of them robbing it. When we saw them putting money in those bags, that wasn't actually happening.
walsh		Then, sir...
rusty		 Prepare to cut power!
linus		Guys, someone's here!
rusty		Las Vegas P.D. This is Officer Brooks, New Jersey Probation Division. I have a violator in your jurisdiction...  Hit it.
benedict		 Ocean...
benedict		Where's Ocean?
benedict		Open that door.
benedict		Wake him up.
danny		 Heya, Benedict... How's the other fight going?
benedict		Did you have a hand in this?  Did you?
danny		Did I have a hand in what?
benedict		Get him out of here.
tess		Hello?
danny		You get robbed or something, Benedict? Geez, that's a shame.
benedict		Stop there.
benedict		Where.   Is.   My. Money.
danny		What would you say if I told you you could get your money back...  What would you say?
benedict		I would say yes.
danny		Well, that's very interesting...  ... but I didn't have anything to do with it.
benedict		 Escort Mr. Ocean to the exit. And contact the police. I would imagine Mr. Ocean is in violation of his parole.
walsh		Maybe we should have held him.
benedict		No.   Follow him. Everywhere.
benedict		Tess...  Tess?
tess		You of all people should know, Terry: in your hotel, there's always someone watching.
tess		Wait!
tess		Danny...  I'm sorry.
danny		I knew what I was doing.
tess		I didn't.
tess		How long will you be?
danny		 Three to six months, I should think.
rusty		Looking for someone?
danny		Thirteen million and you drive that piece of shit cross country to pick me up?
rusty		Hello to you, too.
rusty		Your hair's grayer.
danny		Your eyes got closer together.  How's life?
rusty		Life... is a roomful of pillows.  C'mon...
rusty		Where do you want to go first?
danny		To a phone.
rusty		I stopped and picked up your personal effects, put them in the back seat.
danny		My what?
danny		 I'm not sure these belong to me.
tess		Sure they do.
danny		We need to find Rusty a girl.
rusty		There's a women's prison just down the road...
danny		You said you sold this.
tess		That's what I said.
danny		Liar.
tess		Thief.
****Dialogues from script :Ocean_s_Twelve.txt****

customer		Wow. How do they do that?
owner		It's an accident. It means the flower developed a virus early in the bulb stage. The flaws create the unusual coloring.
customer		Can you arrange something for me with those?
owner		Of course. What kind of price range are you looking for?
tess		Well, it's for my parent's anniversary. They don't know I'm coming. I just want it to be beautiful. Can you just do whatever you think looks best?
owner		I'll need a few minutes.
tess		Take your time, please. And thank you.
owner		That should be some surprise.
tess		Which?
owner		For your parents.
tess		Oh. Yes. I hope so.
owner		Which one is it?
tess		I'm sorry?
owner		Anniversary.
tess		Oh. Fortieth
owner		Wow. Okay. I think I have an idea. Something classic.
tess		Do you have a bathroom?
owner		Straight back, on the left. It's unisex.
tess		Thank you.
owner		 It's unisex!
danny		Miguel Diaz speaking.
benedict		The Baldwins.
tess		What about them?
benedict		We had dinner with them three years ago. You talked about your parent's anniversary.
tess		So am I.
benedict		Well, I hope Danny is as good as he thinks he is. A bouquet toss in prison can get pretty ugly.
reuben		 I really think you're being too sensitive. She's crazy about you. I can tell.
reuben		Joyce, she's ninety-two. I'm all she has left. 
6.		10   CONTINUED:                                                    10
turk		The opening doesn't work.
virgil		Duh.
turk		She shouldn't have the same dream as Franklin. He's the antagonist.
virgil		It was your idea.
turk		No it wasn't.
virgil		Well, it wasn't mine. It couldn't be; it's too stupid.
turk		Why do you do that? why do you have to get personal?
virgil		It's not personal, it's a fact.
turk		It's personal. You don't argue logically. You attack.  ...flattening the back so the body forms a triangle.
virgil		I can't listen to you anymore. It makes me physically sick.
turk		Relax the crown of the head toward the floor. Draw the hips away from the hands, len--gthening the spine. And press the heels toward the floor.
virgil		This a serious class. No pigs allowed. Okay?
guy		Sorry.
turk		Virge.
turk		You're hallucinating.
virgil		Yeah, whatever, OJ.
rusty		You are kidding me.
rusty		736.18 degrees Fahrenheit, Felix. I watched it.
rusty		I want what I paid for.
felix		And that's what I sent.
rusty		No, Felix, no. I paid for pure. And if my workshop were on top of Mount Everest it would be pure. But I'm at sea level, Felix, and at sea level it should liquefy at 736.95. If it's pure, that is. Which this isn't.
rusty		Let me ask you something: When Christo calls his cotton supplier and asks for 100% cotton cloth, do you think his supplier sends him 98% cotton and 2% polyester and when that doesn't work, says to Christo, "Well, you should have told me you were going to wrap the coast of Australia"?
felix		Who's Christo?
rusty		Felix, you're in a shame spiral. Have your assistant lose my number.
benedict		Four weeks.
frank		We stole that money fair and square. You bought people off to find me. You took advantage during an economic downturn, and made them say some shit they shouldn't have said. It's not fair, it's not just, and it aint' cool.
benedict		I heard what you said, Frank. Did you hear what I said?  Frank looks at Benedict and the Power Twins.
livingston		How many people here tonight were stupid enough to have children?
benedict		What can I say? You're a funny guy.
saul		What it is about horses? I ask you. Is it the strength? The beauty? The fearlessness? The grace? Of course. But there's something else. Something in the eyes.
waiter		Excuse me, Mr. Bloom?
saul		Yes?
waiter		There appears to be a problem with your card.
saul		You take Visa?
waiter		I was acting on instructions from your business manager.
saul		My business manager?
waiter		Mr. Benedict.
benedict		Look at it this way...Eugene....if the album goes platinum it'll cover what you owe. And if the second one goes gold, that should cover the interest.
linus		I'm responsible for myself. I have my own life and my own plans. I've never asked for anything but a fair shake. We make a deal, I stick to the deal.
danny		How many can't make the deadline?
reuben		 So I'm smarter than those schmucks on Wall Street. Whose fault is that?
danny		How many think if they run, they'll be found?
rusty		We're on the five o'clock.
danny		Good.
rusty		Amsterdam.
danny		AMSTERDAM!?
rusty		FINE, THEN STAY HERE!
livingston		Flight 144 to Amsterdam.
klm agent		You're in seat 43J. Enjoy your flight.
livingston		Uh...there must be some mistake. I mean...unless...is your first class section in the back of the plane?
klm agent		No.
saul		Fifty-five K? There's a fifty-five K?
klm agent		We've increased capacity by employing advanced design technology.
saul		You made the seats smaller. Can you just say that? You made the seats smaller.
frank		See, you're not hearing me. What I'm trying to tell you is the reservations agent made a mistake when she issued the ticket, because on the rare occasions that I fly commercially, I always book a first- class ticket with no restrictions--
klm agent		She may have, air, but this is the only ticket available to you on this flight. I need you to step aside so I can take care of the next customer.
frank		Now, listen: Don't make me get black.
danny		Reuben.
reuben		I wanted to wish you luck. And listen: I want to do something for you.
danny		What's this?
reuben		Take it. Take it. This is the least I can do. I've got a friend who owns the Bellagio of Amsterdam and I've made reservations for all of you there. It's all taken care of.
rusty		That's very touching, Reuben.
reuben		It's the least I could do. I love you guys. Enjoy.
virgil		Nice.
turk		Great anticipation.
flight attendant		Gentlemen, you'll have to go back to your seats now.
linus		Ground level. First floor. Day one. Planning stages.  Planning stages.
livingston		How'd he get that seat?
turk		What seat?
rusty		Call me an elitist asshole, call me a bourgeois clown, call me anything you want, but 'economy' is bullshit.
danny		Oh, I don't know...it's not that ba-
linus		Hey. You guys have a minute?
danny		Sure, Linus.
rusty		What's on your mind?
linus		Well, I know this may not be the exact right time to bring this up, but I've been thinking about...well, about where I want to be in five years, career-wise, and I've decided I really want to be more than just a role-player. I really see myself as kind of an idea man, like you guys. I mean, I know you do your part and you're in the trenches with us and all, but it's really your show, and like I said, five years from now, I want to be running my own show....
linus		So if there's any opportunity for me to be involved in the, you know, planning stages of things, I would really appreciate it. I really feel like I'm ready for more responsibility and that I could really make a contribution.
rusty		Are you thinking what I'm thinking?
danny		Evelyn.
rusty		 We're negotiating the terms with her tomorrow. You feel up to taking the lead?
linus		Are you serious?
danny		Absolutely.
linus		This isn't some gag?
rusty		No gag.
linus		Wow. Yeah. That would be awesome.
danny		Okay, then.
linus		Man. I wasn't sure if I should say anything. Now I'm glad I did.
danny		So are we.
rusty		We're here to listen.
linus		Great. Thanks. Really. You won't regret this.
basher		Tom.
saul		He can be a Tom?
basher		Anybody can be a Tom.
saul		You gotta make your own opportunities. This ain't a rehearsal.
basher		Tom.
saul		Boy, you're tough.
basher		Stop calling me "boy".
livingston		How could he lie to us like that?
rusty		The sign said 'the Bellagio of Amsterdam'.
danny		Yeah.
linus		Look, you guys no frills, no perks, run-and-gun, all that stuff, and I said no problem because I believed you were right that we shouldn't go deeper into debt and spend money we don't have. I mean, am I the only one who thinks this might actually be a good thing? That we could use a little humility? That maybe we were a little too pleased and impressed with ourselves after the Benedict job? Okay, I grant you that maybe this isn't what we deserve, but maybe it's what we need. We can do this. No, I take it back: We have to do this.
tess		What are you doing in Amsterdam?
tess		Be careful, Danny. Please.
danny		How's work?
tess		It's the same. I'm distracted.
danny		I'm sorry.
tess		It's not your fault.
tess		Danny, don't keep thinking about it.
tess		I'll call you tomorrow. I love you.
danny		I love you.
rusty		She'll try and use her looks to distract you. Don't let her.
danny		Be polite, but firm.
linus		Right.
rusty		Don't get soft on us. Don't make too many concessions.
linus		I won't.
evelyn		The onset of summer is like a woman who owns too many shoes.
danny		 If animals were capable of flattery, the World Bank would be open until 8pm.
evelyn		When I was four years old, I saw my mother kill a spider with a tea cozy.
rusty		A doctor who specializes in skin diseases will dream that he has fallen asleep in front of the television. Later he will wake up in front of the television but not remember his dream.
linus		O let the sun beat down upon my face, stars to fill my dreams. I am a traveler of both time and space, to be where I have been.
evelyn		Your young friend has a great deal to learn about respect.
danny		Linus...why don't you wait outside.
danny		Is that your idea of making a contribution?
rusty		Her terms were scandalous. And we were lucky to get them after what you said.
danny		The deal was this close to being blown.
linus		"Deal?"   What "deal?"
rusty		"Playing along!"
danny		You called her mother a whore.
rusty		A really cheap one.
linus		Guys, I'm not falling for this. I'm not....
rusty		It's a privately owned home. But don't let that fool you. It's extremely well-protected.
saul		What are we after?
danny		A document. A very old, very valuable document.
virgil		What is it?
rusty		A stock certificate.
danny		The first one ever issued, from the first corporation on the planet. The Dutch East India Trading Company. It's the only one of it's kind and it's worth a boat-load.
turk		What's our cut?
turk		Each?
virgil		Who negotiated this?
linus		Thanks.
livingston		What do we know so far?
danny		There's a dummy key pad by the front door.  But the alarm is really controlled by the keypad in Mr. Vanderspeigle's second floor office. Now, here's good news: we already know the system's master code. Evelyn gave it to us.
frank		That's not good news, that's really good news.
virgil		We just wait until he leaves.
danny		Yeah, well...that's the bad news.
rusty		He doesn't.
danny		He's agoraphobic.
livingston		So he's never been out of his house? Ever?
turk		Guys, am I missing something here? We know his damn code, right? You're telling me with that much information we can't find a way into this freak's house?
turk		Can't we just get a telephone repair truck...
saul		God, this guy really is a freak.
basher		Crazy freak.
danny		Something wrong?
frank		Just...don't call the guy a freak, okay?
danny		Yeah.
linus		Okay, here's something...I've got an idea...suppose we--
rusty		No.
linus		Well, but how--
rusty		There's a Goldmann Grid over the enitre surface.
danny		 But....
rusty		--Well, that's different. Especially if we--
danny		Right.
linus		What?
rusty		 Livingston--
livingston		Absolutely. I mean, I'd need a day to--
rusty		You'll have three. Basher?
basher		No worries.
rusty		Virgil, Turk.
turk		Sweden.
rusty		Yen?
saul		I know, I know. I'll be bored. You'll be fine.
rusty		Clock's running.
linus		What's a Schuman Special?
livingston		 Your shot has to hit directly above the keypad.
basher		Let me see the specs.
basher		How tall is the surface of this roof?
saul		About 87 feet.
basher		How tall exactly?
rusty		You're not going to believe this.
danny		Try me.
rusty		We don't have line-of-sight.
danny		What?
rusty		We tried everywhere. Some places we're only three or four inches off...but...there's no straight shot. Even with Basher. It's literally impossible.
linus		Can I talk to you guys for a second?
linus		Listen, I've done a little research on the Schuman Special, and uh...we don't have line of sight for the shot.
danny		What?
rusty		Jesus. This'll kill us.
danny		 Listen: Don't say anything. If you're ever going to run your own crew, you've got to remember to never show weakness.
rusty		It's like blood in the water for these guys.
danny		If they think you're slipping, you won't even see it coming.
rusty		But hey--thanks.
rusty		 I need some air.
danny		The Swinging Priest?
rusty		Not enough time.
danny		Crazy Larry.
rusty		Too many variables.
danny		Robinov's Revenge?
rusty		Too many obstacles.
danny		The Soft Shoulder.
rusty		Not enough people.
danny		Baker's Dozen.
rusty		We'd need a woman.
danny		Hell in a Handbasket.
rusty		Can't train the cat that quickly.
danny		I can't have my wife watch me hauled off in handcuffs again.
rusty		It's always about you, isn't it?
danny		This like running toward a cliff. Speaking of which, how's Isabel?
rusty		I have no idea what you're talking about.
danny		You get the tattoo removed?
rusty		Given its location, my doctor advised against it.
danny		What are you doing?
rusty		We're here.
danny		Oh.
danny		Nice.
saul		You want to do what?
rusty		Tilt it. Raise it slightly.
saul		The whole house?
rusty		It's only a few inches.
basher		Then I'll have line-of-sight.
frank		We can't tilt a whole house.
virgil		They did it with the Leaning Tower of Pisa.
rusty		Exactly.
saul		It took three hundred guys two years to do that. You're crazy. Nobody's ever done anything like this.
rusty		Not true. Palowski did it in `64 in Venice and `73 in Istanbul.
saul		Really?
livingston		And he only had a crew of six.
rusty		There are thirty pylons. We cut them, insert the jacks, and crank.
basher		For nineteen hours. Here's the order in which they have to be done.
livingston		So, Basher approached me about being on a crew.
frank		When?
livingston		Yesterday.
rusty		The good news is, after the first twelve hours, I stopped being able to smell anything.
danny		Took a few more for me.
rusty		This water was stagnant six hundred years ago.
virgil		There's no reason for him not to. He would go to the cops.
turk		Okay, so he goes to the cops.
virgil		Then they arrest Dominique.
virgil		Then we have no story.
turk		Right.
linus		She steals the money from Mr. Mulroney.
turk		What?
virgil		Why would she?
linus		To pay Franklin to keep quiet.
turk		That's good.
saul		Counterfeiting? Me?  I have to tell you, it's not something I condone. It's cheating.
basher		It is cheating.
saul		There's no subtlety to it.
basher		It's kind of embarrassing.
saul		No one I know...
basher		I can't imagine anything like that.
saul		Not bad.
basher		Bolivia.
saul		Diego's people?
basher		Yeah.
saul		Well. Congratulations.
basher		I told him about you.
saul		I'm too old. That's dangerous. My stuff is cheap compared to that. It's just me and my gal, you know. What you're talking about is organized. But thanks, anyway.
frank		Jay Leno called.
livingston		When are you gonna stop with that tired "white people can't be funny stuff"? It's so old, Frank, really. Do you want some orange juice? I got the good kind.
frank		Bring that orange juice.
saul		This is Gatsby. We're green here.
isabel		Let's discuss, briefly and to begin, with the category of "thieves", as distinguished from the larger category of what might be termed "hardened" criminals. The highest level, "master thieves," if you will, is a very small world. Between six and ten high-level crews are operating in Europe at any given time. Worldwide, no more than twenty. The most famous, Gaspar LeMarc, is either dead or retired, and the expectation is that no one will replace him. The good news is the trend is toward their extinction.
isabel		For example: Anecdotal evidence suggest these people are personally insufferable.
isabel		Their egos demand constant praise, and they embellish their exploits to anyone who will listen. They tell their own stories endlessly, provided of course, they are talking to a fellow thief or an intimate.
isabel		Those who interact with them on a personal level are relegated to positions of total servitude, with no chance for growth or freedom. Their lives are treated as secondary. Many of them suffer from depression. It's a crime for which there is no law, and yet causes untold damage.
isabel		That's impossible!
paul		Thanks for coming. We can really use your help on this one.
isabel		I hope the scene hasn't been contaminated.
isabel		No forced entry.
paul		Not that we can find.
paul		 We can't figure out how they disabled the alarm. We thought maybe they tried to short it out somehow.
isabel		No, that would have triggered the system.
pam		Well, then I don't know how they got in.
isabel		They had to have known the code.
paul		 We considered that, but the mark swears that nobody in the world knew the code except him. He programmed the last seven steps of the system himself. He set it and never left the house again. When he dies, we'll probably have to physically cut all the power lines to the house to get it off line.
isabel		There are other ways to get the code.  Closed loop. Redundant servers. Titanium encasement. Not bad.
paul		Like what?
isabel		Uh...well, they probably set up in a house across the canal and watched him type the code in through a pair of binoculars.
paul		 Actually, I don't know about that.
isabel		That's why they probably set up over there--
paul		What is it?
isabel		It's where the crossbow bolt hit.
paul		A crossbow bolt?
isabel		Ever heard of Franz Schuman?
paul		No.
isabel		They would have fired from that roof. Through this open window.
paul		From that roof, through this window? Nobody could make a shot like that.
isabel		Not a cop, anyway.
paul		What's that supposed to mean?
isabel		Sorry. Your friend downstairs put me in a bad mood.
paul		He's an idiot. You shouldn't let him bother you.
isabel		Yes. You're right.
isabel		When did he get up and notice the certificate was gone?
paul		The alarm woke him at 4:2O am.
isabel		But the alarm would have been--
paul		What?
50.		77   CONTINUED:                                                   77
isabel		There was someone else.
paul		Someone else.
danny		Wait!   Wait! Shhhh!
51.		79   CONTINUED:                                                      79
dinner jacket		Can I help you?
danny		Yeah. What the hell are you doing?
dinner jacket		I am getting here first.
rusty		This is our score.
dinner jacket		I am here before you.
frank		 We let you in the house! Somehow you got in after we hit the code but before we got to the door.
dinner jacket		That's thirty seconds. How could I know which exact thirty seconds I had? Unless I knew you plan. Could I have known your plan? Do you have a snitch in your group?
danny		No.
rusty		We don't.
dinner jacket		Yes, I know you don't. Because I saw, the whole thing from that chair. I knew you were around, but I had my own plan.
52.		79   CONTINUED:                                               79
dinner jacket		There's really no need for that.
danny		Listen, we have to come to some arrangement.
linus		We've incurred some very serious costs here.
linus		Well, we have.
dinner jacket		Every second I am becoming more outnumbered.
virgil		 Who's this?
frank		He said he got here first.
virgil		That's bullshit.
rusty		Hey. Mouth.
virgil		This is our goddamned job!
livingston		If the situation were reversed--
dinner jacket		But the situation is not reversed. The situation is that I am here first, without any help from you.
dinner jacket		So as much as I would--
dinner jacket		Jesus, how many of you are there?
danny		Just give us the stock certificate. Whatever else you took out of that safe...it's yours.
dinner jacket		No. But: I leave you with something.
dinner jacket		My attorney. In case Evelyn's employer tries anything...well, anything.
paul		Are you sure?
isabel		I'm sure there's another scenario that would fit these physical details, but I don't know what it is.
paul		Where should we start?
isabel		You can start by picking that guy up.
virgil		Who the hell was that guy?
frank		It's going to get out, you know. People are going to find out.
basher		Somebody must know this bloke's name.
livingston		The question is who trained him. He got into that place alone.
danny		He says.
frank		I believed him.
saul		 You think he's better than us?
frank		I'm not saying anything, but the man was sitting there, waiting for us.
linus		Do you think the cops even know who this guys is?
rusty		Please. That guy's never even seen a cop.
turk		Maybe he works with the cops.
saul		You don't work with the cops unless you absolutely have to. And not even then.
basher		Either way, he's got to have a name.
livingston		It can't be that hard to find out who this guy is. Like I said, somebody trained him. Who trains the best?
danny		LeMarc.  Right?
rusty		If he's not dead.
linus		Who's LeMarc?
onderdonk		Fucking stone.
davenpeck		I'm not quitting.
onderdonk		Who said quitting. I'm tired.
isabel		Can I speak to him?
davenpeck		Who are you?
davenpeck		Apparently, you can do whatever you want with him.
onderdonk		Are you moving him?
isabel		Oh no. I just need to speak with him. To get some information.
davenpeck		We've been on him for six hours.
onderdonk		With our best stuff.
davenpeck		Our best stuff. In mind terms, we've been torturing this guy.
isabel		I'm sure. I only need a moment, then I'll be out of your way.
danny		Tess, I've got to call you back.
danny		Coming.
rusty		 Who is it?
isabel		 Hello, Robert.
rusty		Isabel.
linus		"Robert?"    Is that his real name?
linus		How does she know that?
livingston		Ex-girlfriend.
rusty		It's great to see you.
isabel		Is it? Because you've been seeing a lot of me lately.
isabel		You were sitting in a Mercedes outside my apartment on Wednesday night.
isabel		You were hiding in the bushes when I had lunch yesterday at Trattoria Bella.
isabel		This one...I'm not even sure where this one was taken, but I like it a lot. Very Ron Gallela.
isabel		I mean, if I didn't know better I'd think you all came here to steal the Vanderspeigle Getuigschrift, also known as the world's first stock certificate.  That was a very handsome crossbow shot, Eugene.
isabel		And the Palowski...whose idea was that?
rusty		We didn't steal anything.
isabel		Oh...I know you didn't. Somebody beat you to it. One man. No crew. No back up. Tell me something -- just so I can get the full picture in my head -- was he wearing a tuxedo? A white dinner jacket?
basher		 At least we saw him in the flesh. You'll never see this guy your whole life.
isabel		So you know who he is?
danny		Of course we know who he is.
isabel		Well, then. I'll see you when you see him. To get your certificate back.
livingston		 Who's hat is that?
saul		How did she-- That was--
danny		 This is what I was talking about. This is exactly what I was talking--
rusty		--I was just checking up on her. I knew she didn't want to see me. I was being polite.
turk		Where did she learn all that stuff? The Palowski stuff.
danny		Her father.
virgil		He was a cop?
rusty		Thief.
linus		Was he good?
danny		Very.
frank		Great.
virgil		What's the big deal? She's just some brilliant, pissed-off ex- girlfriend who's dad taught her every trick in the book.
turk		But did you see that display of emotion, handing out those pictures?
virgil		Totally unprofessional.
rusty		She's passionate.
virgil		She's unbalanced.
rusty		Her job is very stressful.
saul		She could reduce her stress by leaving us alone.
danny		We've got to slow her down.
danny		But first: We find our French friend and introduce ourselves.
funky transition		TO:
isabel's boss		Twenty-four hours. You know that.
isabel		I don't have twenty-four hours. They're there now. They'll lead me to him.
isabel's boss		You also know that you can go now, if you don't take your secretary. When there's liability, I need a document.
hess		He said we can't leave until tomorrow because of liability issues and he needs a document.
isabel		Yes.
hess		Thanks for trying.
isabel		Let's share a car.
hess		That would be nice. Thank you.
isabel		I can't believe they won't make an exception.  I've got to find out who this other guy is.
toulour		Twenty minutes by helicopter.
basher		Scotland Yard said he's the new LeMarc.
rusty		Scotland Yard never saw LeMarc.
toulour		 Please.
danny		What?
rusty		Spit it out, Linus.
linus		He's rarely alone. I think it's a compulsion. I have a list of names here...it was just the first week.
danny		All right, moving on, is there anything else we need to know about this guy before we--
basher		Did we forget to mention he's a Viscount?
danny		A what?
livingston		Viscount.    As in nobility.
danny		 Last time I checked titles like that went out with a little number I like to call the French Revolution--
basher		Spain.
danny		What?
basher		His title.     It's Spanish.   Mother's cousin.
danny		He may be the greatest thief in Europe. He may have slept with half of the EU. He may be a Casanova with the soul of a starving artist. It doesn't matter.
danny		There's something he cares about. There's something he can't live without.
69.		106   CONTINUED:                                                  106
edmunds		Are you on steroids?
edmund		Let's try again. Give me five games this time.
toulour		You are worse than Sampras. You should be paying me.
butler		 Pardon me, sir.
butler		 Two gentlemen. They say they met you in Amsterdam last week.
toulour		 Put them on the veranda and get them a drink. I'll be right up.
70.		108   CONTINUED:                                             108 TOULOUR  Danny.
danny		Other way around.
toulour		Are you sure? Usually I'm so good at that.
toulour		This is Edmund. Edmund.      Rusty. Danny.
danny		Nice to meet you. Edmund.  You a tennis pro?
edmund		Actually, no, I'm the King of Morocco.
toulour		Sadly, I can't show you my favorite painting of all -- a Degas that used to hang right there -- because it was stolen recently.
danny		That's awful.
rusty		The criminal element is everywhere these days.
danny		Listen, Francois--
toulour		Please. Call me Baron.
danny		We came here for the Vanderspeigle certificate--
toulour		That's not for sale.
danny		Your Degas is worth three times that. You want your painting back, you're going to have to trade.
toulour		You actually expect me to believe that you are in possession of my Degas? You are living in a...in a bubble.
basher		He used the word "amateur"?
virgil		You said we could show him the painting right, to prove that we had it.
danny		Yes.
rusty		He still wouldn't trade.
frank		We need to teach him a lesson.
turk		Absolutely.
danny		All right, let's stay calm. We don't need to over-react here. He said some disrespectful things, that's true. But why antagonize this guy? Why get into something with him? He's young and he's filthy rich, and he's got time on his hands. We don't want to become his Betty noir. We can just fence his painting and earn a lot more than we would have from the certificate.
basher		It's about reputation. You said so yourself. We have to get that certificate to Evelyn's buyer or--
danny		We'll make enough selling the Degas to pay off her buyer--
frank		Then why did you make that trip down there in the first place, if you didn't want to get into something?
danny		Saul?
saul		Turn his name over to Isabel. In exchange for getting off our backs.
saul		Short of that...the only appropriate response is to steal his next job right out from under him. Just like he did to us.
turk		We don't even know our next job.
danny		We got ten million in that closet.
danny		I cash in the Degas, take a moment to think about our next move. Toulour isn't going anywhere. You guys are hyping him too much, you're letting him get inside your head.
isabel		Why do I need to see all these guys? When I tracked the Munch down in Sweden I got all the approvals I needed with one phone call. 
74.		114   CONTINUED:                                                  114 ISABEL  With Lenin's shaving kit the Russians brought me in and it took a single signature and I got it at the airport a minute after I arrived. What's so goddamned special about the French?
hess		Without their signatures, you can't do anything. You can't pull the suspects over, you can't do surveillance on them, you're not even allowed to contact them. They're real sticklers about sovereignty issues here.
inspector		Isabel, I couldn't possibly sign those documents in good conscience without talking to you about the case in detail. I realize you're in a hurry and my schedule for the rest of the day is quite full, so perhaps, if you're interested in being expedient, we could discuss the case...over dinner.
hess		Foucquet's at eight-thirty. Apparently their's a private room. Better bring your kevlar.  Don't stop for that.
danny		That's not how I want to go.
toulour		No.
toulour		Very theatrical of you...asking to meet here. Like we're spies meeting to do an exchange.
danny		Why are you doing this to us?
toulour		Doing what?
danny		This is a game for you. For us it's survival. Are you that bored? I mean...
toulour		No. I wouldn't do that. No... The truth is...I made a bet. Or maybe a better word is a "wager".
danny		What kind of wager?
toulour		A gentlemen's wager with a friend of mine -- my mentor. A few months ago we were at his winter place in Nicaragua and another guest referred to me as "the greatest thief in the world." I didn't object, obviously, but my mentor fell silent. Later I asked him about it. He said if I really wanted to say I was the best thief...I'd have to prove I was better than the eleven of you. 
76.		118   CONTINUED:                                               118 TOULOUR  You know, the Benedict job made waves, even all the way over here. 16.3 million dollars. That's a lot of money.
toulour		Yes, 163 million is a lot of money. It attracts attention. So, in a way, you brought this problem with me on yourselves. You're victims of your own success.
danny		Here's what I'm going to do. You tell me the name of your mentor. I'll call him up and I'll tell him that you're the greatest thief in the world...that I accept that to be true.... And in return...you leave us alone, let us go about our business. How about that?
toulour		He said you'd probably say something like that -- but he said you'd probably have your fingers crossed when you said it.
danny		This mentor of yours...was he a good thief in his day?
toulour		Who, LeMarc?
danny		Yeah. Him.
livingston		Who?
rusty		I thought so too.
saul		LeMarc.     The LeMarc.
saul		God hates me. He hates all of us.
frank		Hell, this could go on forever.
danny		No. It's going to be settled by one more job. A single object.
saul		Whatever it is, let's just let him have it.
danny		We can't.
livingston		Because of pride?
danny		Because we beat him, he'll pay Benedict off.
frank		 Now we're talking.
78.		120   CONTINUED:                                             120
basher		One score, for the whole thing?
livingston		What do we have to do? I mean, is it a fair bet or is it like...the Coronation Egg or something?
saul		He wants us to steal the Coronation Egg!
basher		That's just... that's...what is that?
saul		The Holy Grail.
rusty		Carl Faberge, the greatest goldsmith in history, constructed the Coronation Egg in 1896 for the wedding of Czar Nicholas and Alexandra. Every world class thief in the last 108 years has tried to steal it. No one has even come close.
saul		That's because it's cursed.
linus		What?
saul		It's un-stealable.
danny		It's the only thing in LeMarc's entire career that he went after but failed to get. He tried three times.
danny		We get the egg and we're free.
basher		That's great, except we can't get it.
saul		It's not possible.
danny		Then we go to jail.
virgil		Well...where is it now?
isabel		I'm going to need surveillance on both hotels, phone taps, room bugs, people in the lobby and by every exit.
carabinieri officer		Yes, absolutely.
isabel		If I had to guess I'd say I'll need at least 25 people, a dozen vehicles...and an on-call air unit.
carabinieri officer		Yes, absolutely.
isabel		Okay, one more thing, and this is crucial: these guys are extremely, sophisticated at avoiding electronic surveillance, so we'll need real state of the art stuff. 
80.		122   CONTINUED:                                               122
carabinieri officer		Yes, absolutely.
isabel		Okay. Good. Now what time am I meeting Captain Giordano?
carabinieri officer		 Yes...
isabel		No, what time?
carabinieri officer		Yes...absolutely...
isabel		I see...so...you've spoken with the Pope and he's okay with autographing my breasts?
carabinieri officer		Yes, absolutely.
danny		What am I looking at?
livingston		A TR354 infra red motion detection system. It's the gold standard.
danny		Saul and Linus back yet?
livingston		No.
danny		No?
livingston		And I can't find Rusty.
frank		What?
frank		Well, I don't know, but that's one nasty lock.
danny		Seen Rusty?
frank		We thought he was with you.
basher		Not since we first got here. About an hour ago.
isabel		Jesus, Robert. I could've killed you.
rusty		I'm older.
isabel		I hope so. What are you doing in my room?
rusty		I thought maybe we could get some coffee.
isabel		No, thanks.
rusty		Okay, how about a two week trip to Zanzibar?
isabel		Please don't.
rusty		Fine, coffee then. Whatever you say.
isabel		Why do I want to have coffee with you?
rusty		How should I know? sorry about your mom.
isabel		She hated you.
rusty		Well, she was nice enough to hide it from me. Some people can't even do that.
isabel		She hated everybody.
isabel		You'll never get it by the way.
rusty		Get what?
isabel		You'll think you've got it, you'll be so close that you'll be able to taste it and then this guy, the Night Fox or whoever he is, will just take it -- right out of your hand -- just like he did in Amsterdam. He's as good as LeMarc.
rusty		It's not possible.
isabel		You're in a bubble.
frank		Look, if we're having this much trouble, and we've got ten guys Toulour must be pulling his hair out.
rusty		Would you call that bubble-shaped?
danny		What?
rusty		She pulled a gun on me.
frank		Are you back on?
rusty		I'm selling. She ain't buying.
danny		More importantly, what kind of reception is the Italian Police giving her?
subordinate officer		Captain Giordano is handling an urgent interrogation. He'll be up as soon as it is completed. Please wait in here.
isabel		What are they talking about?
subordinate officer		It's an internal matter, Madame.  Isabel and Hess look at each other.
livingston		Damn-it.
rusty		All right, okay. Let's not be defeatists.... What about that mirror trick that Akimbo tried at the--
livingston		--There's no mirror thin enough to avoid tripping the lasers.
danny		What's he doing now?
danny		 Okay, take it easy over there.
danny		What happened?
linus		We thought someone was following us.
saul		We gave 'em the shake. Caught 'em napping.
subordinate officer		 Captain Giordano, Rome Police Special Investigations. Isabel Lahiri, Europol, Major Theft Task Force.
isabel		...reason to believe these men...  ...are going to try to steal the Coronation Egg when it is actually put on display next week. I need official authorization to surveil and pursue these suspected criminals on Italian soil.
captain giordano		Yes, absolutely.
isabel		And I'll need substantial resources from your department. Can I count on that?
captain giordano		Yes, absolutely.
isabel		So, Captain, what do you think of my skirt?
captain giordano		I think it's very beautiful. Why, don't you like it?
toulour		I don't usually call for a second date. For you I make an exception.
danny		Thanks.
toulour		I think it's good that we talk. You see, you should stop following me. You're wasting your time. I'm going to let you go first and get caught. Then they will increase the security even more, and then I will steal the Egg. Then Lemarc can make his decision.
danny		You sound confident.
toulour		Confident? This is a very American word. I am arrogant. There's a difference.
danny		Doesn't matter if you're that good. Are you that good?
toulour		I can move objects with my mind.
toulour		You don't believe it?
danny		Do you?
toulour		Are you done stirring your sugar?
danny		That's fantastic.  Listen, I appreciate the call, and, best of luck.
toulour		Danny. I'm serious. Sit down, please.
danny		You're telekinetic, is that what you're telling me?
toulour		Yes. But...it's a curse. A nightmare. Everything is too easy. But then LeMarc says I'm still not the best. So I take his challenge. And you will fail, and I will win, and so what? What does it prove? What is he trying to show me?
captain giordano		Ms. Lahiri, you're in Italy now. We are a sovereign nation. We're not some adjunct, some administrative district of the EU. When Europol calls we don't jump up and tap dance for you. If you want to work in Italy, then you have to do it under Italian authority...and that means you have to talk to Commander Andriotti...who, I'm sure, will be happy to meet with you some time next week--
isabel		Next week!
captain giordano		--when he returns from vacation.
hess		He said he has to get approval from someone else and they're on sick leave.
isabel		Vacation.
hess		Sorry I fell asleep.
isabel		We both did. I'm exhausted.
italian detective		I know the case, yes. Unfortunately, we didn't catch him. ISABEL Oh...  143   EXT. CAFE JUST OFF PIAZZA NAVONA - DAY      143  Isabel sits in the same seat the next day, reading the newspaper, enjoying her vacation. She looks up and stops cold. Rusty, all cleaned up now, dressed in a perfectly-tailored suit, sits down three tables away from her. She stares at him. Can't believe it. The brazenness. The audacity of this guy. Rusty doesn't seem to have a care in the world as he chats easily with the waiter, in Italian. Finally, Isabel just can't help herself.   She gets up and walks over to Rusty's table. ISABEL Excuse me... RUSTY Yes. ISABEL Um...Did I...? I think I saw you...yesterday. RUSTY Oh yeah? ISABEL The police were chasing you. RUSTY You sure your eyes aren't broken? ISABEL I'm quite sure it was you. RUSTY Well, then I'm not gonna argue. Can I buy you a coffee? 
isabel		Hello.
rusty		We've got to stop meeting like this.
isabel		What are they talking about all the time?!
rusty		Soccer.  Will you come to Zanzibar with me on Friday?
isabel		Stop it.
livingston		We did it!     It works!
danny		What, what happened?
captain giordano		What's that?
isabel		An order signed by Commander Andriotti instructing you to "provide any and all support that Agent Lahiri requests, whenever she requests it."
captain giordano		It's good, yes. Okay.
captain giordano		That's a very nice blouse you wear today.
linus		When Dominique goes back with Thomas to check the trunk, the money shouldn't be in the briefcase. Franklin should have double-crossed them.
virgil		That could be a great moment, when he's on the ground.
turk		And you think Thomas is going to get blown up.
virgil		Hey.
isabel		Another camera here and here. And have a guard here at all times so any attempt to disable the system will be detected. All your IR devices need to be fitted with reflective faces otherwise a UV later can be used to burn the sensors out.
linus		She just walked in there like Patton or something. She's changing...everything and-- There were so many cops with her. I've never seen so--
linus		I don't understand. If her father was a thief...why's she such a hardass? I mean you'd think she'd have a little sympathy for us.
rusty		When she was twelve her mother told her that her dad got arrested doing a job in Russia and died in jail.  So I wouldn't count on much sympathy.
basher		"This time it's personal".
isabel		What do you want?
isabel		I don't even think Toulour can get it now.
rusty		If he gets it, we'll let you arrest us. If we get it, you come away with me to Zanzibar--
isabel		What is your obsession with Zanzibar?!
rusty		Do you want to make the bet or not?
isabel		I'm hanging up. Stop calling me.
livingston		I'm telling you, with everything she's done in the last twenty-four hours...unless you happen to be best friends with the head of security at the museum, unless you are someone he knows and trusts enough to leave alone in the gallery, after disabling about half of their security system, forget it. We are not stealing that egg...
danny		"Someone he knows. Someone he trusts...." "Someone he knows...."
rusty		What about someone he doesn't know but trusts?
danny		For instance?
rusty		I'm talking about you know who, who looks an awful lot like you know who...
danny		She might. It's not going to be easy getting her over here.
bruiser		Hiya, Tess. Just climb on through. Try not to look down too much.
reuben		There's make-up in the bag there. And some photos. Do the best you can.
hotel manager		Bonjourno. Yes. Yes. Oh...oh, really. Well, absolutely. We can have...I can make our presidential suite available. No, no, no. No trouble at all. We'd love... We're honored that she'd think of us...
press		Ms. Roberts! Ms. Roberts! Why did you come back to Rome so soon!!
tess		I...uh...
press		Was it to see Topher?
tess		To see what?
press		Topher Grace!! Your co-star!! Is that why you're here?!
tess		Oh. No. I came to -- to see the--
100.		163   CONTINUED:                                                        163
press		Where's Danny?
tess		What?
press		Danny, your husband!!
tess		 Well, he's not really--
reuben		Ms. Roberts is very tired!! Please let her through! Please!
tess		I can't do this.
danny		Yes, you can.
tess		I'm not an actress, Danny!     And I don't look like her!
danny		You do, Tess. You really do. I never told you that before, but it's true.
tess		Come on: my...
tess		And my...
tess		And my ears. Anybody who sees my ears is going to know instantly.
danny		Nobody's looking at your ears.
tess		Yes, Danny, they are.     They're going to know.
isabel		When did that happen?
museum director		We just found out. I arranged a private showing for tomorrow morning before we open the show to the public.
isabel		I don't understand, why do you have to disable any of the systems--
museum director		Because she might want to get close to the egg, got right up here and look at it. And I'm not going to embarrass myself or this institution by telling her she can't.
isabel		She's an actress, Giovanni, not the Pope.
museum director		Do you realize how much free publicity we'll get for this museum, just because she because she decided to come by and look at the egg? She's even agreed to do a photo shoot for us promoting the museum.
isabel		That's exactly the sort of thing...
turk		Where is he?
virgil		 There. I took a look at the interrogation scene.
turk		Why?
virgil		'Cause Linus said it was repetitive.
turk		It clarifies everything.
virgil		He said it's too on the nose.
turk		What's he, the head of the studio? What's he ever written?
virgil		He's just saying -- Oh, no--
turk		What?
virgil		It's not him!
turk		What! How did you-- You moron! You said you were watching him the whole time!
virgil		I was! I mean, I used the bathroom once, but it was quick. You lost him yesterday!
turk		Livingston said Frank said that Rusty said that Danny said Toulour said don't ever bother following him.
rusty		I can't tell you. Isabel stares at his dark face. ISABEL When people start talking the way you're talking there are only two possibilities: you're either in intelligence or you're a criminal. And no one I work with has ever worked with you...or even knows your name. RUSTY You knew what I was the day you met me, Isabel. ISABEL Robert... RUSTY We can talk about it when I get back. ISABEL No, Robert. I have to tell you something. RUSTY What is it? ISABEL I'm taking the job. I'm moving to Amsterdam. He doesn't respond for a moment. RUSTY I can't have this conversation right now. Please, Isabel. I have to get out of here. I love you. He kisses her then leaves.  172   EXT. APARTMENT -- NIGHT                                 172  Outside the front of the apartment, he shuts the door and turns toward us. We see his face in the light for the first time: His left eye is swollen shut. Blood is caked into his hair and on his cheek. Somebody beat the shit out of him. 
isabel		You want to walk?
isabel		I know how you're planning to do it. I know Julia's visit is the key.
rusty		Who's Julia?
isabel		 Don't do this.
rusty		LeMarc quit because he was 75 years old, Isabel. He was tired. His doctor told him if he didn't start taking it easy he was going to have another heart attack. You're dramatizing it.
isabel		You don't know why LeMarc retired, any better than I do. You have no idea.
rusty		Actually, I do. I know exactly why.
isabel		Really?    How's that?
rusty		He told me.
isabel		 You know LeMarc?
rusty		A little.
isabel		Since when?
rusty		Ten years ago.
isabel		For how long?
rusty		For six months.
isabel		You--
isabel		You knew LeMarc? You knew LeMarc and never told me? That's the worst thing you've ever done to me. Nobody knows more about LeMarc than me. How could you do that?
rusty		I couldn't tell you, then.
isabel		Really awful.
isabel		Then why aren't you as good as Toulour?
108.		174   CONTINUED:                                                174
isabel		I don't want to arrest you, Robert. I really don't. But I will if you make me. I will if you go for that egg.
isabel		So many times, I waited. You can't do that to a person.
rusty		Isabel--
isabel		I have to go.
reuben		You're a photographer. Very exacting. You want things a certain way, but you never raise your voice. You're uncompromising. Strong.
frank		Reuben, what are you doing?
reuben		Oh, we understand each other. I'm mean, the actual words are gibberish to me, but I know what he means. There's a tone, you know. We communicate. I'm sure he'd tell you the same thing.  Am I right?
turk		I say we do a Joey Heatherton,
virgil		It's the wrong color.
turk		Damn.
topher		 Hello?
topher		Hey! I got your room number from McCormick, I hope you don't mind.
topher		This is great. Do you have the adjoining room?
tess		Uh, no.
topher		Oh. Hey. I saw the rough cut of YOU ALWAYS, YOU NEVER. It's so awesome. Congratulations.
tess		Oh. Thank you.
topher		It was just like a dub of a lo-rez output, but I could totally see what you were doing. I think you might win again. Seriously.
tess		Oh.
topher		It really actually looked like you were blind. How did you do that? What is it like, an on-set thing, or was it digital?
tess		It was, uh...
topher		You can tell me, I won't tell a soul. Because if you say it's instinctual, I'm quitting right now. Seriously. The way you parted your hair? That was so connected. And that scene with the matches? And when you find out who your real grandmother is and run through the rain and find her on the porch and touch her face? Man, that was...you gotta tell Steven how much I loved it.
tess		Okay.
topher		So what are you doing?
tess		I'm, uh, getting ready to go out...
topher		 I mean next. What movie are you doing next?
tess		I...I'm having trouble deciding what to do next.
topher		Is Danny working?
tess		Danny...Danny is...Danny is...
topher		Oh, no. Is something wrong? Have you two...
tess		No, no...
topher		I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
tess		No. we're absolutely fine, he's just--
topher		I've got to stop asking people about their spouses, it's like always a mistake--
tess		No, really--
topher		Listen, I won't say a word. Seriously. I'm rooting for you guys, you know that. This is your private business and I totally respect that. No more Danny questions from me.
tess		Thank you. He's fine. Danny's fine. He's working.
topher		Hey, cool, whatever. That's what I'll say.
topher		So can I come look at that Egg with you?
reuben		My name is Stuart Feldman, Worldwide Executive Senior Vice- President of Marketing, Corporate Senior Vice-President of Publicity and Corporate International Executive Worldwide President of Promotion for the Warner Brothers Motion Picture company.  My colleague, Grant Wells, who is responsible for Ms. Roberts itinerary, has graciously set aside time for Ms. Roberts to view the Coronation Egg privately.
isabel		I want to be on record as saying that you should have shut the entire museum down.
isabel		There!     Right there!
tess		It's so beautiful.        My God.
topher		Kinda small.
topher		Hi.
tess		I'm not going to set off any alarms?
museum director		No. No. Get as close as you like.
reuben		 Julia -- unless you have any objections -- Wen and his crew set up for the publicity stills.
reuben		I was thinking maybe we could get you and Topher into some "You Always You Never" hats and t-shirts for the shoot--
tess		That's stupid.
reuben		 Maybe we could put some posters in the background--
tess		I don't think we want to be so obvious--
reuben		I completely agree!  Stop trying to turn this into some sort of stunt.
isabel		This isn't going to work.
rusty		I don't know what you're talking about.
julia		Okay, thanks everybody. Thank you so much.
topher		Hey, J Ro, why the quick exit?
tess		I...uh, I have to take some pills. Aspirin. I get headaches.
topher		Yeah, well, with everything thing you've been going through I can see how you'd need something.
tess		They're just aspirin.
topher		Right. I've never taken aspirin in my life, ever. Can you believe that?
tess		That's amazing.
topher		For me, it's like a control thing.
tess		Well, with aspirin...it's very beneficial.
topher		Oh, yeah. I'm sure.
isabel		 I am.
captain giordano		 She is.
linus		What do you want?
linus		I can't do that.
linus		Did you tell Dad?
clint		Of course she did.   We're married, for God's sake.
tess		Why didn't you tell me?
danny		I couldn't.
tess		Why not?
danny		Because you're not an actress. You wouldn't have been so real.
tess		I thought you were going to jail.
danny		I'm not going to jail.
tess		So you don't think I'm a good actress.
danny		You're a terrible liar.
tess		I'm a good liar.
danny		Where did Benedict find you?
tess		He...
danny		At your parent's house.
tess		That was...okay, so I'm not a good liar. So what. You're good enough for both of us.
danny		Exactly.
121.		199   CONTINUED:                                                  199 ISABEL  Call the tower! Don't let that plane take off!
captain giordano		 Yes, absolutely.
rusty		Guys. Get on there before they leave without you. Thanks.
captain giordano		 Hey, no problem. Good seeing you, man.
andriotti		Take care. See you back home.
rusty		Thanks, Scooter.
butler		How was Rome, air?
toulour		Put this in the safe, would you?
butler		Of course, sir. Your guests are on the veranda.
toulour		Guests?
isabel		I hate you.
rusty		I love you.
isabel		This will ruin me.
rusty		No, it won't. Not if you come to Zanzibar.
isabel		What is it with Zanzibar?
rusty		It's where LeMarc is.
rusty		That one's ours.     We can be there in three hours.
rusty		Don't you want to meet him? He wants to meet you.
isabel		You're asking me to turn my back on my whole life.
rusty		Would you miss it?
isabel		I'm a cop.     That's who I am.
rusty		You're only a cop because your father was a thief.
isabel		Who died in a Russian jail.
rusty		According to you mother.
isabel		What does that mean?
rusty		It means you should meet LeMarc.
toulour		 Let me guess, you decided you did want to give my lawyer a call. But you lost his card.
danny		No, nothing like that. We just came to collect our money.
toulour		Not only did you fail, half of your crew got pinched! Your plan was not good.  ...and your ears.
124.		202   CONTINUED:                                                202
toulour		Oh, no. You stole it on the way to Rome didn't you? I stole a replica.
125.		206   CONTINUED:                                                 206
linus		 He's completely drunk. The BackPack Kid nods his head. Linus goes back to his book. We drop down to see HIS BACKPACK also beneath his feet.
danny		What happened?
linus		We thought someone was following us.
toulour		But that means you knew what to steal before LeMarc proposed that I challenge you for it. That means...
rusty		Gaspar, it's Rusty. How are you?
danny		I'M TELLING YOU IT'S A DEATH SENTENCE!
rusty		FINE, THEN STAY HERE!
toulour		LeMarc told you. Of course.
toulour		To teach me.
127.		211   CONTINUED:                                                211
danny		Well, we'll be in touch to make all the arrangements.
toulour		No. Don't go. Please.
toulour		You are my guests. I will celebrate your victory. Besides, you may have noticed, I don't like to be alone.
toulour		I am feeling more French by the minute. To my first depression.
basher		So I think if you really analyze it, you can see that it's inevitable. It's time for us to evolve, en masse. I have to help bring that about whatever way I can, you know. Otherwise, the trajectory is fixed. You know what I'm saying?
saul		Mmm. Yes. But I'm through evolving, I think. It's too tiring. I feel pretty evolved. You know, considering.
turk		I've got an idea for another Dominique story.
virgil		Can we finish this one first?
turk		Just let me tell it to you.
virgil		No.
turk		It's like three sentences.
virgil		I'm serious; you're asking too much.
reuben		May I look at that when you're through with it?
livingston		 But...
livingston		I'm Livingston Dell. Thanks for listening.
tess		When do you want to go back?
danny		Feel like traveling?
tess		Yeah. Don't you?
danny		Yeah.
toulour		Tess. Danny. This is Monica Bellucci.
monica		Hello.
toulour		We're thinking of taking a trip to the states. Take a look around. We'd love to meet some of your friends while we're there. Actually, one friend in particular.
rusty		There he is.
isabel		Gaspar? That was my fa--
reuben		That's the exact figure, I'm pretty sure.
benedict		Yes.
reuben		So we're clean?
benedict		You want it in writing?
reuben		I'll take your word.
benedict		You're clean.
reuben		These grudges, they're awful. Nobody wine.
benedict		As soon as someone retaliates, the situation is out of control.
reuben		This way, there's no need for retaliation. Why would there be?
benedict		There's plenty for everyone.
reuben		More than plenty. It's just a matter of sharing.
benedict		Sharing is good.
reuben		It is. Waiter? Can I get sparkling water? It's good for my acid reflux.
waiter		 Of course.
****Dialogues from script :Office_Space.txt****

samir		Motherf - shit - sonofa - ass!! I just -
milton		It's late again. If I'm there late again, I will be dismissed.
nina		Corporate Counsels Payroll, Nina speaking. Just a moment.
bill		Hello, Peter. What's happening? Uh we have sort of a problem here. Yeah. You apparently didn't put one of the new coversheets on your TPS reports.
peter		Oh, yeah. I'm sorry about that. I, I forgot.
bill		MMMM..YEAH. YOU SEE, WE'RE PUTTING THE COVERSHEETS ON ALL TPS REPORTS NOW BEFORE THEY GO OUT. DID YOU SEE THE MEMO ABOUT THIS?
peter		Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've got the memo right here, but, uh, uh, I just forgot. But, uh, it's not shipping out until tomorrow, so there's no problem.
bill		Yeah. If you could just go ahead and make sure you do that from now on, that will be great. And Uh, I'll go ahead and make sure you get another copy of that memo Mmmm, Ok?
peter		Yeah, yeah, I've got the memo, I've got -
bill		Hello, Phil. What's happening?
peter		Milton? Uh, could you turn that down just a little bit?
milton		Uh, they said I could listen to the radio at a reasonable volume from nine to eleven while I'm collating.
peter		But, no, no, no. I know you're allowed to, I was just thinking, like a personal favor, y'know?
milton		I, I told Bill that if Sandra's going to listen to her headphones while she' working, I can listen to the radio while I'm collating -
peter		Ok.
milton		So I don't see why -
peter		Ok.
milton		The radio, I can't -
peter		Yeah! All right!
milton		I enjoy listening to the radio at a reasonable volume from nine to eleven.
dom		Hello, Peter. What's happening?  We need to talk about your TPS reports.
peter		Yeah. The coversheet. I know, I know. Uh, Bill talked to me about it.
dom		Yeah. Uh, did you get that memo?
peter		Yeah.  I got the memo. And I understand the policy. The problem is, I just forgot this time. And I've already taken care of it so it's not a problem anymore.
dom		Yeah. It's just that we're putting new coversheets on all the TPS reports before now before they go out now. So I'd really appreciate it if you could just remember to do that. from now on. That'd be great.
peter		Peter Gibbons.  I have the memo.
samir		Oh no! Not again! Why does it say paper jam when there is no paper jam?!! I, I swear to God, one of these days, I, I, I just kick this piece of shit out the window!!!
michael		you and me both, man. The thing is lucky I'm not armed.
samir		Piece of shit!!
nina		Sam...ire...Na...Na...Naga...
nina		Uh-huh!
samir		Please.
nina		Michael -  Bolton?
michael		That's me.
nina		Wow! Is that your real name?
michael		Yeah.
nina		So are you related to the singer guy?
michael		No, it's just a coincidence.
samir		How come no one in this country can pronounce my name right? It's Na- gee-een-ah-jah. Nagaenajar
michael		At least your name isn't Michael Bolton.
samir		Michael, there's nothing wrong with that name.
michael		There was nothing wrong with it. Until I was about nine years old and that no-talent assclown became famous and started winning Grammys.
samir		Well, why don't just go by Mike, instead of Michael?
michael		WHY SHOULD I CHANGE IT? HE'S THE ONE WHO SUCKS.
peter		HEY GUYS.
michael		What's up G?
peter		Wanna go to Chotchkie's, get some coffee?
samir		It's a little early...
peter		I gotta get out of here. I think I'm gonna lose it.
nina		Uh oh. Sounds like somebody's got a case of the Mondays.
peter		Boy. I tell ya, one of these days... One of these days it's gonna be like
brian		 SO CAN I GET YOU GENTLEMEN SOMETHING MORE TO DRINK? OR MAYBE SOMETHING TO NIBBLE ON? SOME PIZZA SHOOTERS, SHRIMP POPPERS, OR EXTREME FAJITAS.
peter		Just coffee.
brian		Oh. Sounds like a case of the Mondays.
peter		What if we're still doing this when we're 50?
samir		It could be nice to have that kind of job security.
peter		Lumbergh's gonna have me work on Saturday, I, I can tell already. I'm doing it because, because, uh, I'm a big pussy. Which is why I work at Initech to begin with.
michael		Uh, I work at Initech and I don't consider myself a pussy, ok?
samir		Yes, I am also not a pussy.
michael		I'm gonna find out the hard way that I'm not a pussy if they don't start treating us software people better.
samir		That's right.
michael		They don't understand. I could come up with a program that could rip that place off big timebig time.
peter		Yeah.
peter		Oh, there she is.
samir		Peter, you, you always talk about this girl. If you're so obsessed with her, why don't you just ask her out?
peter		Because I'm just another asshole customer. You can't just walk up to a waitress and ask her out.  Plus, I'm still trying to work it out with Anne. Oh, that reminds me. I'm not going to be able to play poker with you guys on Friday.
michael		Why not?
peter		Uh, I have to see this occupational hypnotherapist with Anne.
michael		Dude! An occupational hypnotherapist?!
peter		Anne wants me to go. She thinks it might help. Y'know, sometimes I just think, I keep thinking that she's cheating on me.
michael		Yeah. I know what you mean.
samir		Yeah.
peter		What is that supposed to mean?
michael		Nothing. Why don't you just tell Anne you're not into hypnosis and you want to play poker with us?
peter		Ah, I can't do that. She might get all pissed off at me. Besides, I think the guy might be able to help. He did help Anne lose weight.
samir		Peter, she's anorexic.
peter		Yeah, I know. The guy's really good.
michael		An occupational hypnotherapist isn't going to help you solve any of your problems. And speaking of problems, what's this I hear about you having problems with your TPS reports?
samir		Yeah. Didn't you get that memo?
tom		Hey! Hey, guys! Samir!!
samir		Is that Tom Smykowski?
peter		What's he doing?
michael		Oh, probably working on another heart attack.
tom		Have you guys see this?
michael		What? It's the staff meeting. So what?
tom		We're all screwed, that's what. They're gonna downsize Initech.
samir		Oh, what are you talking about Tom? How do you know that?
tom		They're bringing in a consultant - that's how I know. That's what this staff meeting is all about! That's what happened at Initrode last year. You have an interview with a consultant and they bring in efficiency experts. You're interviewing for your own job!
michael		Tom, every week you say you're losing your job and you're still here.
tom		I'm going to be the first one they're gonna lay off. Just the thought of having to go to the State Unemployment Office and having to stand in line with those scumbags!!!
michael		Shit. Shit.
tom		You know there are people in this world who don't have to put up with all this shit? Like that guy that invented the pet rock. You see, that's what you have to do. You have to use your mind and come up with some really great idea like that and you never have to work again!
michael		I don't think the pet rock was really such a good idea.
tom		The guy made a million dollars! Y'know I had an idea like that once.
peter		Really? What was it, Tom?
tom		Well, all right. It was a Jump to Conclusions-mat. You see, it would be this mat that you would put on the floor and it would have different conclusions written on it that you couldjump to.
michael		That is the worse idea I've ever heard in my life, Tom.
samir		Yes, yes, it's horriblethis idea.
tom		Ah, look. I, I gotta get outta here. I'll see you guys later, if I still have a job.
peter		Our high school guidance counselor used to ask us what you would do if we had a million dollars and didn't have to work. And invariably, whatever we would say, that was supposed to be our careers. If you wanted to build cars, then you're supposed to be an auto mechanic.
samir		So what did you say?
peter		I never had an answer. I guess that's why I'm working at Initech.
michael		No, you're working at Initech because that question is bullshit to begin with.  If that quiz worked, there would be no janitors, because no one would clean shit up if they had a million dollars.
samir		Well, I would invest half of it in ??? Mutual Funds and give the rest of it to my friend, Saheib, in Securities.
michael		Samir, the point of the exercise is that you could figure out what you want to do. And then  "PC load letter"?!! What the fuck does that mean?!!
lawrence		 HEY PETER-MAN! CHECK OUT CHANNEL NINE! IT'S THE BREAST EXAM! CHECK OUT THIS CHICK!
peter		Lawrence, can't you just pretend like we can't hear each other through the wall?
lawrence		Oh! I'm sorry man, is Anne over there or something?
peter		No! But if you just want to talk to me, just come over.
lawrence		Hey man. Check this out, dude.
peter		Oh geez, Lawrence.
lawrence		I'm sorry, man. I thought you'd wanna see this. Doesn't this chick look like Anne?
peter		Yeah, a little bit.
lawrence		Hey, she hasn't been over here in a while. You two still going out?
peter		I guess, yeah. I, I don't know. Sometimes I get the feeling that she's cheating on me.
lawrence		Yeah, I get that feeling too, man.
peter		What do you mean by that?
lawrence		I don't know , man, I just get that feeling looking at her, like - I'm sorry, man. Look, I, I, I, I, I, I'm talking out of my ass. I don't know.
peter		It's ok. I just had a rough day.
lawrence		Tell me about it, man.  I gotta wake my ass up at six AM every day of this week and drag myself up to Vascalinas. Yeah, I'm doing the drywall up there at the new McDonalds.
peter		Let me ask you something. When you come in on Mondays, and you're not feeling too well, does anybody ever come up to you and say "sounds like someone's got a case of the Mondays"?
lawrence		No. No, man, shit, no, man. I believe you get your ass kicked for sayin' something like that, man.
peter		Huh.
lawrence		We still going fishing this weekend?
peter		Nah. Lumbergh's gonna make me come in this Saturday. I know it.
lawrence		Well, you can get out of that easily.
peter		Yeah, how?
lawrence		 The last few hours of the day. And turn off your answering machine, you should be home free then.
peter		That's a really good idea.  Lawrence, what would you do if you had a million dollars?
lawrence		I'll tell you what I'll do, man--Two chicks at the same time.
peter		That's it? If you had a million dollars, that's what you'd do, two chicks at the same time?
lawrence		Damn straight, man. I've always wanted to do that. I figure if I were a millionaire, I could hook that up. Chicks dig guys with money.
peter		Well not all chicks.
lawrence		Well, the type that double up on a guy like me do.
peter		Good point.
lawrence		NOW, WHAT WOULD YOU DO?
peter		Besides two chicks at the same time?
lawrence		Oh yeah.
peter		Nothing.
lawrence		Nothing, huh?
peter		I would relax, I would sit on my ass all day, I would do nothing.
lawrence		You don't need a million dollars to do nothing, man. Take a look at my cousin. He's broke and don't do shit.
nina		Corporate payroll, Nina speaking. Just a moment. Corporate payroll, Nina speaking. Just a moment. Corporate payroll, Nina speaking. Just a moment.
bill		So you should ask yourself, with every decision that you make  Is this good for the company? Am I helping the best way that I can for the company...
peter		Is that the guy?
tom		Yeah...
bill		Good. Well, uh, I'd like to, uh, welcome a new member to our team. Uh, Bob Slydell. Yeah. Uh, he is, uh, a consultant. Yeah. He is a consultant.  He'll be helping us out a little here, asking some questions, making sure things go a little more smoothly. Yeah. Oh and remember, next Friday is Hawaiian shirt day! So, y'know, if you want to, go ahead and uh, wear a Hawaiian shirt and jeans.
milton		I, I don't care if they, if they lay me off either, because I, I told Bill that if he moves my desk one more time, then, then I'm quitting. I'm going to quit. And I told Dom too because they've moved my desk four times. I used to be by the window, where I could see the squirrels and they were merry. But then they switched from the Swingline to the Boston stapler, but I kept my Swingline.  They have my staples for the Boston and I kept the staples from the Swingline stapler.
peter		Ok, Milton.
milton		And if, if they take my stapler, I will, I will set this building on fire.
peter		Oh, that's great. I will talk to you later.
peter		Oh, come on!  Oh, for crying out -!
bill		Hello Peter. What's happening? Um, I'm gonna need you go ahead and come in tomorrow. So if you could be here around nine, that would be great.  Oh, oh, yeaI forgot. I'm gonna also need you to come in Sunday too. We, uh, lost some people this week and we need to sorta catch up. Thanks.
peter		So I'm sitting in my cubicle today and I realized that ever since I started working, every single day of my life has been worse than the day before it. So it means that every single day you see me, that's on the worse day of my life.
peter		Yeah.
peter		I'm sorry.
peter		But is there any way that you, you could just sock me out so there's no way that I'll know I'm at work? Right here?  Can I just come home and think I've been fishing all day or something?
anne		Oh my God, Dr. Swanson! Ooh! Ooh! Is he dead? Oh!
bill		Yah, hi. It's Bill Lundbergh. It's about ten o' clock, uh, wondering where you are.
bill		ON MACHINE) YEAH, HI, IT'S BILL LUMBERGH AGAIN. I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE YOU KNEW THAT WE, UH, DID START AT THE, UH, USUAL TIME THIS MORNING.  YEAH, IT ISN'T A HALF DAY OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT. SO IF YOU COULD GET HERE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE, THAT WOULD BE TERRIFIC.
bill		Yeah, hi, it's Bill Lum -
bill		Yeah, it's -
bill		Yeah, hi, it's Bill Lumbergh -
bill		Yeah, it's me again. Uh, I was away from my desk for a minute. Just checking in case you called while I was gone.
peter		Hello?
anne		Peter, what's going on?!
peter		Huh?
peter		Because I didn't feel like it.
anne		Peter, what is wrong with you?! First, you sit there while Dr. Swanson dies and you just walk out of the car and embarrass me in front of my friends. Don't blame this on hypnosis either. That's total bull!
anne		ANSWERING MACHINE) LISTEN, ASSHOLE. NO ONE HANGS UP ON ME. WE'RE THROUGH!!! AND HA- ONE MORE THING. I'VE BEEN CHEATING ON YOU!!!! (BEEP
bill		From now on, you use the time sheets if you work on two or more job codes and you need the extra columns to fit it all in. Otherwise, use the old time sheets...
tom		Where's Peter? How come he didn't show up this weekend?
michael		I, I don't know.
bill		...it would really, really help us out.
michael		POINTS) WHO'S THAT GUY?
bill		So, uh, any questions?
peter		Hi, I'm Peter.
joanna		Hi. How can I help you?
peter		What are you doing for lunch today?
joanna		Well, our specials are barbecued chicken - it's actually right over there on the board.  Excuse me.
brian		Hey! Look who's back! Table for three, to -
peter		I was asking what you were doing for lunch. Would you like to have lunch with me?
joanna		Oh, are you serious? Yeah, I don't , I don't think I'm supposed to do that.
peter		Oh. I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna go next door and get a table and if you'd like to join me, no big deal. All right? And if not, that's cool too. Ok?
joanna		Uh, when you say "next door", do you mean Chili's or Flingers?
peter		Flingers.
joanna		Ok.
bob slydell		So what you do is you take the specifications from the customers and you bring them down to the software engineers?
tom		That, that's right.
bob porter		Well, then I gotta ask, then why can't the customers just take the specifications directly to the software people, huh?
tom		Well, uh, uh, uh, because, uh, engineers are not good at dealing with customers.
bob slydell		You physically take the specs from the customer?
tom		Well, no, my, my secretary does that, or, or the fax.
bob slydell		Ah.
bob porter		Then you must physically bring them to the software people.
tom		Well...no. Yeah, I mean, sometimes.
bob slydell		Well, what would you say you do here?
tom		Well, look, I already told you. I deal with the goddamn customers so the engineers don't have to!! I have people skills!! I am good at dealing with people!!! Can't you understand that?!? WHAT THE HELL IS WRONG WITH YOU PEOPLE?!!!!!!!
bob slydell		Let's see. You're Michael...Bolton?
bob porter		Is that your real name?
michael		Yeah.
bob porter		Are you in any relation to the pop singer?
michael		It's just a coincidence.
bob slydell		LAUGHS) TO BE HONEST WITH YOU, I LOVE HIS MUSIC. I DO . I AM A MICHAEL BOLTON FAN. FOR MY MONEY, I DON'T THINK IT GETS ANY BETTER THAN WHEN HE SINGS WHEN A MAN LOVES A WOMAN.
bob porter		I mean you must really love his music.
michael		Yeah. Yeahhe, he, he's pretty, he's pretty good, I guess.
bob slydell		You're GOD DAMN right he is.
bob porter		So tell me. What's your favorite song of his?
michael		Hmm. I, I, I don't know. I mean, I guess, I sorta like 'em all.
bob slydell		HA HA! I feel the exact same way, but it must be hard for you, I mean, having the same name as him. I celebrate the guy's entire catalogue. But anyway, let's get down to business, Michael!
michael		You, you know, you can just call me Mike.
joanna		Hi.
peter		Hey.
joanna		I wonder if they will let me wear this in here.
peter		I think it would be ok. Would you like to sit down?
joanna		Ok.  Wow. This place is really nice.
peter		Yeah, is it?
joanna		Oh my God, compared to Chotchkie's. I like the uniforms better anyways.
peter		I like yours.
joanna		Nah. (makes a face
peter		"We're not in Kansas anymore."
joanna		Yeah. Really. (laughs
peter		It's on your - (points
joanna		Oh! That's, uh, that's uh, my pieces of flair.
peter		What are pieces of flair?
joanna		That's where you know, suspenders and buttons and all sorts of stuff. We're, uh, we're actually required to wear fifteen pieces of flair. quite stupid actually.
peter		Do you get to pick them out yourself?
joanna		Yeah. Yeah. Although I didn't actually choose these. I, uh, I just grabbed fifteen buttons and, uh, I don't even know what they say! Y'know, I don't really care. I don't really like talking about my flair.
peter		Ok.
joanna		So, where do you work, uh, Peter?
peter		Initech.
joanna		And, uh, what do you do there, Peter?
peter		I sit in a cubicle and I update bank software for the 2000 switch.
joanna		NODS) WHAT'S THAT?
peter		You see, they wrote all this bank software and to save space, they put 98 instead of 1998. So I go through these thousands of lines of code and uh, it doesn't really matter. I, uh, I don't like my job. I don't think I'm gonna go anymore.
joanna		You're just not gonna go?
peter		Yeah.
joanna		Won't you get fired?
peter		I don't know. But I really don't like it so I'm not gonna go.
joanna		LAUGHS) SO YOU'RE GONNA QUIT?
peter		No, no, not really. I'm just gonna stop going.
joanna		When did you decide all that?
peter		About a week ago.
joanna		Really?
peter		Oh, yeah.
joanna		Ok. So, so you're gonna get another job?
peter		I don't think I 'd like another job.
joanna		LAUGHS) SO WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO ABOUT MONEY AND BILLS?
peter		Y'know, I never really liked paying bill? I don't think I'll do that either.
joanna		LAUGHS) SO WHAT DO YOU WANT TO DO?
peter		I want to take you out for dinner and then I wanna go to my apartment and watch Kung Fu. Did you ever watch Kung Fu?
joanna		I love Kung Fu...
joanna		Totally...
peter		You should come over and watch Kung Fu tonight.
joanna		Ok...
peter		Great.
joanna		Ok. Can we order lunch first?
peter		Yeah.
joanna		Ok.
bill		...stapler off my desk...
bill		...anyway, sounds great, Bob. I'll see you in a few.  Hey, Milton, what's happening?
milton		Uh...sir...
bill		Uh, I'm going to have to ask you to move your desk. Now, if you could get it to go as far back against that wall as possible, that would be great.
milton		No, no, because I was, I was -
bill		That way, we'll have some room for more boxes and things we need to put in here.
milton		No...sir...
bill		Uh  Oh there it is.
milton		No. No.
bill		Let me just get that from ya.  Great. So if you could get to that as soon as possible, that would be terrific. Have a nice lunch, Milton. Bye.
milton		Ok. I'll set the building on fire.
michael		Peter!
peter		Michael!
michael		What the hell's going on, man? I thought you were going to come in here and start shooting.
peter		I just came to get my address book. I'm not gonna stay. I've got a number I don't wanna lose.
michael		What?! Peter, you're in deep shit! You were supposed to come in on Saturday. What were you doing?
peter		Michael, I did nothing. I did absolutely nothing and it was everything that I thought it could be.
michael		Well, I hope you have a better story than that for Lumbergh. You know, you're supposed to be having your interview right now with the consultants.
peter		Who?
michael		What has gotten into you?
peter		Oh yeah. Right.
michael		Peter, Peter you, gotta postpone it man. Tell them you were sick. Make something up.
peter		Ah, no way. I feel great.
bob porter		The next paper looks like a Peter Gibbons.
bob slydell		Aha! All right. We were just talking about you. You must be Peter Gibbons. Uh huh. Terrific. I'm Bob Slydell and this is my associate, Bob Porter.
peter		Hi, Bob. Bob.
bob porter		Why don't you grab a seat and join us for a minute?
bob slydell		Y'see, what we're trying to do here, we're just trying to get a feel for how people spend their day. So, if you would, would you just walk us through a typical day for you?
peter		Yeah.
bob slydell		Great.
peter		Well, I generally come in at least fifteen minutes late. I use the side door, that way Lumbergh can't see me. Uh, and after that, I just sorta space out for about an hour.
bob porter		Space out?
peter		Yeah. I just stare at my desk but it looks like I'm working. I do that for probably another hour after lunch too. I'd probably, say, in a given week, I probably do about fifteen minutes of real, actual work.
bob slydell		Uh, Peter, would you be a good sport and indulge us and tell us a little more?
peter		Let me tell you something about TPS reports...'
peter		The thing is, Bob, it's not that I'm lazy. It's just that I just don't care.
bob porter		Don't, don't care? PETER It's a problem of motivation, all right? Now, if I work my ass off and Initech ships a few extra units, I don't see another dime. So where's the motivation? And here's another thing, Bob. I have eight different bosses right now!
bob slydell		I beg your pardon?
peter		Eight bosses.
bob slydell		Eight?
peter		Eight, bob. So that means when I make a mistake, I have eight different people coming by to tell me about it. That's my real motivation - is not to be hassled. That and the fear of losing my job, but y'know, Bob, it will only make someone work hard enough not to get fired.
bob slydell		Bear with me for a minute.
peter		Ok.
bob slydell		Believe me, this is hypocritical. But what if you were offered some kind of stock option and equity sharing program?
peter		I don't know. I guess. Listen, I'm gonna go. It's been really nice talking to be of you guys.
bob slydell		Absolutely. It's all on this side of the table, trust me.
peter		Good luck with your layoffs. I hope your firings go really well.
bob slydell		Wow.
bill		Hey, Peter, what's happening? Listen, uh -
stan		Joanna? Would you come here for a moment, please?
joanna		I'm sorry. I was late. I was having lunch.
stan		I need to talk about your flair.
joanna		Really? I have 15 buttons on. I, uh, (shows him
stan		Well, ok, 15 is minimum, ok?
joanna		Ok.
stan		Now, it's up to you whether or not you want to just do the bare minimum. Well, like Brian, for example, has 37 pieces of flair. And a terrific smile.
joanna		Ok. Ok, you want me to wear more?
stan		Look. Joanna.
joanna		Yeah.
stan		People can get a cheeseburger anywhere, ok? They come to Chotchkie's for the atmosphere and the attitude. That's what the flair's about. It's about fun.
joanna		Ok. So, more then?
stan		Look, we want you to express yourself, ok? If you think the bare minimum is enough, then ok. But some people choose to wear more and we encourage that, ok? You do want to express yourself, don't you?
joanna		Yeah. Yeah.
stan		Great. Great. That's all I ask.
joanna		Ok.
bob slydell		Right. So there's three more people we can easily lose. There's Tom Smykowski.
bill		He's useless.
bob slydell		Gone.
dom		Sounds good to me.
bob slydell		Here's a peculiar one. Milton Waddams.
dom		Who's he?
bob		You know, squirrely looking guy, mumbles a lot.
dom		Oh.
bob slydell		We can't find a record of him being a current employee here.
bob porter		I looked into it more deeply and I found what happened was he got layed off about five years ago and no one ever told him about it. But through a glitch in Payroll, he still gets a paycheck. I went ahead and fixed the glitch.
bill		Great.
dom		So, um, Milton has been let go.
bob slydell		Just a second there, Professor. We, uh, we fixed the glitch. So he won't be receiving a paycheck anymore. So it'll just work itself out naturally.
bob porter		We always like to avoid confrontation whenever possible. The problem is solved from here on, then.
bob slydell		Uh, we should move on to a Peter Gibbons. I had a chance to meet this young man and boy does he have Straight to Upper Management written all over him.
bill		Ooh, uh, yeah. I'm going to have to go ahead and sort of disagree with you there. Yeah. Uh, he's been real flaky lately and I'm not sure that he's the caliber person you want for upper management. He's been having some problems with his TPS reports.
bob porter		I'll handle this. We feel that the problem isn't with Peter.
bob slydell		Um-um.
bob porter		It's that you haven't challenged him enough to get him really motivated.
bob slydell		There it is.
bill		Yeah, I'm not sure about that now.
bob porter		All right, Bill. Let me ask you this. How much time each week would you say you deal with these TPS reports?
bill		Yeah...
lawrence		Hey Peter man! Check out channel nine! It's a breast exam! Whoo!!
dom		Hello, Peter.
peter		Hey Dom!
bill		So, Peter, what's happening? Now are you going to go ahead and have those TPS reports for us this afternoon?  Uh, yeah. So I guess we should probably go ahead and have a little talk, hmm?
peter		Not right now, Lumbergh. I'm, I'm kinda busy. In fact, I'm going to have to ask you to go ahead and just come back another time. I have a meeting with the Bobs in a couple of minutes.
bill		Uh, I wasn't aware of a meeting with them.
peter		Yeah, they called me at home.
bill		That sounds good, Peter. Uh, and we'll go ahead and, uh, get this all fixed up for you later.
milton		F...C...P...
bill		Hi, Milton. What's going on?
milton		I, I, I, I, I didn't receive my paycheck this week.
bill		Uh, you're gonna have to talk to Payroll about that.
milton		I, I did and they, and they said -
bill		Uh, we're gonna need to move your desk downstairs into Storage B.
milton		No...I...I...
bill		Uh, we have some new people coming in and we need all the space we can get.
milton		No...no...no...no...but...but...but...I, I, I -
bill		And if you could could go ahead and get a can of psticide and take care of the roach problem we've been having that would be great. (He walks away.
milton		I can't...Excuse me. I believe you have my stapler?
bob porter		It looks like you've been missing a lot of work lately.
peter		I wouldn't say I've been missing it, Bob.
bob slydell		That's terrific, Peter. I,I, I'm sure you've, you've, you've heard some of the rumors around the hallway about how we're just going to do a little  housecleaning with some of the software people.
peter		Well, Bob, I have heard that and you gotta do what you gotta do.
bob porter		Well, these people here. First, Mr. Samir Naga...Naga...
bob slydell		Naga...
bob porter		Naga-worker here anyway!
bob slydell		Mr. Mike Bolton. We're certainly gonna miss him.
peter		You're gonna layoff Samir and Michael!?
bob porter		We're gonna bring in some entry level graduates for us to work in Singapore, that's the usual deal.
bob slydell		Well, it's standard operating procedure.
peter		Do they know about this yet?
bob slydell		No! No, of course not. We always find it's better to fire people on a Friday. It's statistically shown that there's less chance of an incident if we do it at the end of the week. Anyway, Peter, what we would like to do is put you into a position where you would have as many as four people working right underneath you.
bob porter		This is a big promotion, Pete.
bob slydell		Huge.
peter		So you're gonna fire Samir and Michael and give me more money?
bob slydell		Umm-hmm.
peter		Wow!
michael		Yeah. Yeah. That's it. That's exactly what I need. Just give it to me. Come on. Come on, you little fucker. Let's go! That's what I need. Let's do that. Let's do exactly that, you little, fu-
peter		Listen... Well, what are you doing tonight?
peter		There comes a place in a man's life and, uh, maybe that time for you is now, when it doesn't hurt to think about the future.
michael		Uh, no offense, there, Peter, but think about yourself, sport. You're the one who's been flaking out at work. Whatever that religious experience or whatever the hell it was, you better snap out of it, or you're gonna get canned.
peter		Yeah. I, I, I...Listen, that virus you're always talking about. The one that, that could rip off the company for a bunch of money...
michael		Yeah? What about it?
peter		Well, how does it work?
michael		It's pretty brilliant. What it does is where there's a bank transaction, and the interests are computed in the thousands a day in fractions of a cent, which it usually rounds off. What this does is it takes those remainders and puts it into your account.
peter		This sounds familiar.
michael		Yeah. They did this in Superman III.
peter		Yeah. What a good movie.
michael		A bunch of hackers did this in the 70s and one of them got busted.
peter		Well, so they check for this now?
michael		No, you see, Initech's so backed up with all the software we're updating for the year 2000, they'd never notice.
peter		You're right. And even if they wanted to, they could never check all that code.
michael		It's numbers up their asses.
peter		So, Michael, what's to keep you from doing this?
michael		It's not worth the risk. I got a good job.
peter		What if you didn't have a good job?
michael		Cockos! Samir and I are the best programmers in that place. And you, you haven't even been showing up and you get to keep your job.
peter		Actually, I'm being promoted.
michael		What?!!!
peter		Yeah, I know, Michael. It's completely unfair. And I realized something today. It's not about me and my dream of doing nothing. It's about all of us together. I don't know what happened at that hypnotherapist the other day; maybe it was just shock. It's wearing off now, but when I saw that fat man keel over and die, Michael, I realized that we don't have a lot of time on this earth. We weren't meant to spend it this way. Human beings weren't meant to sit in little cubicles, starring at computer screens all day, filling out useless forms and listening to eight different bosses drone on about mission statements.
michael		I told those fudge-packers that I like Michael Bolton's music. God.
peter		that is not right, Michael. For five years now, you've worked your ass off at Initech, hoping for a promotion or some kind of profit sharing or something. Five years of your mid-20s now, gone. And you're gonna go in tomorrow and they're gonna throw you out into the street. You know why? So Bill Lumbergh's stock will go up a quarter of a point. Michael, let's make that stock go down. Let's take enough money from that place that we never ever have to sit in a cubicle ever again. Your software works right?
michael		Of course it works. That's not the point. Look, even if it could work, I don't know how to install it. I don't know the credit union software loan.
peter		Yeah? But Samir does.
samir		But that's not much money, I -
peter		That's the beauty of it. Each withdrawal is a fraction of a cent. That's too small to notice. Take a thousand withdrawals a day, space it out over a few years, that's a couple hundred thousand dollars.
michael		Just like Superman III.
samir		Superman III - that's it, I have to leave now, ok?  I have to get my resume ready.
peter		Get your resume ready for what? Another job where they can fire you for no reason?
samir		That's right! If I'm lucky.
peter		Look, I don't know about you guys, but I'm tired of being pushed around. Aren't you?
samir		Yes, Peter, but I'm not going to do something illegal.
peter		Illegal? Samir, this is America! Come on, sit down! Come on! This isn't Riyadh! They're not gonna saw your hands off, all right? The worse they can do is put you for a couple of months into a while collar, minimum security resort! Shit, we should be so lucky! Did you know they have conjugal visits there?
samir		Really.
peter		Yes.
michael		Shit, I'm afraid. I haven't had a conjugal visit in six months.
samir		So what do you think?
michael		This thing actually is pretty fail-safe, Samir.
peter		You came here looking for a land of opportunity. And this is the knock of that opportunity. Tomorrow's your last day at Initech. You have two options
samir		I have a question.
peter		Yes.
samir		In, in these conjugal visits, you can have sex with women?
peter		Yep. You sure can.
samir		Ok. I'm gonna do it.
peter		That's what I'm talking about! I'm talking about America!!
michael		Peter Let's discuss the plan, all right?
peter		All right.
michael		All right. It works like a computer virus. All right? So all we have to do is load it anywhere into the credit union mainframe and it'll do the rest.
peter		Ok, you guys give me that disk and I'll take it from there. Oh, but listen. Before we go any further, all right, we have to swear to God, Allah, that nobody knows about this, all right? No family members, no girlfriends, nobody!
samir		Of course.
michael		Agreed.
lawrence		Don't worry man! I won't tell anybody about this either!
michael		Who the fuck is that?!
peter		Uh, don't worry about him. He's cool. All right. Now here's how I see it all going down...
bob slydell		Peter, congratulations. This is one heck of a promotion.
bob porter		And we'll go ahead and get some people under you right away.
michael		Well, that was easy.
peter		Yeah, I guess it was.
michael		What did you do with the -
drew		Hey guys.
peter		Oh, hey Drew.
drew		did you guys hear about Tom Smykowski?
michael		The guy who got laid off?
drew		No, man, check this out.
drew		V/O) LAST WEEK, AFTER HE FOUND OUT HE WAS GETTING LAID OFF, HE TRIES TO KILL HIMSELF BY RUNNING THE CAR IN THE GARAGE.
michael		V/O) IS HE DEAD?!
drew		V/O) BUT THAT WIFE OF HIS COMES HOME EARLY FROM WORK EARLY AND FOUND HIM IN THE CAR AND TRIES TO PLAY IT OFF AS IF NOTHING HAPPENED.
tom		COUGH) I WAS HAVING SOME TROUBLE WITH THE SHIFTER HERE. IT'S JAMMED. I, I COULDN'T GET IT INTO DRIVE. I, I, I MEAN, REVERSE.
tom		Yeah.
drew		V/O) AND THEN, AS HE'S LOOKING AT HER, HE DECIDES HE WANTS TO LIVE.
tom		I'm ok.
tom		It seems to be working now. See ya later, honey. Love ya.
drew		V/O) BUT THEN AS HE BACKS OUT INTO HIS DRIVEWAY, HE'S SLAMMED BIG TIME BY A DRUNK DRIVER.
peter		Well, is he ok?
drew		Sort of. He broke both his wrists, his legs, a couple of ribs, his back. But check it out. He's gonna get a huge settlement out of this. Like seven figures. He's getting out of the hospital this weekend and he's throwing a big party to celebrate. I'm thinking I'm gonna take that new chick from Logistics. I might be showing her my O face. Oh! Oh! Oh! you know what I'm talking about. Oh! Yeah. Right. See you guys there.
michael		Wow, our last day at Initech.
samir		I can't believe they had security escort us out. Not like we're gonna steal something.
peter		I stole something.
michael		Oh yeah. I guess we all did.
peter		No, I stole something else.
samir		What did you steal?
peter		We'll call it a going away present.
peter		Everything is going to be ok. Ok?
samir		The one I see is -
peter		I can see this working. I gotta go. I gotta go. Joanna's coming over. Don't worry! You're worrying! All right? Monday morning we're gonna check the account balance and everything will be all right. Don't miss Tom's barbecue. I'll see you there.
samir		RAPPING) BACK UP IN YOUR ASS WITH THE RESURRECTION...
joanna		Hey, what were you guys celebrating last night?
peter		Um, I'm not really at liberty to talk about it. I really can't.
peter		So when the subroutine compounds the interest, right, it uses all these extra decimals places that just get rounded off. So we just simplify the whole thing and we just round it down and drop the remainder into an account that we own.
joanna		So you're stealing.
peter		Ah, no. No. You don't understand. It's, uh, very complicated. It's, uh, it's, it's aggregate so I'm talking about fractions of a cent that, uh, over time, they add up to a lot.
joanna		Ok. So you're gonna make a lot of money, right?
peter		Yeah.
joanna		Ok. That's not yours?
peter		Well, it, it becomes ours.
joanna		How's that not stealing?
peter		I don't think, I don't think I'm explaining this very well. Um, this Seven Eleven, right? If you take a penny from the tray -
joanna		From the crippled children?!
peter		No, that's the tray. I'm talking about the tray. The penny's for everybody.
joanna		Oh, for everybody. Ok.
peter		Yeah, well, those are whole pennies.
joanna		Yeah.
peter		Right. I'm just talking about fractions of a penny here, but we do it from a much bigger tray. A couple of million times. So what's wrong with that?
joanna		It seems wrong.
peter		It's not wrong. Initech is wrong. Initech is an evil corporation, all right? Chotchkie's is wrong. Doesn't it bother you that you have to get up in the morning and put on pieces of flair?
joanna		Yeah, but I'm not about to go in and start taking money from the register!
peter		You know, the Nazis had pieces of flair but they made the Jews wear them.
joanna		What?!
peter		Look, we don't - I, I - we don't have to talk about this. Let's just go to the barbecue, all right?
joanna		Ok.
tom		Michael! Samir! How are you doing?
michael		Hiya Tom.
samir		Hi Tom.
tom		Yeah, I'd like you to meet my lawyer, Rob Newhouse.  Rob, Michael.
rob		Hello Michael.
tom		Samir.
rob		Hello -
samir		Samir.
rob		...Samir.
tom		Peter!! How are ya? I'm glad you could make it.
peter		Tom! Hi! This is someone I'd like you to meet. This is Joanna.
joanna		Hi.
tom		Hi. Forgive me for not getting up.  Ooh...Ooh... Uh, Peter, Peter, come here a minute. I want to show you something.
tom		Well, what do you think? It's a prototype.
peter		Well, that's exactly as you described it. Uh, listen, I, I heard about your settlement. Congratulations.
tom		Well, thanks, Peter. y'know, I'm glad you're here because I wanted to talk to you. I know how you get depressed about your job and all, and I just wanted you to know that's how you feel. I used to be the same way.
peter		Really?
tom		Sure. Oh maybe I didn't whine as much, but I hated my job as much as you and I've been doing good for over thirty years!
peter		Wow.
tom		Just remember
peter		Thanks Tom.
tom		Aw, sure.
rob		Conjugal visits? Not that I know of. Now, a minimum security prison is no picnic. I have a client in there right now. You see, the trick is, kick someone's ass the first day or become someone's bitch. Then everything will be all right. Why do you ask, anyway?
michael		Oh, no, we were just seeing -
drew		Hey Peter.
peter		Drew.
drew		That's something about old Tom Smykowski, huh?
peter		Yeah.
drew		Lucky bastard.  Hey, isn't that the girl who works over at Chotchkie's?
peter		Yeah.
drew		Hmm, who's she here with?
peter		She's here with me.
drew		Really?
peter		Yeah.
drew		All right, Peter! Ooh! Ooh! Right on. Make sure you wear a rubber, dude.
peter		Why's that, Drew?
drew		Are you kidding me? She gets around, all right?
peter		She does, does she?
drew		Oh yeah. Like a record.
peter		With who?
drew		Well, let's see. Lumbergh fucked her. Ah, let me see who else...
peter		Lumbergh?!
joanna		Oh, what if you get caught? Oh, I, I, I, I just don't know if this is such a good idea.
peter		ANGRY) YEAH? WELL, MAYBE IT WASN'T SUCH A GOOD IDEA FOR YOU TO SLEEP WITH LUMBERGH!
joanna		What?! What are you - Oh! All right, Lumbergh...
peter		ARGH!!! AH GOD! LUMBERGH!!
joanna		Peter! What is wrong with you? That was like to years ago! What, do you know him?
peter		Yeah, I know him!! I know him! He's my boss!! He's my unholy, disgusting, pig of a boss!!
joanna		Oh, he's not that disgusting.
peter		He represents all that is solace and wrong! And you slept with him!
joanna		That is none of your business, ok? I didn't ask you who you slept with before we were together. I don't care!
peter		Well, I didn't think you would sleep with a guy like Lumbergh!
joanna		Listen to you! Who do you think you are? How dare you judge! Do you think you're an angel or something? No! You're this petty, stealing, wannabe criminal...man!
peter		Well, I may be. But at least I never slept with Lumbergh!!
joanna		Ok. That's it. I'm done. I want to get out of the car. Stop. I wanna get -
peter		Fine.
joanna		Why don't you call me when you grow up? Oh, wait, that's probably never gonna happen so just don't call me, all right?
peter		Say hello to Lumbergh for me!!!
drew		Lumbergh fucked her...Lumbergh fucked her...Lumbergh fucked her...
bill		Oh that's greatgreat
drew		I'm gonna see the O-face again. Oh! Oh! Oh! Ooh! Ooh!
bill		Why don't you move it a little to the left? That's right. Great. Oh, hello, Peter. What's happening? Uh, could you give me those TPS reports ASAP? Mmmkay?
stan		Joanna?
joanna		Yeah?
stan		We need to talk. Do you know what this is about?
joanna		My, uh, flair.
stan		Yeah. Or, uh, your lack thereof. I'm counting and I only see fifteen pieces. Let me ask you a question, Joanna.
joanna		Umm-hmm.
stan		What do you think of a person who only does the bare minimum?
joanna		Huh. What do I think? Let me tell you what I think, Stan. If you want me to wear thirty-seven pieces of flair like your pretty boy Brian over there, then why don't you just make the minimum thirty-seven pieces of flair?
stan		Well, I thought I remember you saying you wanted to express yourself.
joanna		Yeah. Yeah. Y'know what? I do. I do want to express myself. Ok? And I don't need thirty-seven pieces of flair to do it.  There it is! I hate this job! I hate this goddamn job and I don't need it!!
samir		Shit, shit, shit, shit. Son of a bitch! Shit! This is a - fuck! Son of a bitch! Shit!
michael		What happened?
peter		You tell me, Michael, it's your software!
samir		Yes, it's your software!
peter		Corporate accounting is sure as hell going to notice 305, 3 (grabs the
michael		Oh shit! They, they probably won't notice it's gone for another two or three days.
peter		Michael! Michael! You said the thing was gonna take two years!
samir		What happened?!
peter		You said the thing was supposed to work.
michael		Well, technically it did work.
peter		No it didn't!
samir		It did not work, Michael, ok?!
michael		Ok! Ok!
samir		Ok?!
michael		Ok! Ok! I must have, I must have put a decimal point in the wrong place or something. Shit. I always do that. I always mess up some mundane detail.
peter		Oh! What is this fairly mundane detail, Michael?!!!!!
michael		Ok quit getting pissed at me, all right? This was all your idea, asshole.
peter		All right. Ok. All right. Let's try not to get pissed off at each other, all right? We'll figure this thing out together, ok? And the first thing we gotta do is we gotta close that account down before it gets any bigger.
all		Mmm. You look terrific. (etc
bill		All right, Kate, you wanna get everybody started there.  Mmm. That is terrific. That is just terrific. I really, really appreciate it.
nina		Milton, don't be greedy. Let's pass it along and make sure everyone gets a piece.
milton		Can I keep a piece? Because last time I was told that -
nina		Just pass.
milton		But this, this, it, it, it's a little cake...
samir		Is, is there a way to just give the money back?
peter		What? We just hand them a check with the exact amount they're missing? I, I think they'd figure that out.
samir		Well, we have to do something.
michael		May-maybe we launder the money.
peter		That's a great idea. Ok, how do we do that?
michael		I don't know, I don't know. I don't even know what it means. It's something I think, I think coke dealers do.
peter		Ok. Do we know any coke dealers?
michael		My, my cousin's a cokehead. We're in deep shit.
samir		Yes. We are in very, very deep shit.
bill		Milton?
milton		Yes.
bill		What's happening?
milton		I wanted to see you because -
bill		Say, you know what would be a great idea?
milton		No...no.
bill		Since you're already down here, it would be great if you could get a ca of pesticipe and take care of the cockroach problem we've been having in here.
milton		I...I...that's really not my job and I haven't received my -
bill		For now, why don't you get a flashlight and a can of pesticide and -
dom		Bill! We need you upstairs right away. Some major glitch in the accounting. A lot of money missing.
milton		Excuse me? Excuse me? Ok, that's the last straw.
michael		LAUNDERING. TO CLEAN...NO, UH, HERE IT IS. TO CHANNEL MONEY THROUGH A SOURCE OR BY AN INTERMEDIARY.
samir		It doesn't really help us, Michael.
peter		Ok. We're looking up money laundering in a dictionary.
michael		Yeah, well, you guys can both eat my ass, ok?
peter		My girlfriend slept with Lumbergh, that's what I can't believe.
samir		Yeah, you didn't know that?
michael		It happened two years before you moved to Atlanta.
peter		You mean, Ron Lumbergh, the airshow guy?
michael		Yeah, who did you think she slept with, Bill?  If she fucked him, their children would have hooves!
peter		Ron's not related to Bill, is he?
michael		Who is it?
peter		Don't panic. It's probably just the mailman.
steve		MONOTONOUSLY) HELLO SIR. MY NAME IS STEVE. I CAME FROM A ROUGH AREA. I USED TO BE ADDICTED TO CRACK BUT NOW I'M OFF AND TRYING TO STAY CLEAN.
peter		Ok.
steve		That is why I am selling magazine subscriptions.
peter		No -
steve		I was hoping you would help me out.
michael		Wait, wait, wait, wait! You used to be addicted to crack?
steve		Yes, but not anymore.
steve		Look, I'm sorry. I do not know anything about money laundering.
michael		Look, we're not asking you if you know about money laundering, we're just trying to see if you can hook us up.
peter		He doesn't know anything, all right?
samir		Wait, wait, wait a minute. Wait a minute. You just give us the name of one drug dealer. I could talk to him. I have good networking skills.
steve		NORMAL) I LIED. ALL THAT STUFF ABOUT ME BEING A CRACKHEAD WAS TO HELP ME SELL MAGAZINES. I'M A SOFTWARE ENGINEER.
peter		You're a software engineer?!
samir		Working must be, must be very hard for you.
steve		I made more money selling magazine subscriptions than I ever did working at Initrode.
michael		Huh? You worked at Initrode?
peter		You can't tell anybody about any of this stuff I told you. I mean, we know a lot of the same people.
steve		Actually, that all depends.
peter		What am I going to do with forty subscriptions to Vibe ?
michael		I wish we had never done this. What are we going to do? You know what I can't figure out? How is it that all these stupid, Neanderthal, Mafia guys can be so good at crime and smart guys like us can suck so badly at it?
samir		We're new to it, though. If we had more experience -
michael		No. No. Y'know what I think? I think we're screwed. There's evidence all over that building to link it to us. Even if we could launder money, I wouldn't want to. If we're caught while laundering money, we're not going to go to white-collar-resort-prison. No, no, no. We're gonna go to federal-reserve-pound-me-in-the-ass-prison.
samir		I don't want to go to any prison! Why the hell did I do this?! I've never done anything wrong in my whole life! We weren't thinking clearly because you told us we were losing our jobs! And look at us now, we're, we're worried about going to prison!
peter		Don't worry about it. I'll think of something.
samir		Ass. I'm going home. You are a very bad person, Peter.
peter		Lawrence! You awake?
lawrence		Yeah, man!
peter		You wanna come over?
lawrence		No thanks, man. I don't want you fucking up my life too!
judge		And now the sentence for these heinous crimes committed against Initech. I hereby sentence you, Michael Bolton and Samir Na...Ananajibad...to a term of no less than four years in federal- pound-me-in-the-ass-prison. Peter Gibbons, you've lead a trite and meaningless life. And you're a very bad person.
joanna		Hey.
peter		Hey. You're not working at Chotchkie's anymore.
joanna		No, no, I got fired.
peter		What happened?
joanna		I flipped off my boss. And some customers - actually a line just happened to be standing there, so...
peter		I'm going to go away for awhile. Uh, to jail. Yea, about that computer scam, you were rightit was a bad idea. I'm going to take the blame for it, I decided. I'm going to return the money and leave the confession under Lumbergh's door. Joanna, I wanna apologize. I had no right to get pissed off at you, Lumbergh isn't my problem. It wasn't even the right Lumbergh. I don't know why I can't just go to work and be happy, like I'm supposed to like everybody else.
joanna		Peter, most people don't like their jobs. But you go out there and find something that makes you happy.
peter		Yeah. I may never be happy with my job. But if I could be with you, I think that I could be happy with my life. But if you could give it another shot, I promise, Joanna -
joanna		Oh shut up.
brian		Hey, what's going on here? Get a room you two!
joanna		I hate that guy.
milton		...to Mr. Lumbergh and he told me to talk to Payroll and then Payroll, they told me to talk to Mr. Lumbergh. And I still haven't gotten my paycheck and they stole my stapler and they told me to move my desk to Storage Room B and there was garbage all over it and I don't appreciate that.
secretary		Um, why don't you go and sit at your desk. Mr. Lumbergh should be here any minute.
milton		Mr. Lumbergh -
secretary		Just go and sit at your desk.
milton		But -
secretary		Oh?
milton		Ok, I, I, I'm going to set the building on fire. I tell him, if I don't get my stapler  It's my stapler, the Swingline. It's been mine for a very long time.
peter		Hey, Lawrence, are you there?
lawrence		Hey, Peter, man.
peter		Hey. So, I may be going away for awhile.
lawrence		Yeah, I know, man. It's a bummer, dude, what can I say?
peter		Yeah. Well, it's time to go face the music. You take care of yourself, cause I don't wanna see ya.
lawrence		You too, man. Take care.  Hey Peter! Watch out for the corn hole ok?
peter		Ok, Lawrence.
peter		Let me see this.
lawrence		Who would want that stapler, man? That's toasted, man.
peter		I know someone who might want this.
michael		Hey man! Wanna go out to lunch?
peter		I brought mine in a pail. Plus, Joanna's supposed to come by later.
samir		So, how do you like your new job?
peter		It's not too bad. Not too bad. How's Penetrode?
michael		Initrode.
peter		Initrode.
samir		It's work.
peter		Yeah. Yeah.
michael		I could probably get you a job if you want.
peter		No, thanks. I'm doing good here.
michael		So, uh, we're gonna be ok, right?
peter		Yeah. I think the fire pretty much took care of everything.
samir		But what if the money burned up? It's too be a scheme.
peter		Yeah...
samir		Are you sure you don't want us to get you a job?
peter		That's the one thing I'm definitely sure of.
michael		All right, G.
peter		You guys take care!
samir		Ok.
michael		Stay in touch, man!
peter		Ok, will do.  This isn't so bad, huh? Making bucks, getting exercise, working outside.
lawrence		Fuckin' A.
peter		Fuckin' A...
milton		Excuse me. Excuse me, Senor. May I speak to you please? I asked for a mai tai, a margarita, and a pina colada. I asked for no salt, no salt in the margarita. But it had salt in it.  If you do that again, I won't be leaving a tip. I won't be putting one down. Sir? I could check into a competing resort...
****Dialogues from script :Omega_Man.txt****

****Dialogues from script :One_Flew_Over_the_Cuckoo_s_Nest.txt****

second voice		 Why don't we blast 'im, for Christ sake, he ain't gonna come down... you...
miller		Where you goin', Chief?
warren		You goin' t'see the Big White Fathuh?
washington		He goin' t'see the Big White Muthuh...
three attendants		 Mornin', Miss Ratched...
big nurse		Good morning, boys.
miss pilbow		Good morning, Miss Ratched. It's a beautiful day, isn't it?
big nurse		Mean old Monday, Miss Pilbow, mean old Monday...  Good morning, boys. Rise and shine. Rise and shine.
big nurse		Good morning, Mister Sefelt... Good morning, Mister Fredrickson. Good morning, Billy, I spoke to your mother last night and she sends her love... Good morning, Mister Harding... Good morning, Mister Cheswick. Mister Scanlon...
washington		Yes, Miss Ratched?
big nurse		Mister Washington, why don't we get a good head start on the day by shaving Mister Bromden and see if we can't avoid a disturbance.
washington		 Yes, Miss Ratched...
washington		 Warren!
warren		Tha's it... be right back!
miss pilbow		Eighty-two, Miss Pilbow speaking... Yes...  ... New admission, Miss Ratched...
deputy sheriff		 Okay, let's go.
second deputy		Okay, this is it!
mcmurphy		Yeah, ain't that the truth.
deputy sheriff		 He's all yours, Miss.
miss pilbow		Thank you, Officer...
mcmurphy		So long, fellas...
miss pilbow		This way, Mister McMurphy.
mcmurphy		Yes, ma'am...
mcmurphy		 I tell ya, these goons showered me at the courthouse this morning, last night at the jail, and I swear they'd have swabbed my ears out on the way over if they could've found the facilities...
nurse itsu		Okay. How you doing?
mcmurphy		Just great!  See ya around!
miss pilbow		I'm sure you will.
mcmurphy		 Ya know, I ain't never been in an institution of psychology before.
miss pilbow		Oh...
mcmurphy		Yeah, I'm here on a ninety-day observation period. Short-timer, like they say...
miss pilbow		Of course.  Mister McMurphy.
mcmurphy		After you, ma'am.
miss pilbow		Thank you.
mcmurphy		 Man, there sure is an awful lot of poontang around here.
spivey		 Hold it!
spivey		Great day for fishing.
spivey		 Oh, what's that?
mcmurphy		Why, I'll betcha there must be a million albacore and tuna running of the coast right this minute.
spivey		Oh, do you do much fishing?
mcmurphy		Fish! Hell, Doc, I'd like to have a nickel for every fish I landed between Point Conception and the Alaska coast...
spivey		 Is that so?
mcmurphy		Yup! Worked right outta Depoe Bay for just about every season since I was able to haul my own weight.
spivey		My, my... Ah, who are you?
mcmurphy		McMurphy, Doc. R.P. McMurphy.
nurse pilbow		Mister McMurphy is a new admission.
spivey		Ah, yes. Well, we must talk soon, Mister McMurphy.
mcmurphy		You bet, Doc.
spivey		Good morning, Jim. How are you feeling?
sefelt		 Doc, my gungs hurt me.
nurse pilbow		This way, Mister McMurphy.
miss pilbow		Make yourself at home, Mister McMurphy...
mcmurphy		Thank you, ma'am,
sefelt		Hi.
mcmurphy		How ya doin', buddy?
patient		Poorly, thank you.
mcmurphy		Oh, yeah? What's ailing ya?
patient		I got the fever.
mcmurphy		Well, that's too bad...
taber		Are you a doctor?
mcmurphy		No, 'fraid not...
martini		Can you borrow me a dime?
mcmurphy		Sorry, buddy, I'm clean outta change...
scanlon		Got a cigarette?
mcmurphy		Sure...
martini		Me too! Me too!
mcmurphy		Hey, how's it look up there, big boy?
scanlon		He can't hear you. He's just a deaf and dumb Indian!
mcmurphy		That right?
mcmurphy		 Your buddy is callin' ya.
mcmurphy		What's troubling ya, buddy?
taber		I want you to write me a letter to my brother for a hundred dollars to bury me.
mcmurphy		You look pretty healthy to me.
mcmurphy		How do ya know that?
mcmurphy		You're breathin' right now.
mcmurphy		 What's that, Pop?
mcmurphy		 Can't hear ya, old-timer.
old vegetable		Ain't this a pisser?
mcmurphy		Hell, compared to where I just come from, this is a country club.
mcmurphy		Whatcha boys playin'?
billy		H-H-Hearts.
mcmurphy		Shoot! No wonder you don't care nothin' 'bout showin' your hand.
mcmurphy		What's your name, buddy?
billy		B-B-Billy.
mcmurphy		Well, put 'er there, Billy boy, my name's McMurphy.
mcmurphy		What I wanna know is who's the top loony around here?
mcmurphy		Yeah, that'll do for openers!
harding		Does he have an appointment?
cheswick		Yeah, do you have an appointment?
mcmurphy		What for?
cheswick		 What for?
harding		I'm a busy man!
cheswick		 He's a busy man!
mcmurphy		I can wait...
harding		 What are you doing?
mcmurphy		I'm seeing what a busy man does.
harding		Your turn, Martini!
cheswick		Yeah, throw a club!
harding		Don't you have any clubs?
martini		No!
harding		Let me see your hand!
martini		No!
harding		 Well, if you gentlemen will excuse me, I have some pressing matters to attend to.
mcmurphy		Yessir, that's why I came to this establishment for, to bring you birds fun and entertainment 'round the gamin' table...
mcmurphy		Easy now, don't smudge 'em, we got lots of games ahead of us...
mcmurphy		Yes, ma'am...
mcmurphy		 Hold the fort down, will ya, fellas!
billy		Sure, Mack!
big nurse		My name is Miss Ratched. I'm the head nurse here. You've already met Miss Pilbow and Aides Washington and Warren.
mcmurphy		Yes, ma'am.
big nurse		We do appreciate the way you have taken it upon yourself to meet the other patients.
mcmurphy		Thank you, ma'am...
big nurse		This is your bed. You may leave your things in that cabinet.
mcmurphy		Yes, ma'am...
big nurse		Please use your time to familiarize yourself with your new home and if there is anything you need to know, don't hesitate to ask us.
mcmurphy		Now that you mention it, I sure would like to call my aunt up in Portland and tell 'er where I am so she can come visit me.
mcmurphy		Yes, ma'am.
mcmurphy		Just that I'm glad to be here, Miss Ratched. I really am.
mcmurphy		Yeah, you ain't half so bad looking for a head nurse.
big nurse		Yes. Now go along, Mister McMurphy. Go along.
mcmurphy		Yes, ma'am.  Lead the way, Sam.
mcmurphy		Hell, Doc, I've been everything from a hoopla man with a two-bit carny show to a top mechanic and bull goose catskinner for every gypo loggin' operation in the Northwest till the Army taught me what my natural bent was.
spivey		Oh, what was that?
mcmurphy		Poker!
mcmurphy		Yeah, but you know how society persecutes a dedicated man.
mcmurphy		They say I'm a habitual hassler. Like I fight some. Sheeut. They didn't mind so much when I was a dumb logger and got into a hassle. That's a hardworkin' feller blowing off steam, they say. But if you're a gambler, all you have to do is spit slantwise and you're a goddamned criminal.
spivey		I see...
mcmurphy		To tell the truth, ever since I found my natural callin' I done time in so many small-time jails I could write a brochure...
mcmurphy		Well, ya know, Doc...  Doesn't it say so there?
mcmurphy		I don't, Doc...
mcmurphy		That's correct, Doc ...
spivey		 The doctor at the prison states: 'Don't overlook the possibility that this man may be faking psychosis to escape the drudgery of the work farm...' What do you say to that?
mcmurphy		Doc, what can I tell ya?
spivey		Ah, it seems you have no other psychiatric history, Mister Murphy?
mcmurphy		No, this is my first trip, Doc.
spivey		 Well, you're here for a ninety-day observation period, Mister McMurphy. I'd like you to understand you are here on a court order and we are responsible to the state. So, I'd like your cooperation!
mcmurphy		You bet, Doc!
spivey		Good. Good.
bancini		I'm tired. Whew. O Lord. Oh, I'm awful tired...
big nurse		 Somebody please see to Mister Bancini, so we can start the meeting.
billy		T-t-t-take it e-e-easy, P-P-P Pete...
bancini		Awful tired...
big nurse		At the close of Friday's meeting, we were discussing Mister Harding's problem, concerning his wife...  Mister Harding stated that his wife made him uneasy because she drew stares from men on the street. Is that correct, Mister Harding?
harding		Yes, that's perfectly correct.
big nurse		 So. Does anyone care to touch upon this further?
mcmurphy		Yeah, well, it just pains me somethin' awful to see a full growed man sloshing around in his own water...
big nurse		Yes... We were discussing Mister Harding's problem with his wife. Now, who will start?  Billy.
billy		M-m-m-ma'am?
big nurse		Would you like to start?
billy		N-n-n-n-n-no, ma'am.
big nurse		Mister Sefelt?
martini		No!
big nurse		Mister Scanlon?
harding		Yes, Miss Ratched, this is correct.
big nurse		But you have no proof.
harding		No, Miss Ratched...
big nurse		And yet you suspect her.
harding		Yes, that is correct.
big nurse		Why?
harding		I can only speculate as to the reasons why.
big nurse		Have you ever speculated, Mister Harding, that you are impatient with your wife because she does not meet your mental requirements?
harding		Miss Ratched. Given all the conditions of that sublime relationship, coupled with the subsequent annihilation of all that I held to be sacred, mentally, physically and emotionally, the only thing that I can speculate on, at this late date, is how I will justify the very existence of my life, with or without my dear wife.
sefelt		What's he talkin' about?
taber		Yeah, Harding, why don't you knockoff the bullshit and get to the point.
harding		The point is, I will carry on until I fully understand what the function of that relationship is regardless of form or content.
big nurse		Yes, Billy?
billy		I-I-I-I-I d-d-don't s-s-see how anyone could lu-lu-lu-love a man who t-t-t-talks the way he does.
taber		Yeah, Harding, you're so fuckin' dumb I can't believe it.
harding		That's a matter of opinion.
sefelt		Yeah, Harding, where do you breathe anyway?
fredrickson		Through the ass.
harding		 Is that your sense of humor or are you trying to say something?
fredrickson		 Now what would I be trying to say?
harding		I don't know. I don't know, but it makes me feel very peculiar when you throw in something like that.
fredrickson		Peculiar?
sefelt		Why?
taber		Yeah, why?
scanlon		Yeah, tell us why.
harding		I hesitate to go on.
big nurse		No secrets, Mister Harding. Let's get it all out in the open...
harding		I mean, the other day you made an allusion to my wife and the possible sexual problems we might be having. I know that to be the case, but the way in which you broached it, if that's your idea of teaching me something...
taber		You know what, Harding? I think you're some kind of morbid asshole or something. You've been talking about your wife evere since I can remember. You know, she's on your mind and blah, blah, blah and on and on and when are you going to wise up and turn her loose!
fredrickson		Yeah, wise up, Harding.
sefelt		Yeah, turn her loose!
acutes		 Yeah, who do you think you are anyway?... He thinks he's God Almighty... He's a snob... He's a schmuck... Dumbbell... Creep... Cretin... Idiot... Get rid of him... Ship him upstairs...
ruckly		 Ffffffuck da wife...
bancini		 Tired... Awful tired...
acutes		 Zap him... Give 'im lobotomy... Cut his nuts off... He doesn't have any... Fag... Pervert.
bancini		 I'm tired!
big nurse		Somebody see to Mister Bancini.
bancini		Tired. Tired. Oh God, I'm tired...
washington		You a good boy, Mistah Bancini...
bancini		You see... it's a lotta baloney... It's all a lotta baloney...
nurse pilbow		Yes, yes, Mister Bancini, now if you'll just be calm...
bancini		That's all it is, just a lotta baloney. Ya see, I can't help it, can't...
nurse pilbow		 Yes, I know, I know...
bancini		... don't ya see. I was born dead. Not you. You wasn't born dead. Ahhh, it's been so hard...  Tired... I'm tired... aw-ful tired...
martini		 Catch it! Catch it!
washington		Martini, there ain't nobody there, ya dumb goon! Go get the ball!
martini		No!
mcmurphy		Well, say, buddy, is that the usual pro-cedure for those Group Ther'py shindigs? Bunch of chickens at a peckin' party?
harding		A pecking party?
mcmurphy		That's right, buddy. And you want to know who pecks the first peck?
mcmurphy		Ah, come off it! It's that Big Nurse, that's who...
harding		It's as simple as that. You've been on our ward six hours and have already simplified the work of Freud, Jung and Maxwell Jones in one grand analogy: it's a pecking party.
mcmurphy		I'm not talking about Fred Yoong or Maxwell Jones, buddy, what I'm talkin' about is that crummy meeting and what that nurse did to you!
harding		Did to me?
mcmurphy		Did to you and all the rest of you guys.
billy		Y-y-yes! Yes! Y-y-y-you s-s-saw wh wh-what she c-c-can do to us!
mcmurphy		What did I see 'cept a grown man gettin' whipped so bad he can't laugh anymore.
fredrickson		It's the questions she asks.
mcmurphy		Tell 'er to go straight to hell!
harding		Miss Ratched is a competent psychiatric nurse, not some, some kind of monster pecking out our eyes!
mcmurphy		 She ain't peckin' at your eyes, buddy.
mcmurphy		She's peckin' at your balls, buddy, at your ever-lovin' balls.
sefelt		That kind of behavior will get you a P.A. rating, my friend.
mcmurphy		P.A. What the hell is that?
fredrickson		Which gets you shipped up to Disturbed for a nice little zap job.
mcmurphy		Huh?
harding		Electro-Shock Therapy, my friend. Five cents' worth of electricity and you are out of everybody's hair.
mcmurphy		Tell 'er to go to hell anyway!
mcmurphy		What for?
mcmurphy		Lobotomy?
mcmurphy		 Is that your sense of humor or are you tryin' to say somethin'?
harding		Now, what would I be trying to say?
scanlon		Gimme the ball!
martini		No. Me! Me!
mcmurphy		 Pass it to me, Martini.
mcmurphy		C'mon, I'll give it back!
mcmurphy		Atta boy, Martini.
mcmurphy		 Back and forth, that's it. Shoot, man, we'll be takin' on the New York Knicks before we're through...
sefelt		Hit me!
mcmurphy		Hit, you say? Well well well and with a king up, the boy wants a hit. Whadaya know. So comin' at you and too bad, a little lady for the lad and he's over the wall and down the road, up the hill and dropped his load.
sefelt		Boogered!
mcmurphy		'Kay, place your bets.
martini		 What's this?
mcmurphy		That's a dime, Martini.
mcmurphy		 Whadaya bet, Cheswick?
cheswick		She won't give me any more cigarettes!
mcmurphy		That okay. I'll take your marker. How many ya want?
mcmurphy		 'Kay, all bets are down, let's wheel 'em an' deal 'em.
mcmurphy		Big king... little deuce... another king... a lovely lady... big ten... and a trey... hey, hey, whadaya say? Ya hit or sit, Martini?
martini		Hit me.
mcmurphy		 Hey, Taber, who's pitching the opening game?
mcmurphy		Wait a minute, Martini, I can't hear a thing.  What?
taber		 Koufax against Ford!
martini		 Hit me!
mcmurphy		Pardon me miss, but would you mind turning...
nurse pilbow		 Stay back! Patients aren't allowed to enter the... Oh, stay back!
mcmurphy		All I'm askin' is...
big nurse		Mister McMurphy. Patients aren't allowed in here.
mcmurphy		Sorry, ma'am.
mcmurphy		 Pardon me, ma'am, can I ask you somethin'?
big nurse		 Yes, Mister McMurphy?
mcmurphy		How 'bout turning off that music for a while so a man can hear himself think?
big nurse		 That music is for everyone, Mister McMurphy.
mcmurphy		 Well, say, how 'bout easin' it down a bit so a man don't have to shout!
mcmurphy		Sorry, ma'am... Sorry 'bout that...
mcmurphy		Sorry to have bothered you.
nurse pilbow		Your medicine, Mister McMurphy.
mcmurphy		 What's the horse pill for, honey?
nurse pilbow		It's just medication, Mister McMurphy, good for you. Now down it goes...
mcmurphy		Look, miss, I don't like swallowing something without knowing what it is!
mcmurphy		I'm not upset. All I wanna know, for the lovva Jesus...
big nurse		That's all right, Miss Pilbow, if Mister McMurphy does not wish to take his medication orally, he may...
mcmurphy		No, that's okay, ma'am. Down it goes.
harding		Why didn't you tell her to go to hell, lover boy?
taber		Yeah, whattsa matter, Mack, she too much for ya?
mcmurphy		You boys seem to think you've got a champ in there, huh?
harding		I don't see you scoring any points, buddy. And you're just the man for the job, right?
mcmurphy		Hell, I couldn't get it up over old hatchet-face if ya paid me!
turkle		Le's get back to bed, Mistah Bromden...
mcmurphy		 Oh, does the spearmint lose its flavor on the bedpost overnight? When you chew it in the morning, will it be too hard to bite? This question's got me goin', won't somebody set me right; does the spearmint lose its flavor on the bedpost overnight?
mcmurphy		Here ya go, Chief...
washington		Le's go, Chief. Le's go get ourselves all nice and clean...  You too, Mistah Mack-Murphy!
mcmurphy		 Who the fuck stole my cigarettes!
big nurse		Good morning, Mister Sefelt, are your teeth any better?... Good morning, Mister Fredrickson... Good morning, Mister Harding; my, my, you've been biting your fingernails again...
mcmurphy		I wanna report a robbery!
big nurse		On this ward?
mcmurphy		Yeah, some creep stole my cigarettes!
mcmurphy		What for?
washington		Yes, Miss Ratched?
big nurse		Please see to Mister Bromden.
washington		 Yes, Miss Ratched...
big nurse		Now you boys hurry along and wash up for breakfast...  You too, Mister McMurphy.
mcmurphy		Well, say. How 'bout springing a pack of cigarettes loose?
big nurse		After breakfast, Mister McMurphy, after breakfast.
mcmurphy		You sure run a tight-assed ship 'round here, don't ya!
big nurse		Yes. Now run along like a good boy and see that you wash up properly.
mcmurphy		'Kay, let's go brush our teeth, fellas...
mcmurphy		Oh, Lulu had a baby, His name was Sunny Jim, She put 'im in a piss pot, To teach 'im how to swim. Oh, he swam to the bottom, He swam to the top, Lulu got excited, An' pulled 'im by his... Cock-tail ginger-ale, Five cents a glass, An' if ya don't like it Ya can shove it up your... Ask me no more questions, I'll tell ya no more lies.
mcmurphy		Why, if I'd have known how soft this place was gonna be, I'd have arranged for my transfer sooner...  All this place lacks is a couple of sweet gals to liven things up...
mcmurphy		Stand aside, Sam, Nature's callin'.
washington		Nobody leaves here till seven thirty.
mcmurphy		Don't know if I can hold it that long, Sam.
mcmurphy		 Who do you like in the opening game, Sam?
mcmurphy		 Asshole.
big nurse		Sit down, Mister Cheswick.
cheswtck		 Mack???
big nurse		Sit down, Mister Cheswick!
cheswick		Yeah...
big nurse		Good...  Now, as I recall, we were making quite a bit of headway, last time, with Mister Harding's problem. So, does anyone care to begin?
mcmurphy		Right... I've been givin' some serious consideration to what you told me about the democratic something of this therapeutic community of ours, an' I got a few things I wanna get off my chest, before we get back to Harding's problem.
big nurse		Certainly, Mister McMurphy.
mcmurphy		Right!
mcmurphy		'Kay... Item one... I've been thinkin' 'bout the age problem we got on this ward. You know, the young an' old livin' together, an' I was thinkin' what a great thing it would be if the music was turned up louder. Louder so the old fellas could hear better...
mcmurphy		But then I got to thinkin', the music is so loud already, it makes it difficult for the young fellas to hold a decent conversation...
mcmurphy		Well, I was turnin' this dilemma over in my head, when I happened to hit on that old tub room out there, an' I said to myself, McMurphy, I said, that place would make a great second day room. A sort of game room for the young fellas. Whadaya think, Doc?
spivey		It is worth considering... Miss Ratched?
big nurse		The point is well taken, Doctor, but do we have the necessary personnel to cover a second day room?
spivey		Well, since it will be largely the Chronics who remain here, one aide and one nurse should easily be able to handle any situation that might occur.  What do you think, men, is it workable?
cheswick		Right, Doc. It's workable.
spivey		Fine!
big nurse		Good. Good. Yes, yes, I think we should give it a trial period. So! May we get back to Mister Harding's problem...  Yes, Mister McMurphy?
mcmurphy		I'm not finished yet.
mcmurphy		 'Kay, item two. Tomorrow, and listen carefully to me, you ding-a lings. Tomorrow is the opening game of the World Series an' what I want is to take a vote on switchin' the group meetin' to later on in the day, so we can watch the ballgame.
big nurse		Just a minute, Mister McMurphy!
mcmurphy		Yeah?
mcmurphy		The hell with the schedule, you can get back to the schedule next week when the series is over. What I want is a vote on it right now!
cheswick		I second the motion!
mcmurphy		Atta boy, Cheswick!
big nurse		Very well! All those in favor, please raise your hands.
mcmurphy		 Okay, raise your hands.
mcmurphy		Come on', what is this crap? Who wants to watch the World Series?
mcmurphy		No way.
cheswick		No way.
big nurse		 Then I suggest we turn our attention back to Mister Harding's problem. Would anybody care to begin?
harding		Yes, thank you, Miss Ratched. Since our last meeting I have been reflecting, quite seriously, on the nature of my problem. Naturally, I'm referring to the capacity to obtain the necessary results in order to obtain... No, no. To personify the very existence of that relationship regardless of the function...  Regardless of the function, we will confront the question of... Yes. Yes. The question of... Existence... Relationship... Function... Confront... Yes, confronting us in the moment of deepest crisis... Yes, the crisis of our souls. Of our souls, which I am trying to fully understand the problem... the problem. Not to shut ourselves off, but somehow... Somehow to understand fully our capacity... to obtain... to personify... the question... existence depends... depends on the question... to reflect... to reflect...
mcmurphy		You need four houses on every lot of the same color, Martini. Now let's go, for Christsakes.
martini		Hold it a minute.
cheswick		Let's go, for Christsakes...
mcmurphy		It's your dirty roll, Cheswick.
mcmurphy		Snake eyes! Hoooeee, that puts you on my Marvin Gardens, which means you owe me three hundred and fifty dollars.
martini		What's thum other things? Hold it a minute. What's thum other things all over the board?
cheswick		 How can a man concentrate with you sitting there hallucinating a mile a minute...
mcmurphy		You just come on with that three fifty and Martini will take care of himself... Your dice, Scanlon.
scanlon		Gimme those dice. I'll blow this board to pieces. Here we go...  Lebenty leben, count me over eleven, Martini...
mcmurphy		Break it up, God dammit! Ain't I got enough troubles without you guys messin' around... can't depend on nobody.
billy		 Some of us ha-ha-have b-b-been here a long t-t-time, Randle, and will b b-be here long after this Wo-Wo World Series of yours is oh-oh-oh, what's the use anyway...
mcmurphy		What's the use! Hooee! It'd do you birds some good just to get a little exercise lifting your arms to vote!
harding		A baseball game isn't worth the risk, my friend.
mcmurphy		It is to me! An' if I hafta bust way outta this place to see it, I will!
cheswick		Right!
fredrickson		Oh, yeah?
mcmurphy		Yeah!
sefelt		Big man!
mcmurphy		Yeah, how much you wanna bet?
mcmurphy		That me an' my buddy, Cheswick, we'll be downtown tomorrow watchin' the ballgame while you suckers are sittin' around this goddamn nursery!
harding		And how do you propose to accomplish that little feat, my friend?
mcmurphy		That's between me an' myself. So why don't you boys just shove off. I got some planning to do.
sefelt		Maybe he'll just show Miss Ratched his big thing an' she'll open the door for him.
mcmurphy		Maybe I'll just use that thick skull of yours as a batterin' ram, Sefelt.
mcmurphy		You think it's funny, huh?
taber		Yeah, you don't know how to get outta this place!
mcmurphy		Put your money where your mouth is, Taber.
mcmurphy		 You want me to show ya! You want me to show ya how!
mcmurphy		All right!
mcmurphy		With this thing! I'm gonna put this thing right through the window, that's how!
harding		You mean you're going to try to pick that thing up and shove it through the window?
mcmurphy		You're fuckin' A-right, I am!
mcmurphy		You heard me the first time!
taber		I'll bet a buck you don't do it!
mcmurphy		You're on!
billy		M-M-Mack, y-y-y-you c-c-can't l-l lift that thing!
mcmurphy		Stand aside, son. Any more takers?
sefelt		I'll bet a dollar.
fredrickson		Me, too...
mcmurphy		Right!
martini		A nickel.
scanlon		A dime.
mcmurphy		Okay. Who else?
harding		Twenty-five dollars.
mcmurphy		 Okay, Harding, you're on.
mcmurphy		Yeah... Okay, stand aside, you guys! You're usin' up my oxygen!
harding		Giving up?
mcmurphy		Just warmin' up.
mcmurphy		But I tried. Goddammit, I sure as hell did that much. Didn't I?
billy		M-M-Mack...
harding		Leave him alone, he's pouting.
billy		Y-Y-Y-You leave him alone!
mcmurphy		That's okay, kid...
mcmurphy		No, kid, it was my own stupidity, that's what pissed me off.
mcmurphy		What we're gonna have to do is pull this ballclub together for our next play. 'Kay!
billy		'K-k-kay, Mack!
washington's pov		Way down the hall, the Group Meeting is SEEN in progress.
big nurse		Try, Billy, try...
billy		Y-y-y-yes...
big nurse		Tell us about it...
billy		I-I-I-I c-c-c-came over S-S-S Sunday m-m-m-morning after ch-ch-ch church and br-br-brought her s-s some flowers, and I s-s-said, I said, 'C-C-C-Celia, will you muh muh-muh-muh-muh...' till the girl broke out l-l-laughing.
big nurse		What was it about her that disturbed you so, Billy?
billy		 I was in luh-love with her.
big nurse		Billy, were you afraid of her, or of her love?
mcmurphy		Jesus Christ, the man doesn't want to talk, so get off his back an' let's get on to some new business.
mcmurphy		Yeah, yeah, the hell with that crap! The World Series is goin' on right' now an' that's therapy also!
mcmurphy		What the hell does that have to do with it? This is an important event and I want a vote on it!
cheswick		Yeah, let's vote on it!
big nurse		Will one more vote satisfy you?
mcmurphy		Yeah, it'll satisfy me.
mcmurphy		I'm proposing a re-vote on watchin' the ballgame!
mcmurphy		Okay, I wanna see the hands. I wanna see which of you birds has any guts.
mcmurphy		That's it! We made it!
big nurse		I'm sorry, Mister McMurphy, I count only eight.
mcmurphy		So do I!
mcmurphy		 You mean to tell me you're gonna count those old birds over there?
mcmurphy		Well, I'll be a son-of-a-bitch...
billy		B-But, M-M-Miss R-Ratched, y-you n never c-c-counted th-their votes before!
big nurse		 You mean you don't want their votes to count, Billy!
billy		I-I-I...
mcmurphy		Well, screw that noise!
big nurse		Sit down, Mister McMurphy!
mcmurphy		Hoo-wee! Man, all I need me now is a can of beer and a red-hot.
big nurse		Sit down, Mister Cheswick.
cheswick		Mack...
mcmurphy		 Hoo-wee! Whatta game! Whatta game! Come on, Koufax! Strike 'em out!
mcmurphy		He's into his wind-up. Here comes the pitch. Strike on the inside corner!
mcmurphy		 He's into his wind-up. Here's the next pitch... and it's a hit! It's a hit!
martini		 I saw thum! I saw thum!
scanlon		Me, too! Me, too!
sefelt		Yes, I see it! I see it!
mcmurphy		 Ya-hoo, let's'play ball!
acutes		Ya-hoo! It's a hit! A triple! It's a home run! A double! He's out! Whadaya blind? He's safe by a mile! 
mcmurphy		'Kay, it's two outs, bases loaded as Koufax steps up to the mound... Checks the runners... goes into his wind-up... Here comes the three-two pitch... And it's a fly ball into deep center. Mantle is going back. He's going back! Back! His back is up against the wall... and... he catches it! He catches it!
spivey		How are you feeling?
mcmurphy		Just fine, Doc... In fact, I think I might've put on a couple of pounds since I got here.
spivey		Good, good, and how are you getting along on the ward?
mcmurphy		Come on, Doc, you know as well as I do what's been comin' down in that loony bin.
mcmurphy		Shoot, Doc, the only one I'm disturbing is that old nurse and her fixed ways. That's all.
mcmurphy		Come on, Doc, you must be kiddin'.
spivey		I'm afraid not.
mcmurphy		Jesus, that old nurse sure wants my ass in a sling, don't she!
mcmurphy		Guidance and assistance! That's insane! Doc, ya gotta help me.
mcmurphy		When?
spivey		We'll let you know.
mcmurphy		 Okay, Chief. This is your spot! I don't want you to move from this spot! Never!... 'Kay, now, take the ball! Raise your hands, like this...
mcmurphy		That's good! That's a good boy, Chief! Now jump and put it in!
harding		He can't hear you!
mcmurphy		I know, goddammit! You don't have ta tell me that!
mcmurphy		I'm not talkin' to him! I'm talkin' to myself! It helps me think!
mcmurphy		Well, it doesn't hurt him either!  Jump! An' put it in!
harding		Well, I think you're just confusing him...
mcmurphy		Ha! Did ya see that!  Hey, Cheswick!
cheswick		Yeah, Mack?
mcmurphy		Come here!
cheswick		Yeah, Mack?
mcmurphy		Let me get on your shoulders.
mcmurphy		'Kay, wheel me around to the basket... 'Kay, easy, easy. Hold it! 'Kay, now.  Hey, Chief, come back!
mcmurphy		Cheswick, go get 'im!
mcmurphy		Now, wheel me to the basket.
mcmurphy		 Heh, heh, I'll show 'em who's crazy.
mcmurphy		Hey, Cheswick! Wake up!
cheswick		 Yeah, Mack, what is it?
mcmurphy		I'm leaving. Goodbye!
cheswick		 Where ya goin', Mac?
mcmurphy		Shhh...
mcmurphy		 Hey, Billy. Billy boy, wake up and say goodbye to your ol' buddy.
billy		 W-w-w-what is it, M-M-Mac?
mcmurphy		So long, kid.
billy		Wh-wh-wh-wh...
mcmurphy		Shhh...
mcmurphy		 Psst! Hey, Martini, wake up!
martini		 Yeah, Mac?
mcmurphy		Bye-bye.
mcmurphy		Scanlon! Hey, Scanlon, wake up!
scanlon		 Yeah, what's up?
mcmurphy		Shhhh. See ya around the ball park.
fredrickson		 What? What?
mcmurphy		So long, Freddy. Don't take any wooden nickles.
fredrickson		 What?
mcmurphy		Shhh...
mcmurphy		Bye-bye, pussy cat.
mcmurphy		 Up an' at 'em, Taber.
taber		 What's going on?
mcmurphy		Shhhh. Time to say goodbye.
mcmurphy		Hey, Hard-on. Wake up, Dumbo.
harding		What for?
mcmurphy		I'm busting outta this place.
mcmurphy		 So long suckers.
billy		Wh-wh-where ya going, M-M-Mac?
cheswick		How ya gettin' out, Mac?
mcmurphy		Shhh... That's for me to know an' you to find out.
taber		Bullshit. You ain't got no way out!
mcmurphy		Oh, yeah?
taber		Yeah!
mcmurphy		How much ya wanna bet?
mcmurphy		You're on.  Let's go! An' keep it quiet.
billy		Wh-wh-what's d-d-down th-there, M-M Mac?
taber		Where's it go?
mcmurphy		Out. It's the way out. So just keep it in your minds if ya ever wanna make use of it.
fredrickson		Neither do I...
sefelt		Me too...
martini		I wanna see it...
scanlon		Me too! Me too!
billy		Y-y-yeah, p-p-prove it, M-M-Mac!
cheswick		Yeah, show us, Mac!
mcmurphy		Shhh. Wait a minute. You guys are gonna screw up my plans. So just gone on back to bed like nothin' happened.
martini		No! I wanna go!
scanlon		Me too! Me too!
mcmurphy		Shhh. Hold it down! I'll take you guys down, but ya gotta come right back up! 'Kay?
patients		 'Kay, Mac!
mcmurphy		Shhh... Remember this is a privilege, so I don't want none of you goons fuckin' up. Kay?
patients		 'Kay, Mac!
mcmurphy		'Kay, let's see...  Cheswick first ... then Billy... Martini... Scanlon... Sefelt... Fredrickson... Taber an' the Chief... 'Kay
patients		 'Kay!
mcmurphy		Shhh!
mcmurphy		 Where's Martini and Scanlon?
cheswick		 They went that way.
mcmurphy		Charlie, ya can't ever let those goons outta ya sight! Understand!
cheswick		Right, Mack!
sefelt		There they are!
mcmurphy		Hey, Martini! Psst! Scanlon! Ya dumb goons, come back here!  Come on, let's get 'em!
mcmurphy		 Come on, you guys, let's stick together.
taber		Somebody's coming!
mcmurphy		Shhh!  This way!
billy		I-I-I th-th-think we sh-sh-should go back!
sefelt		Yeah, my feet are gettin' cold.
fredrickson		Mine, too!
mcmurphy		We'll go back just as soon as we find those guys! 'Kay?
acutes		 'Kay, Mack!
mcmurphy		They must be up there!
cheswick		Yeah!
billy		L-L-Let-'s go b-back!
mcmurphy		Come on, don't crap out on me now. We got two buddies out there!
mcmurphy		Fuck Miss Ratched!
cheswick		There they are!
mcmurphy		 Hey, what's that?
several acutes		 What? Where?
mcmurphy		 Over there!
sefelt		 I don't know...
billy		I-i-it's a b-b-bus!
mcmurphy		A bus?
mcmurphy		Well, shoot, man! Whadaya say we take ourselves a little spin around the place.
taber		We'll get in trouble...
cheswick		Yeah, maybe we ought to go back, Mac...
fredrickson		Yeah, my feet are cold...
sefelt		My feet hurt...
billy		I-I-I'm w-w-wet...
mcmurphy		 Go ahead! Go back!
taber		Yeah, take us back to the dumbwaiter, Mac.
mcmurphy		I'm not going back in there. I told ya this was a one way trip. Now stand aside.
mcmurphy		 Get on assholes!
mcmurphy		 Come on, Chief! Let's go!
mcmurphy		 Your horses are hungry, That's what she did say, Come sit down beside me, An' feed them some hay. My horses ain't hungry, They wontt eat your hay-ay-aeee...
billy		H-Hey, M-Mack.
mcmurphy		Yeah, kid?
cheswick		Yeah, where we going?
mcmurphy		I dunno. Where do ya wanna go?
martini		I wanna go home!
scanlon		Yeah, it's cold!
martini		I'm hungry.
taber		Yeah, we'll miss breakfast!
mcmurphy		Breakfast! Hell, I know just the place where we can chow down an' thaw out before we shoot back on home. 'Kay?
billy		'K-Kay, M-Mack!
mcmurphy		 Soo, fare-the-weel, darlin'. I'm gone on my way, My wagons are loaded, My whip's in my hand...
mcmurphy		 This is it!
mcmurphy		Come on in an' warm up. You can put some of that gear on to keep warm. An' there's beer an' Coke in the cooler an' some food over here...
mcmurphy		Come on, don't be shy now, you're among friends.
mcmurphy		Why don't one of you boys help ol' Chief there get warmed up?
cheswick		When do you think we'll be going back, Mack?
mcmurphy		 Come here a minute, Cheswick. You, too, Sefelt. Hey, all you guys, come over here, I wanna show you somethin'.
martini		Oh, look at the pretty boat.
billy		H-H-Help!
mcmurphy		Ease up on the star drag, keep the tie up, up and work hell outta that fella.
scanlon		My turn.
martini		 No.
mcmurphy		Up, I told you! Keep that tip up... up! You had you one big silver there.
scanlon		Jesus God...
martini		What is it?
fredrickson		We'll never get that on the boat.
billy		 M-M-Mack! M-M-Mack!
mcmurphy		What is it, kid?
mcmurphy		He's a big flounder. Could weigh two, three hundred. You got to lift him in with a winch.
fredrickson		Does that mean we have to cut him loose?
mcmurphy		Like hell we will! We got the muscle standing right here. All we need is a couple gaffin' hooks and some rope.
billy		I-I-I'll get them.
martini		Me, too.
scanlon		Me, too.
mcmurphy		Steady does it, Sefelt!
voice		 All right! Stand to! Stand to!
spivey		 Here they are, Miss Ratched. Safe and sound!
big nurse		Good. Well, boys, did you enjoy yourselves?
fredrickson		 Show her the one you caught, Jim.
big nurse		My, my...
mcmurphy		Yeah, ya should've come along with us, Miss Ratched, an' gotten a little sun on your cheeks and maybe caught a fish or two.
big nurse		Mr. McMurphy, you had no right to take these men out with you!
mcmurphy		 Yeah, that's kind of crazy, ain't it!
big nurse		No, it was irresponsible!
martini		 Gimme a cigarette!
sefelt		I thought I might donate it to the mess hall.
mcmurphy		 I don't have any.
martini		 Gimme a cigarette!
harding		No!
martini		Why not?
harding		I'm not running a charity ward...
martini		 All gone! All gone! Don't hit! Don't hit!
mcmurphy		I'm sure sorry, ma'am. Gawd, but I am. That window glass was so clean I didn't even see it...
mcmurphy		You guys want cigarettes! Here's the goddamn cigarettes!
washington		Warren! Miller!
aide		 Wait over there...
bromden		Thank you.
mcmurphy		Say it again.
bromden		Thank you.
mcmurphy		Say... God Bless America!
bromden		God Bless America.
mcmurphy		 Goddammit, you sly son-of-a-bitch! Does anybody else know?
mcmurphy		Shit! This is too much!  Chief, I tell you we're gonna bust outta this place an' make it all the way to Canada before they know what bit 'em.
mcmurphy		Ya like that, Chief, huh?
bromden		Yeah...
mcmurphy		Yeah, well, well, well. 'Bout time the rest of the world got a gander at Big Chief Bromden cuttin' down the boulevard, stopping just long enough for virgins... Oh, man, I tell you, I tell you, you'll have women trippin' you and beating you to the floor...
bromden		Ca-na-da...
mcmurphy		Shhh, Chief, don't talk. Never talk! Remember, this is just between you an' me. Do ya understand?
mcmurphy		 Hey, how ya doin'?
nurse itsu		Fine, thank you.  Here, please take these.
mcmurphy		What are they?
nurse itsu		To help you relax... please...
mcmurphy		 You an' me, Chief.
mcmurphy		 You know, I never got your name.
nurse itsu		 In here, please.
mcmurphy		You comin' in to hold my hand?
nurse itsu		No...
mcmurphy		Yeah... Well, see ya around, Itsu.
mcmurphy		Yeah...
mcmurphy		 Hi...
mcmurphy		You boys can take a cigarette break now...
doctor		That's all right, Mister McMurphy, just climb on the bed and lie down...
mcmurphy		Whatever you say, Doc...
doctor		 This won't hurt you at all...
mcmurphy		Uh, uh...
mcmurphy		What's that for?
nurse		Conductant.
mcmurphy		 Surely, goodness and mercy will follow this, eh, honey?
doctor		 Please, put this in your mouth...
big nurse		 It's been brought to my attention that you're giving Mister Fredrickson your medication, aren't you, Mister Sefelt?
sefelt		It's the Dilantin that makes my gums soft!
big nurse		Now, Jim, you must be honest with yourself.
fredrickson		I wanna know why the dorm has to be locked in the daytime and on weekends?
taber		Yeah, why can't a fellow even have the weekends to himself?
cheswick		 Yeah, whadabout our cigarettes?
big nurse		Sit down, Mister Cheswick, and wait your turn!
fredrickson		So what? Is it a mortal sin? I mean, normal people get to sleep late on weekends...
big nurse		With few exceptions, time spent in the company of others is therapeutic, while every minute spent brooding alone only increases separation.
cheswick		 Mack!
mcmurphy		I got ten thousand watts and hot to trot. First woman takes me on is gonna light up like a pinball machine an' pay off in silver dollars...
billy		H-h-how's it g-g-going, Mack?
mcmurphy		Just fine, Billy boy, just fine. Full of piss an' vinegar! They checked my plugs and cleaned my points...
big nurse		Mister McMurphy.
mcmurphy		 Yes, ma'am?
big nurse		Welcome back.
mcmurphy		Thank you, ma'am.
big nurse		I hope everything is settled.
mcmurphy		Ma'am, I'm as gentle as a puppy dog. Why, I haven't licked the tar out of an aide for two weeks! Hi ya, Doc!
mcmurphy		Why, thank you, ma'am...  I figured as much...
billy		W-W-We h-heard y-you w-were n-never c-c-coming back!
mcmurphy		Yeah, well, let me tell ya somethin'... While I was up there gettin' in-lightened, I came up with one hellava plan...
billy		Wh-wh-what p-plan, M-Mack!
harding		What's your plan, Mack?
mcmurphy		 Plan?... Oh, yeah, the plan... Yeah...
photographer		 Thank you, boys.
mcmurphy		Miss Ratched, would you please save a space for my aunt? She's comin' down from Portland.
big nurse		Certainly, Mister McMurphy, with pleasure.
mcmurphy		Thank you, ma'am...
mcmurphy		Gotta go now, ma'am...
big nurse		Yes. Good luck, Mister McMurphy.
mcmurphy		Thank you, ma'am.
mcmurphy		 Hey, Sam, bet ya two bucks ya lose.
washington		Shit, man, tha' ain't even worth considerin'.
mcmurphy		How 'bout twenty?
washington		Now you talkin'.
mcmurphy		Bet!
washington		Bet you ass...
mcmurphy		 You're a witness, Doc!
spivey		Me? I didn't hear a thing! Let's play ball!
mcmurphy		 Come on, wake up, you ding-a-lings. The game is on.
mcmurphy		Pass the ball, Harding...  Pass it, goddammit!
mcmurphy		Harding, here, over here!
mcmurphy		 Ya deaf! I said pass the ball!
harding		What are you talking about??? Everybody was covered!!! Everybody was covered!!!
mcmurphy		I was open! Come on, let's play ball!
washington		 Gimme tha' ball!
mcmurphy		 What kind of crap is that???
mcmurphy		 You take it out, Harding!
harding		 Pass it! Pass it! I'm open, McMurphy, pass the ball!
mcmurphy		 Hey, Doc, time out.
spivey		 Time out!
candy		Mack, you sonofabitch, you ol' fucker, how've you been?
mcmurphy		 Hi ya doin', Rose?
rose		Okay, Mack!  Whoowe, Candy girl, are we in an insane asylum or ain't we?
mcmurphy		 How's your ass been holdin' up, honey?
mcmurphy		Come on, girls, we're holding up the game!
mcmurphy		Miss Ratched, this is my Aunt Candy and her friend Rose...
mcmurphy		Miss Ratched was kind enough to save you ladies a seat...
mcmurphy		Talk to ya at half time!
candy		 Sock it to 'em, kid!
rose		 Are they all crazies?
big nurse		No.
rose		Oh, just those guys dressed in white?
big nurse		No, miss, it's the other way around.
rose		Well, you could've fooled me.
mcmurphy		Whadaya doin', there's no one there!
martini		I saw 'em! I saw 'em.
martini		Gimme the ball!
mcmurphy		 Okay, Martini. That's okay. Now you watch me.
mcmurphy		 Time out!
spivey		 Time out!
mcmurphy		 Replacement coming in! Harding out!
mcmurphy		 I said Harding out!
harding		I refuse!
mcmurphy		I said out!
harding		 No!
mcmurphy		I'm the coach!
harding		I just started!
mcmurphy		You can come back later!
harding		I don't trust you!
mcmurphy		 Scanlon out!
scanlon		No!
mcmurphy		Martini out!
martini		No!
billy		I-I-I-I-I'll g-g-g-go, M-M-Mack...
mcmurphy		Good boy, thank you, Billy.
harding		 McMurphy, pass the ball!
mcmurphy		 Harding, pass the ball!
candy		 What's he in for?
big nurse		Who?
candy		Mack!
big nurse		Miss, it's a complicated case. It would take too long to explain.
candy		Yeah, well, he looks like hell!
big nurse		 Billy, it's not polite to stare!
billy		 Miss!
candy		 Hi...
mcmurphy		 Run, Chief, run!
mcmurphy		 Run, Chief, run!
spivey		 Foul!
mcmurphy		 Ya fuckin' coon, you're not on the ward now!
washington		 Take you han's offa me!
spivey		Break it up, boys!  Point counts. One free throw!
mcmurphy		 We got your black ass now, Washington, wanna bet another twenty?
washington		No way...
turkle		 What you boys doin' up at this ungodly time o' the night?
mcmurphy		Prayin', brother. Prayin'.
mcmurphy		'Kay...
mcmurphy		There they are, Chief!
mcmurphy		Where are they goin'?
turkle		I thought I told you boys to go to bed!
mcmurphy		 Our prayers have been answered, Turkle! Our prayers have been answered!
turkle		Oh yeah...
mcmurphy		I tell ya, there's an angel of mercy standing out there, Turkle.
turkle		Hallelujah, brother, now get back in bed!
mcmurphy		Come an' see.
turkle		 That angel of mercy, he ain't a she, is he?
mcmurphy		You's better believe it, brother!
mcmurphy		 Now, wouldn't you pray for twenty bucks, a bottle booze an' a piece of that angel cake?
turkle		 Ah'm on my knees, brother, ah'm on my knees.
mcmurphy		Hiya, girls...
turkle		Shhh...
candy		Whew! Made it!
mcmurphy		 Man, you look good 'nough to eat!
candy		Yeah, well you look like hell warmed over...
turkle		Hey, Mac! Gimme a hand, will ya!
rose		 Whew! Hiya, boys!
turkle		Shhh... let's move it away from the window...
mcmurphy		 Come here, sugar...
turkle		What happened?
rose		 What's that?
turkle		 What?
rose		 That!
turkle		Oh, that. That ain't nothin' to be afraid of, ma'am. Just ol Chief Bromden. That's all...
rose		Is he one of the loonies?
mcmurphy		He's a patient, Rose...
mcmurphy		Yeah...
mcmurphy		He can't hear you, Rose. He's just a big deaf an' dumb indian...
candy		Pssst! Hey Rose! There they are!
rose		 What? Where?
candy		In there.
rose		Wow! They're so quiet.
turkle		They're sleeping, Miss. They're sleeping. An' we gotta keep it down so we don't disturb their sleep.
rose		Are they dangerous when they're awake?
turkle		Oh, no, Miss. Not these loonies. These are nice guys. Nice guys.
candy		What's that smell?
turkle		What smell?
candy		Smells weird. Smells like pneumonia.
turkle		Ammonia, Miss...
rose		Smells like piss. Is this real, Candy? Is this really real? I mean we are in an insane asylum, an' I wanna know how we got ourselves into this scene.
turkle		Shhh, please, Miss. Keep it down...
rose		 Who is he?
mcmurphy		 He's in charge.
turkle		 Not exactly, Miss. Not exactly.
rose		 Ya know him, Mac. Ya remember, Chuck.
mcmurphy		Sure, I know Chuck. I know him.
rose		Well, listen to this. He got mad at me one day. Boy, did he get mad at me. He took the light bulb, ya know. I thought he was going to cram it right up me, ya know. But he ate it. He ate the whole fucking light bulb.  Now, tell me! Is he crazy? Tell me! Is he crazy?
turkle		Well, Miss... I would say... I would say, yes. Yes, he's crazy.
rose		I thought so.
turkle		Is he in an asylum?
rose		He's dead.
turkle		Oh, I see. He was a very sick man. Very sick.
rose		That's what I told his mother. And she said I was crazy. Her son ate the whole fucking light bulb and she said I was crazy.
turkle		I don't know anything about that, Miss. I would have to examine you first...
rose		You ol' fucker!
turkle		Well, I'm running a risk by letting you in, Miss. You know I'm runnin' a risk of gettin' my black ass fired. If you understand what I mean...
mcmurphy		Sure, she understands what you mean. She's not dumb. Why do you think Rose came to visit us? Rose is very interested in hospitals and hospital facilities. Aren't you, Rose?
rose		What?
turkle		I'll be very glad to show you around, Miss...
mcmurphy		Yeah, that's a good idea, Turkle. Why don't ya take Rose on a little tour of our facilities...
rose		Wait a minute...
candy		It's okay, Rose. You can go with him.
rose		Oh yeah! Well if ya don't mind, I'll decide on my own date!
candy		Shit, Rose! What's there to decide? There's only four of us.
rose		Whaddaya talkin' about? There's at least twenty guys in there. Let's wake 'em up and get this party on the road.
turkle		Now, Miss. What do you want with twenty zombies when you got a twenty gun salute looking you right in the face.
rose		Oh, yeah...
turkle		You better believe it, you sweet little thing. You better believe it...
rose		Don't you sweet talk me you ol' spook, you!
turkle		Oh, I'm all through talkin'. Now, let's just you an' me trip on down that hall.
candy		Go with him, Rose. Go with him.
rose		Well, okay, but I just want to look at the facilities. That's all.
turkle		That's all I'm going to show you.
mcmurphy		'Kay, lets get under way.
mcmurphy		Down the ol' hatch, Chief.
candy		Up and at 'em, boys.
billy		 H-H-Hi, Candy...
candy		Hi, Billy.
turkle		 You crazy goons... shut up an' get outta here... Out! Out! Out!
turkle		Shit, it's the soo-per-visor come to fire my black ass.
turkle		 Alla ya goons, get in here!
night supervisor		Oh, there you are, Mister Turkle.
turkle		Evenin', ma'am.
night supervisor		Is everything all right?
turkle		 Why, sure, ma'am...
night supervisor		The lights were flashing on and off, Mister Turkle.
turkle		Jus' cleanin' up, ma'am.
night supervisor		At this hour?
turkle		Cleanliness is a twenty-four-hour job, ma'am...
night supervisor		What are these men doing up wandering around?
turkle		 Ah guess the natives are restless, ma'am...
night supervisor		 You've been drinking on the job again, haven't you, Mister Turkle!
turkle		Ah, no, ma'am... well, yes, ma'am...  A man get awful lonely at night, if ya know what Ah mean, ma'am...
night supervisor		I want those men put back to bed, Mister Turkle!
turkle		Yes, ma'am...
night supervisor		And you haven't heard the last of this!
turkle		Yes, ma'am...
fredrickson		Christ, they even got my first grade report card here...
sefelt		Lemme see...
mcmurphy		 Don't scream, honey...
mcmurphy		Ellis ain't gonna hurt you... Ellis is nice... Nice Ellis... see the nice lady...
mcmurphy		There, see, nice lady touch Ellis...
candy		It's time to hit the road, Mack...
mcmurphy		 Ain't that right, fellas?
mcmurphy		I jus' want you guys to have a good time... Are ya havin' a good time? You... you... good... good... Lez have some fun...
mcmurphy		Whatsa matter with ya...
mcmurphy		Ain'tcha havin' a good time...  Whadaya want? Ya wanna drink? A cigarette...
mcmurphy		Whatsamatter, kid, what's botherin' you...?
billy		Ah-ah-ah-are y-y-y-you g-g-g-going t-t-t-to muh-muh-muh-marry her?
mcmurphy		Marry who?
mcmurphy		Candy? Hell no, Billy, she's just a good friend, that's all...
billy		Wu-wu-wu I-I-I-I th-th-think sh-sh sh-she's th-th-th-the ma-ma-ma-most bu-bu-bu-beautiful wu-wu-wu-woman in th-th-the whole world!
mcmurphy		 Why don't ya go tell 'er...
mcmurphy		Go on, son, now's your chance...
billy		C-C-Candy, wu-wu-will y-y-you mu-mu marry me!
candy		Ah, Billy...
mcmurphy		Come on, you lovers, it's gettin' late...
mcmurphy		 In ya go...
billy		 M-M-M-Mack?
mcmurphy		It's okay, kid. Everything it going to be okay... I'll come back an' getcha in a while... 'Kay...
washington		Come on, get over there!
big nurse		Thank you, Mister Washington! Mister McMurphy, do you know where Billy is?
turkle		 Morning, Miss Ratched...
billy		M-M-M-M-M-M-
big nurse		You should have thought about that before you brought that woman in here!
billy		N-n-n-n-no, no, I du-du-du-didn't, I didn't!
big nurse		I don't want your mother to believe something like this but what am I to think?
billy		Sh-sh-sh-she m-m-made m-m-me do it!
big nurse		Billy, that girl couldn't have pulled you in there forcibly...
billy		Sh-sh-she did! Everybody did!
big nurse		Who? Tell me!
billy		M-M-Muh-Muh-McMurphy!
mcmurphy		Ahhh, Billy...
big nurse		Get up, Billy.
billy		 No! No! No!
big nurse		 Mister Washington.
mcmurphy		 Hey, Billy, stop cryin'. You don't have to cry... You ain't got nothin' to be ashamed of. She ain't gonna tell you mother... stop crying...
washington		Yes, Miss Ratched!
big nurse		 Put him in Doctor Spivey's office!
washington		Yes, Miss Ratched...
mcmurphy		 Let's go!
mcmurphy		 Let's go, Chief...
miller		Hey, what's gone here?
washington		 'Kay, let's have the keys an' nobody get hurt!
candy		 Come on, come on, let's go!
mcmurphy		Billy, oh, Billy boy...
big nurse		Get away from him! Don't you dare touch him!
sefelt		Yes, ma'am...
big nurse		Good...
harding		 Big Ace... a lovely lady... another ace... an' a little trey, hey, hey, whadaya say... hit or sit?
scanlon		Hit!
sefelt		 Ya know what, Fred?
fredrickson		What?
harding		 Big king, too bad...
sefelt		Just wait till you hear...
harding		Hear what?
sefelt		McMurphy killed two attendants and escaped...
harding		When?
sefelt		Yesterday...
harding		Who told you that?
sefelt		Gary Blinker...
scanlon		Gary Blinker's fulla shit!
martini		He's not!
scanlon		He is!
big nurse		Yes, Mister Harding?
harding		Is it true McMurphy killed two attendants and escaped yesterday?
big nurse		No. Mister Harding, that is not true.
big nurse		Thank you...
attendant		Yes, ma'am...
big nurse		 Now, let's find you a place to sit, shall we, Mister McMurphy?
fredrickson		 Lobotomy...
harding		Yeah...
scanlon		Yeah, that Gary Blinker is fulla shit...
big nurse		 Here now, you sit here... That's it...
bromden		 When I first came here I was so scared of being lost I had to holler so they could track me... I figured anything was better than being lost...
****Dialogues from script :Only_God_Forgives.txt****

billy		... I love violence!
julian		Two fifty, three hundred...
julian		He still in there?
the lizard		... No. Beat... Julian glances at Gordon.
julian		You told him I was coming...
the lizard		Wouldn't listen... Julian stares at him...
julian		Well maybe you didn't try hard enough. The Lizard takes the handkerchief away from his nose. Shows the bloodstain to Julian.
the lizard		Just cause I ain't slept for three days, don't mean I don't know right from wrong... and your brother has become a real problem... Again Julian stares at him - clenching his fist. The Lizard notices this but gazes up into Julian's face blankly.
julian		No.
the lizard		Good - 'cause Billy ripped me off and then he broke my face... Julian turns to Gordon.
gordon		Like I always said. One day he's going to meet the devil. Beat.
julian		You know where he is now? The Lizard stares at Julian.
the lizard		Bangkok has millions of people my friend. You and your brother, you're lost to my world... The Lizard gets up - puts out his cigarette and looks at Julian...
julian		You go. I'm gonna look around. See if I can find him.
gordon		Sure--?
julian		Go on. He turns back to The Lizard.
the lizard		His brother didn't pay.
gordon		So? That's his problem.
the lizard		Now it's your problem.
gordon		I'm with you mate. Billy's fucked--
the lizard		You don't pay his debt - you don't enter. Gordon thinks for beat. Takes out his money...
gordon		How much...? ...and The Lizard smiles for the first time.
julian		You seen Billy?
ma long		Not this evening. A particularly pretty prostitute catches Juilan's eye. He stares at her, stone faced.
julian		Well if he comes in, tell him I'm looking for him, yeah?
ma long		He's not coming in. I tell him to stay away. He hurt one of my girls Julian. Not good... Julian considers. Pulls out his wad of notes again. Hands a few to Ma Long.
julian		Yeah, well... if you see him, tell him I'm looking for him... Ma Long nods as she takes the money. Julian is about to leave. He looks at the pretty prostitute again. Stares at her for a moment. Then walks out.
voice		I set off running to wake from the dream My brother's rifle went into the sheen I kept on running Into the south lands That's where they found me My head in my hands
chang		The sheriff he asked me Why I had run And then it came to me Just what I had done And all for no reason Just one piece of lead I hung my head I hung my head. The policemen, still dressed in their uniforms, watch in respectful silence. Daeng sits with them. He too watches in awe.
julian		Julian's not here mate. Fuck off... Beat - then we hear a voice from behind the door.
julian		What is it?
julian		I can't deal with my brother right now... Beat.
julian		What? No answer. Finally Julian gets up and wraps a towel around his body and slowly opens the door. Gordon stands in the hallway - behind him two Thai men from Julian's crew.
gordon		They found his body in a hotel room... Julian doesn't know what to say... Neither does Gordon.
mai		What happened? Julian looks at her.
julian		Someone killed Billy... The camera ZOOMS IN on Mai.
gordon		What do we do?
julian		For now... We wait. Julian glances back at the body...
julian		Hello Mum. Beat.
jenna		I'd like to check in now please. The Concierge checks the computer.
concierge		I'm afraid the room won't be ready until four o'clock. Beat... Jenna just stares at him...
jenna		I'd like to speak to your manager. Beat.
concierge		Yes of course... The Concierge retreats. Jenna lights a cigarette.
manager		Good afternoon madam, what seems to be the problem?
jenna		Listen to me... I've just travelled six thousand miles to see the corpse of my first born son and I haven't slept for thirty hours and he says I can't go to my room. The Manager just stares at her but is clearly taken back by her force...
manager		I'm sorry madam...
jenna		How much?
manager		... it simply isn't possible. Jenna pulls out a massive bundle of notes. Peels off a couple of hundred dollar bills.
jenna		...Fuck off you cunt, just hand me the fucking key... She lays the money on the desk. The manager looks around...
manager		Well I might be able to arrange something... The Manager turns to the Concierge.
jenna		Don't leave the money there. Some cunt'll nick it. Put it in your pocket. The Manager hesitates.
manager		There's really no need--
jenna		Put it in your fucking pocket. The Manager takes the money. Pockets it. Places the key on the desk.
jenna		Hey... Open this. Jenna points to the Duty Free bag then starts running a bath, beginning to undress.
porter		Madam. I have to return to my station. Jenna snaps out of it in an instant.
jenna		What, yeah, thanks. She pulls a fifty dollar bill out of her purse. She hands the money to the Porter who leaves as quickly as he dares.
jenna		Could it be have been one of the gangs?
julian		Maybe. Take your pick. Billy wasn't popular.
jenna		What do you mean?
julian		You know Billy... He was eccentric. Jenna smiles to herself as if this brings back memories and Julian even smiles. Both sit in silence for a moment.
jenna		But you're going to find out who did it, right?
julian		I'll make sure it gets done.
jenna		No, it needs to be you that does it. We need to show them. Do you understand what I'm saying?
julian		Yeah, okay, I'll do it.
jenna		Good. HOLD ON Julian as we bring up the SOUND of Johnny Cash's Ring of Fire.
voice		Love is a burning thing And it makes a firey ring Bound by wild desire I fell into a ring of fire
chang		I fell into a burning ring of fire I went down, down, down And the flames went higher And it burns, burns, burns The Ring of Fire / The Ring of Fire And the cops are all there, Daeng included, watching him...
chang		I fell into a burning ring of fire I went down, down, down And the flames went higher And it burns, burns, burns The Ring of Fire / The Ring of Fire The Cops watch with total devotion.
julian		Ask him if he's Choi Yan Lee. At the mention of his name the colour drains from Choi Yan Lee's face. His eyes lock with Julian's.
julian		Ask him why he killed my brother.
charlie ling		He says he killed his daughter. Julian considers him for a moment. Slowly he pulls out a gun... Aims it at Choi Yan Lee's face...
julian		What's he saying? Beat.
charlie ling		He says... He says he's paid for what he's done. That he's been punished already. Choi Yan Lee nods his head enthusiastically.
julian		Who did that to him? Choi Yan Lee looks at the various faces that surround him - then stares directly at Julian.
julian		What's he saying?
charlie ling		He's lying...
julian		Tell me.
charlie ling		It's a story old women tell their grand children... 'The Angel of Vengeance' is supposed to come down from the heavens and judge the living... restore karma to the world.. Gordon laughs... but Julian listens with great interest...
julian		How does he do that?
charlie ling		Leads people to their destiny... That's the myth anyway. Ko Sam smiles. Julian doesn't. Finally:
julian		Ask him who cut his hand off. Charlie Ling's reluctant to question him further. Julian insists.
charlie ling		He says it was The Angel of Vengeance... Choi Yan Lee starts to giggle uncontrollably.
julian		What's he saying?
julian		What did he say? Charlie Ling considers Choi Yan Lee. Realizes he's not going to get a better answer out of him...
charlie ling		He said you don't find The Angel of Vengeance. He finds you... Julian considers this for a long time. He realises he's not pointing his gun anymore. Puts it away.
gordon		Are we going to kill him or what? The room suddenly feels stuffy. The atmosphere oppressive. Julian's got to get out...
julian		Nothing... We're not going to do anything... Just leave him. Leave them all.
jenna		Did you kill him? Beat. A shared look between Gordon and Julian.
julian		It's a little bit more complicated than that Mum.
jenna		Complicated? He killed my son... What's so fucking complicated about that?
julian		Mum, calm down...
jenna		Don't tell me to calm down. I want him dead. Beat... Julian does not know how to explain the situation. Jenna stares at him.
julian		I know, you always say that - but this is different...
jenna		How? Silence. Julian doesn't know how to answer. Jenna watches him carefully...
julian		Maybe... Maybe Billy had it coming...
jenna		What are you talking about?
julian		...because of what he did. Jenna thinks it over for a moment.
jenna		I don't care.
julian		Why?
jenna		Just don't - some Thai cunt murdered your brother and we're not going to let him get away with it.
julian		What if... What if it was The Angel of Vengeance? Jenna stares at her son like he's finally lost the plot.
jenna		The Angel of fucking what...?
julian		...it - or he - restores karma and order in the world.
jenna		'Restores' things? Who said anything about 'restoring' things? Beat.
julian		He loves all humans...
jenna		I don't know what kind of spiritual journey you're on, but you will kill
julian		I'm not, I'm just... Julian can't get the words out. He gets up.
jenna		How's business?
gordon		It's alright, yeah. Well, what with Billy not being around, it's tricky to be honest...
jenna		What d'you mean?
gordon		Well, we're supposed to be moving five keys out the end of this week. But Billy's not here, is he?
jenna		I'm here. Julian's here. Gordon shrugs. Jenna clocks it.
gordon		I don't know. Earlier today - we had the guy... The guy that killed Billy. Had a gun against his face. But then - nothing...
jenna		Nothing?
gordon		Julian let him go. Now there's all this stuff about angels... I don't know what the fuck's wrong with him.
jenna		Not like you... Gordon smiles at her uncertainly.
gordon		I know how to do what needs to be done. That's all. She stares at him, long enough to make him uncomfortable.
jenna		So tell me... What did he mean when he said it was complicated?
gordon		There's this other guy... Might have been involved...
jenna		So we kill them both.
gordon		We don't know who the other guy is yet...
jenna		Okay. Well how about we start with the guy we do know?
mai		Sorry I'm late.
julian		It's alright... He drinks his drink. Silence...
mai		What's wrong?
julian		Nothing. Mai looks around the bar... It's half empty - some girls and men spread out. The waitress comes over and Mai orders a drink. They sit in silence, listening to the song...
mai		See anyone you want us to take home tonight? Julian glances round but shakes his head. Looks at Mai.
julian		Nothing...
mai		What's with you? You want to get high? Beat. Silence. Finally...
julian		I want you to meet my Mum. A pause, Mai slightly taken about.
mai		Is she here? Julian nods.
julian		To show her... To show that I've got something here...
mai		What, like we're a couple? Julian stares at her for a long time. Can't quite say it out loud, but the answer's yes.
gordon		Never come back - you understand me? Liang nods.
julian		When did you last see him?
liang's sister		Last night. He went out.
julian		Did he have any enemies?
liang's sister		None.
liang's sister		Someone called his mobile.
julian		Who?
liang's sister		She doesn't know. They spoke in English. Liang's Mother pulls out a mobile phone. Passes it to Julian.
julian		This his phone? Liang's Sister nods. Julian scrolls through the numbers. All have Thai names against them - except one. Julian considers the number, then redials. A beat. Then the SOUND of a phone ringing in the same room. Gordon looks round. Realises he's busted. Takes his phone out. Kills it. Julian stares at him. Before he gets a chance to say anything, there is a knock on the door.
juilan		What do they want?
julian		No, I'll talk to them.
julian		Good morning officers. How can I help you? Slowly Chang turns to face him. Julian stares at him as if he's in a trance...
kim		We're investigating the murder of Choi Yan Lee. Julian recovers. Turns to Kim and shrugs.
julian		Never heard of him.
kim		His arm was cut off. Here. Julian manages to cover his reaction.
julian		I run a boxing club. Not much call for one armed men. A beat. Mexican stand off.
kim		He was the father of the girl that was found dead with your brother.
julian		Then I guess you boys have got a lot of work to do - so have I, so if you'll excuse me...
kim		That's why we're here Mr Hopkins. If you could just answer our questions.
julian		Sure, sorry. What do you want to know? Julian looks over to Chang who continues staring at the boxers. The way the ring is lit he's almost silhouetted.
kim		Where were you last night?
julian		With my mum... Some of the boxers come over to Chang. They know him. They're reverential. With the effect of the lighting, it seems to Julian like they're bowing down before a God.
kim		That wont be necessary at the moment.
julian		Am I suspect? Chang turns round to face Julian. His presence is magnetic. Julian stares back at him, realizing that this must be the Angel of Vengeance... Chang walks over to them. Studies Julian for a long moment and then turns to Kim.
julian		I want you to find out who that guy is. Okay?
gordon		Sure. No problem.
julian		Now. The SOUND of Nadee singing 'LONELY COMING DOWN' by Dolly Parton.
chang		Why are you here?
julian		You're him... Aren't you?
chang		Who?
julian		The one who killed my brother. Chang says nothing for a long time.
chang		I love all living things. Beat.
julian		I came here to kill you.
chang		What's stopping you?
julian		I don't know...
chang		Would you like me to tell you? Julian nods.
julian		Yes.
chang		Why?
julian		Cause, all my life... I don't know.
chang		Yes you do.
julian		My mother wants me to kill you. Chang stares back at him.
chang		And what do you want?
julian		... I love violence.
chang		You want to fight me? Julian nods.
julian		Thai style.
phaibun		He used to be a great boxer.
kim		He has to do it. Since he came out of the coma, that's what he's done. Whatever's been asked of him, he's done it. He can't help it. It's all a mystery... A mutual pause.
daeng		And if he loses?
phaibun		He can't lose. He's the Angel of Vengeance.
chang		View.
nadee		Window. `She points at the table.
chang		Table.
nadee		Do you like the table?
chang		Yes. I like the table. Chang stiffens. Nadee detects the change in him.
nadee		What is it? Chang takes her in his arms. He starts kissing her neck.
chang		I need to speak to you in Thai. A pause.
mai		What is it?
julian		You can't wear that.
mai		Why not?
julian		My mother's... Very particular about colours.
mai		You're kidding?
julian		She hates red. Come on, we'll get you something else. Mai stares at him, reluctant to give in.
mai		This is insane.
julian		Look, I'm telling you. It's easier this way. Trust me. Mai gives in. Takes his hand.
jenna		So... May, isn't it?
julian		It's Mai, Mum.
jenna		How long have you two known each other then? Mai's about to answer but Juilan gets there first.
julian		A year and a half isn't it? Beat as Mai quickly counts in her head...
mai		...that sounds about right.
jenna		Well it's always a rare treat to meet one of Julian's lady friends.
julian		Mum, please...
jenna		So, where did you two meet?
julian		I saw her walking down the street. Jenna raises an eyebrow...
jenna		I hear that happens a lot in this part of the world... Tell me, what's your line of work, Mai?
mai		I work in the service industry.
jenna		I bet you do. But tell me Mai, before you started serving my son, how many cocks were you serving? Was it over a thousand? Mai stares at Jenna in disbelief.
julian		Mum, stop it, for fuck's sake.
jenna		I'm sorry Julian, but I won't stand by and let a dirty little hooker take advantage of my son in the vain hope that her womb isn't so diseased that she can trick him into impregnating her and putting another cocksucking child on to this earth.
julian		Leave her alone Mum. You've got her wrong. She's a good girl.
jenna		What do you know about what's good? Beat. Julian says nothing.
mai		He's good to me...
jenna		Well that's nice isn't it, I'm really happy for you--
julian		Mum! A pause.
jenna		Oh really, shame that, still, live by the sword, die by the sword...
julian		I know it was you, Mum.
jenna		I did what had to be done.
julian		He was there. He was with them.
jenna		Who?
julian		The Angel of Vengeance.
jenna		D'you kill him?
julian		No.
jenna		Cause he as good as killed Billy. What I want to know is, what are you going to do about it?
julian		I'm not going to kill him...
jenna		Yes you are. You're going to do it for me and you're going to do it for your brother.
julian		This isn't about Billy. This is about me. All my life I've been running...
jenna		That's right you cunt, cause you always run away whenever there's a problem... just like you're running away from killing this fucking Angel of whatever
julian		- his name is Chang-
jenna		Chang?! Mai stands up.
mai		I should be going now.
jenna		Sit down you cunt.
julian		Mum, don't talk to her like that. Mai sits down.
jenna		So what am I left with? Julian stares at her.
julian		Me. Jenna calms down. She looks at their reflections in the mirror behind the bar. We ZOOM in on the mirror, their faces refracted by the glass.
jenna		You're right. We're family. We stick together. But Billy was family too.
julian		Billy was a fuck up... He deserved everything he got. You know it and I know it.
jenna		That's it. I'm not listening to this. I don't ever want to hear you mention his name again... Do you hear me?
julian		Yeah we were brothers, but we were never close... And he was only in Bangkok cause you couldn't control him. So you sent him to me--
jenna		You could have protected him.
julian		I did what I could. And that's more than you ever did.
jenna		I would've done anything for him. Okay, he wasn't born with as many advantages as you were. He struggled with things. But I always stood by him.
julian		And what did that get him? I'll tell you what, a one way ticket to this fucking place, just like me.
jenna		Don't you dare blame me for what happened back then.
julian		I'm only here 'cause of you. If you didn't exist, I wouldn't be here. Beat.
jenna		You would've been a great fighter... You could've gone pro.
julian		Don't you think I know that? And look at me now. I'm a front for a drugs smuggling. He turns to Mai.
jenna		At least you're not behind bars and that's more important to me. Julian turns to her - he has been waiting all his life to say this.
julian		That's right Mum. That's what's more important to you. But what about me? Sometimes I think you only got me out of there so the cops couldn't trace it back to you... Jenna stares at him. Her face a mask.
jenna		Surprise me.
julian		'Cause I'm going to fight him. In the ring. Me versus him.
jenna		Well that seems sensible... And what do you hope that's going to achieve?
julian		I don't expect you to understand. Cause you don't understand anything that isn't about you.
jenna		And when you lose, what's going to happen then?
julian		I don't know... But maybe this time I'll win. Like you say, only God forgives. Maybe this time he'll forgive me... Jenna turns to Mai.
jenna		Do you understand what he's talking about? 'Cause I haven't got a fucking a clue.
julian		You never did, Mum. A pause. Julian's touched a nerve. Jenna recovers.
jenna		I hope you find what you're looking for. 'Cause if you don't, it's going to find you and I'm not always going to be there to look after you. Jenna composes herself. Suddenly brightens. A different person.
mai		Are you alright? He's not. He's crying. But he doesn't want anyone to see.
julian		I'm fine. Beat.
gordon		Nice evening?
jenna		Lovely, yeah. Just catching up, you know. Jenna sits down. Lights a cigarette.
gordon		Well, I don't know about that. Just been out here a while... Know how to get things done.
jenna		I bet you do.
gordon		But things are going to shit. Since Billy died, Julian's all over the place...
jenna		We'll have to something about that the, wont we? But, first things first, what about Chang?
gordon		Who?
jenna		My son's guardian angel.
gordon		He's just a retired cop...
jenna		Good, then he won't be to hard to kill, will he?
gordon		It's not that simple... Is there somewhere we can go that's a little more private? Beat. She raises her eyebrows.
jenna		What did you have in mind? Gordon blushes. Moves closer, conspiratorial...
gordon		You can't just going round killing cops here anymore. It's not that easy.
jenna		I didn't say it was easy. But then, you're a resourceful man, aren't you?
gordon		I looked into it. Chang's a hard man to get to. None of the Thais'll go near him...
jenna		Well then you're going to have to find someone who's not a fucking Thai then, aren't you?
gordon		There might be a way... But Julian can't find out... Jenna looks at Gordon - smiles and crosses her legs.
jenna		Don't you worry about that. There are certain things that a mother and son shouldn't - and don't - discuss... Gordon thinks he does but isn't a hundred per cent sure.
mai		What are you doing?
julian		Seeing when it hurts. Mai watches him. He doesn't flinch.
mai		I'm going to go. Julian takes his hand off the flame. Sees she's left the clothes he bought her behind.
julian		Didn't you like what I got you?
mai		It's fine, but you know... It's not my style.
julian		What do you mean?
mai		Maybe you should give it to your mother.
julian		Don't to be so hard on her. Her life hasn't been easy.
mai		Come on Julian. She's a fucking bitch.
julian		Don't say that, okay? You don't know what you're talking about. She'd do anything for me.
mai		The way she talks to you --
julian		Don't go there.
mai		What? 'Don't talk about my mother'? Come on Julian. Julian stands up, angry.
julian		You don't get to judge her. You think she's bad? You should've met my dad. But he's not around anymore, and do you know why? Cause she loved me too much. He lets go of her neck. Mai rubs her neck.
mai		You're fucked. He pulls money out of his pocket.
julian		How much do I owe you? He forces a roll of notes into her hand, forcing her to take it.
mai		Fuck you. She opens the door, sets fire to the money, and walks out of the room. As she walks down the hotel corridor, Julian slams his fists into the wall.
yuri karkov		... so why do you want to kill a policeman? Policemen are good. They mind their own business and keep the streets safe. Stop people stealing my cars...
jenna		You really want to know?
yuri karkov		Yes. It may effect the price.
jenna		He killed my son.
yuri karkov		Revenge. Pricey...
jenna		This is Bangkok. Nothing's that expensive.
yuri karkov		You're right. Most things are cheap in Bangkok. Especially life... We'll take care of this business for you. But it won't be easy and it won't be cheap.
yuri		You better have a fucking good reason for doing this. Don't you know who you're fucking with. Chang looks at him.
yuri		Can someone tell me what the fuck this guy's trying to say... Chang calls over to the barman.
dimitri		It was an English woman - she wanted you dead... A beat. Not what Chang expected...
chang		Why?
dimitri		Said you... murdered her son....
chang		Who was she?
dimitri		I don't know...
chang		How did she know me? Dimitri shakes his head. He really doesn't know.
dimitri		She asked for you by name...
chang		And what's my name?
nadee		I hope life treats you kind And I hope you have all you've dreamed of... And I wish you, joy and happiness.
chang		But above all this, I wish you love. And I will always love you.
julian		Come on. Chang retreats. Shrugs at Julian. You come on. Julian moves towards him, but before he gets a chance to take out his frustrations, the bell goes. End of round one. Julian stalks back to his corner. He turns to look at Chang, a look of intense anger and frustration.
chang		It wasn't you, was it? Julian shrugs, puts his guard up.
julian		What are you talking about?
chang		It's not your fault. Chang raises his arms again. Ready to fight. Julian gets ready to attack but something's changed. The fire's gone out of him. He looks over to his mother, to Mai, Chang's words echoing in his mind. It's not his fault. Then Chang comes in with a flurry of punches. Left, right, left, right. Julian just takes them... Chang pauses in the onslaught. Julian stays motionless in the middle of the ring. Chang runs at him, flings his right foot, swivels, pulling out a roundhouse left kick - - which makes contact with Julian's draw. SLOW MOTION as Julian's head takes the impact. He's out cold before he hits the floor.
jenna		He doesn't want to see anyone. Mai is disappointed. Doesn't know what to say.
mai		...tell him I came?
jenna		Of course. Jenna hugs Mai close.
jenna		You deserved to win. You should've
julian		Give it a break mum. Just... give it as rest. He steps into the light. She reaches out to touch him.
jenna		I'll never get use to seeing you get hurt - even when you win.
julian		Yeah, well I lost.
jenna		And did it make a difference? Julian says nothing.
julian		... No... it didn't make a difference... No difference at all.
jenna		And how do you feel now?
julian		Nothing. I don't feel anything at all.
jenna		Don't you see, that's how I felt when Billy died... Julian studies his mother.
julian		What do you want, Mum? Beat.
jenna		What d'you think I want? I want it to be like it used to be... I don't want to lose you... Jenna starts crying. Could be real, could be an act - hard to tell she's so good...
julian		What's wrong Mum? She shakes her head. Can't say it.
jenna		He knows... He knows it was me.
julian		Who does? Beat. Jenna says nothing. Julian thinks... Cogs turn...
jenna		He's going to come after me. And after he's come after me, he's going to come after you. Julian stares at his mother; fragile, terrified, alone.
julian		We'll be okay - I'll do it, I'll take him out...
jenna		Not just him. We've got to take them all out. Julian stares at her - the power she has over him...
julian		We're outside.
julian		I need you here. Right now.
julian		Okay. Julian kills his phone. He's still for a moment, then:
kim		They wont disturb us. Chang nods. The elevator door opens.
chang		What floor?
kim		Top.
julian		What's it say? Charlie starts reading the article out:
charlie ling		"Boxing Cop Hero Back From Grave". One of Bangkok's finest, blah blah blah, came out of a coma that lasted for an entire year, waking up as if nothing had happened... Wife was really happy, blah blah blah... "It's hard to describe" Chang said, "but I do feel different." Charlie starts to sneer as he reads. Julian is listening intently.
julian		The Angel Of Vengeance.
jenna		I came here to collect my son's body. Now it's released, my business in Bangkok is completed.
kim		When are you leaving?
jenna		Tonight.
kim		And your other son - is he going with you?
jenna		I've had no real contact with Julian since he ran away.
kim		You watched him fight. Jenna looks over to Chang.
jenna		I watched him lose. And he deserved to. You were the better fighter. My only sadness is that Billy got caught up in what he's doing out here. And paid for it with his life. Kim and the rest of the crew take this in.
charlie ling		Wait... Julian turns back. Charlie Ling nods towards Kanita's room.
julian		No way.
julian		Who said? Beat.
charlie ling		If you've got a problem, talk to her.
julian		No. We're not doing it.
charlie ling		You don't have to. I will. Charlie Ling kicks open the door. Julian realises he can't let him do it. And as Charlie Ling sees Kanita... Julian shoots him in the back. Charlie Ling slumps to the floor. Julian approaches the doorway. He looks in. Sees Kanita sitting on her bed. She stares at Julian, Charlie Ling's dead body at his feet. They hold each other's gaze... and then Julian slowly bows his head and leaves...
julian		Only God forgives. And now mother - you will die... He rings the bell, raising the shotgun, ready to shoot. The door
gordon		Easy... Julian says nothing. Edges into the room. The gun still pointed at Gordon's head. Julian says nothing. Kicks the door closed with his foot.
julian		Where's is she?
gordon		She's gone... Picked up Billy's body... She's gone home. Finally Julian lowers the shotgun.
julian		I'm so fucked...
gordon		We're good mates aren't we? Beat. Julian's instantly suspicious...
julian		... Yeah.
gordon		I'm sorry about this Julian. I wish there was another way... Gordon levels a pistol at Julian's head.
julian		What did she say? What did she promise you?
gordon		Don't make this harder-- GUNSHOT. A bullet RIPS through Julian's shoulder. He falls back on the car behind him setting off a chorus of car alarms. Gordon starts to walk round to deliver the killer blow.
mai		What happened to you? Beat. Julian almost smiles.
julian		I've got to get out of Bangkok. Didn't want to leave... He winces.
mai		Who did this to you? A pause.
julian		My mother... She made me what I am. And now I've got nothing. And they're after me. Mai stares at him.
mai		Come with me... Julian looks at her.
julian		I got about twelve grand at the club... Should be enough to get us there. Set ourselves up. Disappear...
mai		Now?
julian		Right now. Mai looks around - they're alone.
mai		Wait outside...
mai		Let's go.
julian		Stay here. If I'm not out in five minutes... Go. Mai nods.
mai		Five minutes. Julian nods and slams the door shut. Mai watches Juilan disappear into the building.
chang		Let's go. We TRACK IN to a CLOSE SHOT on Julian. It's almost as if this moment was inevitable.
julian		I'm sorry...
julian		Don't hurt her. He kicks him in the stomach.
julian		I'm sorry... Chang kicks him again - like you would kick a dog... Juilan groans. Chang squats down next to him.
julian		I don't know... I'm sorry. Chang gets up and walks on. He stops and turns round.
julian		Dark... Darkness. Chang looks at him in a strange way - like this answer has some meaning for him.
julian		No... Never. Chang considers this answer for a long moment. He gets up and returns to Mai - stares at her....
chang		Country roads, take me home to the place I belong West Virginia, mountain momma Take me home, country roads.. The Cops sit and watch him. Their leader... Their God...
chang		Country roads, take me home to the place I belong West Virginia, mountain momma Take me home, country roads Take me home, country roads Take me home, country roads
****Dialogues from script :Ordinary_People.txt****

choir		 In the silence of our souls, O Lord, we contemplate Thy peace
choir		 Free from all the world's desires Free of fear and all anxiety Ooooh. Ooooh Ooooh. Ooooh Alleluia Alleluia Sing Alleluia!
man		Do you know we've made love one hundred and thirteen times?
5.		4   CONTINUED:                                                   4
woman		No, one.
man		So I don't know everything about you. I don't know your favorite movie stars. I can't remember the name of your favorite perfume. I have racked my brain and I can't remember.
woman		That's funny. It's "My Sin."
man		But I do know, in the last twenty four years, that I have never been out of love with you.
calvin		Well, did we like it?
friend's wife		I loved it.
beth		Bev Walsh was wonderful.
6.		5   CONTINUED:                                                   5
friend's wife		I liked them all.
calvin		It was funny.
friend		It was a comedy. Wasn't it? Essentially?
friend's wife		Well let's face it: Clyde Banner's getting fat.
beth		Yes.
friend's wife		He should never turn profile.
calvin		Most of us shouldn't turn profile.
beth		What was it you were you thinking about?
calvin		When?
conrad		Yeah?
7.		8   CONTINUED:                                                 8
calvin		You okay?
conrad		Mmm, mm. Yeah. How was the show?
calvin		Mmmh. Trouble sleeping?
conrad		No.
calvin		You're sure?
conrad		Mm-hmm.
calvin		Burning the midnight oil?
conrad		Yeah.
calvin		Okay.
conrad		No.
calvin		Well, the month's up. I think we should stick to the plan.
conrad		The plan was if I needed to call him.
calvin		Yeah. Okay. Don't worry about it. Get some sleep. By the way, I am working on those Michigan State tickets.
8.		8    CONTINUED:                                                    8
conrad		Okay.
beth		 What about the Warrens, did you call them?
calvin		 Yeah, they said they'll make it some evening soon.
calvin		"Joey Georgella. New football coach for Trinity."
calvin		 Did you check with Jane for the Michigan State tickets?
9.		14   CONTINUED:                                                 14
beth		Yes. She'll talk to John. Where's Conrad? This'll get cold.
calvin		Con!
calvin		 Will you drop those suits at the cleaners for me?
beth		They won't be back by Saturday.
calvin		That's okay. Connie!
conrad		I'll be right there!
calvin		Here he is!
conrad		Morning.
beth		Morning.
conrad		Morning.
10.		18   CONTINUED:                                                   18
calvin		Did you sleep?
conrad		Yeah.
calvin		Hungry?
conrad		 Uh...uh... hungry, uh?
beth		It's French toast. It's your favorite.
calvin		Yeah.
conrad		Uh... I'm not really hungry.
calvin		Breakfast, pal, remember? Main meal. Energy!
beth		You're not hungry, you're not hungry!
calvin		Wait a minute, Beth, Hang on. He's gonna eat it. Come on.  It's French toast.
beth		There's fresh fruit for you when you get home from school later.
calvin		What are you doing? What are you doing?
11.		18   CONTINUED:                                                   18
beth		You can't save French toast.
calvin		You have to charm Mr. Herman. Did you charm him?  You have to eat, Con. We just want you keep on getting stronger.
conrad		Dad, I'm not hungry.
calvin		Are you okay?
conrad		Yeah. I got to go. Lazenby's picking me up.
calvin		Oh. Is he? Great!
conrad		Why is it great?
calvin		Well. I don't see the old gang much anymore. I miss them. Bring them around... Phil, Don, and Dick Van Buren. We'll play some touch football on the lawn.
conrad		See you later.
calvin		Con!
lazenby		 It's called flake.
lazenby		Jarrett. Come on!
stillman		Uh, we're late `cause little Dickie's mom had to pack his lunch.
stillman		That guy wants a goddamn personal analysis of it all. How do you make sense of that crap, anyway?
lazenby		You read the crap!
stillman		Yeah. Right! We swim our ass everyday, when are we supposed to study, uh?.
lazenby		I swim and I study.
13.		20   CONTINUED:                                                 20
stillman		Get a sense of reality, Lazenby.  What you reading?
conrad		Hardy.
stillman		Meditation?
lazenby		It's just like thinking, Stillman. No, I don't do it too often.
stillman		 Ain't that junior English? You got all junior classes this year? They didn't pass you on anything?
lazenby		Stillman, you know they don't pass you on... breathing in that dump if you don't take the final.
lazenby		We're going to be late.
14.		20   CONTINUED:                                                 20
lazenby		Yes, it looks like shit. Thanks.
stillman		Hey, hey, hey! Hey, there's Pratt.
stillman		Let me out, I need a jump.
lazenby		No dirty stuff out of the window.
stillman		Hey. Interested in something. Jarrett?
teacher		How about we discuss some theory, here? Conrad, what's your theory on Jude Fawley? Conrad?
15.		22   CONTINUED:                                                   22
conrad		Uh...
teacher		Do you think he was powerless in the grip of circumstances... or could he have helped himself?
conrad		I don't... Uh...Powerless? I guess he thought he was, yeah.
joel		The guy was a real jerk. He was hung up on what was the moral thing to do. It didn't make any sense.
teacher		I think that's a little too easy, Joel. Paul? What do you think?
paul		I found the book hard to follow. I couldn't figure it out.
dr berger		 Hello?
conrad		Hello.
dr berger		Hello?
conrad		Uh, Dr. Berger?
16.		24   CONTINUED:                                                 24
dr berger		 Yes?
conrad		Hi. This is Conrad Jarrett calling.
dr berger		Who?
conrad		Conrad Jarrett! Dr. Crawford at Hillsboro Hospital gave me your number... and...
dr berger		Oh, yes! I'm with a patient now. Can you call back at two fifteen?
conrad		I don't think I'll be free.
dr berger		Then give me your number. I'll call you tonite. Hello? Hello?
conrad		Uh, that's OK, I'll try to call you back. Thanks.
coach salan		Go! OK, Come on, now! Move it, you guys! Move it! Keep it going! Keep it going! Keep it going! Come on! Keep plugging! Plugging! Use those legs! Use those legs! Lazenby, get with it! Jarrett, keep your head down! Work it out there! Work it! Come on, now! Come on! Push off! Get your head down. Jarrett! Come on! Keep it up! Keep it going! Dig! Dig! Dig in there! Come on! Get at it! Push on. Jarrett! Push on!
beth		Was he actually a client of yours?
calvin		Well. Regionally.
beth		It's too bad.
calvin		I mean.. it's tragic. Really. Look at him now. He's lost everything.
beth		Fish too dry?
calvin		It's not too dry.
beth		They have a new mechanic at C&S.
calvin		What happened to little Harry?
beth		I don't know. I think he took a job in Skokie. Anyway, this new mechanic is so ...awkward.  Is that shirt ripped? Leave it on the table in the hallway.
calvin		That girl from the hospital, the one you painted with, she was from Skokie, wasn't she?
conrad		Uh, uh.
calvin		What was her name?
conrad		Karen.
18.		27   CONTINUED:                                                 27
calvin		Sharon?
conrad		Karen!
calvin		Karen.
beth		Conrad, do you want me to sign you up for round robin at the club?
conrad		I haven't played in a year.
beth		Well, don't you think it's time to start?
calvin		 Good god, not the Murrays...
conrad		Lift the rope off Bucky!
buck		We're going in!
conrad		 Give me your hand!
conrad		Bucky!
conrad		Fuck! Fuck! Ha...
conrad		Oh, hi. How are you? /.../ Oh. I'm fine /.../ Couldn't be better, really. Oh, terrific, yeah.
dr berger		Ha! Hi! Come in. It's OK,     they all do that.
20.		35   CONTINUED:                                                   35
conrad		Not yet.
dr berger		Hmm.... Jarrett. How long since you've been out of the hospital?
conrad		A month and a half.
dr berger		Feeling depressed?
conrad		No.
dr berger		On stage?
conrad		Pardon me?
dr berger		People nervous... treating you like you're ...a dangerous character?
conrad		Yeah. I guess a little.
dr berger		Are you?
21.		35   CONTINUED:                                                35
conrad		I don't know.
dr berger		How long were you in the hospital?
conrad		Four months.
dr berger		What did you do?
conrad		I tried to off myself. Isn't it down there?
dr berger		It doesn't say what your method was.
conrad		Double-edged Super Blue.
dr berger		Oh.
conrad		Yeah.
dr berger		Friends?
conrad		Yeah.
dr berger		OK?
conrad		Yeah.
dr berger		Everything...
conrad		Yeah.
22.		35   CONTINUED:                                                 35
dr berger		You're back in school? Everything okay at school? Teachers?
conrad		Yeah.
dr berger		No problems?
conrad		Uh-uh.
dr berger		So why are you here?
conrad		Uh... I'd like to be more in control, I guess.
dr berger		Why?
conrad		So people can quit worrying about me.
dr berger		Who's worried about you?
conrad		My father, mostly. This is his idea.
dr berger		What about your mother? Isn't she worried about you, too?
conrad		I don't know, listen. You... You're a friend of Dr Crawford, so you're probably all right, but I'll be straight with you, I don't like this already.
dr berger		Well, as long as you're straight.
conrad		What do you know about me?   Have you talked to Crawford?
23.		35   CONTINUED:                                                   35
dr berger		Yes. He   called me on the phone. He told me   your name and... he told me to look   for you. And, uh... he said you had   a brother who died. A... boating   accident, wasn't it? Want to tell   me about it?
conrad		Right.
dr berger		How did that go?
conrad		It didn't change anything.
dr berger		Why do you want to change?
conrad		I told you, I'd like to be more in control.
dr berger		Why?
conrad		I told you, so people can quit worrying about me.
dr berger		Well. I'll tell you something. I'll be straight with you, okay? I'm not big on control. But it's your money.
conrad		So to speak.
dr berger		So to speak. Okay...
24.		35   CONTINUED:                                                 35
conrad		Twice...   a week?
dr berger		Well. Control's a tough nut.
conrad		I've got swim practice every night.
dr berger		Well. That's a problem. How do we solve that?
conrad		Guess I'll have to skip practice twice a week, and come here.
dr berger		Well. It's up to you.
conrad		I don't like being here. I got to tell you I don't like being here at all.
dr berger		Mm-mmm.
beth		The one from Idaho?
calvin		The one with the restaurant.
beth		Did she die in Idaho?
calvin		I guess so. Why?
25.		36   CONTINUED:                                                 36
beth		You said she was always traveling. I just... wondered if she died in Idaho.
calvin		I don't know. Maybe she died in Idaho. Maybe Kansas City.
conrad		I went to see Dr. Berger.
calvin		Berger?
conrad		Yeah.
calvin		Did you?
conrad		Yeah.
calvin		Good! You didn't say anything. Good!
conrad		I went.
calvin		When?
conrad		Today.
beth		I didn't know you made an appointment.
calvin		How did it go?
conrad		If it's too much money, I don't have to go. It's not necessary...
26.		36   CONTINUED:                                                 36
calvin		 Don't worry about the money, it's okay.
conrad		Well it's 50 $ an hour. Twice a week.
calvin		Ah, it's okay. And it is necessary. What did you talk about?
conrad		Not much.
calvin		What about your schedule? Will that be all right?
conrad		Well, it'll cut into swim practice.
beth		Where's his office?
conrad		Highland Park.
coach salan		 Keep that head straight Genthe! I don't want to tell you again!
conrad		Yeah.
coach salan		Well, are you having fun out there?
conrad		Fun?
27.		37   CONTINUED:                                                 37
coach salan		There's no point if you're not having fun. Right?
conrad		Yeah. I guess so.
coach salan		You guess so...? Are you on medication, Jarrett? Tranquilizers? Anything?
conrad		No. No, sir.
coach salan		Did I ask you if they gave you shock out there?
conrad		Yeah.
coach salan		Yeah what?
conrad		Yeah. You asked me. Yeah, they did.
coach salan		Don't look at us, Lazenby! Get your ass in the water! Look at the bottom of the pool! You know, I'm no doctor, Jarrett. I would never have let them put electricity in my head.
stillman		Everybody drives you nuts.
conrad		They look very good.
28.		38   CONTINUED:                                                 38
lazenby		He gives everybody a hard time, Dickie.
jeannine's friend		You guys don't want a clarinet, do you?
stillman		Yeah, Van Buren wants a clarinet.
jeannine's friend		My brother. He needs a motorcycle.
dickie van buren		Uh, uh... I need a new pair of shoes.
stillman		You need a new personality.
jeannine		 You, you stand behind me in the choir.
conrad		Oh? I do? You do? Is that you?
jeannine		You have a lot of energy.
conrad		I do?
jeannine		Yeah. I mean, That's good. My name's Jeannine Pratt.
conrad		Nice. Hi!
jeannine's friend		You're Conrad Jarrett, remember?
29.		38   CONTINUED:                                                  38
conrad		Right. Hum. Yeah. Um. Bye.
jeannine		Bye-bye.
lazenby		"You've got a lot of energy."
beth		You're the scariest ghost I've ever seen! And the tiger and the witch... You all look just wonderful. Take an apple.
children		Thank you.
beth		There you go. Be careful.
children		Thank you Mrs Jarrett, bye.
beth		Good-bye.
children		Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha!
30.		41   CONTINUED:                                                  41
calvin		Mmm?
beth		That Christmas in London would be like something out of Dickens. We've never done that before, right? Christmas in London?
calvin		Maybe we shouldn't plan to go away right now.
beth		Yes, we talked about that.   We decided on that.
calvin		Yeah. I know we talked about it, but the more I talk about it, the more the timing doesn't seem right.
beth		 Calvin, we've always gone away at Christmas time.
calvin		I know.
beth		I think...  I think it would be good for him too. Isn't it time we got back to normal?
calvin		He's just started with this doctor.
beth		Alright, so he'll miss three weeks. Why interrupt it?
calvin		No. If he doesn't go through with this now, he might change his mind.
beth		Alright then if he changes his mind, maybe it's not something that was right for him to do.
31.		41   CONTINUED:                                                   41
calvin		You talked to him about it? Does he want to go to London?
beth		I don't think he knows what he wants to do.
beth		HA!
conrad		Oh, I'm sorry.
beth		Don't do that!
conrad		I'm sorry, I...
beth		Ha. I didn't think you were here
conrad		I'm sorry, I just got in. I didn't... I didn't know you were here.
32.		46   CONTINUED:                                                 46
beth		I didn't play golf, today. It's too cold.
conrad		How's your golf game?
beth		I didn't play.
conrad		Oh...   It did get colder today.
beth		No, I mean, ...for the year it's colder.
conrad		Yeah.
beth		Weren't you swimming today?
conrad		Uh-huh. Sorry I scared you.
beth		How'd it go?
conrad		Good. I swam well, today.
beth		Good.
conrad		Yeah. Personaly I think I could swim the 50 if my timing got...
beth		Off.
conrad		...my timing got better. I'm a just a little...   a little off with my... my timing.
beth		Well, you have to work at that.
33.		47   CONTINUED:                                                  47
conrad		Yeah. Oh, I got seventy four on a trig quiz.
beth		Seventy four? Gee, I was awful at trig.
conrad		Oh? Did you...? You took Trig?
beth		Wait a minute... Did I take trig? That's... - uh...? I bought you two shirts. They're on your bed.
calvin		Who's gonna be there?
beth		Well. The Murrays of course, and the Gunthers, and the Caines, and... the good old us.
calvin		Why don't we just go to the movies instead?
beth		Don't be negative.
calvin		That's not negative. That's unpredictable. Come on. Let's really go to the movies.
beth		Okay.
calvin		Really?
34.		48   CONTINUED:                                                   48
beth		Okay. Yeah. Come on. Let's go. What's our excuse?
calvin		Beth wanted to go to the movies?
beth		Good. Very good.
beth		All right now, smile.
beth		Hello Gladyce. Will you put that with the rest of them?
mrs murray		Hello! Look who's here! Three blocks away and the last to arrive.
beth		Clark! Happy birthday! You look wonderful for a 75-year-old!
35.		50   CONTINUED:                                                  50
mrs murray		Yes. It is. Do you like it?
beth		You did the mousse? It turned out well?
calvin		Hey. Partner. How are you?
ray hanley		Hey, pal!
beth		Hi there.
woman #1		Hi. Beth.
beth		Good to see you, and where were you at the lunch last week?
murray		I was thinking of going public.
man #3		I wouldn't do that,      I wouldn't do it now...
murray		Why not?
man #3		...because the market's low.
beth		Your hair looks wonderful. It's shorter, isn't it? I like that.
36.		50   CONTINUED:                                                  50
beth		Good to see you! You look beautiful. As ever.
beth		What are these hushed tones all about?
calvin		Why?
murray		When can we have lunch?
37.		50   CONTINUED:                                                  50
calvin		Where is he going?
calvin		Jesus.
beth		No. You didn't. You're so mean. Isn't he the meanest man you've met?
guests		He's a jolly good fellow For he's a jolly good fellow Won't regret, can't forget What we did for love
calvin		Hi. Annie. What's your boy up to these days?
annie		Oh. Who knows? They won't tell. How's Conrad doing?
calvin		He's great. Just great.
38.		50   CONTINUED:                                                  50
annie		I asked Donald, and he says they haven't talked much. I said maybe he's a little self-conscious.
calvin		Oh!
annie		Really? Is he still having some problems?
calvin		Oh, no, no. Nothing like that. No, no, just somebody to talk to... that's all. Kind of polish off the rough edges, that's all.
beth		How are you. Darling? Is he falling asleep on you, yet?
annie		Nah. He's great.
calvin		 Mr. Great. That's me!
39.		51   CONTINUED:                                                 51
calvin		Hey?
beth		You drink too much at parties, Calvin.
calvin		I'm not drunk.
beth		Why did you tell Annie Marshall that Conrad is seeing a psychiatrist?
calvin		I dunno. Why not?
beth		Well for one thing, I don't think people hear that kind of thing very easily.
calvin		Come on, for most people, it's a status symbol, right up there with going to Europe.
beth		Well, I thought your blurting it out like that was in very bad taste...
calvin		I did not think it was that...
beth		Not to mention a violation of privacy!
calvin		Whose privacy?
beth		Our privacy! The family's privacy! I think it is a very private matter.
40.		51   CONTINUED:                                                 51
conrad		So what do I do... tell you my dreams?
dr berger		I don't hold much stock in dreams.
conrad		What kind of a psychiatrist are you? They all believe in dreams.
dr berger		Really? What's happening? What's going on?
conrad		I just feel... I feel so...
dr berger		What?
conrad		Jumpy. I don't know.
dr berger		Look. Kiddo... I lied. I do believe in dreams. Only sometimes I want to know what's happening when you're awake. Come on, something's bugging you, making you nervous. You're making me nervous.
conrad		Maybe I need a tranquilizer.
dr berger		Tranquilizer?
conrad		Yeah.
dr berger		I think you came in here looking like something out of The Body Snatchers. It's not my impression that you need a tranquilizer.
conrad		What is this?
dr berger		Clock.
41.		51   CONTINUED:                                                 51
conrad		Oh, I see. So you get to tell the time, but I can't. Is that it?
dr berger		Mmm, mmm.
conrad		So you know when the hour's up?
dr berger		Right.
conrad		Fifty minutes, fifty five minutes? What is it?
dr berger		Ha, ha.
conrad		They're a bunch of boring ass jocks.
dr berger		Ha, ha.
conrad		And him... I can't stand him. He's a tight ass son of a bitch!
dr berger		Ah, ah?... Have you ever thought about quitting?
conrad		Are you telling me to?
dr berger		No.
conrad		It wouldn't look good.
dr berger		Forget about how it looks! How does it feel?
42.		51   CONTINUED:                                                 51
conrad		How does it feel? How does it feel?
dr berger		Yes!
conrad		How does it feel?!
dr berger		Yes! How does it feel?
conrad		It's the same thing that happened last year... It's the same damn thing I did last year.
dr berger		Are you the same person you were last year?
conrad		I don't know!
dr berger		That's why you need a tranquilizer?
conrad		You tell me!
dr berger		No. It's up to you!
conrad		Fifty bucks an hour, can't you decide if I should have a pill or not? I mean, you're a doctor, I'm supposed to feel better! Right?
dr berger		Not necessarily.
conrad		No. It's still hard.
dr berger		Is anyplace easy?
conrad		The hospital was.
43.		51   CONTINUED:                                                 51
dr berger		It was? Why?
conrad		Because nobody hid anything there.
dr berger		Was there anyone there you could talk to?
conrad		Uh-huh.
dr berger		I mean, besides Dr. Crawford?
conrad		Uh-huh.
conrad		Whoa!
karen		Hi!
conrad		Hey, Karen! Hi! How are you?
karen		Good. Real good.
conrad		Sit down. Please.
karen		Thank you.
conrad		Wow.
karen		When did you get back?
conrad		Uh... The end of August.
karen		God...
44.		52   CONTINUED:                                                 52
conrad		It's great to see you.
karen		Oh, you too. Listen. I am not gonna be able to stay a real long time. I've got a meeting over at school. Drama Club meeting. We're doing "A Thousand Clowns" this year. You know it? Anyway. We're going so crazy trying to get it together. I am secretary this year too.
conrad		Don't let me hang you up.
karen		No. Oh, no, you're not hanging me up! No, I really wanted to see you. I didn't know quite what to expect, though... I mean, you sounded...uh, you sounded sort of funny on the phone.
conrad		 No, no, I wasn't. It was just a gray day, that's all. Kind of... But everything's great, I'm back in school, I am on the swim team, and...
karen		Oh. You're swimming? Terrific, Conrad! That's... That's really wonderful.
conrad		We haven't had any meets yet. I could end up on the bench all year, but...
karen		Come on, you'll do great. I'll bet your folks are real proud of you.
conrad		Yeah, yeah.
waiter		What can I get you guys?
conrad		You're hungry, at all?
45.		52   CONTINUED:                                                       52
karen		Uh... I just want a coke.
conrad		Uh...   two cokes, please.
karen		You think we offended him?
conrad		Something I said? Definitely a low self-image day.
karen		So. Uh...
conrad		You really look beautiful.
karen		So do you.
conrad		Do you miss it?
karen		Miss what?
conrad		The hospital.
karen		No.
conrad		You don't miss it? At all? Nothing? Nothing about it?
karen		No.
conrad		You don't miss Leo's corny jokes?
46.		52   CONTINUED:                                                  52
karen		Are you seeing a doctor?
conrad		Yeah. I'm seeing a doctor. Are you?
karen		Uh... Uh, well, Dr. Crawford gave me a name, and I went for a while. But uh... I dunno.It just didn't work for me, I guess. He just kept telling me all the things I already knew, and , uh... finally, I decided... the only one who can help me is myself. At least, that's what my dad says. I don't mean it's not right for you, Conrad. I mean I think that if it's something you want to do, that's what you should be doing.
conrad		Well, ya, I don't know how long I'll keep it up. I sorta got shoved into it.
karen		Your hair grew in.
conrad		Oh, yes. That was such a dumb thing to do.
karen		I like it.
conrad		You do?
karen		Yeah!
conrad		I don't know, I just... Uh... I miss it sometimes, the hospital. Really do.
karen		Things have to change. You know?
47.		52   CONTINUED:                                                 52
conrad		But that's where we had the laughs.
karen		But that was a hospital. This is the real world.
conrad		Yeah, yeah, I... you're sure right.
karen		I really have to go. I'm sorry. I have a meeting over at the school. Drama Club meeting. We're doing "A Thousand Clowns".
conrad		I know, you told me.
karen		Did I?
conrad		Yeah.
karen		I better hurry. Don't wanna be late.
conrad		Thanks for seeing me.
karen		Conrad? Let's have a great Christmas! Okay? Let's have... a great year. Let's have the best year of our whole lives, OK? We can, you know. This could be the best year ever.
conrad		Yeah... Yeah.
karen		Yeah!
48.		52   CONTINUED:                                                    52
conrad		Yeah...
karen		You mean it?
conrad		Yep!
karen		You. Uh... You look good. Conrad.
conrad		Yeah.
karen		Bye.
conrad		Bye-bye.
karen		Hey!
beth		It's cold out here. You should put that on, or do you want a sweater?
conrad		Do I need one?
beth		What are you doing?
conrad		Nothing. Thinking.
49.		53   CONTINUED:                                                     53
beth		About what?
conrad		Not about anything.
beth		Your hair is starting to grow out. It's looking... looking better.
conrad		I was thinking about the pigeon... You know the one that used to hang around the garage. How it used to get on top of your car, and he take off when you pulled out of the driveway.
beth		Oh. Yeah, I remember. I remember how scared I used to get... That whosssshhhhh! Flap, flap, flap, flap!... Every time I started the car.
conrad		Yeah. That was the closest we ever came to having a pet. You remember Buck asked you, he tried to talk you into... getting a dog. Do you remember that? He said. "How about it, if it's the size of a little football?"
beth		You know. Uh... That animal next door, that Pepper or Pippin, whatever its name is...
conrad		Pippin. Pippin. Pippin!
beth		He's not a very friendly dog...    I... I don't care what Mr. McGreary says.
50.		53   CONTINUED:                                                 53
conrad		 Arf! Arf! Arf!
beth		Put that on if you're gonna stay out here, okay?
conrad		Can I help?
beth		Help what? Oh, you mean with this? No.
conrad		I will.
beth		 No, I tell you what you can do though. You can go upstairs to that room of yours and clean out the closet.
conrad		Mom...
beth		Okay? Because it really is a mess.
51.		54   CONTINUED:                                                 54
buck		Oh anyway, Mary Ann Ramon started to just scream, just cry, right? It was crazy. We got so drunk that we couldn't talk to each other. It was the last day... the last day of school.
beth		Oh, Bucky!
beth		No. Stop!
dr berger		What do you expect from her?
conrad		We just don't connect.
dr berger		Why not?
conrad		I don't know. We just don't.
52.		56   CONTINUED:                                                56
dr berger		What are you thinking?
conrad		That I jack off a lot.
dr berger		So what else is new? Does it help?
conrad		For a minute.
dr berger		What now?
conrad		John Boy.
dr berger		Who?
conrad		You know, in "The Waltons". John Boy?
dr berger		Yeah. What about him?
conrad		My father came into my room and he didn't know what to say. This is right after Buck died. And he came over and sat on the bed next to me, put his arm around my shoulder. We just sat there. I remember I was watching his shoe. And thinking... Cos his shoe was turned over on its side. I was thinking: "He's so uptight, it's gonna crack off."
53.		56   CONTINUED:                                                 56 CONRAD  "Oh, no, noo! Ooh, My god!" But I didn't say that... because I didn't feel sad... so much as...
dr berger		So much as what?
conrad		I dunno. I kept thinking that John Boy would've said something...about the way he felt, you know. Something.
dr berger		What would John Boy have said?
conrad		I don't know.
dr berger		Come on.
conrad		Come on what?
dr berger		Don't hold back.
ray hanley		Well. At least she's an improvement. She doesn't crack gum in your face. That's what you get when your partner does the hiring and firing.
calvin		Oh, I'm sorry. That's my fault. I just can never seem to tell anybody that they're not making it.
54.		57   CONTINUED:                                                 57
ray hanley		Hold, hold it. Wait a minute. That's not the problem. Where are you?
calvin		What?
ray hanley		I've been losing you these days.
calvin		Oh, I'm sorry.
ray hanley		That's okay. That's okay. You off the track?
calvin		Huh?
ray hanley		Come on. I've known you for twenty years. You think I can't tell when something's wrong? How's Connie?
calvin		Connie's all right. He is. He's okay.
ray hanley		Look, I am sorry, it's none of my business, but I think you worry too much. You've been on the rack about him long enough. You're making it a habit. You've gotta let him go sometime.
calvin		I'm not on the rack about him.
ray hanley		The thing about it is, in a year he'll be gone. Off to Michigan or Harvard or wherever in the hell he gets it in his head he wants to go. Maybe he'll decide to take a tour of Europe for a year and not even go to school at all. Who knows?
calvin		I can't argue with "Who knows."
55.		57   CONTINUED:                                                   57
ray hanley		I'm just try giving you the benefit of my experience.
calvin		Thanks.
ray hanley		With Valerie, it's more than her living away from home... She's gone. Got her own friends, her own life. She breezes in ...for a couple of days on vacations, but... I don't know, maybe girls are different. Or maybe she was too aware of what was happening between Nance and me. But they leave... And all that worrying doesn't amount to a hill of crap. It's just wasted energy.
young conrad		Give me back my sweater! Come on, it's my sweater!
young buck		Possession is nine tenths...
calvin		Hang on!
young buck		Dad, what's possession?
young conrad		Give it to me!
young buck		I can't, it's already on me.
calvin		Wait, hang on! Whose sweater is it?
young conrad		It's my sweater!
56.		59   CONTINUED:                                                 59
young buck		OK! Alright! I'll give it back to you... as long as you give me back my hockey stick and my skis.
young conrad		All right.
calvin		That's fair!
calvin		Conrad! Conrad!
beth		What is it?
ambulance man		Watch your back. Cuts are vertical. He really meant business.
conductor		Lake Forest is next. Lake Forest.
coach salan		What it is you want? I don't know what else to do for you.
conrad		I'm not asking you for anything.
coach salan		You gotta be kidding me. I don't get it. I excuse you from practice twice a week so you can see some shrink. I work with you every damn night at your convenience. What the hell more am I supposed to do for you?
conrad		Nothing.
coach salan		Bright kid like you, everything going for you. See, I don't get it. Why do you wanna keep messing up your life?
conrad		I don't think that ...that quitting swimming will mess up my life. I... I really don't.
coach salan		Okay. Okay. Now, this is it.
conrad		Yeah.
coach salan		You're a big kid now.
conrad		Uh, uh.
coach salan		Actions have consequences.
conrad		Okay!
58.		64   CONTINUED:                                                  64
coach salan		I'm not taking you back again. You'll remember that?
conrad		I won't ask you to    ...sir.
lazenby		What happened? You all right?
conrad		Yeah.
lazenby		Salan says you quit the swim team.
conrad		Yeah.
lazenby		Why?
conrad		I don't know. I felt like it was a bore.
lazenby		That's not a real reason!
conrad		Well, that's the way it is.
lazenby		So what's going on?
conrad		Nothing.
lazenby		What happened?
conrad		Nothing.
lazenby		Connie, come on, talk to me.
59.		65   CONTINUED:                                                  65
conrad		Nothing. Swimming's a bore. That's all.
lazenby		Well listen, I talked to Salan...
conrad		Well, quit talking to people! Okay?
lazenby		Holy shit!     Yeah. Sure. Fuck you. Jarrett.
stillman		Ooh! Ohh!
lazenby		Shut up. Leave it alone.
stillman		I told you. The guy's a flake.
dr berger		So, what did your dad say about it?
conrad		I haven't told him yet.
dr berger		How come?
conrad		I don't know. The timing isn't right, you know. He sweats everything so much, he'll just get worried about it.
dr berger		Can you tell your mother?
conrad		My mother? My mother and I don't connect. Don't you listen? I told you that. 
60.		66   CONTINUED:                                                 66 CONRAD  What do people have in common with mothers anyway? It's all surface junk. You know: "Clean your room, brush your teeth, get good grades, nah, nah, nah, veh..." Hey, look, I'm just wasting money today. I am not gonna feel anything. I'm sorry.
dr berger		No. Sorry's out. Come on, something's on your mind.
conrad		What time is it?
dr berger		No, no, never mind the time. There's time. Look. Remember the contract? Control? Maybe there's some connection between control and uh...  what do we call it? - lack of feeling? Mmm?
conrad		I said I feel things.
dr berger		When?
conrad		Ah, God... Come on.
dr berger		When?
conrad		Sometimes. I don't know.
dr berger		Come on, come on, Jarrett, I thought you didn't like to fool around.
conrad		I don't? I'm not.
dr berger		Like to play games, do you?
conrad		I don't!
dr berger		So?
61.		66   CONTINUED:                                                 66
conrad		What do you want?
dr berger		I'll tell you what I want. I want you to leave "I don't know" out there on the table with the magazines. Okay?
conrad		Yeah, and if I don't have an answer you want me to make one up?
dr berger		Yeah. That would be nice. Make one up. Right now. About how there's no feelings in there.
conrad		I said I have feelings.
dr berger		Oh! Now you have, now you don't! Get it together, Jarrett.
conrad		Why you hassle me? Why are you trying to make me mad?
dr berger		Are you mad?
conrad		No!
dr berger		Oh, cut the shit! You're mad! You're mad as hell! You don't like being pushed. So why don't you do something about it!
conrad		What?
dr berger		Tell me to fuck off! I don't know.
conrad		Well, fuck off! No. No, I can't, I can't do this.
dr berger		Why not?
62.		66   CONTINUED:                                                66
conrad		I can't...
dr berger		Why not?
conrad		I can't do this. It takes too much energy to get mad!
dr berger		Do you know how much energy it takes to hold it back?
conrad		When I let myself feel low, I feel as lousy.
dr berger		Oh! I beg your pardon! I never promised you a rose garden...
conrad		Fuck you. Berger!
dr berger		What?
conrad		Fuck you.
dr berger		Yeah?
conrad		Fuck you!
dr berger		That's it!
conrad		Jesus, you're really weird! What about you? What do you feel, huh? Do you jack off or jerk off? Whatever you call it?
dr berger		What do you think?
conrad		 What do I think? I think you married your fat lady... and you goona over fuck the daylights out of her!
63.		66   CONTINUED:                                                       66
dr berger		Sounds good to me.
conrad		Ah! Ha!   Ha...
dr berger		A little advice about feeling, kiddo... Don't expect it always to tickle.
grandfather		Oh, all right, all right.
grandmother		And be quiet. Be quiet. Be quiet. Conrad. Where are you?
grandfather		Connie!
grandmother		Connie.
grandfather		Over in the middle between your mother and father.
calvin		That's good.
grandmother		That's great. All right, smile everybody.
64.		67   CONTINUED:                                                            67
grandfather		Ohhh!
calvin		Connie. I want one of Connie and his mother.
beth		No, I tell you what. Let's get the three men in there, and I'll take a picture of you.
calvin		Connie, move in a little closer to your mother. Okay... prize winner...
grandfather		Yeah. That's great.
calvin		Portrait...
grandfather		It's great.
beth		Do it.
calvin		Page one, Lake Forrester...
65.		67   CONTINUED:                                                 67
beth		Calvin...
calvin		Hold it. Connie, smile!
beth		Calvin!
calvin		Just a second, smile!
beth		Calvin, give me the camera.
calvin		No, I didn't get it yet , Beth.
beth		Come on, give me the camera.
conrad		Dad, give her the camera.
calvin		I want a really good picture of the two of you, OK?
beth		No but I really want a shot of the three of you men. Give me the camera, Calvin. Please...
calvin		Not until I get a picture of the two of you.
beth		Cal?
conrad		 GIVE-HER-THE-GODDAMN-CAMERA!
beth		Smile.
66.		67   CONTINUED:                                                 67
grandmother		Beth?!
beth		I think it can be saved.
grandmother		Have you talked to his teachers?
beth		I don't think people want to be with him. He provokes people.
grandmother		Well. / Why don't you do this? / It's an awkward age.
beth		Thank you.
grandmother		Maybe he needs a change. Are you sure he's eating enough?
beth		Yes, Mother, of course.
grandmother		I think he'll be all right - if you're firm with him, mmm?
beth		I think maybe he should go away to school. I just don't know how to deal with him any more.
grandmother		Who would make that decision?
67.		68   CONTINUED:                                                 68
beth		I don't know. I suppose this doctor he's seeing.
grandmother		What sort of doctor... would make that decision for you?
beth		A psychiatrist.
grandmother		I thought we were all finished with that.
beth		No...
grandmother		What's his name?
beth		Berger.
grandmother		Jewish doctor?
beth		I dunno, I suppose he's Jewish. Maybe just German.
grandmother		What does Cal say about all this?
beth		You know, I think this can be saved. It's a nice clean break.
choir		Alleluia, Amen. Amen. Alleluia, Amen. Aaaaaamen. 
conductor		Okay. Altos, that last "E" natural could be just a little higher. Officers, don't forget your meeting tonight. That's it.
68.		69   CONTINUED:                                                 69
jeannine		Mmm mm mmm, Mmm mm mmm, Mmm mmm Mmm mm mmm.
girls		Hi. Jeannine!
jeannine		You are really a terrific tenor.
conrad		Oh...
jeannine		In fact. You should be doing the solo in that Russian thing.
conrad		Ha, no. I...
jeannine		No. I'm serious. You really sing well. I'm getting to know your voice.
conrad		Yeah?
jeannine		Yeah!
conrad		How can you hear me sing if you're singing?
jeannine		Well... I don't always sing. Sometimes I just listen.
conrad		Oh?
69.		70   CONTINUED:                                                 70
jeannine		For instance, Marcia Blair can't sing a note.
conrad		Uh, uh...
jeannine		Janet Fox only mouths the words and never sings.
conrad		Ha, ha?   Ha, a detective?
jeannine		Yeah...
jeannine		Do you like Vivaldi?
conrad		Uh...
jeannine		Telemann?
conrad		Telemann? Um...
jeannine		What kind of music do you like?
conrad		Oh. Uh... Modern jazz. I like. Folk rock. Spoon on a glass.
jeannine		Spoon on a ...glass?
conrad		Mmmm. You make it look easy.
70.		71   CONTINUED:                                                   71
jeannine		Really?
conrad		 Ah. You're just saying that?
conrad		Alleluia!
karen's mother		Hello?
conrad		Hello. Is Karen there?
karen's mother		Who's calling, please?
71.		73   CONTINUED:                                                 73
conrad		It's a friend of hers from Hillsboro?
karen's mother		Oh... Well, she's ...not home from school yet.
conrad		Oh. Um...Hmm. Just tell her I called. This is Conrad. Calling. Just tell her I called and I'm feeling great, and I just wanted to talk to her.
karen's mother		Yes. I will.
conrad		OK. Thank you.
karen's mother		Good bye.
conrad		All right
jeannine		Hello?
conrad		Hello. This is... Hello, this is Conrad calling. Jarrett?
jeannine		Oh...  Oh. Hi!
72.		73   CONTINUED:                                                 73
conrad		Hi. Listen. I was... I was wondering if maybe you'd like...to go out sometime?
jeannine		You mean, with you? Like on a date?
conrad		Well, yeah, we wouldn't have to call it a real date. We could fake it sort of, to see how it goes..
jeannine		That was dumb. Forget it. Just forget it. Now start over.
conrad		Hi, this is Conrad Jarrett...
jeannine		 I'd love to. When?
calvin		I didn't see you there. What do you think?
beth		 Fine.
calvin		Rawlins used to have such great Scotch pines. And they all look like skeletons this year.
conrad		Hi. What do you think?
73.		75   CONTINUED:                                                 75
beth		 Very nice.
calvin		What's wrong?
beth		 Why don't you ask him what's wrong? Maybe you won't have to hear it from Carol Lazenby.
calvin		Hear what?
conrad		Dad, I quit the swim team.
calvin		What?
beth		Carol thought I knew. Cos why wouldn't I? It happened over a month ago.
calvin		Quit? When? Where have you been every night?
conrad		Nowhere. Around. The library mostly.
calvin		Why didn't you tell us, Connie?
conrad		I don't know, I didn't think it mattered.
calvin		What do you mean? Why wouldn't it matter? Of course it matters. And...
beth		 No, that was meant for me, Calvin.
calvin		What was meant for you?
74.		75   CONTINUED:                                                   75
beth		It's really important to try to hurt me. Isn't it?
conrad		Don't you have that backwards?
beth		Oh? And how do I hurt you? By embarrassing you in front of a friend? Poor Beth! She has no idea what her son is up to! He lies and she believes every word of it.
conrad		I didn't lie!
beth		You did! You lied everytime you came into this house at 6:30 ! If it's starting all over again, the lying, the covering up, the disappearing for hours, I will not stand for it! I can't stand it! I really can't!
conrad		Well don't then! Go to Europe!
calvin		Connie! Now, Connie! Connie!...
conrad		Cos the only reason she cares, the only reason she gives a fuck about it...
calvin		Connie!...
conrad		...is because someone else knew about it first!
calvin		Just stop it, Connie! ...
conrad		No! You tell her to stop it! You never tell her a godamn thing! And I know why she never came to the hospital, she's busy going to goddamn Spain and... goddamn Portugal! Why should she care if I'm hung up by the balls out there?
75.		75   CONTINUED:                                                 75
beth		Maybe this is how they sit around and talk at the hospital, but we're not at the hospital now.
conrad		You never came to the hospital!
calvin		How   do you know she never came? You   know she came but she had the flu   and couldn't come inside, but she   came.
conrad		Yeah! She wouldn't have had any flu if Buck was in the hospital! She would have come if Buck was in the hospital!
beth		Buck never would've been in the hospital!
calvin		That's enough! That is enough!
beth		I won't do it again. I really won't do it.
calvin		What in hell has happened?
beth		Ah! Oh, god, that's the pattern, isn't it? He walks all over us and then you go up and apologize to him.
calvin		I am not going to apologize...
beth		Yes of course you are! You always do! You've been apologizing to him ever since he got home from the hospital, only you don't see it!
76.		75   CONTINUED:                                                 75
calvin		I am not apologizing. I'm trying to goddamn understand him!
beth		Don't talk to me that way. Don't you talk to me the way he talks to you!
calvin		Beth. Let's not fight. Okay? No fighting. Okay? Please. Let's go upstairs.
calvin		I want to talk to you.
conrad		I need to sleep.
calvin		In a minute...
conrad		I didn't mean it. I didn't mean any of it. I am sorry. Please don't be mad.
calvin		I'm not mad ! I'm just trying to figure out what happened down there.
conrad		I don't know what happened! I am sorry about it all. I am sorry about the whole thing. What I said, I didn't mean it. Just please tell her. Tell her I'm sorry, will you?
calvin		Why don't you tell her?
conrad		Oh, God, no, I can't! Don't you see? I can't talk to her!
77.		76   CONTINUED:                                                   76
calvin		Why not?
conrad		Ha! Because it doesn't change anything. It doesn't change the way she looks at me.
calvin		She was upset, Conrad. Your mother was hurt because you quit the swim team. I don't understand it myself.
conrad		I don't mean just now. Don't you see? I don't mean just today.
calvin		What then? Explain it to me.
conrad		Ha! I can't! Everything is German pudding with you , dad. You don't see things!
calvin		What things?
conrad		That she hates me! Can't you see that?
calvin		Your mother doesn't hate you, Conrad?
conrad		All right, all right. You're right. She doesn't. Please leave me alone, now.
calvin		What about this Dr. Berger? Do you think he's helping you?
conrad		Don't blame it on Burger, it's not his fault!
78.		76   CONTINUED:                                                 76
calvin		I'll be downstairs if you need me.
dr berger		Tuesday you felt great. You bought a Christmas tree, it was all hunky- dory. Okay?
conrad		You're the doctor.
dr berger		Don't take refuge in one-liners like "You're the doctor". Okay? Because that pisses me off.
conrad		Okay. Okay.
dr berger		So everything was fine till you had the fight with your mother, then everything was lousy.
conrad		Yeah, but I don't blame her. I mean, she's got... She's got her reasons. It's impossible after all the shit I've pulled!
dr berger		What shit have you pulled? Hey! Remember! I'm talking proportion here. Now, what shit?
conrad		Lately?
dr berger		Uh, uh.
79.		76   CONTINUED:                                                  76
conrad		Hey, come on, if you... Listen, I'm never gonna be forgiven for that. Never! You know, you can't get it out, you know, all the blood in her towels, in her rug. Everything had to be pitched. Even the tiles in the bathroom had to be regrouted. Christ, she fired the godamn maid because she couldn't dust the living room right. If you think I'm gonna forgive... - that she's gonna forgive me...
dr berger		What?
conrad		I think I just figured something out.
dr berger		What?
conrad		Who it is who can't forgive who...
dr berger		Well a real problem... a real problem has a real solution.
conrad		I've heard this all before.
dr berger		Doesn't make it any less true.
conrad		I'm so tired.
dr berger		Yeah, well... that's a hell of a secret you've been keeping on yourself.
conrad		So what do I do now?
80.		76   CONTINUED:                                                 76
dr berger		Recognize her limitations.
conrad		You mean, like she can't love me?
dr berger		Oh, kiddo, no. Like she can't love you enough. Like don't blame her for not loving you more than she's able.
conrad		But she loves my father. I know she loved my brother. It's me!
dr berger		Ha! Now we're back to the rotten kid routine! She can't love you because you're unlovable. Where does that leave your dad? How come he loves you? You're a rottenkid, doesn't he know that?
conrad		That's different. He feels responsible. Besides, he loves everybody.
dr berger		Ho, I get it! The guy's got no taste! He loves you, but he's wrong. Look... maybe she just can't express it the way you'd like her to. Maybe she's just afraid to show you what she feels.
conrad		What do you mean?
dr berger		I mean there's someone besides your mother you've got to forgive.
conrad		You mean me?
81.		76   CONTINUED:                                                 76
dr berger		Why don't you give yourself a break? Let yourself off the hook?
conrad		What did I do?
dr berger		We'll talk about it on Thursday.
conrad		Come on!
dr berger		Time's up.
conrad		What do you mean? You're gonna pull the plug... Come on! What did I do?
dr berger		Come on, Con. You know the rules.
conrad		Rules? What rules? Can't I have a few minutes?
dr berger		You think about it. Just think about it.
conrad		Jesus!
friend		Say. After going to a new high, it falls to 112 1/4 and then rallies on good volume. I shoot an order to buy 4000 at the market. If I get the 4000 shares at 113 3/4, I know something's wrong. 
82.		77   CONTINUED:                                                 77 FRIEND  But suppose the order to buy the 4000 shares I put in at the price of 113 3/4, I get 2000 at 114, 500 at 114 1/4, and the rest on the way up, so the last 500 shares I pay 115 1/2, then I know I'm right.I'm going to peel off here.
calvin		OK.
friend		I'll see you, Cal.
calvin		See you later.
friend		 Suppose the order to buy 4000 at
beth		 He walks all over us and you go up there and apologize to him...
conrad		 It's all German pudding with you, dad, you don't see things.
beth		 You've been apologizing to him ever since he came home from the hospital. And you just don't see that!
conrad		 Tell her to stop it! You never tell her a godamn thing!
beth		 Buck never would have been in the hospital!
83.		77   CONTINUED:                                                  77
conrad		 She hates me! Can't you see that?
calvin		 I want to be clear.
dr berger		 That's good.
calvin		In the car, I was thinking: "be clear.". I suppose that's what psychiatry's about. Being precise and clear. And honest, of course. I'll level with you. I'm not a great believer in psychiatry.
dr berger		Okay.
calvin		I know what happens here is only between you and him, and...I like that, I respect that. And...he's better, I can see that. I am not trying to put you down, I just don't believe in psychiatry as a panacea for everybody.
dr berger		Neither do I.
calvin		I wish I knew what the hell I was doing here.
dr berger		Well, you said you... thought you could shed some light on some things. What did you mean by that?
84.		77   CONTINUED:                                                   77
calvin		I don't know actually, I'm not sure, I think I meant in terms of Conrad. You see, I knew something was wrong even before he tried to... to kill himself. But I thought that... It's clear that he's very smart. He's been an "A" student ever since he started school, and naturally I thought that ...intelligent people could work out their own problems.
dr berger		But you still feel responsible?
calvin		Yeah, sure I do. It's hard not to. It was luck. It was just luck that I happened to be there when he tried it. I could have been at a meeting. We both could've been away. It was luck!
dr berger		You think of yourself as a lucky man, then?
calvin		No! No. No. I used to. I used to think... that I was a lucky person... before... the "accident". Mmm, I guess the whole of life is nothing but an accident, is it? What happens to you. I should do with it.
dr berger		That sounds more like the philosophy of a drifter than a tax attorney.
calvin		Yeah. Maybe, maybe I am drifting a little. I can see myself, ...and I can see the two of them drifting away from me, and I just stand there watching.
dr berger		What would you want to do about that?
calvin		Something. I gotta do something about it. I don't know what. 
85.		77   CONTINUED:                                                 77 CALVIN  I feel like I'm sitting on a fence, and I don't like it.
dr berger		And you see them as on ...opposite sides of this fence?
calvin		Yeah... No. I don't know. I see her not being able to forgive him.
dr berger		For what?
calvin		Oh, I don't know exactly. Being too much like her. People always think that she and Buck are... were ...were alike. But it's really she and Conrad. They were the only two that didn't cry at the funeral, you know? It's not easy for me to admit this but, uh... she didn't... His mother doesn't show him a great deal of affection. I'm not trying to put her down in any way at all. She is a wonderful woman, huh...
dr berger		Did she give Buck much affection to ...Buck?
calvin		Oh, god, yes, she loved Buck! Bucky got so much... I think what she felt for him was special. You know, he was her first-born. That's not unusual, is it?
dr berger		And you?
calvin		Me?    I   loved Buck.
dr berger		What I mean is, your wife's affection.
calvin		For me you mean?
dr berger		Yes.
86.		77   CONTINUED:                                                  77
calvin		Mmm. She's very... No. There's no problem with her for me. We've been... We've been married nearly twenty one years. Everybody loves Beth. But, huh... for Conrad, - it's been difficult. He didn't talk about that? We don't know what happens here. It doesn't come up. I guess that's what it is. It's private here. Isn't it?
dr berger		Mm-hmm.   Very private.
calvin		I think I know why I came here. I think I came here to talk about myself.
dr berger		Okay. Why don't we?
beth		Hi!
calvin		This will sound strange.
beth		What happened?
87.		78   CONTINUED:                                                 78
calvin		Could we talk about Buck's funeral?
beth		What?
calvin		I know it'll seem trivial, but it's on my mind, or has been, and I'd just like to talk about it.
beth		Why?
calvin		When I was getting dressed for Buck's funeral, I was...
beth		Calvin, what's the matter with you?
calvin		Just let me get it off my chest,OK?
beth		What could getting dressed for Buck's funeral possibly have to do with anything right now?
calvin		I was wearing a blue shirt. And you said: - Wear a white shirt and the other shoes! It was nothing at the time. But it's always seemed to stay with me. And I, for some reason, been thinking about it and it suddenly occured to me what difference did it make what I wore at Buck's funeral?
beth		Ha, ha.
calvin		Just hear me out, Beth! It won't hurt you to listen!
beth		I won't listen to that! No one in their right mind would listen to that.
88.		78   CONTINUED:                                                 78
calvin		I just want to talk about something I always remembered.
beth		Why do you want to remind me of it?
calvin		Because I've always wondered, in some needling way, what it mattered what I wore. I was crazy that day. We were going to our son's funeral. And you were worried about what I wore on my feet. I'm sure it sounds like nothing to you, but it sticks with me and I just wanted to ...tell you about it.
beth		It's all right.
caroll		Beth! Beth! Hi! How are you?
beth		Caroll! I'm fine. How are you?
caroll		I haven't seen you!
beth		I know. I'm so busy. I promise I'll call you soon and we'll have lunch.
caroll		Right!
beth		How's Brad? Give him my love.
caroll		Fabulous! Is everything okay?
beth		Isn't this madness?   It gets worse every year!
89.		79   CONTINUED:                                                  79
caroll		Good-bye!
saleswoman		May I show you this in your size?
beth		What?
saleswoman		May I show you this dress in your size?
beth		Oh... No, no. No. Thanks.
beth		We've got Bennett's, and Grant's and Foley's. Ha, Conrad should get something for my mother and father. He's not supposed to get something for his doctor, is he?
calvin		I don't think so. I think we should go see him, Beth. - Dr. Berger.
beth		What?
calvin		I think we could all go and see him together.
beth		Why?
calvin		He thinks it's a good idea.
90.		81   CONTINUED:                                                 81
beth		Ho... He thinks it's a good idea? What does he know about me, about this family? I've never even met him.
calvin		Exactly. That's the point. Wouldn't it be easier if we all talked about it? In the open.
beth		About what? What are we gonna talk about? Don't try to change me, Calvin. I don't want anymore changes in my life. For God's sake, hasn't enough happened? Let's just hold on to what we've got!
calvin		Darling, that is what this is for. Maybe you'll get a surprise.
beth		I don't want any surprises. I know I'm not perfect. And if I can't go around hugging everybody all the time the way you do, then I'm sorry.
calvin		I am not asking you to be perfect, you're missing the point.
beth		I don't want to see any doctors or counselors. I am me. This is my family. And if we have problems, then we will solve those problems in the privacy of our own home, not by running to some kind of specialist everytime something goes wrong...
waitress		 Are you folks ready to order?
calvin		Huh, no... Could you give me a couple of minutes, please?
waitress		Sure.
91.		81   CONTINUED:                                                  81
beth		...running to experts every time something goes wrong.
calvin		I do too. I want all of them to be nice Christmases
beth		We need time together, Calvin. You and I. We have to get away. New Years'. We can spend some time in Houston with my brother and Audrey. You know, play a little golf. Relax.
calvin		Okay.   Okay.
beth		I love you.
calvin		I love you, too.
beth		Let's just give things time. Okay?
92.		82   CONTINUED:                                                 82
jeannine		Conrad?
conrad		Hmm?
jeannine		I don't bowl. I mean, I'm a horrible bowler.
conrad		Oh, that's all right.
jeannine		Yeah. Well...
conrad		Well, listen. We don't have to go bowling if you'd rather not, I'm not a bowling nut or anything. How funny are you?
jeannine		On a scale from one to ten?   ... About a ten.
conrad		Hoo, that's pretty funny. Hey, well, listen, I promise you won't look silly.
jeannine		Guarantee it?
conrad		Guarantee it.
93.		84   CONTINUED:                                                 84
jeannine		Can you ever break the ball?
conrad		Can't break the ball, can't break the floor, can't break anything in a bowling alley. And that's what I like about bowling alleys. Can't even break the record.
jeannine		Hmm? What?
conrad		Just "anyway", it's a conversation starter.
jeannine		Catchy!
conrad		You like it?
jeannine		Mmm, mmm.
conrad		I thought it'd get to you. I've been working on it all day.
jeannine		Do you think people are punished for the things they do?
conrad		You mean by God?
jeannine		Yeah.
conrad		Mmm, I don't believe in God.
jeannine		Not at all?
conrad		No. Well, it's not a question of degree. Either you do or you don't.
94.		84   CONTINUED:                                                 84
jeannine		I believe in God.
conrad		So you're afraid he'll punish you for something you did?
jeannine		I've done a lot of things I'm ashamed of.
conrad		Yeah? So have I.
jeannine		Did it hurt?
conrad		No, I dunno, I don't remember really.
jeannine		You don't want to talk about it?
conrad		Ah, I don't know... I've never really talked about it. To doctors, but not to anyone else. You're the first who's asked.
jeannine		Why did you do it?
conrad		Uh... I don't know. It was like... falling into a hole. It was like falling into a hole, and it keeps getting bigger and bigger, .and you can't get out, and then, .all of a sudden, it's inside...and you're the hole, and you're trapped, and it's all over. Something like that. And it's not really scary, except it is when you think back on it. 'Cause you know what you were feeling stange and new...
95.		84   CONTINUED:                                                  84 STUDENTS  Like McDonald's can, nobody can do it. Like McDonald's can, you deserve a break today. So get up and get away!
student		Hey. Jarrett. How you doing? How about some fries?
jeannine		What are you doing?
student		Hey, what's your problem? Lighten up!
manager		Hey. I don't like your attitude.
jeannine		Energetic. Those guys.
conrad		 Yeah, they were pretty funny.
jeannine		No...
conrad		What? You thought they were funny?
jeannine		No. I...
96.		85   CONTINUED:                                                 85
conrad		What for?
jeannine		Anyway...
conrad		About what?
jeannine		Are you okay?
conrad		Yeah. Yeah, I'm fine. Uh... I'll give you a call.
jeannine		Will you? I want you to.
conrad		Sure.
jeannine		Well...   Guess I'll see you in choir.
conrad		Okay. Yeah. Thanks.
jeannine		Okay.
conrad		I mean. Good night. Good night.
jeannine		Good night.
calvin		Seven.
beth		Yes... It's not even plugged in.
97.		86   CONTINUED:                                                    86
stewardess		In preparation for our landing in Houston, observe the fasten seat belt sign......
stewardess		......and please no smoking until well inside the terminal. Thank you.
ward		Watch this. Pessimistic golfer. Pessimistic golfer.
golf player		 Two!
ward		All right. Let's hustle up. We're close here.
calvin		I'll never get over how flat it is here. I'll never get over...
ward		I know it's flat, but we decided to teach you to love it.
98.		88   CONTINUED:                                                 88
audrey		He is trying to get everybody to move down here.
beth		Really?
audrey		Gosh, you guys, it's so good to see you. You look tired. Cal.
calvin		Airplane scotch.
beth		Would you tell me why it is I am still hungry?
ward		'Cause you're in Texas, girl. When we get done, we'll get you home. Get ya some steaks on the barbecue. Audrey will put together her famous salad.
beth		With baked potatoe and sour cream, too, uh? How long has he had that drawl?
audrey		Ever since we joined the country club.
99.		90   CONTINUED:                                                 90
lazenby		I am glad you can laugh about it, cos' it sure as hell wasn't funny. Come on, we weren't that bad.
stillman		Let's face it, we stunk. I don't know how you can listen to that lecture on Buck Jarrett one more time. I know he is the world's greatest swimmer, but it bugs the hell outa me when he does that.
lazenby		Stillman, cut it.
stillman		Think he's ever gonna stop kissing the guy's picture?
lazenby		Stillman, shut the hell up, would you? Hey, con, you want a ride?
conrad		Oh. No. Thanks.
lazenby		We sure could've used you today, buddy.
conrad		Oh, no, I don't think so.
lazenby		Yeah... I don't think anybody could've helped us today.
stillman		How's it going, Jarrett? I hear you got eyes for Pratt these days. You in her pants yet?
conrad		Hey, do me a favor, Stillman, try not to be such a prick.
stillman		You're the prick. Guys like you walk around like you're king shit. You give me a goddamn pain in the ass, you think we owe you...
100.		90   CONTINUED:                                                 90
lazenby		Come on! Connie. Come on! Cool it, Jarrett! Connie! Connie. That's enough.
students		No, Stillman, no! No!
stillman		Let go! Let go!
lazenby		It's all right! He's crazy!   Just calm down, uh?
stillman		You're crazy! You're crazy! You know that?
others		Now, now, it's over. It's over.
stillman		All right!     Shit!
lazenby		Here's your hat.
101.		91   CONTINUED:                                                      91
conrad		So?
lazenby		So you just make yourself look stupid when you let him get to you like that!
conrad		So I look stupid, is that it?
lazenby		No, it isn't. What is it with you? Huh? I don't know why you want to be in this alone? You know, I miss him too. Connie, the three of us were best friends!
conrad		I can't help it, it hurts too much to be around you. I gotta go.
lazenby		Yeah. Okay.
conrad		Hello. Is Karen there?
102.		94   CONTINUED:                                                       94
conrad		Yes, hello. Is Karen there? This is Conrad Jarrett, calling. I'm a friend of hers.
karen's father		Karen's dead.
conrad		What? What?
karen's father		She killed herself.
karen		 Let's have the best Christmas ever.
conrad		Ha!
karen		We can. You know.
karen		 We could have the best year of our whole lives.
103.		98    CONTINUED:                                                 98
conrad		Get the sail down! Get it down!
buck		I can't hold it! Keep it starboard!
conrad		Get the sail down! Get it down!
buck		Keep it starboard!
buck		Go for it!
conrad		I am trying! I can't! Let it out!
conrad		Let it out!
buck		Just keep it starboard!
conrad		I can't!
buck		Ahh!
conrad		Aaah!
conrad		Bucky!
buck		Give me your hand!
conrad		Here!
buck		We screwed up this time, Buddy! Dad's gonna haul ass over this!
conrad		It ain't so goddamned funny!
buck		Just don't let go!
conrad		I won't, honest to God!
buck		Everything gonna be okay!
buck		Hang on. Brother!
conrad		Stay with me! Stay with me! Stay with me! Bucky! Where are you?
conrad		Bucky!
conrad		Bucky!
conrad		Buck!
conrad		Buck!
dr berger		 Hello?
conrad		This is Conrad!
dr berger		What's going on?
conrad		I need to see you!
dr berger		What time is it?
conrad		I don't know!
dr berger		Where are you?
conrad		I...    I   don't know!
dr berger		All right. Listen to me. Get to the office somehow, and I'll meet you there.
conrad		Okay.
dr berger		Oh, good. You're here.
conrad		Something happened...
107.		124   CONTINUED:                                                 124
dr berger		Just wait, just hold on...
conrad		I need...     I need...
dr berger		Just wait till we get inside...
dr berger		Shit. You'd think they'd assume there'd be an emergency now and then?!
conrad		Something happened!
dr berger		What?
conrad		It's...
dr berger		It's what?
conrad		Oh. God! I need something.
dr berger		What do you need? Tell me!
conrad		It just keeps coming! I can't... I can't make it stop!
dr berger		Don't try.
108.		125   CONTINUED:                                                 125
conrad		I gotta... I gotta... I gotta get off the hook for it. I gotta get off the hook!
dr berger		For what?
conrad		For what I did!
dr berger		What did you do?
conrad		What I did to him!
dr berger		What did you do?
conrad		It's something... It's something... Don't you see? It's gotta be somebody's fault or there's no godamm point!
dr berger		Point? What point? It happened!
conrad		No, no... Oh, no. I don't mean that. It's that... It's just that... Buck, Bucky, I didn't mean it!
conrad		Bucky, I didn't mean it!
conrad		Bucky!
109.		129   CONTINUED:                                                 129
dr berger		I know that, it wasn't your fault.
conrad		But it was: you said. "Get the sail down!" ...
conrad		...and I couldn't!
conrad		I couldn't! It jammed! And then the halyard, the halyard jammed! I couldn't because the godamn halyard jammed! And then you're sittin' here, you're screwing around...
conrad		...until it's too late to do anything! And I'm supposed to take care of it!
conrad		And I'm supposed to take care of it!
dr berger		And that wasn't fair, was it?
conrad		No! And then you say ...
conrad		 "Hang on!"...
conrad		..."Hang on!", and then you let go!
conrad		Why'd you let go?
dr berger		Because I got tired!
conrad		Yeah? Well. Screw you, you jerk!
dr berger		It hurts to be mad at him, doesn't it?
conrad		Yeah. He just wasn't careful. He just wouldn't care. He didn't see how a bad thing might happen.
dr berger		Bad things happen even when people are careful.
conrad		We were screwing around out there, we should've come in when it started to look bad.
dr berger		OK, so you made a mistake.
conrad		Why did he let go? Why?
111.		139   CONTINUED:                                                   139
dr berger		Maybe you were stronger. Did it ever occur to you that you might have been stronger?
conrad		Oh, God, I'd like to quit.
dr berger		Why don't you?
conrad		It's not easy. It's not that easy. God... I loved him.
dr berger		I know.
conrad		Ka-ren. She killed herself! I just found out she's dead.
dr berger		Jesus.
conrad		And she was fine, she was OK.
dr berger		No. She wasn't.
conrad		She was! She was! She told me! She said she was...
dr berger		What?
conrad		She was busy, she was feeling good and she...
112.		139   CONTINUED:                                                 139
dr berger		And what?
conrad		I just wish I'd known...I could've done something.
dr berger		You saw her once and now you' want to take her on too?
conrad		No!
dr berger		No?
conrad		No. I just...
dr berger		What?
conrad		That isn't it. I... I feel bad about this, I feel really bad about this. And just let me feel bad about this!
dr berger		Okay. Listen. I feel bad about it too.
conrad		Why do things have to happen to people? It isn't fair.
dr berger		You're right. It isn't fair.
conrad		You just do one wrong thing... and...
dr berger		Um-hmm. And what was the one wrong thing you did?
conrad		 Haaa...
dr berger		You know.
conrad		 Haaa...
conrad		Haaa...
dr berger		You know.
conrad		 Haaa...
conrad		I hung on.     I stayed with the boat.
dr berger		Exactly.
conrad		 Haaa...
dr berger		Now. You can live with that. Can't you?
conrad		 Haaa...
conrad		I'm scared! I'm scared.
dr berger		Feelings are scary. And sometimes they're painful. And if you can't feel pain, then you're not gonna feel anything else either. You know what I'm saying?
conrad		I think so.
dr berger		You're here and you're alive. And don't tell me you don't feel that.
conrad		It doesn't feel good.
dr berger		It is good. Believe me.
conrad		How do you know?
dr berger		Because I'm your friend.
115.		149   CONTINUED:                                                 149
conrad		I don't know what I would've done...if you hadn't been here. You're really my friend?
dr berger		I am. Count on it.
conrad		Hi. I was gonna call but I didn't want to wake anyone.
jeannine		Might have been easier...
conrad		Listen, I want to say something about the other night. I mean I liked being with you but I didn't like myself.
jeannine		Conrad. I was stupid. That was dumb of me to laugh and it was my fault. I just didn't know what to do. I was embarrassed.
conrad		Really?   You were embarrassed?
jeannine		Yes. When those boys came in, it was awful and awkward. That's what I do when I get embarrassed. I laugh.
conrad		But they were all right. They were just up and they were having a good time, and I let them get in the way of what was happening. It was dumb. It was dumb. I've been doing lots of dumb things lately. I just didn't know wether or not you were being straight with me.
116.		150   CONTINUED:                                                 150
jeannine		Yes.
conrad		Yes?
jeannine		Yes.
conrad		Uh...   Are you going to school?
jeannine		No, not on Sunday.
conrad		No. I haven't.
jeannine		Do you want some breakfast?
conrad		Okay.
jeannine		Mom!
ward		Oh !...
beth		All right. How about that?
calvin		Boy, oh, boy.
beth		Oh, I do love that.
calvin		Oh, these holes sure do love you. Oh boy, oh boy.
beth		We should spend more time playing golf together, you know that? Maybe our next vacation, strictly golf. Pinehurst, Myrtle Beach...
calvin		Pinehurst would be nice. I think Connie would like Pinehurst.
beth		Do you do that deliberately or is it just a reflex?
calvin		Well, you said "vacation", so I just assumed you meant him too.
beth		I'm surprised you haven't felt the need to call him since we've been here.
calvin		I was gonna call him tonight.
beth		 Hey, could we have a little drink before we head back?
118.		151   CONTINUED:                                                 151
ward		Drink, yes. Little, no.  What'd you get? Cal, what'd you get?
calvin		 Let's finish this.
beth		What?
calvin		What you started.
beth		What I started?
calvin		What you started.
beth		Ha! There's no point discussing it.
calvin		I think there is a point.
beth		He controls you even when you are two thousand miles away.
calvin		He isn't the problem.
beth		Isn't he?
calvin		No, he isn't. Let's talk about what's really bothering you.
beth		No, no. Let's talk about what's bothering you. Cos' that's what you want, isn't it?
calvin		Jesus, what have I done to make you so angry with me?
119.		151   CONTINUED:                                                 151
beth		It's not what you've done, it's what you think I've done. You blame me for the whole thing.
calvin		Can't you see anything except in terms of how it affects you?
beth		No! I can't! And neither can you, and neither can anybody else! Only maybe I'm just a little more honest about it!
calvin		Well, stop being so godamn honest, and start being a little generous! And start thinking about him for a while!
beth		I don't know what he expects from me. I never have known.
calvin		Well, I'll tell you what he expects!
beth		What? He wants me to throw my arms around him everytime he passes an exam? Well, I can't do it! I cannot respond when someone says: "Here, I just did this great thing. Love me.". I can't!
calvin		All he wants... All he wants is to know you don't hate him. That's it.
beth		Hate him? My God! How could I hate him? Mothers don't hate their sons! Is that what he told you? Do you see how you accept what he says with no questions, and you can't do the same thing to me, can you?
calvin		I just try to keep this family together...
120.		151   CONTINUED:                                                   151
beth		 I don't know what everyone wants from me anymore!
audrey		Beth, nobody wants anything from you.
ward		Beth, listen. We all just want... Cal, Con, everybody, we just want you to be happy.
beth		Happy?
ward		Yes.
beth		Ward, you tell me the definition of happy, uh? But first, you better make sure that your kids are good and safe, that no one's fallen off a horse, or been hit by a car, or drowned in that swimming pool you're so proud of! And then you come to me and tell me how to be happy!
conrad		I think I'm gonna turn in. Dinner was good. Really good.
calvin		It's pretty early. You tired?
121.		153   CONTINUED:                                                 153
conrad		Yeah. It was kind of a rough week.
calvin		I hope your grandmother wasn't too tough on you?
conrad		No. She was fine. I'm glad you're back.
beth		Calvin?
calvin		I don't...
122.		156   CONTINUED:                                                 156
beth		What did you say?
calvin		You are beautiful. And you are unpredictable. But you're so cautious. You're determined, Beth. But you know something? You're not strong. And I don't know if you're really giving. Beth is looking at him not knowing what this is about.
beth		I feel the way I've always felt about you.
calvin		We would've been all right, if there hadn't been any ...mess. But you can't handle mess. You need everything neat and ...easy. I don't know. Maybe you can't love anybody. It was so much Buck. And Buck died, it was as if you buried all your love with him, and I don't understand that. I just don't know.
123.		156   CONTINUED:                                                 156 CALVIN  But whatever it was, I don't know who you are. I don't know what we've been playing at. So I was crying.
conrad		Dad?
calvin		The yard looks smaller without leaves.
conrad		Dad? What happened?
calvin		Your mother's going away for a while.
conrad		Where?   Why?
124.		160   CONTINUED:                                                 160
calvin		Back to Houston. Then I... I don't know.
conrad		Why? What... I know why.   It's me. Isn't it?
calvin		No.
conrad		Yeah, it is. It's my fault.
calvin		Don't do that! Don't do that to yourself! It's nobody's fault! Things happen in this world, people don't always have answers for them, you know.
conrad		No, that's right! You're right! You ought to do that more often.
calvin		Oh, yeah?
conrad		Yeah, yeah, Haul my ass a little, you know. Get after me. The way you used to for him.
calvin		Oh, he needed it. You didn't. You were always so hard on yourself, I never had the heart.
conrad		Oh, Dad. Don't.
calvin		No, it's the truth. I... I never worried about you. I just wasn't listening.
conrad		Well, I wasn't putting out many signals then. I don't think you could have done anything.
125.		160   CONTINUED:                                                  160
calvin		No, no, no, I should ...I should've got a handle on it somehow.
conrad		You know, I used to figure you had a handle for everything. You knew it all.
calvin		Well, don't admire people too much. They'll disappoint you sometimes.
conrad		I'm not disappointed. I love you.
calvin		I love you too.
****Dialogues from script :Orgy_of_the_Dead.txt****

criswell		I am Criswell!  For years I have told the almost unbelievable, related the unreal, and shown it to be more...than a fact. Now I tell a tale of the threshold, people, so astounding that some of you may faint.  MONOLOGUE CONTINUES AS CAMERA CUTS TO GRAVEYARD SEQUENCE:  SHOT of an ancient TOMBSTONE, surrounded by fog, with a human SKULL sitting at its base. DISSOLVE TO:  CLOSEUP of BLACK RAVEN with thick fog swirling around it DISSOLVE TO:  Another tombstone, with a cherub-like engraving on the front DISSOLVE TO:  A plaque-like grave stone on the ground with fog swirling over it, a Skull and a long bone sitting on the ground by it  CRISWELL  A night with the Ghouls...the ghouls reborn, from the innnermost depths...of the world.  TITLE MUSIC BEGINS MAIN TITLES  TITLES are superimposed over a still photo of a Gilded Nude Female Figure sitting on the stone altar in the MAUSOLEUM.
astra productions		presents CRISWELL in
shirley		We sure picked the wrong night to find a cemetery.  Let's turn back.
bob		No.  It's on a night like this when the best ideas come to mind.
shirley		But does it have to be in a cemetery?
bob		You wouldn't understand.  Seeing a cemetery on a night like this can stir in the mind the best ideas for a good horror story.
shirley		But there're so many wonderful things to write about, Bob.
bob		Sure there are--and I've tried them all.  Plays, love stories, westerns, dog stories.  Huh, now there was a good one, that dog story all about--
shirley		 But horror stories!  Why all the time horror stories?
bob		Shirley, I wrote for years without selling a single word.
bob		My monsters have done well for me.  You think I'd give that up just so I could write about trees, or dogs, or daisies? Huhuh--Daisies!  That's it, I'll write about my creatures who are pushing up the daisies.
shirley		That's life.  My kisses are alive.
bob		Who's to say my monsters aren't alive?
bob		All of my books are based on fact, or legend.  Thats perhaps why they're more interesting and sell in the top spots.
shirley		Well, fact or not, I don't see how we're going to find an ancient cemetery in these mountains tonight.  I can't see a thing!  Let's turn back.
bob		There's an old cemetery on this road. I've been there before.
shirley		I'm getting the jitters! Let's turn back!
bob		 Okay.
bob		Just as soon as I find a place wide enough to turn around.
shirley		Not so fast!
shirley		 Not so fast!
criswell		The day is gone, the night is upon us, and the moon, which controls all of the underworld, once again shines...in radiant contentment.  Come forth, come forth, o Princess of Darkness.
criswell		If I am not pleased by tonight's entertainment, I shall banish their souls to everlasting damnation!
criswell		And who is to be first?  The Princess of Darkness claps twice, summoning the first of the night's entertainers.  These poor souls must dance for Criswell's approval.  If he is pleased, they can continue to entertain him for centuries, but if not, they will be banished to everlasting damnation by the All-powerful Criswell.  LONG SHOT OF THE CLEARING.  Huge flames rise from the ground in front of the clearing.  The INDIAN GIRL enters the clearing and begins to Dance.  She is wearing a red Native American- style dress and headband.  PRINCESS OF DARKNESS One who loved flames.  Her lover was killed by flames.  She died in flames.  The INDIAN GIRL DANCE begins.  The Indian Girl dances around for awhile, then dances away into the foggy background.  EXT. WOODS - NIGHT  Bob slowly wakes up and sits up.  Bob and Shirley look around.  EXT. GRAVEYARD - NIGHT  The Princess of Darkness points dramatically toward the mausoleum and begins to speak without moving her lips!  A marvel of filmmaking art.  PRINCESS OF DARKNESS  Ahh, the curiousity of youth... on the road to ruin!  May it ever be so adventurous!
shirley		I'm so frightened.
bob		Well we certainly can't stay here. C'mon.
shirley		Where?
bob		In there.
shirley		It frightens me.
bob		Silly, there's nothing in there to be afraid of.
shirley		Then..then what's that music?
bob		That's what I want to find out. We have to get help.
shirley		What help can we possibly find in the cemetery at this time of night?
bob		Something's making that music.
shirley		I'm not sure I care to find out what it is.
bob		All right.  Don't worry, I'll be right beside you.
shirley		What help will that do if something in there isn't dead?
bob		Not dead?  In a cemetery?
shirley		I can't imagine anything dead playing that music.
bob		Well, it's probably just the caretaker, and that's exactly who we want to find.  They'll have a telephone.  C'mon.
shirley		Could it be some kind of college initiation?
bob		It's an initiation all right, but not of a college as you and I know them.  Nothing alive looks like that!
shirley		Can't we get out of here?
bob		I'm not sure...
shirley		What do you mean?
bob		I'm not sure, myself. It's just a feeling I've had since the crash...Like I feel a cold chill all over.. ..Now this!
criswell		I would see for approval, the one who in life worshipped gold above all else.
shirley		 Look!
bob		Be careful!--They'll see you.
criswell		Throw gold at her.
criswell		More gold.
criswell		 More gold!
criswell		 More gold!  The giants continue.  Criswell is thrilled, and begins to LAUGH loudly.
criswell		 For all eternity, she shall have gold.  The Princess of Darkness laughs in acknowledgement, then claps her hands twice, commanding the Giants to finish the ceremony.
criswell		Bring 'em in!  The Princess of Darkness stands and walks to the end of the altar below Criswell's throne, then sits on the lower seat at the end of the altar and crosses her legs.  The Wolf Man and The Mummy drag Bob and Shirley over to the center of the clearing to face Criswell, The Sole Ruler of the Dark World.
criswell		They are live ones?
the mummy		 Yes, Master.
criswell		Live ones where only the dead should be?
the mummy		Yes, Master, and we caught them, him and me.
criswell		You shall both be rewarded.  My Dear Empress of the Night, put these intruders to the test.
criswell		 A situation easily remedied.
shirley		 Fiend!  Fiend!
criswell		 A pussycat is born to be whipped.
criswell		 It will please me very much to see the Slave Girl with her tortures!
criswell		 Torture! Torture!  It pleasures me!
shirley		I'm so frightened.
bob		You've got a right to be. We're trapped by a bunch of fiends.
shirley		Those creatures..!
bob		Don't let them hear you.
shirley		What can we do?
bob		I don't know.  I just don't know. But don't give up. We're not finished yet.
bob		Easy Shirley, Easy!  Panic won't do us any good!  Let me think. We've got to stall for time.
shirley		I'm afraid I'll faint.
bob		Whatever you do, don't do that.
criswell		HOLD!
criswell		Let her continue to learn. The time is not yet right that they should join with us.
criswell		...And what is this?
criswell		What kind of symbol?
criswell		She came to us on the Day of the Dead.
criswell		She was?
criswell		Oh, yes, a religion of sorts.
the mummy		I don't like snakes.  I remember the one Cleopatra used.  Cute little rascal until it flicked out that red tongue, and those two sharp fangs.  You'd never think such a little thing packed such a big wallop.
the mummy		Hurt her?  Hell, it killed her!
the mummy		We had lots of snakes in my ancient Egypt...slimy, slinky things.
the mummy		When I was alive, they were the things nightmares were made of.
criswell		She pleases me.  Permit her to live in the World of the Snakes. 
criswell		 Now, I will talk...to The Wolf Man...and The Mummy.  PRINCESS OF DARKNESS As you wish, Master  The Princess of Darkness motions for The Wolf Man and The Mummy to come.
the mummy		What do you suppose for?
the mummy		Did you do something to get us into trouble again?
the mummy		Did you howl off-key at the moon again?
the mummy		I can't remember doing anything wrong either.
the mummy		We better go before we make him mad.
the mummy		 We are your servants, Master.
criswell		Of course you are.
the mummy		Have we in some way made you angry, Master?
criswell		You know better than that.
the mummy		We don't know of anything, Master...
criswell		Then why do you shake so?
the mummy		It's not often an Emperor like you calls on creatures like us.
criswell		Well rest easy, I'm not angry with either of you.
the mummy		 Aaaahhhh.
the mummy		Then it is some service you desire of us.
criswell		You are the keepers of the Damned.  You two know them all. And I am tired of this usual type of entertainment. I want...a decided change.
criswell		Yes, yes yes I know all that.
criswell		I suppose most of the others will have to wait for their judgement until after the next full moon.
criswell		Ahh, but I declare there is still time for something.
the mummy		There are one or two which should complement the night's entertainment, Master
criswell		Ahh, good.  Then I will see them.  Dismiss the rest.
the mummy		Yes, sir, Master.
bob		The ropes are coming loose.
shirley		Be careful!
bob		I am--It's our only chance.
shirley		Nothing is worth your life.
bob		My guess is if we don't take the chance pretty soon, we're not going to have much life left anyway.
shirley		I'm frightened.  I'm so frightened.
bob		Hold on just a little longer, Shirley.
shirley		Be careful, oh please be careful.  We'll never get out of here alive, I know it.  I just feel it.
bob		You do?
shirley		Yes I feel it in my bones.
bob		You're talking nonsense.
shirley		Oh, no I'm not.  These heathens probably have an open grave for us.
bob		They wouldn't dare put us in the same grave-- or would they?
shirley		I should hope not.  I hate you!
bob		That sudden?
shirley		Yes, that sudden.  If it weren't for you we wouldn't be hunting for an old cemetery on a night like this.  It's all your fault.
bob		 ...And I thought you loved me.
criswell		Not yet.  I perhaps have other plans for such a pretty one. No matter, I will tell you when and if you may have her.  The Princess of Darkness crosses her forearms and bows to Criswell.
criswell		 Have you not enjoyed the evening's festivities?
criswell		Ahh, that will soon change when you become one of us!  The Wolf Man leans back and howls.  
criswell		It would seem that The Wolf Man would have you for his own!
shirley		AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA.
criswell		I have promised both The Wolf Man and The Mummy a reward.  It could be that you are that reward.
shirley		AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA.
criswell		You need not worry...Not just now, anyway.
bob		Leave her alone, you fiend!
criswell		Fiend is it!  You will not be so fortunate.  Your existence will cease within moments.  No one wishes to see a man dance...  And you, my dear, will entertain for centuries to come.
bob		If I could get my hands on you...
criswell		..Oh, You could do nothing!  I can save you much pain.
bob		Leave her alone, I tell you!
criswell		 I do not joke in my proposal.
criswell		The Princess of Darkness would have you for her own to join us through extreme pain.  Yet I am inclined for one as lovely as you, to be more lenient. I have but to touch you with my finger, and it would mean the end of you, all over, quickly and painlessly...
shirley		No. No! No!
criswell		I repulse you?  Very well.  It seems you have chosen your own fate. Live with it!  I should say die with it!
bob		I've got the ropes loose now. I've got my hands free.  Be careful--Don't change your expression too much.  They must not catch on.
shirley		What can we do against them?
bob		I don't know, yet.  We'll just have to watch our chance. When it comes I'll know what to do--I hope I'll know what to do.
shirley		I still don't know what ever made me go steady with a crackpot writer like you.
bob		All right.  Put it on heavy.
shirley		My old boyfriend Tommy would never have gotten me in a mess like this.  At least he's got brains.
bob		Him!  I'll bet he sleeps with all the lights on.
shirley		Maybe so.
the mummy		I could make her another Cleopatra...
the mummy		Without the snake, of course.
criswell		Ahh, she will be yours.
criswell		At your discretion...But first, I desire more entertainment.  PRINCESS OF DARKNESS The moon is almost gone!
criswell		Ahh, there is yet time.
criswell		 I would have time for my own pleasures!
criswell		 Your own pleasure comes only after mine, when I desire it. I am the Sole Ruler of the Dark World.  There is no one to challenge my authority here. My word is the law--all powerful. No one is to challenge that authority, no one!.  Is that understood?  It is my command.
criswell		Then see that it does not happen again, in the penalty of Everlasting Despair.  Now are there others?
criswell		Well then let us proceed.
bob		Easy, Shirley.  Easy!  The Zombie Dance concludes.
criswell		I will decide the conclusion.
criswell		 Then cancel my order.
criswell		There is yet time.  Don't you want your own pleasure?
criswell		Hahh, there is always time... All in good time...there is always time.  You shall have your pleasure.  THAT... I decree
criswell		Your pleasures of course!
criswell		You may take her now.
criswell		You better hope there is.
criswell		Now hurry, hurry.  I will watch!  Your desires may be my pleasure also...Our fitting climax to an evening's enter- tainment.  You must...hurry now.
shirley		Bob?  Bob?
shirley		Where are they, where did they go? They tried to kill me.
shirley		The ghouls--they all turned into skeletons.
shirley		It's true, I tell you, it's true!  They all turned into skeletons.  She-she cut me here.
shirley		I love you Bob. I really do. Forgive me?
bob		There's nothing to forgive. It was all a dream.
shirley		You love me then?
bob		Of course I do.
criswell		Yes, they were lucky, those two young people...May you be so lucky...But do not trust to luck, at the full of the moon, when the night is dark...Make a wide path around the unholy grounds...of the Night People. Who can say that we do not exist-Can you?
****Dialogues from script :Orphan.txt****

kate		Wait, I've changed my mind. I don't want to do this anymore. The Doctor gives the Nurse an exasperated look. The Nurse takes Rate's hand, eases her back onto the table.
nurse		Your baby is dead. There's nothing. else we can do. Kate reels, her world turned upside-dowp. Emotional free-fall.
kate		No, this isn't what's supposed to happen. My baby's alive!
nurse		We're so sorry. A terrible loss, we're so sorry...
kate		But it's still alive! It's moving! Feel it, you can feel it! Kate tries to put the Nurse's hand on her.belly but the-Nurse- pulls away and hands the Doctor a pair of gleaming.blunt-tipped SURGICAL SCISSORS. The Doctor leans between Rate's spread legs, disappearing behind the curtain. Rate gasps.
rate		No, stop! I want to be asleep!
john		It's okay, honeys You're doing great! The Doctor hands the scissors, now slick with gore, to the Nurse. H e takes a SUCTION. CATHETER and disappears behind-the curtain again. The Nurse - presses a button on a vacuum pump and the machine begins to HUM. Kate tightly closes her eyes.
kate		This isn't happening. Wake up, wake up, wake up... Suddenly -- the thin wail of a BABY CRYING. Rate's eyes go wide w ith horror as the smiling Nurse approaches with a wriggling bundle wrapped in a blanket. Blood seeps through the pink fabric. W e can't see what's inside, but it's moving. And it's CRYING.
nurse		Congratulations, Mrs. Coleman. It's a girl . The Nurse offers her the bloody, blanketed bundle. Kate screams -
kate		I was thinking of" going back to work. I really thought 1 was doing better.
kate		I drove by the wine shop,on my.way.bome the other day.
kate		I really wanted to. The thought went through m' head, you know. it wasn't for me, it just might be nice to have a bottle handy in case we had guests.
kate		No.
kate		Wow, did you make this?
kate		-No, I'm sorry.. But just... take a break for a little while, okay? Max nods. Kate goes. back inside. A CAR pulls into the-drive.. It's John and eleven--year-old-DANIEL, Rate and John's other child. Daniel's blonde, brash, and-cocky, the all-American kid. He's wearing.a Little League uniform. Daniel runs toward Max. He steals her ball and dribbles-it around her in circles. -Max watches glumly. He offers her the ball, but when she reaches for it, he snatches it away and shoots a lay--up..-
daniel		Boo -yahl He shoots! He scores!
john		Nice one, champ! - Daniel pumps his arm and runs inside. John walks up the drive, carrying a bouquet of FLOWERS. He hands Max the ball and lifts her up to the basket. Max happily puts the ball-through'the hoop.
john		All right! Ginme five! She smiles and gives him a high-five as he carries her inside.
john		Drapes look'nice.
kate		Curtains.  They're curtains, not drapes. And haw exciting is my life that -I now know the difference.
rate		.That's this for?
john		Just love you. He kisses her as she takes them. Some of her gloomy mood melts.
kate		Ore story. Then bedtime. Okay? Max nods. happily and picks up a book from her nightstand. Kate groans inwardly when she sees what it is. It'.s called. "We were Going To Have A Baby, .But We Had An Angel Instead."
kate		You want to hear about the baby again? Max nods. Kate hesitates, then gives Max a sad smile.
kate		"People send us flowers and cards, but we still miss our baby. If this just happened to you, I'm sorry you got an angel instead of a'baby. I.think a baby would have been more fun." The last picture is a FAMILY WITH A BABY ANGEL watching over them.
kate		Yes, she is. She's with us every day. Kate gives Max a gentle kiss on the forehead.
kate		I'm sorry. I can't. Shit... She moves away, tears suddenly in.her eyes. He gives a concerned look, lets her have her space. A beat.
kate		I'm so sick of feeling like this. Christ, the kids must thing I'm crazy.
john		Will you stop worrying about what everybody else thinks?
kate		How can I? I saw a pregnant woman today on the way home and I almost lost it. Just burst into tears with Max sitting right there. Daniel barely talks to me. You and I haven't had sex in over a year now. What if I.never get better? I don't want to lose you.
john		You're never going to lose us. I promise you. I just wish...  Have you thought any more about adopting?
kate		I can't even be a mother to the children we already have.
john		That's not true. The kids understand. They just know you're not happy.
kate		You Snow I do. More than anything.
john		Even if it can-'t be'biologically ours.
john		Then what are we talking about this -for? Let's do it.
kate		You-don't just adopt a child because you're lonely and depressed.
john		That's not why we'd be doing..it. We wanted a child a year ago and we still want one, now..
kate		We can't replace our baby.
john		No, 'we can't. But we can take the' place we made for her in our hearts and our home and give it to a child who needs a family.
john		I'm-an architect at a firm in the city. The Lawyer turns to Kate. Kate hesitates.
kate		I used to teach music at Yale. I haven't worked for about a year.
john		We've'alread y waited a.long time. :We'd lake a child as:quickly as possible.
john		We've already signed up for special- needs-'adoption classes. Trust me, we're ready for anything.
lawyer		You must have a lot of love to give. Are you looking for a boy or a girl?
kate		You're not worried about being prepared?
sister abigail		Yolanda, look who's here to see you. Yolanda, smiles at Kate and John.. She runs over to greet them, but stands just out of their reach. -Kate kneels in front of her.
rate		Don't you look pretty!
yolanda		6ister Abigail put ribbons in my hair. See?
kate		Wow, that was nice of her. Look, we brought you something for the trip tomorrow. She hands her a bag of activity books and a "Travel Turtle," a kid- sized lap desk for coloring in the car_ Yolanda's face lights up.
sister abigail		What do you.say?
yolanda		Thank you. Kate reaches out to her, but Yolanda pulls-away, focusing all her attention on her presents. Rate gives her a sad 'smile.
sister abigail		Nervous?
kate		Yeah. And happy. And excited. : And proud. And scared shitless. It' s funny. All the same feelings I had when I was pregnant with our others.
john		Hi there.
esther		Hello. - She speaks with a strange accent. Sounds Eastern European.
john		Are these , paintings all yours?
esth er		Yes. Do you like them?
john		Very much. They're remarkable. -
bss		h T ank :you. My name is Esther. What's yours?
john		John. It's nice to meet you. She smiles and demurely offers her hand, giggling as he takes it. She blushes, then turns back to her painting. It's a half- finished jungle scene with a SMILING LION crouched beneath a tree.
john		So what's this one going to bo?
esther		My paintings are stories that come from my imagination. -This one'-s about a'sad mother lion who can't find her cube.
john		She's smiling.
esther		She's dreaming about her babies. It's the only thing that makes her happy.
john		Well, I hope she finds them.
esther		She will. I,bok. As she speaks, Esther dabs her brush and paints little lion cubs curled up in front of their sleeping mother:
esther		They were lost'in the jungle 'and they were so scared because they didn't'have a mother or father. But just when they thought they'd be alone forever, they found their mother sleeping under this tree. And they felt so safe that they fell asleep too. Now when-the mother lion wakes up, her dream will have come true. She has her family again.
john		Where did you learn how to do this?
esther		Y've just had lots of time to practice, I guess. It's so boring here.
joan		You don't play outside with the other girls? Sounds like they're having fun.
esther		I like staying inside. That way I don't get my clothes dirty.
john		 - Well, that's very responsible of you, but I'll- bet the sisters could find something else for you. to wear.
esteer		You.don't like my dress? - Don't you think it's pretty? -
john		Your dress is. very pretty. I'm ,just saying. you could -probably go outside if you really wanted to.
john		There's nothing wrong with different.
esther		Yes, there is. Everybody says there's not, but it isn't true. I don't care. If I'm sad or lonely, I just come in here a nd paint a story with a happy endingg And when people say they like. my paintings, it makes me feel better. dc? Before he can respond:
john		Hey, I'd like you to meet someone. - . Esther, this is my wife, Kate. Kate smiles and offers her hand, but instead of shaking it, Esther lovingly presses it to her cheek.
john		She painted these all by herself.
esther		Would you like me to paint you a picture? You can watch me if-you want. I'm normally a little shy, but --
esther		Yes. I'm sure she'll be very happy.
kate		It was nice meeting you.
john		 You've got a real talent on your hands here.
sister abigail		Yes, we're very lucky to have her. But there's something -strange-in Abigail's voice -- she definitely doesn't un -lucky. Esther watches them go.
sister abigail		The notary will be here at.ten for-you- to sign the placement agreement.
kate		Thank you so much for all your help. Kate gives her a warm hug. But mid-embrace, she notices something: Esther is at the end of the hallway, peering at them from around a corner. Abigail and John see--her,' too.
kate		What did she say to me.back there? It sounded like... "motta?"
sister abigail		It's Russian. It means "mother." INT.JoHN'S CAR - NIGHT John whistles "Whatever Will Be, Will Be" to himself as he drives. Kate gives him an amused look, then Jokingly sings along:
john		Sorry, I've got that stuck in my head now.
kate		She. made quite an impression on.you.
john		I wish you co'uld've heard the things. she was saying before you c&me in. I Jatow adults who aren't that mature.
kate		She probably wasn't there when we were first ,looking.
john		It just blows may mind, a kid could go through as much-as she must have and still turn out like that.
kate		You sound like you're sorry we're not adopting her instead of Yolanda.
john		No, of course not. I just hope she. gets the right break. maw that. Rate gives him an adoring look and squeezes his hand.
housemother		Where's Yolanda?
housemother		Have any of you seen-Yolanda? Nobody has.
sister judith		Yolanda? Are you hiding-down here? Then she notices a closet behind her. The door. is ajar. She reaches out, opens it... and nearly gags at what she sees inside.
john		.The birth family is claiming her body. They're planning a private service. He looks to Kate for a reaction, but she has none. He continues:
john		Sister Abigail thinks she might have been playing something called "The Choking Game." It's a kind of schoolyard dare. You try to get a rush by having someone choke you until you almost pass out. There have been cases where kids have tried it alone and accidentally hanged themselves. A beat. Kate's voice is distant, as;
kate		So that's it? She just vanishes from our lives?
john		We can have our awn-service. I think .it's important that we -
kate		I've been' in grief counseling for almost a year-and-a-half.. If you say the word "closure,." I'm going to-claw your eyes out. She's not angry, just matter-of-fact. Be wants to say something, but holds his tongue. Silence hangs heavy between them.
kate		Maybe we're not supposed.to do this.
john		so let's not. Let's adopt.Bather. This brings Kate back to reality. She eyes him coolly.
kate		Her body's barely cold and you're already thinking about replacing her?
kate		We have to at least wait until.--
john		-Until what? I don't want to waste .a nother year of our lives wishing for something that we.can't-have. . I want us to feel like a family again. Kate regards him for a beat, conflicted. Then:
kate		Let's see what Sister Abigail thinks.
sister abigail		For the most -part, she's an'ideal child. She's originally from Russia, but her English is flawless, Smart as a.tvhip and very mature for her age. I don't think I've-ever had to tell her .anything-twice and I've never had to clean-up after her.. She's a bit of a- nQat-freak.
john		I think we can handle that.
john		She told me they make fun of her.
sister abigail		I'm sure they do, but she doesn't make- things any easier on herself. She just doesn't seem interested in friends.. She doesn't even play like a normal child. She just reads and paints. Most of the time she barely-speaks.
kate		By who?
sister abigail		I don't know. There's nothing in her -history, but that doesn't necessarily mean anything. Russian adoption - records. are notoriously unreliable.
john		Then what are you basing this on? Sister Abigail hesitates. Deciding how much to say.
sister abigail		I wish I knew. There's just something missing with her. A-spark you see in a child's eyes that isn't there. I've only seen that-before in cases where the child had been severely traumatized. It might also explain - some of her idiosyncratic behaviors.
john		Like what?
sister abigail		She refuses to shower or change clothes with the other girls.' She won't even allow the housemother in-the bathroom with her. She.'.s also very concerned with her physical appearance for her age. She's like a teenager getting ready for a date every morning. She insists on wearing dresses-every day. The ribbons around her wrists and neck stay on day and night. . The only trouble we ever had with her was when we tried to take them off. She kicked two of Sister Francis' teeth-out. Kate and Tohn are taken. aback. Abigail sighs.
sister abigail		I'm sorry. I'm 'not trying to discourage you. If you're serious, I'll do everything I can to-expedite the process, given the circumstances.
kate		She really did open up with us, didn't she?
john		She latched. right onto you. We're probably the best chance she has at a. normal life. Esther looks up from her work and waves at them. They wave back.
kate		A normal life..' That sounds really good,',doesn't it? - She smiles. and takes John- .'s hand.
sister abigail		If you ever need anything, please don't hesitate to call. Before Kate. can respond, Esther tugs on her arm.
rate		 We wills Sister Abigail happily watches them go.. Rate and Esther smile and wave goodbye.' She'waves back... but once the car pulls out, her smile fades. She seems'vaguely troubled as they drive away...
kate		Put your thumb here. She makes the sign for 'T." Esther. sees her mistake, corrects it.
esther		T-H-E-R.' E-S-T-H-E-R. Esther.
rate		Perfect l
esther		It's so beautiful, motta.
kate		Sweetie, here we say "Mont" or. "mommy."
esther		Kate and John exchange-a warm look.
kate		Oh, we missed you so muchll Kate gives Max a kiss, then turns to Esther: Max hangs back, a little shy. Esther signs' to Max without speaking: -
kate		She's been practicing the whole way.
john		Hi, Mont. Thanks for watching them.  Esther, this is Grandma Doris.
estser		A pleasure to meet you. Esther surprises everyone by giving her a perfect ltttle rtse Daniel fails to suppress a laugh. Kate silences him with a look.
doris		How precious! It's a pleasure-to meet you, too.
jun		 And this is our son, Daniel. Esther smiles and puts out her hand. Daniel grudgingly takes it.
esther		Hello, Daniel.
daniel		Hey.
esther		Everything's so bigi As Esther moves on to the next room, Daniel hangs back and whispers to John, too loud:
daniel		Why is she dressed like that?
john		Don't be rude.
kate		Would you like to see-your room? Esther smiles and nods eagerly. But on the way up the stairs, she eyes Daniel furtively, sizing him up...
esther		It's perfect.
esther		I love.you, motta -- I mean, Monmiy.
kate		I love you, too, sweetie. She kisses Esther on the forehead. John leans in for a kiss and Esther,hugs -him tight. Then he and Kate turn out the light and close the door. Esther watches them go...-
kate		Good luck II I love you II
daniel		Love you, tools John follows Daniel, kissing Kate on his way out.'
kate		Remember, it's only a game.
jorn		I'm a fan. Fans yell. _.I'll call to let you know who won.
kate		Okay, which one do you like?
esther		These are for a'younger child. Did you pick them out for Yolanda? Kate is taken aback. She stammers for a beat.
kate		I'm sorry. I'll take them back and pick some just for you.
esther		It's all right. I rather like this one. Esther points out her.favorite and goes back to pinning up her paintings. Kate sighs. As she rolls up the samples, she notices the same Gothic mansion in several of Esther's older paintings.
kate		'1s that a real place?
esther		No. I just made it up. It's a haunted castle where a beautiful- princess was locked away. She waited so long and was so sad that she filled the moat with her tears, but then a handsome prince swam ,across it and rescued her.
kate		These are cute.
esther		-Jeans are ugly.
kate		But sweetie, you have to have something you can play outside in.
esther		That doesn't mean I have to look like a boy.
rate		You like fish?
esther		I like all beautiful things. Kate taps Max's shoulder and signs to her.
kate		You should show her Hodgepodge when we get home. Max nods eagerly. Esther givee.them a curious look.
esther		Hodgepodge? What's that?
kate		Max. takes care of him all bir herself. It's her big girl responsibility.
esther		Aaaww,-can I pet him?
kate		Sure. But you have to promise not to- let him out of his. cage .unless- Hcumey or Daddy is,here to hold him.
esteer		Why? -
kate		Because he's very delicate and you could hurt him. Okay? Esther xiods. Kate scoops.flodgepodge up and kneels between the girls. Esther and Max share a  smile as they stroke his-fur.
kate		Too fast.
doris		So what are your plans now?
kate		Well, we'll get Esther settled, then I'll probably go back, to work.
doris		Oh, so you think.they'll take you back? Kate's eyes flicker with irritation.
kate		I'm not talking about Yale. I'm going to teach piano lessons from home.
doris		I see. That was such a good position you had at Yale. It's a. shame.
kate		I didn't quit because I wanted to. I quit because.I couldn't work anymore.
doris		I know. I'm 5o glad you're doing better now.
kate		She's fine. Kate's pointedly not making eye contact with Doris now.
doris		Well, it's a shame that it took something like that for you to :get help, but I'm glad you did. Kate takes. the plate of food and leaves without looking at her.
daniel		Dad! 'Dad!! Dad, look!! John distractedly glances over his shoulder at him and Daniel does a huge cannonball into the pool. SPLASH! Suddenly, Esther squeals with glee. She's unwrapped an IIRT EASEL and NEW PAINTING SUPPLIES. By the time Daniel-'s smiling face pops out of the water, he's disappointed to find that Esther has drawn John's attention again, barraging him with-hugs and kisses. She looks at Daniel over John's shoulder and hticks her tongue out at him. Daniel fumes.
kate		Are you ready? Esther nods excitedly. John uncovers her eyes. Esther stops short in awe. It's the FISH TAN C from the shopping, mall. Esther kneels before it, entranced. She turns the black light on and off, marveling at- how it makes her dzess glow and the colors in her paintings light- -up. She gives Kate and John a. big smile.
kate		nave-you seen my pearls?
kate		Did you take this out of my jewelry box? Max shakes her head, confused.
kate		Then-how did it get in your room?
kate		Somebody put this around T.J.'s neck. Who was it if it wasn't.you? Max shrugs. She looks-nervous. Kate sighs.
rate		Go take a time-out and think about it.
esther		But we're playing]
kate		She can finish your game later.  Come on. Max pouts and follows Kate upstairs. Esther watches them go.
brenda		Dear Jesus, please help me to not dress like such a freak tomorrow. The girls laugh. Esther pays no attention.
trevor		Cindy Crawford? This- magazine's older than we axe1 She's probably got Like wrinkly-old grandma boobs Howl They laugh. Daniel sparks up a joint. Suddenly:
daniel		Get out of here! This is my treehouse. Dad built it for mM. Esther smiles, then leads Max away. The boys watch them go.
austin		Is your, like, whole family ietarded or something?. - Trevor and Austin laugh. Daniel flushes, angry and embarrassed.
kate		I think we should try this with the door unlocked tonight. What do you say?
kate		Nobody's'going to come in. I'll stand right outside the door.
esther		I could sing for you. At the home, I used to sing so the sisters would know I was all right. Please? Esther's eyes are desperate, pleading.. Kate sighs.
kate		Come in. The door opens. It's Esther and Max.
esther		We're scared of the lightning. Max giggles. Kate and John exchange a resigned look.'
john		Okay, come on. But just for tonight. Esther and Max excitedly clamber into the bed and snuggle between them. Kate and John share amused looks.-
daniel		Mom, what's she saying?
esther		She wants you to pass the milk. Kate gives Daniel an admonishing look.
rate		See? If you studied more, you wouldn't have to ask all-the time. Daniel glares fit Esther, but she doesn't see it. John enters, ready for work. He-grabs his travel mug, gives Kate a kiss.
john		See you later.
esteer		I want you to take us to school. She looks up at him with big sad eye.a. He can't resist.
john		I guess I can be late today.  I can take them to school and you can pick them up.
daniel		Bye, Mom. Kate-gives him and Max a kiss, but Esther-runs right by without pausing, hurrying after John. Esther. takes- 'John 'a-hand, holding it on the way to the car. Kate watches them, a little hurt...
kate		I have a journal just like this that I write in every day.
rate		what I did that day, how I feel. Anything I don't want to forget. I thought you and I could spend some time together today and start a life book.
esther		Whit's that?
rate		It's like an adoption storybook. And it's all about you. I did a couple pages to gat you started. Look. -
esther		So beautiful,..   , Kate turns the page to a picture of.Khte and John with Daniel as a BABY. Then Kate, John, and SIX=YEAR-OLD DANIEL with BABY MAX.
kate		This is Daniel when he was born, And there's Max; And there's you. She turns next to a photo of the-whole- family taken at Esther' s welcome home party. The caption reads, "ESTHER JOINS THE FAMILY."
kate		The ones I saw in. your Bible. Esther gives her a dismayed look.
esther		It's okay.' I want you to -see them. She smiles, but it looks forced.
esther		These are the Wallaces. That's James and Hannah. And that's Micah, Luke, and Isaiah.
rate		What's wrong?.
esther		I hid these because Ididn't want you to know how much I miss' them, I was afraid you'd think I didn't love you.
kate		It's okay, sweetie... I understand.  You know, I lost someone who was very .special to me once, too. Esther wipes her eyes and looks up, interest piqued.
esther		Really?
rate		We don't have any pictures of Jessica because she died while she was still in my tunny. But we spread her ashes in here and as long as. this flower grows, part of her will be alive inside it.
brenda		Is this a Bibl?
esther		Give it back to me. She reaches for it, but Brenda laughs and raises-it over her head.
brenda		Jesus-freak brought a Bible to school! Esther angrily swipes at it again, but one of Brenda's friends grabs it first. Esther takes a deep breath, trying to calm down.
brenda		Look at the cute little doggied Is this your collar, little doggie? Brenda reaches out and grabs the ribbon-around Rsthdrls neck... The-second Brenda touches the ribbon, Esther flies into panic. She screams an s Brenda'e hand away, aching h_ex e and k coking feet, ster 11 s 5 riekincr At the toy Dg her.lungs. Brenda leaps back, wide-eyed and freaked out. The kids fall into stunned silence. Esther's screams echo in the hallway. A TEACHER comes running. Trevor puts a hand over his mouth so the teacher won't see him laughing.
trevor		Dude, your sister's a.total spazl
daniel		She's not my sister.
rate		Mrs. Grosse told me what happened today. Do you want to talk. about it? Daniel-hangs back to see if Esther is going, to tell on him. She "sees him standing there, then turns to Rate with a smile. -
esther		There's nothing to talk about. We were -just playing a game, that's all. She walks away, passing Daniel without, a look. Kate is. dubious.
esther		What's the matter? Max turns and tries to block the cage, but Esther sees that it's empty. Esther gasps.
esther		Where is he? Were you playing with him? Max frantically shakes her head. Esther quickly shuts the door.
esther		You left his cage open! Look! Sure enough, the door of the cage is wide open. Max shakes her head, frightened tears in her eyes.
esther		Then how did he get out?
estber		You have to think! Mommy's not going to believe your. She didn't.believe you about the necklace and she's not going to believe you about this! Max is devastated. She's sobbing now. Esther tries to calm her.
esther		It' a okay. Don't cry. Look 'at me. She takes Max by the shoulders. Max looks up, breath hitching.
estser		I'll tell Monmy-it was-my fault. You won't get in any trouble.. I'll tell her I took him out of the cage without your permission and he ran away, okay? Max gives a grateful nod. Esther smiles and strokes Max's hair.
kate		Oh, my God! They hurriedly pull the sheets up and Kate turns on the bedside lamp. Esther stares at them blankly.
estu		Do we?
kate		Yes. There are certain things that. grown-ups do. that kids aren't supposed to see. And that was one of them. Esther keeps painting. She still hasn't looked at her. -
kate		Esther, I need you to listen to me.. Esther pauses. She deliberately sets her paintbrush down and turns to Kate. An awkward beat.
kate		See, when two grown-ups love each other very, very much, they like to. show that love to each other -- Iknow.- They fuck. Kate is dumbfounded. Esther regards her with a bored, aloof-look.
john		- She could nave picked it up anywhere. Bell, she probably heard it at school.
kate		This wasn't something she overheard. She knew what it meant. And the way she said'it. I don't even think she expected to get in trouble over it.
john		We'll talk to her about it tonight.
kate		You think that's enough?
john		It was one dirty word. I don't think we need to call in the shrink just-yet.
john		Iget it, I just- don ''t want to make a bigger deal out of it than it is.
kate		If she's saying "fuck" to my face, what's she doing when we're not around? We have to be thinking about what kind of influence she's having-on Daniel and Max. Particularly Max.
john		I wouldn't worry about it. You're right, we don't know how she was raised, but we do know she's a good kid. if Danny and Max want to start acting.like her, that's fine with me.
esther		Let's pick flowers for Daddy. Max.nods happily. 'Then Esther notices something that makes her stop short. A girl approaching on a bicycle... It's Brenda. She pretends to not see Bather, just rides right by. Esther watches, her face strangely slack... then starts to follow .her. Max gives Esther a confused look, but tags along.
brenda		Stop staring at.mel Stop ital. But Esther is unwavering. Can't take her eyes off of her. Brenda gets off the swing and runs away. Esther calmly walks after her.
brenda		Go-away! Stop following me, freak! Max sees Esther following Brenda and grudgingly gets off the swing, hurrying to -catch up. Brenda gives them an angry look.
brenda		You go first. Esther doesn't move, but Max gladly takes her turn. After a beat, Esther follows Max up the stairs. Brenda stays behind, watching. Max goes down the spiraling slide, but Esther just stands at the top, looking down at Brenda.
brenda		Gol! Esther, continues to stare down at her for a beat, then turns and -disappears from eight. only. then does Brenda climb up. Max runs to the stairs for- another turn. Brenda reaches the top and looks around. She sees Max.' But where's Esther? She turns.
esther		Are you going to tell on me? Max shrugs.
esther		I didn't mean to hurt her. I just wanted her-to stop picking on me.  Don't you hate it when someone is mean to you for no reason? Wouldn't you do almost anything to make them stop? A best. Max nods. Esther offers her hand and Max takes it.
john		Brenda says you pushed her.
esther		That's not true! We were just playing and she tripped! I swear!
kate		 Did you see what happened? Esther eyes Max expectantly. Max hesitates. Then:
daniel		Hey, you're not allowed to wear makeup. Does mom know you have this?
esther		Give it-back.
esther		Give it back'or I'll tell Daddy, that you hit her and then you'll be in trouble. Max smiles. Daniel-scowls at Esther, then gives Max the lipstick. He leaves. Max gives Esther a hug. Best friends forever.
kate		Put that away. Don't look at those. Kate puts the magazine back. There are several others just like it at kids-eye level. "Orgasms UNLIMITED!" "Thrill EVERY INCH- Of Him J" Kate'sighs and-'starts putting groceries on the conveyer.-
esther		"How To Hit Your G-spot Every Time." Kate whirls. Esther has picked up the same magazine. Kate angrily snatches it and pulls Esther toward her. Max startles.
kate		Stand where I can see yowl
esther		May I be excused?
esther		I'm not going to eat something that I don't like just to make you feel better. That's ridiculous.
joun		Esther, stop it. Eat the chicken and then you can be excused.
esther		Yes, sir. Esther starts eating. Kate gives John an exasperatedlook.
esther		Hello, Sister Abigail.
sister abigail		to need updated charts I t also going t from her. pediatrician and her dentist for my supervision report.
esther		Isn't it lovely? Look at my new paintings. -I've=done a portrait -for everyone in the family. She shows sister Abigail the portraits pinned to her wall. There's also a painting of everyone together.
sister abigail		That's one good-looking family you've got..
esther		I know. Aren't they perfect? Sister Abigail gives Kate and John an amused look-
john		I swear, we-didn't bribe her to say that. .y:
sister abigail		No explanation necessary. I don't think there e'anything that girl could say that would surprise me.
sister abygayl		Well. I'm glad to hear she's finally come out of her shell.'
sister abigail		What kinds of things is she doing?
sister abigail		Really? is the girl all right?
rate		She broke her arm and had to have something like eleven stitches, I think. She was lucky.
sister abigail		She doesn't. sound very lucky.
john		She's lucky she didn't break her neck. Sister Abigail seems troubled by this.
esther		I'm Daddy's little girl, aren't I?
john		That's right. You both are. As they head home, they see JOYCE 'PATTERSON  jogging toward them. A blonde with dark roots and an overdone boob job., wearing a skimpy sports bra and mini shorts. She waves to tem.
john		How're-you doing?
joyce		Hanging in there. Hey,,. I've got. a chair X want moved upstairs. You think you could come over and give me a hand? John glances toward home. Kate's at the door, waving goodbye to the College Student.- She sees John talking to Joyce and gives them an unreadable look before going back inside.
john		Uh, yeah. Maybe Kate and I -could help you -out.
joyce		Okay, I'll call you. John and Max start off again, but'Esther doesn't move. She's openly looking Joyce over from head to toe.
esther		You have a l ovely body.
kate		How was the.iide? Did you have fun? Max nods'and heads off; but Esther hangs back, eavesdropping:
kate		Didn't waste -arty time-turning that divorce settlement-into a tit job, did= she?
john		I didn't notice.
kate		Yeah, right. She's teasing, but there's something biting underneath it. Esther walks away, sipping on her juice box..
esther		We want to go in by ourselves)
john		Okay, just make sure you hold her hand.
esther		I will. - The girls. run inside. John smiles, but Kate watches anxiously.
esthsr		Let's play "hide and seek." You go first. Max excitedly runs off. Esther watches her vanish into the CROWD. Moments later,-Kate and John appear. Rate-nervously looks around.
rate		Where's Max?
esther		I don't know. I was trying to hold her hand, but she pushed me and ran away.
kate		Oh,.my God...
john		It's okay. Did YOU see where she went?
esther		This way, I think. She points the wrong way. Kate takes her hand and they quickly move through the crowd, looking for Max. John stands on a bench for a better vantage, Kate grabs passersby:
kate		Have you seen a little girl in-a fish costume? She has short brown hair? Nobody's seen her. Kate grows frantic. Esther watches with a nonchalant smile, enjoying the drama.- She tugs on Kate's arm.
esther		i Mommy, I want scene cotton candy. - ' 'ti
icats		Not now, Esther I
kate		Are you all right?- Don't you ever run off like that[ What were you thinking?
daniel		They were playing "hide and seek."- I- saw Esther let her run off. Esther gives him a sharp look. John turns on her, . angry.
john		Did you lie to us? What did I tell you about'holding her hand?
esther		I'm sorry, sir. She looks like she's going, to cry. John sighs, then turns to Kate and Max. Esther gives Daniel a hateful look through her tears.
esther		What's this? She shows Kate a little PLASTIC BAGGIE OF WEED. Daniel blanches when he sees it.. His.treehouse staah..
daniel		I wasn't taking it to school[
rate		Then what was it doing 'in-your backpack?-
daniel		I don't knowl" She just put it there to. get me in troubles
john		Where would'Esther have gotten pot?
daniel		 She saw me wCth it in the treehouse.
esther		Why does she have to'dress like that?
esther		Well, I think it's immodest. I don't know why Daddy -likes her so much.
esther		He's always smiling at her and talking to her. She wants him to come over to her house. Did you know that?  Please don't tell Aaddy I told. I don't want him to be mad at me.- Kate doesn't respond, clearly disturbed.
kate		Esther, come on.
esther		X told you, I don't like the de ntist.
kate		There's nothing to be afraid of.
kate		Esther, get out of the cart Righ t now! For a moment, they just glare at each other. Mexican stand-off.. Then Esther sticks her nose in the air and does as she's told.
hygienist		She hasn't had a check-up in about two years, so she's a little nervous.
dentist		That a girl: Little wider... She opens more. He leans in to take a look... Suddenly, she SHdMPS dawnn his jinx s hard Pnou h to draw blo-mss fr and locks n like Rottweile] The Hygienist is frozen in shock.
dentist		Aaagh! Goddammit!! Help me with her ! The Hygienist holds her down while the Dentist tries to pry her mouth open. Finally, he yanks his fingers free, cradling them
upstairs		Esther stands at the top of the stairs, listening to-the message- She's heard everything. And she's scared. Scared and pissed.
kate		He's been our dentist for ten years. Why would he lie to us?
jqan		I didn't say he's lying. I just think Ws-blowing it out of proportion,
kate		I saw the bite marks. We're lucky he's not suing us.
john		Fine, but I don't believe for a"second that she just did it for no reason.
rate		That's because she's always on her best behavior with you.
john		So you've seen her haul off'and bite someone like an animal?
kate		No, but she threw that fit at school
joen		Yeah, because the other kids were harassing her. It's the same thing here.  She's from a completely different culture Kate. She has to be taught that this. behavior isn't appropriate but there's nothing malicious about it. If'she says she bit him because she was scared and he was hurting her, I don't see any reason not to believe her. A beat. Kate looks at him. She's stewing hbaut something.
kate		So should .1 believe her when she says you've been hitting on Joyce Patterson?
john		of course not!
kate		Did-she invite You over?'
john		She wanted me to help her move a chair.
kate		Oh, - come on.
on		All right, she was obviously coming to me. But I shut her down.
kate		Then why didn't you tell me?
john		Because I knew how you'd reactl
kate		Really? You sure it wasn't because you were coming-on to her so obviously that an eight-year-old picked upon it? A long-beat. John sighs, resigned.-
john		How-long are you going to keep this hanging over me? It was ten years ago.
kate		You keep-saying that. But it's only been about two years since you told me.  Having another child was -supposed to bring us together.
john		I'm sorry I didn't tell you-about it- x just feel like I've earned a little trust here.
john		So-you can keep bringing uP my . mistakes over and Over, but we're not even allowed to discuss yours?
kate		I was sick! You were just an asshole who wanted to fuck somebody else!
john		You were a danger to our children. If I didn't want to. make this work, I could have left months ago and nobody would have blamed me.
kate		Nice. Is that-what-your mother told you? Angry tears well in her eyes. He realizes be went too far.. Kate goes into the bathroom and SLAMS the door.
esther		THE MAN LADY YS Comm TOMORROW.
esther		Do you -want to_ play? - A beat. Max shakes her head. Esther smiles, fingers the trigger. After a long, awful, pants wetting eternity, she lowers the gun.
esther		You're right. We'd better not.
sister abigail		When you first asked about adopting Esther, I expressed some misgivings. But I wasn't completely straightforward with you. You see, I love children. I've worked with them my entire life. And the thing about love is that it sometimes clouds your judgement.
sister abigail		Yes, but there was something else. It was hard to say chat it was at first. Just-a feeling that she was a profoundly damaged little girl.
joan		But none of these things were her fault.
sister abigail		That's; g I was reluc!tant to t anything bef ore. Now'I think th at may a have been a mistake.  Children like Esther, who've spent their entire lives-in institutions, have never had' a chance to 'form normal, lasting bonds.. The longterm effects of 'this- can be devastating.   In the very worst cases, children who fail to form early attachments are unable to learn the difference between'right and wrong. They can lie, cheat, steal --- .or worse -and and have no remorse whatsoever for their actions.' They view other human beings as objects, pawns for their amusement. And they can-be potentially very dangerous.
sister abigail		A severely character-disturbed child can appear to be -completely normal, -even exceptional. It's like they have two faces one-they show the outside world in order'to get what they want, and the other, their true face, lying just beneath the surface.
kate		What about the orphanage in Russia where she was raised? Wouldn't they have been able to tell?
sister abigail		That's true,-I don't. But I believe the circumstantial evidence is enough to warrant taking the next step.
rate		Which is what? -
john		You want to disrupt the adoption over this?!
john		She's just a kids -
sister abigail		She's also the sole-survivor of a house fire that killed her last family.  It was arson. I did some checking. Someone deliberately set that fire. They-never caught who did it.
john		Wait a minute, you're not suggesting --
sister abigail		Pyromania is one of the warning signs of a character--disturbed child. Rate blanches, realizing:
kate		Do you think she had something to do with'what happened to Yolanda? A long beat. Sister Abigail hesitates, reluctant to answer.
john		We can take her to Doctor -Browning. - Kate suggested doing that weeks ago. But I don't want to send her away. Not without at least some kind of proof. Sister Abigail.sighs, frustrated. Kate turns to him:
kate		But what if 'the doctor says she's dangerous? A beat. He considers, uncertain and emotional.
joh1		Then I guess we.won't.bave any choice.
esther		Here she. comes. Wait until she gets close. Max nervously peers out from behind the abutment. Esther stands behind her. The car starts across the-bridge. Suddenly -- -- sthe pusbes Max it into the Load. stumbles and falls ri ht ,m. on of the _speed car.
sister abigail		Dear Lord! Are you okay, honey? Max looks up at her,-stunned, but unhurt. Sister Abigai1 is taken aback. She recognizes her.
esther		Help me get her off the road. Max looks up blankly, then staggers .to her feet. They each take a hand and start dragging Sister Abigail's body, but she's heavy and they're little. It's all they can do to slowly move her. Then Esther hears something. There's ANOTHER CAR coming. It's still out of sight through the trees, but closing. Esther and Max hurriedly drag the body, struggling it to the side of the road, just as the car rounds the bend. Esther gives the' body a kick,, sending it rolling down the embankment. The car is almost on them. Esther and Max quickly hide under the bridge.. Esther grabs Max's backpack and pulls u wig _cm. The car reaches the bridge. Esther listens to it cross, tense, gun . ready... . but it passes Abigail's car and continues without stopping. Esther breathes a sigh of relief. Suddenly, there's a CROARING_noise from behind them.' Esther turns. It's Sister Abigail. She's still alive. She's trying to speak, but all that comes out is an awful'MOAN. Esther scowls and grabs the hammer. Sister Abigail looks up at her,' moaning louder. Then Esther brings-the hammer down. CRUNCH. The moans stop. Esther hits her AGAIN and AGAIN.
esther		Did you get any on you? Max shakes her head, pale and shivering.
esther		Good. Let's get her covered up. Esther starts scooping leaves and debris onto Sister Abigail's corpse. Max just watches fora long beat... then shuffles over like a zombie and helps her. Esther smiles..
esther		If you tell on me, you'll get in trouble, too.
esther		She wanted to take me away from you.
rate		She's canceling some appointments-so we - can get her in-tomorrow. They hear Esther HUMMING upstairs and exchange a disgiuieted look.
john		Esther and Max? You saw them?
daniel		Oh-huh.
john		The treehouse is still locked.
daniel		Esther had the-keys.
john		You mean these keys here? He goes over tothe keepsake chest and opens it.. The KEY RING is there. He holds it up. Daniel flusters..
john		You're not lying to get them in- trouble,.are you? '
daniel		No, I swear!
john		 I don't know what's got into you lately. Just go to your room. Daniel leaves, dejected...
esther		ssshhh.
esther		You te.11 anybody what you saw and I will cut your hairless little prick off before you even figure out what it'-s for. Do you understand me? She rapidly cuts the air with the scissors -- SNIP-SNIPI Daniel frantically nods his head. She twists his hair again.
esther		,= -it
n daniel		I won't tells I won't tell, T xomisel p She holds him for a beat, savoring his fear. A DABX STAIN seeps through the bedspread. Esther' sees it and grins.
esther		You pissed yourself. Daniel is crying, humiliated, belplesa.,'too terrified to dare make a sound. Finally, she releases him and turns off the light. As ick ad :it bWgan it she's go . up in a b all and his faa in his pillow stifl e his Bobs
estber		It was nice talking to you, Alice. I I hope we can be friends.
kate		She's not dangerous?
john		Thank God.
estrer		May I go to the restroom?
kate		But that's not what's.been happening.
kate		I don't feel inadequate.
kate		What does that have to do with'Esther?
esteer		She didn't see. She doesn't know. She doesn't knout Ahitl She starts POUNDING the walls-of stall th her fists. We CUT between her a Dr.-B rowning talking to ltate
esther		Goddamn, coaksucking bitch!! Thinks she knows well Doesn't know shit!!
kate		Thanks for the support back there.
john		Hey, I'm not a psychiatrist. And a lot of what she's saying makes sense. Before she can respond, Nate's cell phone RINGS. She turns away from John' and'answers it. He sighs and goes inside.
kate		Yes. Who's calling?
john		We'll help in any way we can. We at least owe her that much.
kate		Do you have any idea who could have done this? '
john		Who is it?
detective		I can't tell you that right now. But he was found with the murder weapon, along with some cash and credit cards.
john		Jesus..:: at kind of sick' monster carjacks a nun? Kate glances up, sees Esther crouched on the stairs, watching... INT. fAMiLY ROOM - DAY Daniel sits in a big recliner, sullenly playing a VIDEO GAME SHOOT- EM-OP. Kate is researching- on the Internet. We get CLOSE SHOTS of some of her Google.results, INTE Ctfs with Daniel BLASTING AWAY at alien baddies, his face angry and intense: "Character-disturbed Children." -BLAME.-BLAME-BLAME "Antisocial Personality Djsorder." PL f-BLAMI- "C ren o Kfll." Esther enters holding Max's handy leadin her around like a pet. Max numbly follows. They walk up to Daniel'in the recliner.
esther		We want to sit there.
kate		Esther, Daniel was there first. - Daniel eyes Esther. Wary, but defiant. She sighs and makes a -"cutting" motion with two fingers. Daniel brusquely turns off th e game and gets out of the chair. - As' he leaves, Kate calls out,
kate		Daniel? Daniel? He ignores her and stomps upstairs. She watches him, concerned.
kate		This is what Sister Abigail was telling us about. Character-disturbed children, 'Look at the, symptoms.
john		"Extended period of bedwetting. Speech pathology.  Abnormal eye contact." She doesn't have half of these.
kate		I still think Doctor Brow have missed something. iner couldd
john		save you showed this to Doctor. Bowiiing?
kate		- I'm not 'seeing her anymore..
john		You're not going to therapy? When did you decide that?
sate		When do you think? John sighs. A tense-beat.
john		I know you were. upset. But we have to at least consider the possibility that she's right about this.
kate		No, we don't. Why does everybody around here get the.benefit of the doubt fro m you except me?
john		That's not true. I'm just..worried about you, that's all. We can hire someone to help you with the kids if it's getting to be too much.
kate		I don't need help. All I want is for a doctor who knows what they're doing to give us a second opinion.
john		We're-not going to.keep taking her to doctors until you hear what you want to hear.
rats		She didn't want to believe it. But she was worried enough-to think we should put her in foster care until we found out for sure.
john		For all, her good intentions, sister Abigail was not a trained psychologist. She'had certain suspicions about Esther and they turned out to be wrong. Why is can't you accept that?
kate		 What if somebody else thought there was something wrong with her? Like the director of the orphanage in Russia? Esther stops painting and listens, suddenly apprehensive.
kate		if it's a dead end, I'll drop it. - But if they say the same thine, then we'd have to get.a second opinion. John considers. He doesn't want to be unreasonable. He nods.
john		All right.- See what you can find out.
john		You'll have to get ready early,
kate		Sister Judith? Hi, this is Kate .Coleman. I teas.wondering if you'd heard from anyone at the Sludianka Orphan's Shelter in Russia. sister Abigail said that...- Oh, you did? _  What do you mean?... Well, I don't understand. How could they not have any record of her being there?
john		What's the matter?
esther		I don't want to go to school.
john		Why not?
john		You want-to play hooky?  I can call in- sick and we'll go to -the zoo. What do you think? Esther smiles through her tears.
esther		I'd like that very much. EXT. ME TARY SCHOOL  r MORNING Kate drives up the steep hil1 in front of Daniel and Esther's school and stops at the end of a long'line of parents dropping kids off. Daniel. gets out without looking at Kate.
kate		Daniel, wait a minute. He hangs back. Rate gives him and Max a concerned-.look.
daniel		Fine, I guess.
kate		Does she ever make you guys feel uncomfortable or do things you know she's not supposed to? Has she ever hurt either of you? Daniel wants to say something, but the frightened look on Max's face stops him. Rate realizes she's struck.a nerve.
kate		Please. You can tell me anything.
daniel		-I gotta gu. Before Kate can stop -him, he closes the car door and runs off.
esther		You don't know how-long I've waited for a 'daddy just. like you.
john		And a monany, too. Right? Esther hesitates. John notices. She gives a sad shrug.
esther		I don't think !'Tommy likes me very much.
john		That's not true..- Mc=my loves 'you.
esther		It's all right. I understand if she doesn't. It must be difficult to love an adopted child as much as- your own..
john		Sweetheart, .you are just as much a part of this family- as Danny. and Max are. Mommy doesn't love'you any less because you're adopted. Do you understand? She nods, but doesn't look convinced. John thinks.
john		Why don't you do something special for her? So she can see what a good girl you are. I'll bet she'd like that. Esther's face brightens.
est ler		That's a wonderful idea. I think I know just what I'm.going to do, too.
esther		I have a special surprise for you, Mommy. Kate eyes her warily. No idea what to expect.
kate		You do?
kate		Estherl Put that down --l Esther laughs and playfully pulls it away. Kate grabs her by the wrist and Esther suddenly drops the flower, SHRIEKING in pain.
john		What the hell did you do to her?
kate		I just grabbed her arm! aohn hurries after Esther. Kate hangs back, picks the orchid-up" from off the floor. it's ruined.
kate		She knew what it meant to me. She did it on purpose.,
john		It wasn't even her idea.  I'm the one who told her she should try to do something nice for you. He leaves.
esther		Daddy! Daddy!
john		what in it, sweetheart?
esther		My arm huits .'
er doctor		It's a hairline fracture in her radius.
kate		I swear, I barely touched her.
john		But.it was just an.accident.
er doctor		It's routine. We're required by law to file. a report. Child Protective Services will be in touch to schedule a follow-up visit at your home. Kate is shocked. John shoots her a dirty look.
kate		You know I would never hurt any of the-. kids on purpose.
john		I know. It's not what you do on purpose that scares me. Kate watches him go. ..Be turns away and takes Max upstairs.
kate		We're having guests over for dinner. The Cashier nods. Like be gives a shit. Kate lowers her eyes.-
esther		I can't wait for show-and-tell. I hope Mrs. Grosse. likes my paintings. I did one especially for her.. .Nobody responds. Kate's blocking her out. Esther doesn't mind.
esther		Moumiy! My paintings! Kate eyes her accusingly.
kate		You dropped them on purpose.
moroi		Frazzled, Kate turns to. Daniel.. He points. to the van.
shitt		she hurries after it, but it's already.inoving too fast, picking up speed, rolling into oncoming e goes into a panic- fueled 'run,. sure erupting into ic., Kat
maxi		Drivers w van a of s Parked a ars eSHEERING gerssi door. c d Max is trapped in her car seat, helpless, eyes wide in mute terror,.as the minivan clears the parked cars, head ed for the intersection at the bottom of the hill.. Kate chases it, powsrlen s to do anything but watch.-
kate		I set the brake. . Bven if I hadn'tr the police said it wouldn't have.:rolled unless it was put in neutral.
xate		This. isn-'t all in my head. Sister Abigail was right. There is something wrong with Esther. And I don't care anymore if I can't prove it. I'want her out of this house. John and Dr. Browning exchange a dark look.
kate		I'll do whatever I have to,do to protect my children.
john		56 will 1.  That's why she's here. something in his voice makes Kate apprehensive. An uneasy beat.
rats		Tell her not to bother.  I'd like you to leave now.
john		Kate, don't. John stands and takes something from inside the sideboard. Ile : sets it on the coffee table between them... qtr, s the wine bottl g she hid " he closet. Kate is stricken. She looks at it like it was a poisonous spider.
john		The girls found it while they were playing in your. closet.
kate		The girls?" You mean Esther found it.
john		Yes, Esther found it. Does that make a difference? Is she lying? A beat. Kate's silence-is answer enough.
kate		I didn't... I bought two bottles. I poured the other one down-the sink.
john		But not this onie. Again, no answer necessary.. Kate looks defeated, tears welling.
kate		I'm not going to rehab.
jqhn		I'm not going to leave you-alone with the kids again until you do. - .
kate		I haven't had a drink in almost a year. John sighs, frustrated.- Dr. Browning intervenes, her voice infuriatingly even. and calm.'
kate		It's not a charade. I wanted to- drink i t. You have no fucking idea how.badly I wanted to drink it. But I didn't.  I know 1 should have told you..  I was just afraid of what you'd do.
john		I wanted you to come to me. That's why ,I didn't confront you with it last night. If Max had gotten hurt this morning, it. would've been because I trusted you tell me if there was a problem.
rate		What happened this morning had nothing to do with this!
john		l f ow do you expect me to believe that?
kate		Max and Daniel are the only reason I'm still sober. I would never do anything that would hurt them.
kate		You know damn.well what I'm talking about. _ Her voice is brittle now, barely controlled. A beat. The tears sta rt to spill.
kate		When I look out at the pool and think...  When I try to imagine what would have happened if you hadn't come home early that day... it makes me want to kill myself. I would the before I let something like that happen again.
john		Then why-not throw both bottles away?
john		That's not enough anymore.' I told you last time what I'd do if this'ever happened again. I'm trying to give you another chance.
john		I've heard enough. If it was just the two of us, that would be one thing. But I can't let you be in a position where you could hurt the kids.
kate		I'm not the one you need to be worried aboutt Seven people close to Esther have died in the past year. Max was almost the eighth. now many more coincidences are you willing to ignore?
john		Kate, stop it. You're talking about an eight-year-old girl. And right now she's making a lot more sense than you are.
kate		I know I haven't given you any reason to believe me. But you have to. I'm begging you.
john		I'm sorry. Maybe if you'd been honest with me from the start. But not now.
john		You either check into rehab this week or I leave and I take the kids with me. Esther leans close and whispers into Max's hearing aid:
esther		I'll kill her it you tell..
doris		Come on, you two. Let's go watch TV. Max wipes her eyes. Esther takes her hand and leads her away.
doris		.I don't care what she appreciates. You can't leave those kids alone with her while you're at work all day.  You're doing the right thing. Don't let her change your mind.
john		I'll see you tomorrow. Doris gets In her car. John looks conflicted.
daniel		Are you okay?' Max nods. Daniel sits down next to her. He lowers his voice.
daniel		Did Esther do something to the van? Max turns away and shakes her bead.
daniel		It's okay. You can tell no. I saw her jump out before .it started to roll. Max gives him a startled look, suddenly frightened.
daniel		No way. Dad won't believe me. You have to do it with me. Max shakes her head and starts signing, but Daniel can't keep up.
daniel		Slow down, 'I don't understand. Did she make the van crash? A long beat. Max reluctantly nods'. -
daniel		Then we have to tell Mom and Dad. Max starts crying. She signs, but Daniel doesn't understand. Frustrated, Max starts hitting him. Daniel grabs her arms
daniel		-Stop it!- She's going to kill us if we don't tell! Morn and Dad can protect us! Max. shakes her head. Daniel releases her.
daniel		Why not?
daniel		What did she do in the treehouse?
daniel		r She's coming.
daniel		Everything's going to be all right.
esther		She's fine. Lot's not wake her.
kate		What are you doing in here?
esther		1-couldn't sleep. I was-afraid you might try to take Daniel and Max away. Kate stands frozen, frustrated and'angry.
kate		Go to your room.
esther		1m not the one who passedouutt drunk. and let I hear the first step is  -admitting that. you have a problem.
kate		 Who told you about that. - Esther holds up Kate's journal:: Kate blanches.
esther		It's in your journal. I found it a few weeks ago.. It's very intimate. 3 learned so much about you. Your marital troubles, your drinking problem. Where you hide your wine bottles. You have lovely handwriting, by the way. Would you like to bear my favorite part? Esther has a page marked. She reads:
esther		"Eight weeks before my due date, Jessica died-from several undiagnosed birth defects. I hadn't felt her move for days, but now that I knew she was dead, I started-to feel her kick again. It's called phantom fetal movement, like the pain felt in a missing limb. I was an amputee and my baby was the lost part of me. Because of other complications, Doctor Kosgrove didn't want to induce. So I had to wait to go into labor. For sixteen days I carried Jessica's body and felt her ghostnow a kicking in my-belly. y womb coffin and inside me slept a corpse."  How perfectly hideous. No wonder you turned into a nasty, smelly drunk. Kate is dumbfounded, trembling with impotent rage and raw emotion.
esther		Kate. You don't know how lucky you are, I'll never have children of my own. My father paw to that while I was still-in diapers. I. actually don't"remember a 7 time when he wasn't fucking.me.
rate		I'mi pot weak..
esther		Please. You're soft. Like,& worm. Losing your baby could have. made you stronger. But for you it's alwa s.more therapy and more- pills and more booze. Anything so that you don.'t have to actually face the so state of your miserable existence. And why should you? You've got John to carry your dead weight around.. But you know something? You don't deserve him. And sooner 'or later, he's going to figure that out. Esther stands up to leave. Kate-blocks her path.
esther		What are you going to do? Hit me? -Kate. looks really tempted. A beat. She puts out her hand for the journal. Esther gives it to her with a smile. Kate steps aside.
esther		See you tomorrow. She leaves. Kate glares after her. -
kate		I need to know where she came from and I need to know now.
kate		We adopted her from yquI How can you not know anything about her?!-
sister judith		The Wallaces could have adopted her illegally. Are you-sure remember anything that could he doesn't?
doris		I say Professor Plum did it in the Conservatory with the candlestick...
kate		Jesus Christ... She flips through the: Bible and shakes it, but there's nothing else. She notices that the Bible -is in a foreign language. There's an ink stamp on the inside cover. it's in the sa me. language as the Bible. "See on saarne rnatituat omand." She focuses on two words: seamne.Inatituut.
doris		Where are you going?
daniel		Bathroom. Esther eyes him as he leaves.
kate		Uh, hello.- I'm sorry, do you speak English?
kate		Do you speak.English? Does anybody there speak-English? This is very- important.
kate		Is this the Saarne Institute?
kate		I need to talk to someone about one of your children. She was adopted by.an American family about a year ago.
kate		A little girl, possibly adopted from your orphanage. I'm trying to find somebody who might remember her.
kate		Can't you at least check?
kate		Please, I know she at least spent some time there.'
daniel		You leave her alone.
esther		Think about it. Somebody had to have helped me. If they find that dress, they won't just be coming for me. They'll becoming for Max, too.. Is that really what you want? She's maneuvering him away from the door. Daniel screws up-his courage and stands his ground.
esther		Goodbye, Daniel.
kate		It's called the Saarne Institute. S-A - A-R-N-E. it's in Estonia:
sister judith		Estonia? This can't be right. All he r paperwork is from Russia.
kate		Please, just try to find out if sh e was ever a patient there. I'm sending them a-picture of her right now.
kate		Oh, my God! Daniell Baby, can you hear me? Please, baby! Wake up. He doesn't move. Kate calls out to Doris:.
kate		Call nine-one--onel Doris hurries back to the house. Kate catches Esther watching her warily.. Kate glares at her with pure hate.
kate		Get in here.
doris		She can ride with us.
kate		I'm not letting her out of my sight..
john		Can we see him? -
kate		Will he be able to tell us what happened? A pointed glance-between Kate and John. Dr. Rajan doesn't notice.
john		There has to be some other explanation. She didn't come from an insane asylum!
kate		How do we know? The orphanage we thought she came from has never even' heard of her[- Everything. about her could be a lie!
kate		It's just paper, JohnI From halfway around the world!-- This isn't last me being paranoid. Call. Saint Cabrini's yourself. if 'you don't believe me. A beat. John looks like he's wavering.
rate		Your own mother was there this time. Only Esther or Daniel could have started that fire. I know who I think did It. Do you? .
john		I don't know what to think anymore.
kate		Well, I'm done connecting the dots for you. You can believe what you want about me. Blame me for everything. I'll leave tonight if you want me to, on one condition.
esther		Can I have a dollar for the pop machine? Doris gives her a dollar.from her'purse. Esther smiles and heads toward the vending machines.. Max watches her go. But as soon as Esther's out of sight, her cheery face turns to graiii.te. She puts the dollar in her pocket and sneaks away...
kate		What-is it, sweetie? Suddenly, a CALL comes on the overhead speakers:
rate		Oh, My. God... Daniell She and John run after Dr. Rajan. Doris quickly grabs Max to keep her from following. INT. HOSPITAL -. lCD - NIGHT Kate and John follow Dr. Rajan.to the room where a CODE TEAM races to resuscitate Daniel.
kate		Dan.iL-I! Kate and John try to enter the room, but the ICU NURSE stops them.
kate		What's happening --?1
icu nurse		You have to stay out here. _ They catch a glimpse of Dr. Rajan picking up defibrillator paddles before the door is SLANHEI) in their terrified faces. INT. HOSPITAL - ICU - NIGHT 
kate		Oh, no... Oh, no... Oh, my baby... _
rate		Where is she?
kate		What did you do?! Heads'turi. Doris and Max are taken aback. Kate looks insane. She strides.toward Esther, gaining momentum with every step, but Esther just looks up at her with a half-hidden smile on her fa ce.
john		Kate! Stop it! Rate looks ready to hit her again, but a NURSE holds her back.
esther		Daddy! Daddy! Help me! John scoops her into his arms; Kate is apoplectic. It takes TWO ORDERLIES to hold her. Max watches, crying.
kate		She killed him! He was going to live and she killed him!1
john		She was out here the whole time! Dr. Rajan rushes in, readying a syringe.
john		Mom's driving us home. I think it's better if you stay here tonight. I don't want you around the kids like this. Kate weakly grasps his hand, her voice a thready whisper:
kate		John... Please... Please don't let her take my family... A long, emotional beat. John hesitates, conflicted. Then he places her hand back on the bed and turns away. She tries to call out, but doesn't have the strength. - She sees the girls waiting in-the hallway. Max has been crying. She looks scared. John leads them all away. And the last thing Kate sees-before blacking-out again is Esther's devious smile...
john		What's wrong, sweetheart? -
esther		She's thinking about Daniel.  Aren't you?
john		Me, tQO. Esther enters and stands next to john at Max's bedside.
esther 4		Hello, darling.
john		What are you doing?
john		Get down from there. That knife's too sharp for you to be playing with. Esther climbs down from the chair and nonchalantly carries the cheese and cracker plate to the dining room, as-if he hadn't said anything. John follows her, dumbfounded...
john		What is this? -
joan		No, I don't.- You're not supposed to play with Mommy's makeup.
esther		I'm sorry, sir. I.just want to be as' pretty for you-as she is.
john		You don't need makeup to be pretty. Esther is touched. She gazes up at. him lovingly.
esther		You really mean that, don't you?
john		of course. Why don't you go wash your face and we'll tuck you back into bed.
john		-All right. We'll have a little snack and then off -to bed. Esther beams. John sits down, reluctantly humoring her. Esther starts pouring sparkling water into the glasses.
esther		We really. should be drinking that bottle-of wine, but I couldn't find it.
john		Little girls aren't allowed to drink wine.
estber		I like being close to you. She gazes into his eyes and.touches his face. John moves her hand away, suddenly very uncomfortable. She hesitates, nervous... then eans saes Qn h. John grabs her arms and abruptly pushes. her away xn-shock and near-panic.
esther		What's wrong?
john		Don't ever do that again.
estbsr		I. thought you loved me. You said I was pretty.
john		Of course, I love you. But not... it's different than how I love Mommy. You're my little girl.
esther		Will you stop saying that? We can be together now, don't you see? She can't come-between us anymore.
john		Who can't? You mean Mommy?
esthbr		She's not my inormyl Please, sir, I'll do anything for you... She reaches out to touch his face again, but he grabs her hand.
john		Esther, stop it! I mean it. This is wrong.
esther		Am I being bad? -   You can spank me. it you-'.d like. I'll let you. I won't, evn cry. Unless you want me to.
esther		Please! Please! You're ruin.ing it!
jdhn		Jesus Christ, lust stop talking! Go upstairs and wipe that shit off your facel Right nowt Esther runs upstairst crying.- John just gapes in utter disma and revulsion. He runs Into the kitchen and throws up in the sink.
kate		Hello?
kate		Who's calling?
rate		Did you get the picture I:sent? Did you recognize her?
kate		No, she's at home with my husband.
kate		He won't do it. He's not going to do anything without some kind of proof.
kate		This can't be. There has to be a mistake.
rate		What scars?
esther		curls her upper lip, looking at her top teeth. She reaches up, pulls on her teeth and -- RA-CLICK. y come out
kate		But why was ahe at your hospital?
esther		just stares at herself in the mirror. With her scars revealed, her face scratched, her mascara streaked down 'to her chin, and her awful, yellow, snaggletoothed sneer, she looks like a monster.
kate		And then she burned the house down...
john		Esther? Are you-all right? She's not here. The light is on, but the room is empty. Fish are still FLAPPING around on the floor,-mouths. gasping. John gives the-broken aquarium an unnerved look.
john		Esther, where are you? No answer. He turns off the light, about to look "elsewhere... then stops. With the overhead light off, the room is lit only by the black light in Either ' s broken aquar i u m, t 7UVALI ma Esther s p a n i tin ha a chap n S 's painted t = that they ook f een vri d er black h - - - John takes a closer look, turning the black light on and o ff. Unde gal lights the painting he saw when he first met Esther,- a mother lion and her sleeping cubs. .[Inds black Limos the cube are now dead and 'the mother's mouth .s dripping with blood. The paintings that looked like typical family portraits in normal light are now nightmarish visions of death and violence. In one, Kate's eyes have been gouged out. In another, Daniel's throat has been slashed. In the picture of the whole family, John- and Esther look normal, but Kate, Daniel, and Max are all decomposed corpses. John staggers back in shock. The telephone RINGS, startling him. The answering machine picks up. He hears KATE.'SVOICE,
upstairs hallway		John staggers to the stairs, the handle of the scissors jutting from his eye socket. But just as he hits. the first step, Baer rushes out and pushes tine cMm  the etz{rs.
foyer		John-goes flying, head over heels, crashing into the railing hard enough to SPLINTER it, and lands hard at the foot of the stairs. Be lies there in a heap, too stunned. to move. Esther appears at the top of the stairs. looking down at him. She. has a JU} P ROPE in her hands and starts slowly walkinq toward him, softly singing:
esther		When I was juuust, a lifitle g .iirl I asked'my mother, what .will I be... leg is broke John tries to stand, but cries out in agony. Big He looks up, sees the table with the PHONE on it. As he painfully crawls toward it, Esther closes in on him, singing and winding the jump' rope around her fists like a garotte.
esther		Qua sera, sera. Suddenly -- a GASP from upstairs. Esther whirls. I 's 5 N ax.. She stands atop the .stairs,- paralyzed- with fear. She's, seen everything. Esther, looks-u at her with a reassuring smile on her awful, mascara-streaked, blood-splattered monster face.
esther		It's all right, baby. -Come to Mommy.
esther		Shit l. She scrambles to her feet..
kate		I need the police. There's an intruder in my home. _
upstairs hallway		Max carefully peers out from.around a corner... Suddenly -- no sound.. This is how Max experiences the world. A silent vacuum. Her perspective is shot MOS. The hallway is empty and Max cautiously maces her way toward the stairs. Suddenly, Esther emerges from Max's room. Max quickly ducks into Daniel's room. Esther doesn't see her:
danxel's bedroom		Max looks around for, a place to hide. She sees a TOY ROBOT lying on the floor amongst Daniel's things...
upstairs hallway		Esther edges toward Daniel's room, gun raised. There's a STRANGE GRINDING SOUND coming from inside...
rate		Well, where the hell are they? Jesus Christ, I'll be there before they will
sunroom		Streaking rain casts frightening shadowa in the glassed-in terrace. Max quickly sneaks in and crawls under one. of the numerous plant tables. Hanging leaves droop almost to the floor, hiding. her. But as she curls up in the shadows, she bumps into a table leg and unknowingly knocks over a FLOWER POT. MOS: -The flower pot SMASHES TO PIECES on the floor directly behind Max.' Naturally, she doesn't bear it.
bathroom		But E e does. She turns. Eyes narrowing, suspicious.
kate		John! Oh, my God! John!'1 She rushes to him, but it's obvious that he's dead. She leans over his body and bursts into tears, aching at what has been done to him... then stop and steels herself for what ]sh jds to do..
john's den		Kate hurries to the keepsake box and rummages for the.keys. Can't. find them. She. quickly looks around. Her breath catches. The CASE l ies empty on t floor, u let sca tered around it.
kitchen		Kate. runs in, sobbing She sees the big knife that Esther was using earlier, grabs it. Reconsiders. She throws it aside an d instead draws a huge goddamn BUTCHER'S KNIFE from the knife block.
max's bedroom		Kate throws the door open. Max's bed is empty.
kate		No!!
basement stairway		Esther opens the- door to the basement. She pulls open the breaker box and starts flipping SWITCHES.
upstairs hallway		Kate cautiously moves down the hall suddenly, he lights go plunging - tlw o se into darkness.
upstairs hallway		Esther sneaks upstairs, hugging the wall, gun held ready. She pauses at the top of the stairs, waiting. Lightning FLASHES.. 'The- hallway is empty. She sidles along the wall...
linen closet		MOS: Max is huddled on the floor, terrified. Suddenly, there's a FLASH of lightning --'mid Bhe A= fiba movement tmn qb The
linen closet		MOS: Max watches the shadowy figure, nearly hyperventilating, not realizing that it'e Kate. It's coming closer, closer... then moves away. Max catches her breath.
esther's room		Kate stands by the door with her back to the wail, holding her bloody shoulder. Her eyes flit, searching for a weapon. Nothing.
foyer		=-bnt Rate mat-out TA S her 'and the tw-q of i o.tvmbl n down the s. They-hit the already splintered secon of the mailing and t gives way- -- CRASB 1   Rate and Esther fly through the smashed railing and fall a tangled heap. Kate cracks her head. The gun goe toSthe floor s They're both stunned by the fall, breath knocked out. Kate is dazed, unable to move. Esther recovers first, looks around for the gun, can't find it. Kate stirs, fighting to stay cons cious. Esther squirms away from her crawls over to John's body, and wrenches the scissor from his eye so ket. Kate sees her but can only watch helplessly as Esther stagg p towa-rd her, bloody scissors clutched in her little fist like a dagger,
esther		Please" don't hurt me, Mommy. rat fucking chance, bitch. Kate SHOOTS her again. This one goes right between those pretty eyes. Esther falls to the floor, dead gaze staring at the ceiling, a pool of blood .expanding around her pretty Shirley Tem ple curls. Kate drops the gun and crawls over to Max, scooping her into her arms and hiding her face from the horrible sights all around them- For a long moment, mother anddaghte r o justholdaeacheother close. Kate strokes Max's hair, cry ng u What Kate can't see"is the'slack, traumatized expression on Max's bloodied face. .vacant and emotionless. That spark you should see in the. eyes of a"child, gone forever. CAMERA PULLS BACK and we
****Dialogues from script :Other_Boleyn_Girl.txt****

sir thomas		I received a formal request for marriage today for Anne.  From the Carey family.
lady elizabeth		But that's wonderful.
sir thomas		I turned it down.
sir thomas		And offered them Mary instead.
sir thomas		Fnne's too good for William Carey. She can do (better than a merchant's son.
lady elizabeth		You underestimate Mary.
sir thomas		Not true. I think she's..the kinder of the two. Quite possibly the fairer.
sir thomas		But to get ahead in this world, you need more than fair looks and a kind heart.
sir thomas		 Bravo! Anne!
anne		May we come in..?
anne		Look at you..! Younger than me. More beautiful than me. Married before me.  I am eclipsed. I am just the `Other Boleyn Girl.'
mary		Hardly.
george		No, is this it? This is the end of the unholy trinity?
mary		No, George. Never. I'll be married, that's all..  Apart from that - it won't change a thing.
priest		Confirma hoc, Deus, quod operatus es in nobis..
william		Are you happy?
mary		Very.
william		You don't secretly wish you'd married someone grander? With a title?
mary		No. I want a husband who loves me. And who thinks it first thing every morning. And last thing at night.
william		Then you've found the right man.
anne		Who is that? He was staring at me in church?
george		That's Henry Percy. Heir to the Duke of Northumberland. Richest landowner in England.
george		But don't get your hopes up. He is already betrothed.
anne		Betrothed is not married, brother George. A lot can happen before you reach the altar.
sir thomas		Thomas..
norfolk		I think I have managed to persuade the King to come and stay with you on progress. A week-end's hunting in late summer.
sir thomas		But that's wonderful! Thank you, thank you so much..  Did you hear that, Elizabeth?
lady elizabeth		 Yes.
sir thomas		Finally we can present George, and with luck, get him a position at court.
norfolk		These are difficult times. I have it on good authority that the Queen no longer bleeds - yet the matter of a male heir is still not resolved. a beat) It cannot be long before the King is forced to look outside the marriage.
sir thomas		What? And make a bastard King of England?
norfolk		A legitimized bastard. What choice does he have?  Obviously, I've given it thought, and wondered which Howard girl I could put under his nose. Imagine the influence that would give us. To be blood family of the next King of England. Equally, imagine if another family were to achieve the same?
sir thomas		What about Anne?
sir thomas		I realise as a `Boleyn' she is not officially a `Howard', but as your sister's daughter..
norfolk		But she's your eldest, Thomas. Your first born. And your favourite. Wouldn't you prefer her to have a nice, uncomplicated, respectable marriage? Like Mary?
sir thomas		If Anne were an uncomplicated, respectable girl like Mary, then I'd say `yes'. But she's not.
sir thomas		She's anything but.
ady elizabeth		don't like it. It would cost a fortune to make our house fit for a royal visit. Money we don't have. 
sir thomas		And what if you were to look on the bright side? Just once?
sir thomas		Risk nothing, you gain nothing.
lady elizabeth		hen was it that people stopped thinking of ambition as a sin, and started thinking of it as a virtue?
sir thomas		Easy for you to say. You've had power and wealth all your life.
lady elizabeth		Until I married you, Thomas. And I was happy to give it up.
anne		You asked to see me father?
sir thomas		Yes. Come in.
mary		o - the King himself is coming to Hever. I'm so happy for George.
anne		Yes. But Father took me aside. It seems he has ambitions for me, too. 
mary		What? What are you saying..?
anne		It's known the King has a wandering eye. Imagine...if he were to like me?
mary		But...you could never be more than his mistress. And that's no substitute for a husband. ANNE But as the King's mistress the least I'd get after he finished with me would be an Earl. And if I fell pregnant? And gave him what his wife has failed to? a beat) Quite apart from the money, it'd be a Duke at least.
mary		But what about your happiness? Your future?
anne		I could be a happy Duchess.
anne		Are you nervous?
mary		A little.
anne		You'll tell me everything in the morning?
mary		I promise.
anne		No details spared?
mary		Hold me a moment?
william		I am the luckiest man in the world.
anne		There he is!
anne		You think he will like me?
mary		Of course, sister. How could he not?
sir thomas		Your Majesty, you are most welcome.
henry		Sir Thomas. kisses hand) Lady Elizabeth..
sir thomas		May I present my son, George.
henry		 Your Uncle tells me I should have you at court. Should I?
george		It would be a great honour, Sir.
sir thomas		And our daughter, Anne.
enry		No one said anything of a daughter.
henry		Had we known, we might have come sooner.
anne		Your Majesty..
sir thomas		Perhaps you'll allow Anne to show you around our modest house?
henry		A pleasure.
anne		Here is the library.
henry		Charming.
anne		And through here, the observatory..
henry		Lovely..
henry		What's that?
anne		falcon, your Grace.
henry		I can see that. But what's it doing there? More to the point..  ..not just there, but in every corner in the house?
anne		I have no idea. Ask my father. a beat) Perhaps because falcons are vaguely associative with field sports - field sports with aristocracy - and in the absence of a genuine coat of arms..  ...a man with ambition will do the strangest things.
enry		That's a sharp tongue you have. a beat) I wonder what it might say about me behind my back?
anne		Oh, his Majesty has nothing to fear from me. Unless he fears an excess of compliments.
henry		Really? And what would they be..?
sir thomas		Bravo, Anne! The King was quite smitten! Told me so himself. And has requested you sit beside him at dinner.
sir thomas		My girl. My dear, remarkable girl. I knew you would up to the task.
henry		Well played! And, may I say..  ..an excellent choice of music too!
henry		Sir Thomas, Lady Elizabeth, dear Anne. Your health. H ENRY raises his glass. Cheers and applause from the COURTIERS. A beaming SIR THOMAS raises his glass.
henry		..I had it from the lips of the Spanish ambassador himself. That our musicians are the envy of all Europe.
brandon		..then he was flattering you, your Grace.
henry		Our Universities and philosophers, too.
brandon		...another lie. That honour would have to go to the Germans.
henry		What of our painters, then?
randon		Years behind their Italian counterparts. The truth is far from leading the world, we're a provincial outpost, lagging far behind.
henry		What? Is no one proud to be English?  Anne? What say you?
anne		Me, my Lord? clears throat) I know little of such matters, but I've not heard mention of our armies. Undefeated, I believe, in a generation.
enry		Well said.
anne		Or our navy? The finest in the world.
henry		It's true.
anne		The universities in Spain and the philosophers in Germany may be strong, but are they really the equal of Oxford and Thomas More?
henry		Never!
anne		I doubt there is a country that is fairer in Government, or better protected by nature from her enemies, whose people are happier or more prosperous..
henry		She's right, by God! She's right!
sir thomas		You did well tonight. Very well. Quite enough to be invited to court, I am sure of it.
sir thomas		Now go to bed. Get a good night's sleep. Because there's still the hunt tomorrow. a beat) You must excel at that.
henry		Good morning, Anne.
anne		Good morning, your Grace.
henry		ho will you be riding with?
anne		On my own your Grace.
henry		Your own..?
anne		They have invented a new saddle which allows ladies to ride on their own.
henry		ut with no man to hold onto? How will you stay on the horse?
anne		Why? The same way you hold onto yours, your Grace.
henry		We'll see.
henry		Let's away!
henry		 Hah!
henry		 Hah..!
ider		We've lost him. He's in the forest.
henry		Then we must follow.
anne		Hah!
enry		he King of England defeated by a humble fawn.
anne		 Hah!
courtier		Please, your Majesty. It's not safe.
physician		It's a miracle, Majesty, you have no broken bones..
sir thomas		My daughter Anne is here. Would like to apologise.
enry		 No! Get her away from me!
henry		And who are you?
mary		Mary, your Grace. Anne's younger sister.
henry		You've been here all week-end?
mary		Yes, your Grace.
henry		Really? How could I have overlooked you?
mary		Next to Anne, it's easy to do.
henry		Nonsense.
mary		Yes, your Grace. To William Carey.
enry		From Wolsey's office?
mary		Yes, your Grace.
henry		Then why haven't I seen you at court?
mary		Because I have persuaded him to spend a year or two here first. We have a small manor and some land. Nothing much. But enough to start a family.
henry		A charmed life in the country? Away from it all?
mary		Yes.
henry		Everything I would have wished for myself. But then my brother died. a beat) And duty called.
henry		You don't think he'll miss court? a beat) A young, ambitious man?
mary		He says not, your Majesty.
mary		But, if he ever changed his mind, I would always support him.
henry		Well said.
henry		Thank you again, Lady Elizabeth. We'll take good care of your boy..  And Thomas..
henry		You'll take care of that matter?
sir thomas		Consider it done, your Majesty.
stafford		Your Father wishes to see you.
stafford		Just Mary.
norfolk		Mary, I don't know what you said or did - but you obviously made a deep impression on the King. exchanges a look with SIR THOMAS) And he has requested you come to court with immediate effect.
anne		What?!?
norfolk		ou're to pack and leave first thing in the morning.
norfolk		The King himself has secured you a position in the Queen's household.
mary		ut I don't want to go to court. Nor does my husband.
sir thomas		ell her.
william		The King has also offered me a position. As Gentleman of the Privy Council.
mary		What?
sir thomas		Y'hear that? Gentleman of the Privy Council! Attending to the private and personal needs of his Majesty himself! That's the inner sanctum!
mary		But what about our future? Here in the country?
norfolk		Put it out of your mind. From now on your home is at court.
mary		William, please! Don't you understand what this means?
mary		They will separate us. Put me in different accommodation. Where the King can always...find me.
norfolk		Happily your husband understands the value of such an opportunity.  For us all.
mary		What about Anne? Couldn't she go instead?
sir thomas		The way that girl behaved this week-end, she can count herself lucky she still has a home.
mary		How could he DO this to me? My own father. a beat) What if we just refused?
william		We would be cut off. He made that clear.
mary		But would that be so bad?
mary		Position means nothing to me. Nor wealth. We could find somewhere. A small farm. Away from everything.
william		You say that now - but when you're older? And our children are grown up?  It's for our FUTURE.
mary		ut can't you see? Do this, and we might not HAVE a future.
mary		I'm so sorry..
anne		What for? You think I want the King? Or to be used and abused by him?  No! You're welcome to him. I have my own plans, which don't involve becoming a rag that will one day be discarded.
servant		Mary Carey, Ma'am.
queen katherine		Who?
servant		The new Lady in Waiting.
queen katherine		Really? But I was not expecting anyone.
ervant		Appointed by...his Majesty the King.
queen katherine		By my husband? Really?
queen katherine		Well, then she must be some kind of gift. He must have seen in her some special talent that would please me. Tell me. What special talent is it that you have? with icy contempt) Apart from your obvious youth and beauty? T errified, MARY stammers..
mary		I...I..
queen katherine		oetry, perhaps?
mary		N-no..
queen katherine		Or dressmaking?
mary		I..I..
queen katherine		Music! That's it! You compose? Or sing?
mary		..I'm afraid not. Your Majesty.
queen katherine		Come, you're too modest. turns to a MUSICIAN) Signor Vasquez.
mary		No..really..I beg you, your Majesty.
queen katherine		 I command you to SING!!!
queen katherine		Bravo! A nightingale!  Welcome at court!
woman's voice		ait! Mary! Stop!
jane		I know that must have been agony, but put yourself in her shoes. She knows the only reason the King has asked you here is because he desires you. For a wife that must be very difficult. a beat) She's a good woman. Trust me.
mary		Mary Carey.
jane		You have a brother, don't you? George?
mary		Yes.
jane		I've seen him a few times at court. And like him...very well.  But I don't think he has noticed me.
mary		I can't imagine.  Should I mention you to him?
jane		Would you?
mary		Of course. Happily.
george		Not noticed her? Jane Parker? Of course I have. How could I not? She looks like a goat.
mary		Well, she likes you, and asked me to give you this..to remember her by.
george		Ugh. Well say you haven't seen me. Or that you forgot.
mary		And our sister? Any word?
george		ANNE? You know she took being upstaged by you very badly.
mary		Yes, I know.
george		And no amount of interventions on my behalf would make her believe you hadn't done it intentionally.
mary		But you KNOW I would never do anything like that.
george		I know.
henry		I hope your accommodation is comfortable. I realise it's no substitute for the life you had in mind in the country.. 
henry		 What are you..?
henry		I am sorry.  You obviously misunderstand me.
norfolk		What? If all the King wanted was coition, he could fetch in a woman from the bath house. a beat) What he wants is YOU. a beat) To woo you. And be wooed in return.  And could'nt you look just a little happier? There isn't a girl in the Kingdom that wouldn't wish to be in your shoes.
mary		Your opinion, Uncle.
mary		Mine is that it's the greatest insult of all.
orfolk		What?
mary		Asking a whore to have feelings, too.
priest		Are you there?
priest		No one saw you?
anne		No.
priest		You brought the money.
priest		And the groom? Is he here?
riest		Good. Then let us begin.
mary		George? It's the middle of the night.
george		t's Anne.
mary		hat?
george		he's married Henry Percy!
mary		 What?
george		In secret. Without telling anyone!
mary		Oh, no...!
george		tailing off) You don't look pleased.
mary		Why would I be pleased?
george		It would make her the future Duchess of Northumberland. Our sister!
mary		But they'll never allow it, don't you see? He's already precontracted to Mary Talbot, and if word of the consummation gets out her reputation will be ruined..
mary		...I have to tell Father. Before it's too late..
george		What?
george		Mary..! Wait! Come back!
sir thomas		What were you thinking? The marriage of a senior noble is a matter of state. Something only the King can decide..
norfolk		Who knows about this?
anne		No one.
norfolk		Then that is how it shall remain. Forever.
anne		But you cannot undo what has been done before God.  And consummated too.
norfolk		WHAT?
sir thomas		 There have been improper intimacies, too?
anne		I have lain with my husband. There is nothing improper about it..
norfolk		SILENCE! My God, if you were my daughter I'd thrash you within an inch of your life..
sir thomas		The boy will return to Northumberland - where he will marry the Talbot girl. As arranged.
orfolk		As for you. You will go to France and stay there until you have learned your lesson.
mary		What?
orfolk		How could you do this to your sister? You know full well her friendship with the King is at an extremely delicate stage. Any scandal or black mark against Mary's name now could be fatal.
norfolk		You will join the court of the French Queen. And stay there until your father has forgiven you.
anne		ou told them, didn't you? a beat) How COULD you?
mary		Because you would never have got away with it. And it would have ruined your prospects forever.  Believe me. I did it for your good.
anne		Really? For MY good? I'll try to remind myself of that. While I'm in exile. And you're here, in the King's bed, and unchallenged for our father's affection. a beat) That it was for MY good. Not yours.
mary		ANNE, wait..!
masked man		Why look so glum, Mary?
mary		What reason have I to be happy?
masked man		ou have two men, the King of England and I, both fighting for your love.
mary		Do I know you?
masked man		You know me, Mary - but not half as well as I know you. I know you better than anyone here. And love you better than anyone here, too. And if God had made ME your husband instead of William Carey, one thing I know..  I would never have let you go.
mary		Wait! Who ARE you?
mary		What is it you desire?
mary		You demand a great deal.
mary		It is easy for a man to declare love from behind a mask.
mary		If your feelings were sincere, I would never reject you.
mary		o matter how you looked. Or who you were.
mary		Your Majesty..!
henry		he faints! Quick! Take her to my rooms! Call my physicians..!
enry		Go! Leave us! Go!
mary		Thank you, your Grace.
henry		`Henry', please. The first rule of this room, is to leave `Your Grace's' and `Your Majesty's' outside.
henry		Is there anything I can bring you?
mary		No.
henry		Nothing to increase your comfort or well- being?
mary		You might ask your servants to bring me some water.
henry		There. There ARE no servants.
mary		So, this is it? This is where the King of England sleeps?
henry		And reads. And writes. And finds a few moments each day...  ...for himself.
mary		I am. I suppose it's more..
mary		..simple than I imagined.
enry		There's no need for show. I am only ever here alone.
mary		And yet you invite me here?
henry		Because I trust you.
mary		You hardly know me.
henry		A man in my position develops an instinct. a beat) You would never lie, could never lie to me.
mary		No.
henry		I also sense...that you might relish an opportunity to be yourself, too.
mary		Yes.
henry		Well, here you only say what you like, do what you like. M MARY Very well.
mary		I'd like an apple, please..  ..Henry.
mary		Now it's your turn.
henry		What?
mary		To say something, or do something you couldn't outside.
henry		There are many things I cannot admit to in public. Sadness, for example. And loneliness.
mary		But when you are loved as much as you are? How can you be lonely?
henry		Do you not know what it is to be lonely in a marriage?
mary		Yes. I do now.
enry		married my brother's widow because my father ordered it. As a duty. To keep the alliance with Spain. And she is a remarkable woman. And wife.
henry		But I never looked at her or longed for her the way I do you.
henry		Imagine how different it might have been. For both of us..had we been able to chose for ourselves..
tafford		Good morning. S TAFFORD jumps to his feet. Waking rapidly..
stafford		I have orders to bring you to your father.
mary		My father..? a beat) Well, we'd better not keep him waiting.
norfolk		Well..?
norfolk		Did he have you?
mary		Yes.
norfolk		More than once?
norfolk		You'd better get used to talking about it. Once you sleep with the king, it's not a private matter any more.
mary		Yes. More than once.
norfolk		So he was satisfied?
mary		I believe so, Uncle.
norfolk		ood. This is where our work begins. It's one thing to catch the king. Quite another to keep him.
norfolk		I want you to keep her spotless, hair washed every day. She must read all the latest books and be able to venture and defend an interesting opinion. She must know her music, must be energetic and entertaining - in company and in bed. That's how he likes his women. And if ever she's in any doubt as to how to conduct herself, or what to do next - she should simply watch the Queen. That woman kept him from straying for eleven years. And the effort almost killed her.
henry		The biggest warship in the fleet. Thirty- two guns and two hundred feet long, and with your permission Thomas..  ..I'd like to name her after your daughter. The "Mary Boleyn".
sir thomas		Majesty! I'm...I'm speechless..
henry		onsense. She's an angel. It's the least she deserves. And if there's anything else I can do for YOU, my friend..as an expression of my gratitude..let me know.
henry		Name it.
sir thomas		ur son, George. He's of an age now..
henry		You want me to make him a match?
sir thomas		Yes, your Majesty.
henry		Do you have anyone in mind?
sir thomas		There is one lady, Sir..
henry		Go on..
sir thomas		Who I fear is too high-born for us. And following the unfortunate matter between Anne and Henry Percy, I didn't want my children to overreach themselves again..
henry		verreach themselves?
henry		One is currently in the King's bed. If they are good enough for me, I suggest they're good enough for anyone else. So..  Who is it?
eorge		I beg you, Father. No.
sir thomas		She's well connected, her father is cousin to the King. And there's money, too.
george		But must I actually...marry her?
sir thomas		thought you had ambitions for this family.      G EORGE I do.
sir thomas		And that you wish to make a contribution yourself. Not just stand back and watch your sisters.
sir thomas		Then my advice would be to start behaving like a man. A real man. Do I make myself clear?
george		 Yes, Sir.
sir thomas		For God's sake, it's the wedding of our youngest child attended by the King of England and the greatest Lords in the Land. Would a smile be too much to ask?
lady elizabeth		What's to smile about? I'm a mother with one child on his wedding day looking like he's been condemned to death.
lady elizabeth		Another banished abroad, in disgrace. And a third whoring in public with an adulterer.
sir thomas		For the moment she's happy.
lady elizabeth		But will she be happy when he leaves her? Because you know that's how it will end.
sir thomas		Only God knows how anything will end.
lady elizabeth		God..? He turned his back on all this a long time ago.
william		You're in love with him, aren't you?
mary		illiam, you're drunk.
william		How is it? With him?
mary		He pleases me. Is that what you want to hear?
william		What does he do to you? Tell me. I want to know..
william		I know you look at me with contempt. But I had no choice. Your father insisted I stand aside. What was I expected to do?
mary		Say `no', husband.  That was all you had to do.
sir thomas		Are you certain?
mary		Yes.
sir thomas		n that case...I suppose...someone should tell the King.
sir thomas		Now open!
sir thomas		There's more. Thanks to you, I am to become an Earl. Your brother a Viscount.
lady elizabeth		Just be aware. These `gifts', this `favour' can go as swiftly as it comes. These rooms belonged to the Duke of Buckingham. Once the King's closest friend. Now his head rots on a spike..
sir thomas		Because he committed treason.
ady elizabeth		But what is `treason'? It's anything the King or his lawyers decide it to be. Anything that offends him, or causes him displeasure. a beat) And can you assure me we'll never do that?
sir thomas		Pay her no heed..
physician		Happily, the baby lives. She's not miscarried. S SIR THOMAS's face. Overcome with relief..
physician		But the placenta is weak. For the sake of the child..
physician		She must begin her lying-in immediately.
mary		 What?
mary		But I'm only three months..
henry		ou poor girl. All alone in here. But the time will fly by.
mary		Will it? It's six months?
henry		I know. But the most important thing is a healthy child.
norfolk		For the moment he's still visiting Mary. But for how long? The Queen will soon have his head spinning with pretty little Spanish things. Not to mention the Seymours with that girl of theirs.
norfolk		What we need is someone from OUR family who will keep the King focused on Mary, reminding him of her while she is absent.
norfolk		What? Speak..
sir thomas		It's just...I was going to suggest Anne.
norfolk		You couldn't control that girl last time. What makes you think it would be any different now?
sir thomas		I've had favourable reports from the Dowager Queen in France. It seems she is quite changed.
mary		Why?
george		I suppose they felt three years of exile was punishment enough.
mary		But the King visits me every day. There's no need for her. Or anyone else.
george		They just want to protect you. Leave nothing to chance.
mary		But in who's interests do they imagine Anne will act? Certainly not mine.
george		Don't worry. She's had three years to forgive you. And she's not going to risk being sent away again. She'll do as she's told, I'm sure.  Besides, the most important thing is..
george		The three of us will be together again.
henry		What's the noise? I can hardly hear myself think!
brandon		It's Mistress Boleyn, your Majesty. Her stories about life at the French court. They are particularly amusing.
henry		I'm only aware of one Boleyn girl and she is lying-in with a certain child in her belly!
sir thomas		It's my elder daughter, Anne, your Majesty. She has returned to court.
henry		What? That awful girl, Thomas? The one that almost killed me?  You allowed her back?
sir thomas		The time abroad has done her good, your Majesty. I'm certain you'd find her much improved.
henry		Really..?
henry		Well, come on. Where are you, other Boleyn girl? Show your face.
henry		So? What is so amusing, Anne? Perhaps we might hear and judge for ourselves?
anne		I was just giving my thoughts on the new French King.
henry		Which are..?
anne		That for someone with such great wealth, and power..he has surprisingly little authority as a man.
henry		Hah!
anne		And is SO consumed by one particular rivalry he can barely think.
henry		eally? And who is this rival?
anne		A neighbouring King, who's name one is forbidden to mention at court. Whose reputation haunts him in his thoughts and dreams.
anne		Whose armies and navy thwart his every endeavour. Whose physical and intellectual endowments are known far and wide.
anne		In order to restore his confidence, this French King spends a fortune on anything that glitters, on building of castles with large towers..
anne		But these symbols of wealth and virility fail to convince. Talk among the ladies at court in France suggests.. A ANNE stops herself...
henry		What?
anne		That in this department too, the King has his shortcomings.
sir thomas		You should have seen the Seymours! Their faces!
sir thomas		They must have thought that with you out of the way, they had a real opportunity with that pale-faced thing of theirs, Jane...
mary		Or HER, you mean.
sir thomas		What?
mary		'm wary of any suggestion that Anne would serve anyone but herself. France can't have changed her THAT much.
sir thomas		n this occasion I am quite satisfied she was being loyal to you.
mary		Really?
58.		 ...then why hasRY since she returned?
henry		You're a fortunate man, George. To be blessed with G two such sisters.
eorge		Yes, my Lord.
enry		Tell me. Are they as different in temper as they are in looks?
george		Oh, yes. Each has her own, quite distinct virtues. Mary for example..
henry		I'm familiar with Mary's. Tell me about Anne's.
george		Anne? Well, she's strong. Some might say `difficult'.
enry		Headstrong. With a fiery temper.
george		But with it comes great passion, too. It's both the best and the worst thing about her. a beat) There are no half measures with Anne.
henry		Careful, you'll make me think I chose the wrong Boleyn girl.
george		Oh, no. I'm certain Mary is the   right choice. You will have a serene,   happy, life with her. The risk is with   Anne, it might be like being caught in a   wild summer storm.
henry		Is that so..?
henry		storm, you say..?
ervant		From the King, madam.
anne		Open it.
anne		I said `open it.'
anne		Now close it again. And send it back.
henry		She did what?
servant		Sent it back, your Grace.
henry		Sent it back?
henry		What? Again?
lady elizabeth		Your Majesty.
henry		Your daughter. Where is she?
lady elizabeth		Mary..?
henry		Anne!
henry		Anne..       A ANNE  Your Grace?
henry		You received my gifts?
anne		Yes.
henry		And? They did not please you?
anne		On the contrary, my Lord. They pleased me greatly.
henry		Then why did you return them?
anne		ecause my sister lies in bed with your child. If you wish to please me, Sir, then send her the gifts you send me.
henry		I have shown Mary enough kindness and generosity. It's you I want, Anne.
anne		beg you, my Lord, do not do this. What has changed so?
henry		YOU. Don't you see? YOU have changed.
anne		But Mary is still the mother of your child. And even if she weren't..
enry		What?
anne		How could I forget that you chose her above me when we first met? You liked her better.
henry		Not true..
anne		Either way, I could never betray my own sister.. 
henry		You see! The same pain as mine! It proves you feel the same way!
anne		Perhaps. But since it can never come to anything..
henry		Let me decide that. For now, you have given me hope. H ENRY goes on bended knee, kisses her hand, and goes. ANNE is left alone. She breathes out. Then looks down at her hands.
stafford		Sir Thomas! It's Mary..!
sir thomas		Does the King know?
george		He's on his way.
sir thomas		Any moment, your Grace.
henry		Anne..
henry		Anne, I love you..
anne		Your Grace, this is not the time..
henry		I love you Anne. I cannot stop thinking about you. I cannot eat, I cannot sleep..
anne		But how could I ever TRUST you?
anne		When I have seen how you have betrayed first your wife. And now my sister.
henry		I vow from this moment forth I will never lie with my wife, or speak to your sister again. I will do anything you ask..
anne		Then don't acknowledge the child.
henry		What?
physician		A boy!
sir thomas		It's a boy, your Majesty. A strong, healthy boy.
anne		What my sister has given you, I could, too.
anne		Very well.
norfolk		Damn you! Three years we've been working on this! Not a single detail was left to chance! And now, in the moment of our greatest glory..
norfolk		All I can say is you'd better have a plan. And it had better work.
anne		Or what...Uncle?
lady elizabeth		Stop it! Both of you. What shall we do about Mary? And the child? Or have we forgotten them already?
anne		Mary should go back to her husband.
anne		She has been inconvenienced long enough by this family.
ady elizabeth		Fine. Then you can be the one to tell her.
lady elizabeth		I think you've earned that privilege.  LADY ELIZABETH turns and walks out. ANNE's smile fades. 9  INT. MARY'S APARTMENT - DAY 8                                                                 98 MARY lies in bed. She looks pale. Exhausted.
mary		How can you show your face in here?
anne		I understand you're angry - but be assured. I did nothing, except remind him of you.
mary		Oh, spare me. You did this deliberately. As revenge.  And now you have what you wanted you probably think justice has been done.
anne		Well, hasn't it?
mary		Be careful, that's my advice. Learn from my experience. Because he'll only do to you what he has done to me.
anne		Never. I'll make sure he understands I'm a greater thing by far. That he can never have me until he makes me a far greater offer.
mary		You'll never get Henry Percy back, if that's what you mean.
anne		That's not what I mean.
anne		And don't you ever mention his name to me again. I'll never forget how you betrayed me.
mary		If that's what you think, fine. Tell yourself that.
anne		I did, sister. Every day for three years.
mary		Henry.
william		I see.
william		And is he to take my name? Or is he to be a Fitzroy or some other sign that he is a royal bast...
mary		He is to be Henry Carey.
william		I see.
william		Well, then, here we are.
william		I could pretend none of this ever happened. Start again.  If you could.
f		 M
henry		Well, I have done what you asked. Will you give yourself to me, now?
anne		As what?
henry		My one true mistress. To whom I am loyal above all others?
anne		But it's not true. You are loyal to the QUEEN above all others.
henry		My wife? I barely see her.
anne		But she sits on a throne beside you. Accompanies you to every state function.
enry		For appearance sakes only. In every other regard, our marriage is a sham.
anne		Still, she is your WIFE. And ever present. And I feel her eyes on me. And those of her spies.
anne		And look at us. Forever reduced to meeting in secret like this. Speaking in whispers. a beat) Hardly conducive to passion?
henry		Well, what would you have me do?
henry		Wolsey has agreed to draw up plans for the Queen to be sent to a nunnery.
henry		She will protest, of course. She won't go quietly, but she knows she has failed to give me a son, and deserves her exile. HENRY kisses ANNE) Which leaves you all alone at court..
henry		...queen in all but name. Mother to any future heir.
henry		So, is this assurance enough? Will you give yourself to me now?
anne		I'd like to. But I'm afraid I find the insult too much to bear.
henry		What insult?
anne		Because as long as we remain unmarried, any child I gave you would forever be daubed `bastard' and I a `whore'.
enry		ut what alternative is there? throws hands up in exasperation) My love for the Queen may have died, but even you must concede, she is still very much alive. A
anne		Katherine of Aragon is alive. That woman is not worthy of the title `Queen'.
enry		Oh, Anne.
anne		I really do not know why we waste time talking of convents when you could annul the marriage.
henry		Annul it?
anne		That woman married two brothers and therefore sinned against God.
henry		But she never consummated the marriage with my brother.
anne		They were married six months.
henry		Arthur was a sick man.
anne		And Katherine is a shrewd woman who knew that her position as Queen would never be safe until she bedded your brother.  Talk to your advisers. They will tell you as much.
henry		Wolsey has agreed to charge the Queen?
anne		But that's wonderful.
anne		Why do you look sad?
henry		Because she will contest it. Which means putting her on trial. And hearing these delicate matters in public.
anne		es. But any court made up of YOUR Bishops will surely find in YOUR favour. And declare the marriage invalid.
anne		hen you, my sweet Lord, will be free to remarry.  ..desire.
tafford		She's beautiful.
mary		Thank you.
stafford		I brought gifts from your family. A night-dress from your mother.  This from your Uncle George.
mary		Please be sure to thank them - though one wonders what's kept them so busy that not a single one of them found time to visit the new baby.
stafford		It's Anne. She's turning this country on its head. She has persuaded the king to test the validity of his marriage, and put the QueenM on trial.
mary		What?
stafford		She continues to hold out. Expertly witholding her favours until...
mary		..until what?
stafford		Until he makes her the ultimate offer.
mary		High stakes indeed.
mary		And my brother George?
tafford		Continues to be promoted. As does your Father. I lost track of their latest titles.
stafford		ow is your husband? I heard he was unwell.
mary		He is.
stafford		I'm sorry.
stafford		 Whoa..
henry		The Queen has insisted a Papal representative be present at the trial. But Wolsey has assured me the trial will proceed for appearance sake only. We have our verdict.
anne		Then what troubles you?
henry		One or two friends have refused to lend their support. Among them, Thomas More.  And then there's the small matter of my conscience.
anne		Why? You have justice on your side.
henry		Do I?
sir thomas		`Mary Talbot'.
anne		Who?
sir thomas		Mary Talbot!! The girl that married Henry Percy. It seems she has petitioned the King, demanding a divorce from her husband ..consummated.
sir thomas		I knew this would come back to haunt us!
anne		I must go to the King.
sir thomas		No! He doesn't want to see you! Or hear a word from your lips! He's far too angry. a beat) It seems the only Boleyn he will speak to, the only person who's testimony he will trust in this matter..  ...is Mary.
anne		Mary?
sir thomas		Mary.
sir thomas		We're so sorry. clears throat) About your husband..
anne		uch beautiful hair.
anne		Thank you for coming.
anne		I hate how this matter has come between us. I wanted to come to see you after your daughter was born, and again when your husband died, but..
mary		It's fine.
mary		Leave me. Please..?
anne		I'm frightened, Mary. What have I done?
henry		Ah! Mary! Come in.
henry		Closer..  Into the light.
henry		The Other Boleyn Girl. I'd forgotten how beautiful you were.
mary		ou asked to see me, your Grace?
anne		And..? 1
oung henry		Mama? What's the matter?
mary		 Nothing.
anne		 I am forever in your debt.
mary		You owe me nothing, sister. I did it that we may finally draw a line beneath everything that has happened between us.
anne		hen let it be exactly that. A new start between us. Here at court.
mary		Thank you. But I'd rather go back to our home in the country.
anne		What? That damp old ruin? With no food? Or warmth? a beat) Why don't you let your family look after you? Your children would have the best of everything here. They would grow up safe and secure.
mary		ho's that?
sir thomas		The Papal Legate. Sent by the Pope to preside over the Queen's trial.
mary		So, it's true. It's really happening?
anne		Yes, it is. Stay with me, please? I need my sister by me side.
mary		The crowds are with her.
anne		The crowds have no vote. a beat) And the bishops that do are in Wolsey's pocket.
ueen katherine		So..the Boleyn whores. Two former ladies of mine. Hiding in shadows.  What did I do to upset you, that you should turn against me like this?
anne		You failed to give England an heir.
queen katherine		And that upsets you so?
anne		What upsets the King upsets me.
queen katherine		How dare you!
crier		 Katherine, Queen of England, come into court..!
queen katherine		ou want me to creep away and become a nun? Well, I shall not. You want me to lie before God and admit my first marriage was consummated? Well, it was not. 
katherine		My Lord, how have I offended you? For twenty years, I have been a true, obedient wife. I have loved all those whom you loved, and given you children though it has pleased God to take them away. If there is any just cause that you can allege against me, I will happily depart to my shame and dishonour, but I tell you, as God is my witness, there is none.
henry		 You are.
katherine		..then let it be in a proper court and by the only authority I recognise. His holiness himself.
wolsey		Since it has pleased the Queen to absent herself from the court, the trial will simply proceed without her.
anne		Wolsey promised the King his verdict. Instead he has humiliated him.
sir thomas		But they are continuing with the trial. And the Bishops will still find in the King's favour.
anne		Yes. But without the Pope's blessing, the result will seem hollow. a frustrated gesture) If only the King would take matters into his own hands.
ady elizabeth		And do what? His only option would be to reject the Catholic Church? And his faith would never allow it.
sir thomas		Nor his good sense. Breaking with Rome would isolate England politically. Leave us at the mercy of the Protestants.
anne		But the alternative is leaving this country without an heir. Failing in his duty as a King. And risking civil war.
mary		 What?
henry		Who's this?
young henry		My name is Henry.
henry		Is it, now? A fine name.  And how old are you?
young henry		Four, Sir.
henry		I think so. Would you like to see it?
henry		Now, `on guard'.
katherine		How dare you!  Take your hands off me..
henry		Now you will give yourself to me.
anne		I thought I had made myself clear. Until we are married, there is no questi..
henry		Silence! Enough of your GAMES!  I have torn apart this country for you, gone against every principle in my heart, I've endured the doubts and counsel of good men and silenced them with the axe...just to be with you..
henry		Now prove to me it was worth the sacrifice.
anne		Stop, you are hurting me..!
anne		How was he with you? As a lover?
mary		Tender. a beat) Surprisingly so. a beat) Why?
anne		No reason.
archibishop		 Do you, Henry Tudor, take Anne Boleyn as your lawful wedded wife..?
henry		I do.
anne		Did you hear? On the way to the church? They were calling me a witch.
mary		All that will die down as soon as they get to know you.
anne		But what if it doesn't? What if they hate me forever?
mary		They won't. They will see how much the King loves you, and follow.
anne		 How much the King loves me?
mary		ister, I wonder if you've given any thought..to the matter of my returning to the country. With the children.
anne		What? No! I need you here more than ever. Besides, as the Queen's sister, you can't live alone out there like some gypsy. We need to make you a proper match.
anne		What about the Duke of Suffolk?
anne		All the ladies at court are mad for him. Or Lord Fardingly. indicates an OLD courtier, in his 60's) Marry him and you'd own half Scotland..
stafford		Wait! Mary..
stafford		I couldn't help overhearing. And before you agree to any of your sister's matches, let me just say..
stafford		..I have saved money...not a lot...but enough. I've my eye on a place in the West...Tatton...near where I grew up..
mary		hat?  Stafford?
stafford		Mary...I love you. There..I've said it. From the moment I joined your family..
mary		Wait..
stafford		Yes.
mary		Oh, Stafford..
stafford		Mary..I have watched how your family has treated you. 
mary		But it's impossible. You know that. Now Anne's Queen, my family would never allow it.
stafford		And you would CARE? What THEY think? After everything they have done to you?
anne		God, I look hideous.
eorge		Does it hurt?
anne		Little nips and stabs.
george		Just imagine. It it's a boy. The unholy trinity will be mother, uncle and aunt to the next King of England.
anne		But if it isn't? The King will take that as evidence of God's displeasure. And will turn further against me. He's already become so cold.
anne		They say you can tell by the shape of the stomach. Mary, what do you say? Boy or girl?
anne		What's the matter with her?
anne		You've been like this for days.
mary		What?
anne		Mooning. You're not in love, are you?
mary		What?  Certainly not..
mary		 In love!
midwife		And again, one more..
midwife		It's done, your Majesty..!
mary		Well done...
anne		And..?
mary		It's a girl!
mary		A beautiful, healthy girl.
anne		A girl?
sir thomas		She has named her Elizabeth. After your mother.
henry		Is the child healthy?
sir thomas		Perfectly, Sir.
enry		Well, if we can have a healthy daughter, we can have a healthy son.
mary		Lady Somerset, I believe.
anne		Yesterday it was the wife of the French Ambassador. The day before with the Countess of Salisbury.  How could he DO that to me? So SOON?
anne		Now I know how it must have been for you.
anne		I struck him today. What am I doing? I am destroying this all on my own..
anne		I can't sleep at night! And without sleep I cannot think!
mary		Oh, Anne..
anne		nd it's getting more and more difficult to arouse him. Some nights he cannot do it...at all. I have to resort to ever more disgusting...then he hates himself in the morning...hates me even more for what I made him do...
anne		It's slipping away, Mary. I can feel it.
sir thomas		And..?
eorge		And so, it's come to this. Our sister is with child, and all England's fate is in the balance.
george		The King will have to move swiftly to silence his enemies. He will claim innocence. That he was corrupted. Anne will swiftly be replaced as Queen, by someone more `acceptable'.  And we Boleyns will never be able to show our faces at court again.
mary		That's no bad thing.
mary		Anyone with any sense would have run away from this hell-hole already. As far as they could go.
george		ike the wise William Stafford.
mary		What?
george		You didn't know? Sold up and went. Left for the country. Just like that. Gone to live in some place called..
mary		 ..Tatton.
george		Where he grew up, apparently. Did you know he came from a better stable than all of us? His grandmother was a Beaufort, cousin to the King. And he never mentioned it.  Who'd have guessed?
anne		I'm fine, thank you.  Just a bad dream.
anne		 But fetch my brother and sister, will you?
anne		I lost it. Almost without pain. And so fast it was over in a moment.
mary		 Oh, Anne..
anne		ou have to get rid of it. Bury it. Get rid of it somehow. No one must know.
anne		It's not the first. Miscarriage.
anne		They will take it as proof that I cannot bear children. That I am cursed by God. And should be dispensed with.
mary		Why? There's still time. You could sleep with the King, and fall pregnant again. No one would know..
anne		he King would never lie with me now, and risk damaging the `child' he believes I'm carrying.. a beat) Besides, he is barely capable anymore. And I couldn't go through that again.
anne		No, if I am to survive..I have to take matters into my own hands.
mary		I..I don't understand.
anne		I need a baby, Mary. rolling eyes) Must I spell it out?
mary		You mean lying with another man?
anne		Of course.
george		But that would be treason.
mary		esides, where would you find someone you could trust?
anne		Obviously, it would have to be someone close. Very close..
george		What..? horrified) No..!
mary		Stop it, Anne! It's madness..
anne		Don't you see? This affects all of us. If I go down, so do all of you. The only way to save ourselves..is to do this..  And pray it's a boy.
mary		I can't listen to this..  ...this is monstrous..
anne		Mary, sit down..
mary		No, Anne! I understand you have had a shock tonight. A terrible shock. But there is no need for this..
mary		Come, George..
anne		George is staying. He understands this involves the whole family..
mary		No. Come, George..
anne		George, is STAYING!
mary		 I pray for you both.
anne		Mary! Come back!
mary		Come on, darling wake up.
young henry		Where are we going?
mary		Away from here. Far, far away.
young henry		Who lives here, Mother?
mary		Someone.  A friend.
mary		William?
oung henry		Mama, I'm hungry.
catherine		Me, too.
f		T
mary		I'm sorry. a beat) I just didn't know where else to go.
riest		Do you, Mary, take William as your lawful wedded husband?
mary		I do.
stafford		News from court.
mary		hat? It's Anne. Tell me..  She miscarried the child?  FLASHCUT TO:
stafford		They say it was deformed...monstrous. She is charged with incest and of summoning the devil. Your brother, too. He has already been sentenced. Anne is in the Tower, awaiting trial.
mary		I must go.
stafford		And do what? George is doomed. For Anne it's only a matter of time.
mary		I can petition the King..
stafford		ou think he will listen? It's his own neck he's saving by getting rid of them, can't you see?
stafford		Fine, go. But if you do, you might as well kiss your children goodbye. You are Anne's sister. That alone makes you her accomplice and co-conspirator.
mary		I have no choice. Anne and George are my family. I cannot desert them.
stafford		And what of your new family? Your CHILDREN?
mary		Henry and Catherine have you. Anne and George have no one.  I'm sorry..
anne		It is a sad day for England when the nobles do not rise for their Queen.
norfolk		And even sadder when that same Queen is charged with adultery and incest.
anne		Charged is different to convicted, Uncle. Or is it not? In this court?
norfolk		Master Cromwell, read out the indictment..
cromwell		The charge is that in the twenty-eighth year of the reign of our Sovereign Henry, King of England, his wife, the Queen, being seduced by the Devil, did knowingly commit adultery, high treason and offences against God.
norfolk		How do you plead?
anne		Not guilty, my Lord.
anne		My noble Lords..the love I have for my brother is the love any sister would have for someone with whom she has grown up in the same house, nursed when sick, played games as children, shared life's celebrations.
anne		That is the love I have for him. Not what you suggest.
norfolk		 Guilty.
norfolk		In which case, the burden falls on me to pass sentence.
mary		ho was it?
henry		Mary..?
henry		ALL of you!
mary		Your Majesty..  I understand my family has offended you. But having taken my brother today, I beg you to spare my sister.
henry		Oh, Mary...
mary		I realise you must replace Anne as Queen.  But must she die, too?
henry		She has been tried and found guilty.
mary		You could send her away.
enry		I am bound by the law.
mary		You could send her to a nunnery. No one would know.
henry		Anne? To a nunnery?
mary		There is precedent, my Lord. Louis of France did it, too. When his wife could not conceive.
henry		The French Queen was a blameless woman. Your sister a witch.
mary		I understand Anne has offended you. I ask only that if there is any regret you might..feel yourself.
enry		What?
mary		For your part in the matter..
mary		..does not unduly colour your thinking. Killing Anne will not make it go away.  It would only make it worse.
henry		How could I have made that mistake?
henry		o. I will reflect on the matter.
mary		Oh, Anne..
anne		How has it come to this?
mary		Ssshhhhh.
anne		They're letting the crowds in.
mary		It's all right. You will be spared. The King as good as gave me his word.
anne		The King saw you?
mary		Yes.
anne		We all made a mess of that, didn't we? We all underestimated little Mary.
anne		I don't think he ever stopped loving you.
mary		That's not true.
anne		It is. He never loved me in the same way. And deep down you know it.
anne		You should have been Queen. You even gave him a son. But instead all this has happened because..  Because I couldn't bear to be the Other Boleyn Girl.
anne		And now look?
anne		Hold me..
anne		You'll look after Elizabeth?
mary		It will be all right. Trust me.
anne		he couldn't ask for a better moth... 
mary		e will spare you. I am sure of it.
anne		I...I come here to die...a loyal subject..
mary		Come on..
anne		..I..I do not blame the King. Never was there a more just or goodly Lord..
anne		..I beg God's forgiveness and his mercy..
mary		No!
****Dialogues from script :Out_of_Sight.txt****

white final:        08/05/97		Blue Revised:       09/17/97 Pink Revised:       11/11/97 Green Revised:      12/15/97 Goldenrod Revised:  12/16/97 Buff Revised:       03/17/98 Salmon Revised:     03/23/98
foley		Loretta, you see that guy talking to your manager, has his case open?
loretta		That's Mr. Guindon, one of our assistant managers.  Our manager is Mr. Schoen, but he's not in today.
foley		But you see the guy with the attache case?
loretta		 Yes.
foley		That's my partner.  He has a gun in there.  And if you don't do exactly what I tell you, or you give me any kind of a problem, I'll look over at my partner and he'll shoot your Mr. Guindon between the eyes.
loretta		You, too.
foley		She's cute, isn't she?
man		Uh, yeah, I guess so.
foley		Come on...
cop		I think you flooded it.
second cop		Get out've the car, sir.
foley		Wanna hear a funny story?
second cop		Shut up and get out've the car.
pup		You want something, Foley?
foley		Some people are going out of here. What if I told you where and when?
pup		How many?
foley		I expect you to look out for me, Pup, let me run off work details.
pup		Okay.  How many going out?
foley		I hear six.
pup		When?
foley		Looks like tonight.
pup		You know who they are?
foley		I do, but I won't tell you just yet. Meet me in the chapel at eight-thirty, right before lock-down.
foley		You excited?
chino		I told you, man, Super Bowl Sunday.
foley		Yeah, but I see you moved it up.
chino		 Why you think is today?
foley		You were out running this morning, sticking to your routine, anybody happened to notice.  But you only did a couple of miles instead of your usual five.  Saving yourself for the main event.  Then I see you inside eating ten pounds of macaroni. Carbohydrates for endurance.
chino		You want, I tole you you can come. You all right, Foley.  I like you.
foley		You told me I can come 'cause I caught you digging the fuckin' tunnel, saw you and Lulu coming out of the bushes, thought maybe you two were making out.
chino		You see what they doing, those posts out there?  Putting up another fence, five metres on the other side of the one that's there.  We wait until Super Bowl Sunday, they could have the second fence built and we have to dig another nine, ten days.  So we going soon as it's dark.  You want -- I mean it -- you can still come.
foley		I appreciate the offer.  And it's tempting.
adele		Hello?  Yeah, I accept.
foley's voice		Hey, Adele, how you doing?
adele		Hey, Bank Robber, want some advice? Next time, leave the engine running.
foley		That's funny, Adele.  How many more times you gonna gimme that one?
adele		Till it's not funny any more.  What do you want, Jack?
foley		You know that Super Bowl party?  They changed the date.  It's on tonight, eight-thirty.
adele		Didn't you tell me one-time calls aren't monitored?
foley		I said not as a rule.
adele		So why don't you come right out and tell me what you're talking about?
foley		Listen to Miss Smarty Mouth.  Out there in the free world.
adele		What's free about it?  I'm looking for work.
foley		What happened to Mandrake the Magician?
adele		Emil the Amazing.  The bastard fired me and hired another girl, a redhead. I'm working on a new business card, pass out to the cafes.  How's this sound--
foley		 Listen, Adele, the reason I called, that party is today instead of Sunday. About eight-thirty, like only a few hours from now.  So you'll have to get hold of Buddy, whatever he might be doing...
adele		And the one driving the other car?
foley		What're you talking about?
adele		Well, seeing as you have so much luck with cars, Buddy thought it might be better to bring two.  He got this guy he says you know from Lompoc, Glenn something.
foley		Glenn Michaels.
adele		Yeah, that's him.  Buddy says Glenn thinks you guys are real cool.
foley		He did, huh.  Well, tell Buddy I see Glenn wearing his sunglasses I'll step on 'em.  I might not even take 'em off first.
marshall		Happy birthday.
karen		You fit another Chanel suit in here?
marshall		Something better.  Open it.
karen		 Oh my God...
marshall		It's a --
marshall		Happy birthday, kid.  You want another Coke?
karen		 Can't.  I gotta drive out to Glades, then I'm meeting Ray Nicolet at ten.
marshall		Which one is that?  The ATF guy?
karen		He was.  Ray's with the F.B.I. now, he switched over.
marshall		He's still married though, huh?
karen		Technically.  They're separated.
marshall		Oh, he's moved out?
karen		He's about to.
marshall		Then they're not separated, are they?
karen		Can we change the subject?
marshall		What're you doing at Glades?
karen		Serving process, a Summons and Complaint.  Some con doing mandatory life doesn't like macaroni and cheese. He files suit, says he has no choice in what they serve and it violates his civil rights.
marshall		You know you can always step in, work with me full-time as one of my investigators.
karen		No thanks.
marshall		You used to like it.
karen		Dad...
marshall		You'd meet doctors, lawyers -- nothing wrong with them necessarily if they're divorced.  Why settle for some cowboy cop who drinks too much and cheats on his wife?  That's the way those hotshots are, all of 'em.
karen		I really gotta go.
marshall		We don't get to talk much any more.
karen		How 'bout I come next Sunday and watch the Super Bowl with you?
marshall		I'd like that.
karen		Thanks for the gun, Dad.
buddy		Ref don't call it pretty soon, Snoopy's gonna send this guy out in a body bag.
foley		Anyone ever tell you why they call him Snoopy?
buddy		I don't believe it.
buddy		Guy's braggin' he won a thrown fight. Fuckin' pathetic.
foley		It's Richard Ripley.
buddy		 The Wall Street guy?  Oh, yeah.  I didn't recognize him without his rug.
foley		Dick the Ripper they called him, on account of all the people he ripped off.
buddy		What's he doin' here?
glenn		He got three years and fined fifty million dollars and wrote 'em a fucking check.  Like that, fifty mil, signed his name.  Whoa-- little help here!
foley		Who you talkin' to, Studs?  Me, or Buddy.  I can't tell, you got those shades on.
glenn		You guys-- come on-- this is too heavy!
foley		I guess the bright glare out here made it hard to see the numbers on the weights.
glenn		I'll take the shades off.  Just get this fuckin' thing off me.
buddy		How do you know he wrote a check?
glenn		He told me.  He works the laundry with me.  The guy loves to talk.
foley		Yeah, to the U.S. Attorney.  I hear he rolled over on all the snitches he was doing business with and got 'em all brought up.
glenn		Hey, anybody that can write a check for fifty mil, he says anything I'm all fucking ears.  Like the other day, he tells me how he's got all this money in foreign banks, plus around five mil in uncut diamonds at his house.  He said, quote, "Where I can put my hands on it anytime."
buddy		Cool.  Where's the guy live?
glenn		Detroit.  Snoopy Miller told me uncut diamonds are as easy to move as cash.
foley		Ever seen an uncut diamond, Studs? They look like plain old rocks.
glenn		So.  What's your point?
foley		My point is, that's probably what you're gonna end up with.
glenn		You think he's lying?
foley		Use your head.  The guys got five million lying around his house, you really think he's gonna tell some motormouth he just met in prison about it?
buddy		 Here it comes.
foley		You don't wanna be standing there, the hacks start asking questions you don't wanna answer.
ripley		Oh, uh, right, thanks...
buddy		Here, lemme help you with those, ma'am.
woman		I didn't ask for your help, so don't expect a tip.
buddy		That's okay, ma'am.  I'll just take your car.
foley		They're right underneath you, Pup. They dug a tunnel.
pup		I don't hear 'em.  Where's the tunnel come out?
foley		Second fence post from the tower out there.  Go on, take a look.
pup		I don't see nothing there.
foley		You will directly.  Keep watching.
karen		Hi.  Karen Sisco again for Ray Nicolet.  He's not?  Could you tell him that... never mind.  I'll call back.
pup		There some car headlights out there...  Jesus Christ...
buddy		What's she doing?
karen		Get your hands in the air!
buddy		It's okay, honey, we're good guys.
karen		What're you doing here?
foley		I bet that's all the hacks they send out.  Otherwise nobody's left to mind the store.
buddy		Why don't we talk about it later?
foley		Why you're just a girl.  What do you do for a living you pack a shotgun?
karen		I'm a federal marshal and you're under arrest, both of you guys.
foley		I bet I smell, don't I?  Listen, you hop in the trunk and we'll get out of here.
karen		In my bag, in the car.
foley		They're off in the cane by now chasing Cubans.  I timed it to slip between the cracks, you might say.
foley		Boy, it stunk in there.
karen		I believe it.  You've ruined a nine- hundred-dollar suit my dad gave me.
foley		Yeah, went real nice with that twelve gauge, too.  Tell me, why in the world would someone like you ever become a federal marshall?
karen		The idea of going after guys like you appealed to me.
foley		Guys like me, huh.  Well, listen, even though I've been celibate lately, I'm not gonna force myself on you.  I've never done that in my life.
karen		You wouldn't have time anyway.  We come to a roadblock, they'll run the car, find out in five seconds who it belongs to.
foley		If they get set up in time, which I doubt.  And even if they do they'll be looking for a buncha little Latin fellas, not a big black guy driving a Ford.
karen		Must be quite a pal, risk his own ass like this.
foley		Who, Buddy?  Yeah.  He's a good guy. Back when we jailed together, he'd call his sister every week without fail.  She's a born-again Christian, does bookkeeping for a televangelist. Buddy calls her up, confesses his sins, tells her about whatever bank he happened to rob.
karen		Buddy.  That's his given name?
foley		 Fuck...
karen		So, what's your name?  It'll be in the paper tomorrow anyway.
foley		Jack Foley.  You've probably heard of me.
karen		Why, are you famous?
foley		Time I was convicted in California? FBI told me I'd robbed more banks than anyone in the computer.
karen		How many was that?
foley		Tell you the truth, I don't know.  I started when I was eighteen, driving for my Uncle Cully and his partner, Gus.  They go into a bank this one time in Slidell, Gus jumps the counter to get the tellers and breaks his leg. All three of us ended up in Angola.
karen		That's funny.
foley		I thought so, too.
karen		It was me, I woulda left ol' Gus on the floor.
foley		I believe you would have.  Another fall, I did seven years at Lompoc.  And I don't mean the place next door where some of Nixon's people went.
karen		I know the difference.  You were in Lompoc USP, the federal penitentiary. I've delivered people there.  So basically you've spent half your life in prison.
foley		 Basically.  Yeah.  If I go back now, I do a full thirty years, no time off. Can you imagine looking at that?
karen		I don't have to.  I don't rob banks.
foley		You don't seem all that scared.
karen		Of course I am.
foley		You don't act like it.
karen		What do you want me to do?  Scream?  I don't think it would help much.  I'm just gonna sit back, take it easy, and wait for you to screw up.
foley		Jesus, you sound like my ex-wife.
karen		You were married?  All those falls, I'm surprised you had time.
foley		It was just a year, give or take a few days.  I mean, it's not like we didn't get along or anything.  We had fun, we just didn't have that... that thing, you know?  That spark, you know what I mean?  You gotta have that.
karen		 Uh-huh.
foley		We still talk, though.
karen		Sure.
karen		You know, this isn't gonna end well, these things never do.
foley		Yeah, well, if it turns out I get shot like a dog, it'll be in the street, not off a goddamn fence.
karen		You must see yourself as some kind of Clyde Barrow.
foley		Oh, you mean of Bonnie and Clyde?  Hm. You ever see pictures of him, the way he wore his hat?  You could tell he had that don't-give-a-shit air about him.
karen		I don't recall his hat, but I've seen pictures of him lying dead, shot by Texas Rangers.  Did you know he didn't have his shoes on?
foley		Is that right?
karen		They put a hundred and eighty-seven bullet holes in Clyde, Bonnie Parker and the car they were driving.  Bonnie was eating a sandwich.
foley		You're full of interesting facts, aren't you?
karen		It was May, 1934, near Gibsland, Louisiana.
foley		That part in the movie where they get shot?  Warren Beatty and... I can't think of her name.
karen		Faye Dunaway.
foley		Yeah, I liked her in that movie about TV...
karen		Network.  Yeah, she was good.
foley		And the guy saying he wasn't gonna take any more shit from anybody...
karen		Peter Finch.
foley		Yeah, right.  Anyway, that scene where Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway get shot?  I remember thinking at the time it wouldn't be a bad way to go, if you have to.
karen		Bleeding on a country road.
foley		It wasn't pretty after, no, but if you were in that car -- eating a sandwich -- you wouldn't have known what hit you.
foley		You're sure easy to talk to.  I wonder -- say we met under different circumstances and got to talking, say you were in a bar and I came up to you -- I wonder what would happen.
karen		Nothing.
foley		I mean if you didn't know who I was.
karen		You'd probably tell me.
foley		I'm just saying I think if we met under different circumstances...
karen		You have to be kidding.
foley		Another one Faye Dunaway was in I liked, Three Days of the Condor.
karen		With Robert Redford, when he was young.
foley		Yeah...
karen		I never thought it made sense, though, the way they got together so quick.
foley		Really.
karen		I mean, romantically.
foley		Uh-huh.  Well, but if --
buddy		That's the turnpike up there.  Glenn's waiting with the other car.
foley		Okay, honey, come on out of there.
karen		Get your hands up and turn around. Now.
foley		Shit...
buddy		We may as well leave her, we're leaving the car and we gotta leave her some place anyway, what's the difference where?
foley		She's coming with us.
buddy		Jesus Christ, what were you doing in there?
foley		Get the shotgun.  And her purse.  I'd like to know who she is.
buddy		I already looked.  Her name is Karen Sisco.  Like the Cisco Kid only spelled different, S-i-s-c-o.
foley		Karen?  Be a good girl now, you hear? Now, I'm gonna open the--
voice		Hey!
glenn		Hey, Jack, good to see you, man.  The fuck're you guys shooting at?
foley		Do we need him?
buddy		The green-and-whites saw us.  One of 'em starts thinking, what's that car doing there?  Ties it to the break and turns around...
foley		Oh, hey, Studs?  We thought you were somebody else.
glenn		Studs.  Man, I haven't heard that since Lompoc.  What's going on?
foley		Oh, nuthin'.
karen		You win, Jack.
foley		Have your clothes cleaned and send me the bill.
karen		I'll send it to you at Glades.
glenn		Jesus, what'd you crawl through, a sewer?
foley		Take your sunglasses off.
glenn		I see better with them on.
foley		You don't take 'em off, I'm gonna throw 'em off the overpass while they're still on your head.
glenn		You're in civilization now, man, ease up.
foley		I'd like you to go wait in the car. How's that?  Take her with you and put her in back.
glenn		In the trunk?
foley		The backseat.
glenn		Come on.  I have to do what I'm told.
foley		Wait a minute.  Let me have your raincoat.  Somebody forgot to bring me clean clothes.
buddy		I brought 'em, they're back at Glades in the Cadillac.  You wanted to take her car.
karen		You can blame me if you want.  I don't mind.
glenn		Here you are, sir.
buddy		What's wrong with you?
foley		Why you brought Glenn into this, I'll never know.
buddy		How 'bout the score was his idea to begin with?
foley		His idea?  Gimme a break.  Fuckin' guy's got a vacant lot for a head.  Was you and me figured the whole thing out.
buddy		You're pulling at it.  Here...
foley		I don't know why, but every time he opens his mouth I want to punch him out.
buddy		He ain't the problem, Jack.
glenn		...if he thinks he can talk to me like this.  Shit, I don't even know what I need them for.
karen		Glenn?
glenn		 It couldn't have been out at Glades, if that's what you're thinking.  I was never out there.
karen		No, that's not what I'm thinking.
glenn		But you're sure we've met, huh?
karen		Last fall, I drove you from the Palm Beach county jail to the federal courthouse, twice.  You're Glenn Michaels.  I never forget anyone I've cuffed and shackled.
glenn		I remember you now.  Shit.
karen		Foley's not going to make it.  And if he goes down, Glenn, you go with him.
glenn		We're not.  I'm helping him, yeah--
karen		Wait.  Have you helped him, Glenn?  At this point, technically, I doubt you could be charged with aiding a fugitive. So you still have a choice.  You can help him and risk going down again, get cuffed and shackled, hope to God you pull a reasonable judge, not some hard-on.  Or, if you want to play it another way...
glenn		Like how?
buddy		You want to take her to my place and get cleaned up?  You come out of the bathroom with your after-shave on and she goes, "Oh, I had you all wrong"?
foley		I want to talk to her again, that's all.  See what would happen under, you know, normal circumstances.
buddy		You're too late, Jack.
maurice		Dick.  My man.
ripley		 Thank you...
maurice		 Starting now, there's gonna be an across the board cost a living increase.
ripley		What?
maurice		Year ago, I come in here on credit card fraud, but after I shanked that loudmouth pussy on the yard the other day, my Dunn & Broadstreet, has gone way the fuck up.
ripley		I think it's Dunn & Bradstreet.  But then, I could be wrong...
maurice		Whoever.  The point is, prices are goin' up, too.  Better get your little black book out, Richard.  We got some business to talk about.
ripley		 Well, I need that...
maurice		...and that extra pillow's gonna be an even three c's.
voice		Hey.
foley		Sign says "Shut the fuck up."  Or can't you guys read?
maurice		 There a problem, Foley?
foley		Yeah.
foley		Yeah, I got a problem.  This is the dumbest fucking shakedown in the history of dump shakedowns.  Three hundred bucks for a pillow?
maurice		That's right.
ripley		Sounds high, doesn't it?
foley		Must be a real soft pillow.
maurice		Faux goose down.
ripley		Still...
foley		How much for your company at chow?
maurice		Company, shit.  I watch the man's back.
foley		I bet.  How much?
maurice		Another C.
foley		You're smart, Ripley, you'll tell this guy to fuck off.
ripley		Really?  Well, I uhhh...
foley		First of all, if he kills you, he's not gonna get any more money out of you.
maurice		Man doesn't have to get killed.  He could accidentally fall on something sharp, like a shiv.  Or my dick.
foley		You stick anything in this guy, Snoop, they transfer his ass outta here faster'n you can throw a fight, and you still end up with nothing.
maurice		This doesn't concern you, Foley.  Why don't you go on out to the yard, have yourself a smoke?
foley		I don't smoke.
himey		 You heard the man.  Go on outta here.
maurice		Himey here's a pro-toh-jay of mine. He's ranked number thirty-two in the federal prison system.
foley		 Thirty-two outta what, twenty?
guard		What's going on here?
maurice		Oh, you know, reading's funnamental an' shit, we just excited.
guard		Clear outta here.
ripley		Excuse me.  Snoopy?  Did we settle the fish thing?
maurice		 Yeah.  Sure.  It's all settled.
ripley		That's how you do it.
ripley		Thanks for your help.
foley		Any time.
maurice		Stick and jab, fool.  Stick and jab.
moselle		 Tuffy.  C'mere, boy...
maurice		You gonna answer the phone?
moselle		What for?  It's not for me.
maurice		 Moselle, the fuck are you doing to my little Tuffy?
moselle		I'm trainin' Tuffy, so he can be on a Kal Kan commercial, make us some extra money.
maurice		That's the dumbest thing I heard in my life.  Everybody knows Kal Kan doesn't pay for shit.  You gonna get a gig, it's gotta be for one of the big three: Science Diet, Iams or that Cycle shit for the fat dogs.  Now answer the fuckin phone.
moselle		Hello?  For you.
maurice		 This is me.
glenn		Snoopy.  Glenn Michaels.
maurice		Studs.  Hey, son, you must be one a them psychic friends.  I was just thinkin' about you.
glenn		Listen, Snoopy, I'm on my way up to Detroit and need a place to crash.
maurice		You crazy, come up here?  It's fuckin one degree outside.
glenn		I wanna talk to you about a job.
maurice		Uh-huh.
glenn		I can't really go into it right now. I'll just tell you it's someone big.
maurice		Someone?  Gimme a hint.
glenn		It's a guy you know.
maurice		Gimme another hint.
glenn		It's Richard Ripley.
maurice		Oh, I'm here, all right.  I'm very here. Question is, why aren't you here?
foley		I'm just saying she wasn't scared.
buddy		Cause she had her hand on her gun the whole time, waiting to make her move.
foley		You're just jealous it was me in the trunk with her and not you.
buddy		You're right.
foley		First thing I'm gonna do is get all this mud off me.
buddy		There's some lilac oil, you want some, a vanilla candle under the sink.
foley		Oh, man.
buddy		There's something about a nice hot bath, transforms a person.  It's not just about opening up your pores, know what I mean?  There's just something about the heat and the wet that's calming you know?  Settles me in a way that I really can't articulate.
foley		I know exactly what you mean.  It's just a feeling.  You know, I could go for some wine tonight.
buddy		There's a store around the corner, I'll be right back.
foley		Sounds great.
foley		Hey.
karen		What?
marshall		You were talking in your sleep.
karen		 What'd I say?
marshall		"Hey, yourself."
karen		Huh.
burdon		 Daniel Burdon, FBI.
marshall		Marshall Sisco.  Karen's dad.
burdon		You mind please waiting outside.  We have some business to do here.
marshall		I need to go to the john anyway.
karen		I wanna be on the task force, Daniel.
burdon		That's nice of you to offer, Karen, but I got all the help I can use right now.  Instead, let's talk about how you got the bump on your head.
karen		 Isn't that my report you're holding onto?
burdon		Yes, but I want to hear you tell it. Starting with when you tried to grab the wheel -- where was this?
karen		Coming to the Okeechobee exit...
karen		Take the next exit.
glenn		What am I supposed to do now?
karen		Glenn, take the exit.
glenn		No way, man, no fuckin' way am I gonna turn myself in.
karen		The next thing I knew, the paramedics were taking me out the car.
burdon		There's a couple of points I keep wondering about have to do with the two guys that grabbed you.  Buddy is it?  And this fella Jack Foley.  I swear the man must've robbed two hundred banks in his time.
karen		Really?  Huh.  He told me he didn't remember how many he robbed.
burdon		You talked to him?
karen		In the trunk, yeah?
burdon		What'd you talk about?
karen		Oh... different things, prison, movies.
burdon		This fella holds you hostage, you talk about movies?
karen		It was an unusual experience.
burdon		Foley made me think of that fella Carl Tillman, the one you were seeing, it turns out the same time he was doing banks.  You recall that?
karen		When I was seeing Carl Tillman, I didn't know he robbed banks.
burdon		Yeah, but I had enough reason to believe he did, and I told you.  So you had to at least suspect him.
karen		And what happened to Carl?
burdon		The time came, you shot him.  But you didn't shoot Foley or the guy with him.  They're unarmed, you had a shotgun and you let them throw you in the trunk. Okay, now you got your Sig in your hand.  You say in the report you couldn't turn around, he had you pinned down.  But when the trunk opened, how come you didn't cap the two guys then?
karen		Is that what you would've done?
burdon		You say in the report Glenn didn't have a gun, but you let him get away, too.
karen		Daniel, what do you work on most of the time, fraud?  Go after crooked bookkeepers.
burdon		Karen, I've been with the Bureau fifteen years, on all kinds of investigations.
karen		Have you ever shot a man?  How many times have you been primary through the door?
burdon		I have to qualify, is that it?
karen		You have to know what you're talking about.
burdon		We'll talk another time, Karen.  All right?  I'd like to know why Foley put you in that second car when he didn't need you any more.
karen		You'll have to ask him.
burdon		Sounds to me like he liked having you around.  I'll see you, Karen.  Mr. Sisco.
marshall		Agent Burdon.
karen		The Sig Sauer you got me for my birthday.
marshall		Tell you what, you're a good girl, you might get another one for Christmas.
karen		I'll get it back when I get Foley.
old woman		Oh--  Are you delivering the oxygen?
buddy		Uh, no, ma'am.  Sorry.
karen		You win, Jack.
buddy		You made the front page.
foley		I wasn't feeling my best that day. I'd just drawn thirty to life.
buddy		Maybe this'll make you feel better.
foley		Thanks.
buddy		Paper says there's ten grand each on you, Chino and Lulu.
foley		Say anything in there about Karen Sisco?
buddy		Just that she got away.
foley		Yeah, but what happened after she drove off with Glenn?
buddy		You'll have to ask Glenn.  And most likely, he's on his way to Detroit, where we should be.
foley		Think this old guy is her boyfriend? It's the only picture she carries.
buddy		Am I going to Detroit by myself?
foley		We'll leave first thing in the morning.
karen		He doesn't even look like that.
marshall		No?
karen		No, he looks a lot...
ray		You look great.  Your dad taking good care of you?
karen		He took the week off so we'd have time together.  So far he's worked on his boat every day.  Dad?  Ray Nicolet.
ray		I've heard a lot about you, Mr. Sisco.
marshall		Likewise.
karen		Ray's with the F.B.I. Task Force, working on the prison break.
marshall		 I see that.
ray		No.  Course not.
karen		 How's it going?
ray		Great.  We got one of 'em.
karen		Was it Foley?
marshall		 Off a tip?
ray		Yeah, someone spotted two of 'em in this hobo camp out by the airport, called the number--
marshall		I knew it, soon as I saw they were offering a reward.
karen		Was it Foley?
ray		Foley?  Oh.  No, it was one of the Cubans.  Linares.
karen		Oh...
ray		We went out there, full SWAT, two choppers, the whole bit, but Linares started shooting anyway.  We put him down, but somehow Chirino got away.
marshall		Did you pay the guy the reward?
ray		Yeah, as soon as we got back.
karen		Foley hadn't been there?
ray		This place was strictly Cuban.  If Foley had a ride he must have his own agenda. He seems to be the only one knows what he's doing.
marshall		Hello?  For you.
karen		Hello?
foley		Hi.
foley		You know who this is?
karen		Yes.
foley		I just wanted to see if you're okay, make sure Glenn didn't hurt you or, you know, anything.
marshall		Something I've been wondering, Ray...
karen		How'd you get this number?
foley		Who was it answered the phone?
karen		None of your business.
foley		I'm just worried maybe I'm not old enough for you.
karen		That's my dad.
foley		Really.  He has a cop's face.
karen		How do you know?  Wait-- you have my wallet.
foley		And your gun.
karen		Think I could have them back?
foley		How do we do that?
karen		Let's see.  You could come on by my dad's place, drop 'em off.
foley		Sure.  I'll just leave 'em with the S.W.A.T. guy answers the door.
karen		There's a guy here on the task force right now.  Maybe I should put him on the phone, let you two work it out.
foley		You won't do that.
karen		Why not?
foley		Because you're having too much fun.
marshall		...She fixes him pork chops and rice, the next thing you know they're making love on the sofa.  She says he was very gentle.
ray		I spoke to her.  The guy told her he missed his little girl and she felt sorry for him.
marshall		That's how you score now?
karen		My dad's retired.  He was a Private Investigator.  Forty years.  I used to work for him.
foley		I can just picture that, a cute girl like you following slip-and-fall and whiplash cheaters.
karen		Something I've been wondering, what ever happened to your Uncle Cully?
foley		Why?  You think he might tell you where I am?
karen		Unless you wanna tell me.
foley		He's dead.  He did twenty-seven years before he came out and died not too long after in Charity Hospital, I think trying to make up for all the good times he'd missed.  That's not gonna be me.
karen		One last score, that the idea?  Move to some island.
foley		I'm partial to mountains myself.  But if you like islands, we'll make it an island.
karen		Whatta you mean we'll make it an island?
foley		I just thought maybe you and me could--
buddy		Who you talking to?
karen		Is that Buddy?
foley		What?!
buddy		You better come see this.
ray		The woman also said he stole her husband's gun, a twenty-two pistol, and some of his clothes.
marshall		So the woman's married.  She goes to bed with this prison escapee because he misses his little girl and then tells the world about it.  But you don't reveal her name, you protect her.  It sounds like you're saying it's okay as long as her husband doesn't find out about it.  Like the guy who cheats on his wife, saying what she doesn't know won't hurt her.
karen		Dad.
marshall		What?
foley		Chino's gonna wanna talk to me.
buddy		He's running for his life, he doesn't give a shit about you.
foley		He's gotta know by now that I gave him up back at Glades.  He does, he's gonna try to find me.  Maybe go see Adele, see what she knows.
buddy		He knows where she lives?
foley		We were talking one time, drinking rum.  I may've mentioned Adele, how she worked for a magician.  Chino got interested.  He's like, Yeah?  How does he saw the woman in half?  He wanted to meet her.  Or get a look at her if she ever came to visit.
buddy		So call her up.  Tell her don't talk to any Cubans.
foley		Her phone's probably tapped.
buddy		And you know they're gonna have some people watching the hotel.
foley		Shit.
marshall		Remember, pay attention to how she talks about Foley, her tone.  Do it right, she'll tell you things she wouldn't tell Burdon.  Tell her you think he's a nice guy.  No, first tell her about being in the trunk with him, in the dark for half an hour, and see how she takes it.  If she's in on it, what does she get for all the aggravation; cops breathing on her?  I bet nothing.  So she still likes him enough to stick her neck out.  You think that's possible?  What kind of guy is he?
karen		He's pretty laid back, confident.
marshall		He remind you of that guy, Tillman?
karen		Not at all.
marshall		But you know he's dirty and you still wanna see him again.
karen		I want to bust his ass, put him in shackles.
marshall		Maybe.  But you're also curious about the man.  Twice last night you asked your married boyfriend Nicolet about him.  You were concerned, but you didn't want to show it.
karen		My married boyfriend - setting him up with that news story so you could talk about infidelity.  I couldn't believe it.
marshall		You like the wild ones, don't you? Tillman, Nicolet and now Foley.  You know, I've always said there's a thin line between the cowboy cops and the armed robbers, all those guys that love to pack.
karen		Foley kidnapped me.
marshall		Yeah, but you talked all the way from GCI to the turnpike.  It sounds more like a first date than a kidnapping.
adele		Hi, this is Adele speaking.
chino		Oh, is this Adele?
chino		Uh-- sorry.  Wrong number.
buddy		Nice disguise.
foley		I'm a tourist.
buddy		You at least bring the gun?
foley		 That's her place.
buddy		There.  You see the guy sitting on the porch?  The old ladies and one guy? You know they'll have a couple more in a car somewhere.
foley		 Uh-huh...
buddy		Oh, my.
foley		I guess Adele's in good hands.
buddy		Sure looks that way.
foley		 Let's go to Detroit.
buddy		Now you're talkin'.
adele		You were both in the trunk?  Together?
karen		From Glades to the turnpike.  Then I left with Glenn.
karen		The FBI didn't tell you I was with them?
adele		They didn't tell me anything, they asked questions.
karen		But you know what I'm talking about, don't you?  About Glenn, don't you, and the second car?
adele		I know a Glenn.
karen		No, thanks.
adele		Those are cute shoes.  The kind of jobs I get, I have to wear these killer spikes, they ruin your feet.
karen		You mean, did he try to jump me?  No, but he was kind of talkative.
adele		He gets that way when he's nervous sometimes.
karen		You didn't visit him in prison.
adele		He didn't want me to.
karen		Why not?
adele		I don't know.  He was different after he was sentenced, looking at thirty years.  Said it depressed him every time the younger cons called him an old timer.
karen		But you spoke to him on the phone.
adele		He'd call every once in a while.
karen		He called the day he escaped.
adele		He did?  I don't remember.  Did he say about me?  In the trunk?
karen		 He said he wished the two of you could start over, live a normal life.
adele		Huh.  Problem is, Jack's idea of a normal life is robbing banks.  It's all he's ever done.
karen		Did you know that when you married him?
adele		He said he was a card player.  I could live with that.  I never knew he robbed banks till he got busted with that car that caught fire -- if you can imagine something like that happening, comes out of the bank and the car's on fire. I did go see him in jail to tell him I was filing for divorce.  He said, "Okay."  Jack's so easy going.  He was fun, but never what you'd call a real husband.
karen		Really.  Hm.
adele		Buddy'll take care of him.  Keep him out've trouble.  He's Jack's conscience. Always has been.  He tell you how they met?
karen		Till they got busted.
adele		That wasn't Jack's fault.  No, that was on account of Buddy, for some reason, decided to call his sister and confess to a job before they'd done it instead of after.  She called the FBI and they both went down, ended up at Lompoc.  I think Buddy felt kinda bad about that.
karen		Any idea where I could find Buddy?  Or Glenn?
chino's voice		Adele?  You in there?
adele		Yes.
chino		I want to speak with you, please.
adele		Who is it?
chino's voice		I talk to the guy you work for, Emil. He tole me your number and where you live.  See, I'm looking for an assistant and would like to speak to you.
adele		Oh.  Uh-huh.
chino's voice		You did work for Emil, right?
adele		Yeah, I was Emil's box-jumper for almost four years.
chino's voice		You were his what, his box?
adele		His assistant.
chino's voice		Yes, around here.  I was a mayishan in Cuba before I come here.  Manuel the Mayishan was my name.
adele		I'm not dressed.
chino's voice		Listen to me.  I'm a good friend of Jack Foley.
karen		Ask him his name.
adele		Who are you?
chino's voice		 Jose Chirino.
karen		 Tell him to wait in the hall, you have to get dressed.  Say it loud.
adele		Wait in the hall!  I have to get dressed!
chino's voice		Tell me where is Jack Foley, I don't bother you no more.
adele		I don't know where he is.
chino's voice		Listen, I'm the one help Jack escape from prison.  He tole me, I can't find him to see you.  So why don't you open this fucking door.  Okay?  So we can speak.
adele		 Go away, or I'll call the police.
chino's voice		Why you want to do that, to a frien'?
karen		 Go in the bedroom and --
chino		 Wait.  You not Adele?
karen		I'm a federal marshal and you're under arrest.  Put the gun on the table.  I mean, now.
chino		Oh.  Then this must be Adele...
karen		Put it down or I'll shoot.
chino		You wouldn't shoot me, would you?
karen		What do you want to bet?
chino		 I could walk out of here.
karen		If you move, if you look at her again, you're dead.
chino		Oh, is that right?  You going to shoot me?  Nice girl like you?  I don't think so.
karen		You don't, huh?
chino		 What?!
karen		Daniel Burdon, please.  Karen Sisco.
chino		Excuse me, Adele?
adele		Yes.
chino		You do the sawing of the box in half trick with you inside?
adele		 Yes.
chino		Tell me, how do you do that?
karen		Shut up.
karen		Daniel.  Listen --
karen		I'm at Adele Delisi's.
karen		 Yeah, I know.  I was just leaving. Why were you trying to reach me?
karen		All right, but...
karen		Sure, Daniel.
karen		Oh, I was just wondering, if I were to bring in Chirino, would you put me on the task force?
karen		Yes or no, Daniel.  If I get him, will you let me go after Foley?
karen		That's all I wanted to know.
adele		You're good.
karen		Thank you.
foley		First thing we do, we get to Detroit, we find Glenn, then we find a window to throw him out of.
buddy		I been thinkin', if I was Glenn, I was up there to take down the Ripper, where would I go?
foley		Well, first off, if you were Glenn, you wouldn't be thinking.
buddy		Remember Snoopy Miller, his old pal from Lompoc?
foley		Snoopy.  Christ, I thought he'd be brain dead by now.
buddy		He isn't fighting no more.  Glenn told me the Snoop's been managing some guys up there now, works out at the Kronk.
burdon		You get the key?
karen		They're in 7D.
burdon		I want two men outside, front and back. Conway and Jessup go on up to seven, cover both ends of the hall.
karen		You're gonna use a ram?
burdon		Yeah, why?
karen		The manager's door is metal.
fourth man		I got a shock-lock round in my shotgun oughta do the trick.
burdon		Fine.  Whatever.
karen		What?  Daniel, I wanna go upstairs.
burdon		You can go wait out in the car, you want to.
karen		 Call and tell you.
burdon		And you let them come up.  You don't try to make the bust yourself.  You understand?
old woman		Are you delivering the oxygen?
buddy		Is this your floor, mother?
old lady		Oh.  Yes, it is.
old gent		Like to play some gin?
karen		No, thank you.
old gent		Going up?
old gent		Shit, I wanted to go up.
buddy		Let's just hope there's no one in the garage.
foley		She looked right at me.  She didn't yell or get excited.  She didn't move.
buddy		They know where I live, I guess they know what I drive, so maybe we should pick up another car on the way.
foley		She just sat there, looking right at me.
marshall		He waved to you?
karen		I couldn't swear to it, but I'm pretty sure he did.
marshall		You wave back?
karen		I didn't have time.
marshall		I imagine you would've though.
karen		Buddy's sister Regina Mary Bragg got two calls from Buddy up in Detroit this morning, called Burdon.  She's also the one gave Burdon Buddy's address.
marshall		So?
karen		So what I want to know is why Buddy still calls his sister every week even after she turned him in.
marshall		He doesn't seem to hold a grudge.  Any thoughts on that one?
karen		None I'd like to share.
maurice		I've diversified since the last time you saw me.  I've vertically integrated and now I'm into home invasions and the occasional grand larceny.
glenn		Sure, right, they see Bigfoot driving around a black guy wearing shades and a lavender fucking bandanna, no, they won't think anything of it.
maurice		It's lilac, man, the color, and the style's made known by Deion and other defensive backs in the pros.  I could be one of them living out here with doctors of my race and basketball players.  Okay, here comes Mr. Ripley's house up on the left.  Yeah.  The brick wall.  There's his drive, right there.
glenn		If they're not busted now, they're gonna be.  It's wide open.
glenn		So you still haven't said, how you wanna do it?
maurice		I'll show you, soon as I get one more guy I'm gonna need, Moselle's brother, Kenneth.  Along with White Boy there.
glenn		What?
maurice		You get everything?
kenneth		The one gonna help us rip off the rich guy?
maurice		That's right.
glenn		Help you...
maurice		You just ask me how we gonna do it. That's what I'm here for, tell you how.  We the experts.
glenn		Me?
maurice		Yeah.  If you can step up and actually do it.  Understand?  'Stead of just talking the talk.
glenn		Can I do what?
maurice		Walk in a house with me, do this cross- dressin' nigga named Eddie Solomon I used to sell to been dealin' on his own.
glenn		What-- when?
maurice		Right now, son.
glenn		I don't have to prove shit to you. The Ripley job is my job.  You're either in or you're not.  You wanna pop some crack dealer pissed you off, that's your problem, not mine.
maurice		Look, Glenn, I know you cool, but you don't have to give me no tone of voice, okay?  You don't like what I'm saying, you can get out anywhere along here you want.
glenn		I think you're forgetting, this is my car.  I drove it up here.
maurice		Hey, shit, come on.  I say I want this car, man, it's mine.  You go get yourself another one.  I say I'm in on Ripley?  I'm in, with or without your ass.  I say I want you to come along on another job, see if you for real or not, guess what you gonna do?
maurice		Let's go see Eddie.
ripley		Tell me something.  What's it like, walk in a bank with a gun, stick it up?
foley		I don't know.  I never used a gun.
ripley		Really?
foley		You'd be surprised what all you can get, you ask for it the right way.
ripley		 You're the reason, Jack, I don't keep all my money in banks.
foley		No?  Where do you keep it, Dick?  I'm talking about all those uncut diamonds you told Glenn about.
ripley		 I know what you're talking about.
foley		You're the one with balls, Dick, say something like that to someone like Glenn.  Or maybe you just forgot where you were for a minute.
ripley		Yeah, but who's gonna believe Glenn? I mean, do you believe Glenn?
foley		Of course not.
ripley		Plus, even it was true, he'd still have to figure out where I keep 'em.
foley		Doesn't have to figure out shit.  You told him you keep 'em at your house.
ripley		 It's a big house.
foley		Twenty-two months, three days, two hours.  Why?
ripley		I was just thinking that I could use a guy like you, someone knows how to ask for things the right way.  I'm talkin' about when you're outta here.  I mean, you can't rob banks for ever.
foley		It's a little late for me.
ripley		Hey, Jack?  Bullshit.  I didn't make my first million until I was forty- two.  Forty-two.  You really want to change, it's never too late.
foley		I don't know.  I'm not exactly the nine-to-five type.
ripley		Who is?  But then you gotta look at a job as more than just work.  You gotta look at it as peace of mind.  As security, you know what I mean?  I got offices in Detroit, Miami, Boston, take your pick.
foley		My ex-wife's in Miami.  It's nice down there.
ripley		No need to decide now.  Be like the fish.  Let whatever happens happen.
foley		The fish?
ripley		Yeah, fish live in the present.  They don't dwell on yesterday and they don't worry about tomorrow.  Even when a big fish attacks a little fish, there's no neurosis involved.  No guilt afterward. No whining on some fish-shrink's couch. They just do it.  They accept.
foley		I can't say that I've paid that much attention to 'em before.
ripley		The fish saved my life.  Two years ago, I found out I had high blood pressure.  So my doctor, he tells me to go get an aquarium, look at the fish every time I felt myself stressing out.
foley		And the guy sent you a bill for this?
ripley		It works.  You should try it sometime.
foley		The next time I walk into a bank.
ripley		Think about my offer, Jack.
foley		What?
buddy		You see this one...
foley		Love is funny.
buddy		Hey--
maurice		Was a time you see a gold Mercedes over in the parking lot has a license plate on it say HITMAN?  You know Tommy Hearns is inside.  Seeing the car would get our juices flowing.
glenn		 Why'd he have to do that to that girl?
maurice		Yeah, Kenneth, why you have to do that to that poor girl.
kenneth		 Do what?
maurice		Just wait till we get inside Ripley's house.
glenn		It's all right with you, I'll just hang in the car.
maurice		 No.  You gonna stay close to me from now on.  So you don't disappear on me.
glenn		Why would I do that?
maurice		Was worse than you imagined, wasn't it?  Baby, you with the bad boys now.
buddy		Whatta you think?
foley		I think Glenn opened his big mouth and now we got us another partner.
buddy		Or two.
maurice		Stick and jab!
voice		Hey, Studs, how you doing?
glenn		Jesus Christ, what're you guys doing here?
foley		Weren't you expecting us?
glenn		That broad you picked up -- did you know she was a US Marshal, for Christ sake?
foley		Yeah?  She said that to you?
glenn		 I don't know...
foley		Whose blood you got all over you?
glenn		These guys, man, they're crazy.  Shit.
foley		Is that Snoopy?  In the purple doo rag?
buddy		What's he do now, tell fortunes?
maurice		 Jack Foley, famous bank robber.
foley		Snoopy Miller, famous fight thrower.
maurice		It seems to me I been reading about you in the newspaper.  Busted out of some joint in Florida, huh?
foley		Low class of people there, Snoop.
buddy		What?  You mean Snoop?
maurice		Nobody calls me Snoop no more or Snoopy, is what White Boy's trying to say. He's a little crude, you understand. No, I left that Snoopy shit behind me.
buddy		But you call this bozo White Boy?
glenn		White Boy Bob.  White Boy used to be a fighter.
buddy		What's he do now outside of shoot his mouth off?
foley		Like being back in the yard, huh?
maurice		Just like it.  Nobody backing down. You back down, you pussy.  Tell me what you and Buddy doing up here in the cold?
foley		Glenn didn't tell you?
glenn		I thought you guys were busted.
foley		Why?  Just because you left us standing on the side of the road?
maurice		Let's go outside and talk.
foley		What's the matter with right here? It's nice and warm.
maurice		Warm?  Man, it's ninety-five degrees in here, sometimes a hundred -- the way Emanuel always kep' it so his boys'd sweat, get lean and mean like Tommy Hearns.  No, I ain't talking any business in here.  To me this is holy ground, man.  You understand?  I got to be someplace anyway.  Y'all want to talk, come to the fights tomorrow night, we'll sit down and look at it good. The State Theater.
foley		We'll see you tomorrow then.
maurice		White Boy, how much is the reward on the man again?
maurice		Uh-huh.  You recall, did it say dead or alive?
karen		I'm looking for Ray Cruz.
cop		He's inside.  With everybody else.
voice		Called themselves the Youngboys.
cruz		Ironic, isn't it?
karen		How are you, Raymond?
cruz		Freezing.  But I'm getting warmer.
karen		Quite a mess.
cruz		Yeah.  And I thought everyone liked Eddie.
karen		Who?
cruz		Dude in the dress is Eddie Solomon, used to buy scag off a corner till he kicked it and found his happiness with crack and then started dealing himself. Word on the street was he was saving up for an operation.
karen		What is it with crack and transsexuals?
cruz		Yeah, Eddie was a real character.  Had these girls cooked the rocks he called the Rockettes.
karen		Yeah.  I saw one of 'em outside.
cruz		Yonelle.  Looks like someone raped her, shot her, then threw her out the window.  Fuckin' animals.
cruz		Other than we had so much fun the last time we worked together.  You gonna tell me why you're comin' to me instead of the FBI?
karen		I report to the FBI, first thing they're gonna do is ask me to go get some coffee.
cruz		You know, I'm not in homicide any more.
karen		No, I didn't know that.
cruz		Yeah, I'm crimes against persons and property now, also sex crimes and child abuse.
karen		Detroit, you must be pretty busy.
cruz		Yeah, and, as you can see, home invasions are big, too.
karen		Listen, Raymond, a year ago, DEA had this guy Glenn Michaels on possession with intent but couldn't make it stick. In his statement, Glenn said he went up to Detroit to visit a friend and look into job opportunities -- if you can believe that.
cruz		Who was the friend?
karen		Guy named Maurice Miller, also known as Snoopy, a former prizefighter.
cruz		Christ, I know Snoopy Miller.  He's a fuckin' wackjob thinks he's Sugar Ray Leonard.  Hangs out with a couple other Grade-A nutcases over on the West side.
karen		I'll need a last known address.
cruz		That's fine, but I don't want you to talk to Miller alone.
karen		Come on, Raymond, I'm a federal officer, I'm armed.
cruz		Yes, you are.  I'll call you tomorrow with the address.
foley		It's a terrific shot of her.
buddy		Outside of that.
foley		Doesn't say what she's doing up here, but I don't think it has anything to do with us.
buddy		She came up here on her vacation, 'cause she likes shitty weather.
foley		I think she's after Glenn.  The girl still with you?
buddy		They don't stay the night, Jack, 'less you pay for it.
foley		You tell your sister about it?
buddy		Just hung up.
foley		How long you talk to her?
buddy		Two hours.
foley		How long were you with the girl?
buddy		Forty-five minutes.
foley		You didn't tell your sister about Ripley, did you?  'Cause I don't wanna go through that again.
buddy		Forget about my sister.  If Karen Sisco's tailing Glenn, we're fucked. Tomorrow night at the fights we all get picked up.
foley		Let's drive by where we're meeting and have a look.  Maybe take a look at Ripley's place while we're at it.
foley		I still haven't made up my mind yet.
ripley		What's to think about?
foley		You goin' right back to work?
ripley		First, I'm goin' to Israel for a year, study the Talmud, work on a Kibbutz... then come back, maybe take some tennis lessons.
foley		 Hi!  I just broke outta jail!
foley		Karen Sisco, please.
voice		 I'm sorry, but there's no one by that name registered.
foley		Thank you.
voice		Best Western...
karen		Moselle Miller?
moselle		What do you want?
karen		I'm looking for Maurice.
moselle		You find him, tell him the dog got run over and I'm out of grocery money.
male voice		Moselle.  Who you talking to?
moselle		Lady looking for Maurice.
male voice		What's she want?
moselle		Hasn't said.
karen		That's not Maurice?
moselle		That's Kenneth, my brother.  He's talking on the phone.
male voice		Ask what she want with him?
moselle		You ask her.  Maurice's business is none of my business.
male voice		How do I know?
kenneth		The State, huh.  Who's fighting?
moselle		You like to sit down?
karen		Thanks.
moselle		You not with probation, one of those?
karen		No.
moselle		You a lawyer?
karen		 No, I'm not.  Maybe you know him. Glenn Michaels?
moselle		Glenn?  No, I don't know any Glenn.
karen		He said he stayed here last November.
moselle		Here?  In this house?
karen		He said he stayed with Maurice.
moselle		Well, he ain't even here that much.  I like to know where he goes, but at the same time I don't want to know, you understand?
karen		 Your dog was killed?
moselle		Got run over by a car.
karen		What did you call it?
moselle		Was a she, name Tuffy.
karen		 Where do you think I might find Maurice?
moselle		I don't know -- the gym, the fights. I know he don't miss the fights.  Having some tomorrow night at the State Theater.  He use to take me.
karen		The State Theater?
voice		What you want with Maurice?
moselle		She looking for a man name of Glenn.
kenneth		Did I ask you?  Go on out of here.  Do something with yourself.
karen		You're a fighter?
kenneth		How you know that?
karen		I can tell.
kenneth		I was...
karen		What'd you fight, middleweight?
kenneth		Light to super-middleweight, as my body developed.  You go about what, bantam?
karen		Flyweight.
kenneth		You know your divisions.  You like the fights?  Like the rough stuff?  Yeah, I bet you do.  I can give you a bone, too, girl.
karen		You're not my type.
kenneth		Don't matter.  I let the monster out, you gonna do what it wants.
karen		Just a minute.
kenneth		Bring your own rubbers with you?
karen		I have to go, Kenneth.
kenneth		We gonna tussle first.
karen		You wanted to tussle, we tussled.
buddy		Now that's a really big house.
foley		Jesus, look at that wall.  Place almost looks like a prison.
buddy		No doubt the man's got some big-ass security system.
foley		Time comes, we knock on the door.  See if he wants to talk about old times. Go in the easy way.
buddy		Yeah?  You think he'll let us in, we got Snoopy and the muscle-bound asshole with us?
foley		Who says anybody's gonna be with us? I say we go to the fights tomorrow, find out what the Snoop's big plan is, then go in ahead of those guys -- alone.
buddy		Let Glenn deal with the Snoop, while we're off livin' the good life.
foley		Tell me something, Buddy.  You know anyone who's actually done one last big score and gone to live the good life?  Cause it occurred to me that everyone talks about doing it, but I don't know anyone who's actually gone and done it.  Do you?
buddy		 What about that D.B. Cooper guy?
foley		Let fate decide?  What're you, the fuckin' Dali Lama now?
buddy		My sister believes in fate, but not hell.  That's why she stopped praying for the lost souls since you don't hear that much about purgatory anymore. But every day she asks her boss to pray I don't fuck up.  Whatta you think, you think there's a hell, Jack?
foley		Yeah, it's called Glades Correctional Institution and I'm sure as shit not going back there or any place like it.
buddy		You might not have a choice.
foley		They put a gun on you, you still have a choice, don't you?
foley		Great.
foley		What?
foley		What is this?
foley		My what?
ripley		Jack?  Whoa-- what's the problem? Take it easy, let's talk...
foley		A security guard?  Are you fucking kidding me?
ripley		You know, I wasn't sure you'd show up. But I was pretty sure that, if you did, you'd throw the job in my face.  Understand something, Jack.  Up to this point, everything you've done with your life means absolutely nothing in the real world.  Less than nothing.
foley		How, Dick?  The way you earned it?  By marrying some rich broad owns the company, selling it off a piece at a time, then divorcing her?  What is this Knute Rockne, pull yourself up by the bootstraps bullshit?  Back in prison, guy like you, place like that, you were ice cream for freaks.  You were a goddamn dumpling.  Maurice and a dozen other guys coulda bled you till you had nothing.  Till you were nothing.  I saved your ass.  So you'll pardon me if I don't wanna sit on a fuckin stool all day saying "sign in here please" or "hey, pal, you can't park there."  Okay, Dick?  I can't do it.
ripley		Jack, I'm disappointed.  I guess I misjudged you.
foley		Hey, what job he promise you guys?
guard		There's two ways we can do this.
foley		Yeah?  What are they?
ripley		Gentlemen.  I think we've calmed down now.  Haven't we, Jack?
foley		Oh, yeah, I'm calm.  In fact, I'm totally "relaxed..."
foley		Listen, I gotta get some better shoes, few other things before tomorrow.  Why don't you drop me off at the Ren Cen, we'll hook up later?
buddy		Yeah, and I better call my sister.
karen		Jack Daniel's, please, water on the side.
karen		Thanks anyway.
waitress		 They want to buy you a drink.
karen		I get that.  Tell them I'd rather pay for my own.
executive guy		Excuse me.  My associates and I made a bet on what you do for a living.
karen		If it's okay with you, Philip, I'd like to just have a quiet drink and leave.  Okay?
philip		Don't you want to know what I guessed? How I know what you do for a living?
karen		Tell you the truth, I'm not even mildly curious.  Really, I don't want to be rude, Philip, I'd just like to be left alone.
andy		We're ad guys.  We flew in from New York this morning to pitch Hiram Walker Distillery, present this test-market campaign for their new margarita mix. What we do, we show this guy who looks like a Mexican bandido, you know, with the big Chihuahua hat, the bullet belts--
karen		Andy?  Really.  Who gives a shit?
andy		Want to tell me what happened?
karen		Beat it, will you?
voice		Can I buy you a drink?
karen		 Would you like to sit down?
foley		I'm Gary.
karen		I'm Celeste.
foley		I can go to the bar.
karen		Don't leave me.
foley		Those guys bother you?
karen		No, they're all right.  I meant, you just got here.
foley		You like bourbon?
karen		Love it.
foley		 Tell me, Celeste.  What do you do for a living?
karen		I'm a sales rep.  I came here to call on a customer and they gave me a hard time because I'm a girl.
foley		Is that how you think of yourself?
karen		What, as a sales rep?
foley		A girl.
karen		I don't have a problem with it.
foley		I like your hair.  And that suit.
karen		I had one just like it -- well, it was the same idea, but I had to get rid of it.
foley		You did?
karen		It smelled.
foley		Having it cleaned didn't help, huh?
karen		No.  What do you do for a living, Gary?
foley		 How far do we go with this?
karen		Not yet.  Don't say anything yet.  Okay?
foley		I don't think it works if we're somebody else.  You know what I mean?  Gary and Celeste, Jesus, what do they know about anything?
karen		It's your game.  I've never played this before.
foley		It's not a game.  Something you play.
karen		Well, does it make sense to you?
foley		It doesn't have to, it's something that happens.  It's like seeing a person you never saw before -- you could be passing on the street -- you look at each other and for a few seconds, there's a kind of recognition.  Like you both know something.  But then the next moment the person's gone, and it's too late to do anything about it, but you remember it because it was right there and you let it go, and you think, "What if I had stopped and said something?"  It might happen only a few times in your life.
karen		Or once.
foley		Why don't we get out of here.
karen		How'd you find me?
foley		I called your room from downstairs.
karen		If I had answered, what were you gonna say?
foley		Well, I'd say who I was and do you remember me and ask if you'd like to meet for a drink.
karen		If I remembered you.  I came looking for you.  I would've said sure, let's do it.  But for all you knew I could show up with a SWAT team.  Why would you trust me?
foley		It would be worth the risk.
karen		You like taking risks.
foley		So do you.
karen		What's the hurry, Jack?  You have to be somewhere?
foley		That's not what you were about to say.
karen		Remember how talkative you were?  In the trunk?  Adele said you do that when you're nervous.
foley		She did, huh.
karen		You kept touching me, feeling my thigh.
foley		Yeah, but in a nice way.
karen		He killed a police officer.
foley		I hear he didn't mean to.  The cop fell as Dillinger was aiming at his leg and got him through the heart.
karen		You believe that?
foley		Why not?
karen		You know that Sig .380 you took was my favourite.  My father gave it to me.
foley		I don't know.  I hadn't worked that part out yet.  All I knew was that I liked you, and I didn't want to leave you there, never see you again.
karen		You waved to me in the elevator.
foley		I wasn't sure you caught that.
karen		I couldn't believe it.  I was thinking of you by then, a lot, wondering what it would be like if we did meet.  Like if we could take a time-out...
foley		Really?  I was thinking the same thing. If we could call time and get together for a while.
karen		Where?
foley		Outside Adele's.
karen		You were going to see her?
foley		To warn her about Chino.
karen		So she did help you?
foley		I don't think we should get into that.
karen		No, you're right.  Or Buddy.  I won't ask if he's with you or what you're doing here in Detroit.  Or if you've run into Glenn Michaels yet.
foley		Don't talk like that, okay?  You scare me.
karen		Come on.
karen		Are you gonna leave your tie on?
foley		My God, look at you.
foley		You coming back?
karen		I'm just going to the bathroom.
karen		I want you to know something.  I wasn't looking for just a fuck, if that's what you're thinking.
foley		Why are you mad?
karen		Or I did it for some kind of kinky thrill.  Score with a bank robber the way some women go for rough trade.
foley		What about my motive?  Now I can say I fucked a US Marshal.  You think I will?
karen		I don't know.
foley		I know of a guy he goes in the bank holding a bottle he says is nitroglycerin.  He scores some cash off a teller, he's on his way out when he drops the bottle.  It shatters on the tile floor, he slips in the stuff, cracks his head and they've got him. The nitro was canola oil.  I know more fucked-up bank robbers than ones that know what they're doing.  I doubt one in ten can tell a dye pack when he sees one.  Most bank robbers are fucking morons.  To go to bed with a bank robber for kinky thrills, as you say, you'd have to be as dumb as they are.  I know you're not dumb, so why would I think that?  Why would you think I might think that?
karen		You're not dumb.
foley		I don't know about that.  You can't do three falls and think you have much of a brain.
karen		I'm trying not to.  I just wanna know what's gonna happen.
foley		 You know.
karen		Oh, for Christ sake, grow up.
buddy		It took you, what, seven hours to buy a pair of shoes?
foley		I saw Karen Sisco.
buddy		And she saw you?
foley		Yes, she did.
buddy		So how's that work, a wanted felon socializing with a U.S. Marshal?
foley		You know how I felt about her.
buddy		Did you give her a jump?  If you did I might begin to understand where your head's at.
foley		It wasn't about getting laid.  I just wanted to know what might've happened if things were different.
buddy		You find out?
foley		Yeah, I did.
buddy		So what's that mean?  That you're disappointed by what you found or you're sorry you robbed all those banks?
foley		I don't know.
maurice		Stick and jab, stick and jab!
glenn		I got to go take a piss.
karen		Glenn, are you trying to steal this car?
glenn		Jesus, I don't believe it.
karen		Another one of those days, huh, nothing seems to go right?
glen		I don't have the keys.
karen		I see that.
glenn		I mean I'm not stealing the fucking car.
karen		You're not?
glenn		I already stole it.  Last week or whenever it was, in West Palm.  I can't be stealing it again, can I?
karen		The two guys you were with -- that one, that isn't Maurice Miller, is it? I've seen Snoopy's mug shot and that didn't look like him.
glenn		Jesus.  How'd you know about Snoopy?
karen		Glenn, I know your life history, who your friends are, where you've been and now, it looks like, where you're going.  Put your hands on the wheel.
glenn		You're gonna bust me for picking up a car?
karen		For the car, for aiding and abetting a prison escape, and conspiring to do whatever you came here for.
glenn		Listen, these guys, they're gonna be out here any minute looking for me. They're fucking animals.
karen		What's going on, Glenn?
glenn		Nothing.  I just wanna get the fuck outta here.
karen		But I thought the whole thing was your idea?
glenn		Rippin' off Ripley was my idea, but these guys, man, they're into shit I can't handle.
karen		Ripley?  You mean the wall street guy?
glenn		Yeah, the plan was to pick him up at his office tomorrow, take him out to his house in Bloomfield Hills.  Now, I don't give a shit what they do.
karen		And is Foley a part of this?
glenn		He's supposed to be, but he hasn't shown up yet, which is a good thing for him.
karen		Why's that?
glenn		Maurice is gonna kill him, try and collect the reward.
karen		 But you say he hasn't shown up, you think he backed out?
glenn		I don't know-- he doesn't exactly confide in me.
karen		Gee, I wonder why not.
glenn		I'm freezing my ass off.
karen		You want to get out of here, run, it'll warm you up.
glenn		Really?
karen		But listen, Glenn.  If you're lying to me...
glenn		I know, you'll find me.  Jesus, I believe it.  I keep thinking if you hadn't driven me to federal court last summer, you wouldn't even know who I am.
karen		If I didn't know you, Glenn, by tomorrow you'd be in jail or dead.  Look at it that way.  Go on.
maurice		Where you been?  You miss the big boys, come in time for the walkout fights. Well, shit, you may as well pull up a chair.
foley		Who's sitting here?
maurice		Your homie, Glenn.  Only thing, he went to the men's about a while ago and never came back.
maurice		I sent these two looking for him, they come back shaking their heads.
foley		Well, if he left his coat and he's been gone a while.
maurice		 Reggie, push off and hit, man.  Push him off.
foley		We're leaving.
maurice		The fuck you talking about?
foley		Snoop, if you don't know where Glenn is...
maurice		Look, what you worried about Glenn for?  What's he know?
foley		I thought everything.
maurice		Glenn knows everything we suppose to do tomorrow.  Glenn could tell somebody that, yeah, but it don't mean shit. You understand?  'Cause Glenn don't know I changed the plan.  It's happening tonight.
foley		 Give me a minute, talk to Buddy.
maurice		You got two minutes, that's all.  Make up your mind.
foley		I wasn't asking permission.
buddy		Whatta you wanna do?
foley		I get that feeling, yeah.
buddy		But you still think you can get the diamonds fore they do?
foley		I'll make you a deal.  Get out of here. Right now.  I'll do the job with the Snoop, meet you wherever you want and give you half.
buddy		Half for doing what?
foley		Getting me out of Glades for starters.
buddy		And who watches your back?
maurice		Man has all that reward on his head and still talks like a con in the yard. You know what I'm saying?  Like he's a man you don't mess with.  Yeah, well, what I say to Jack Foley is buuullshit.
foley		That what they're wearing these days to break and enter?
maurice		Break and enter, shit.  Take it and git, how it's done.  Don't waste any time.  That's how you do it.
foley		So you've done this before, huh?
maurice		Shit, yeah.  White Boy even got busted for it.  White Boy, tell these boys the reason you went down on that burglary that time.
maurice		Takes the TV, the VCR, some other shit and leaves his wallet on the floor.
foley		That's a wonderful story, Snoop.  I'm very excited about tonight.
maurice		Hey.  You learn from doing.
foley		I've seen 'em used on TV.
buddy		Slow down.
maurice		Do like he says, man.  Slow down.
karen		Shit --
maurice		"An army .45 will stop all jive." Huey P. said that.
buddy		You think he was talking about walking into people's houses when he said it?
maurice		 Get ready to go skiing.
foley		Go on in the house before you get hurt.
buddy		I'm not leaving you alone with these assholes.
woman		I work here.  I'm the maid.
kenneth		Hey, shit, we're gonna have a party.
maurice		Not yet.  Where's Mr. Ripley?
maid		I told you, he isn't here.
maurice		Out for the evening?
maid		He's in Florida.  Palm Beach.
maurice		 When's he due back?
foley		Jesus Christ, what difference does it make?  You want to wait for him?
maid		Mr. Ripley's down for the season. Christmas to Easter.
maurice		You here all by yourself?
maid		 That's right, just me.
maurice		Where's Ripley's safe at, he keep his valuables in.
maid		I don't have any idea.
maurice		Let's go upstairs, have a look at the man's bedroom.  All right now, you and Mr. Buddy check the rooms down here. Look at the wall behind any pictures hanging on it.  Look at the walls in the closets.  The man has a safe, it's gonna be up there somewhere.
foley		How about his place in Florida?  If you'd called, we could've checked his walls down there before we left.  That is, if you'd checked to see where he was.  You follow me?
maurice		You set off any kind of alarm and you're a dead Hazel.  Understand?
kenneth		What's you name, mama?
maurice		First money, then pussy.
foley		You ever wear one of these?
buddy		I don't ski.
foley		Stay with the maid.  I'm gonna have a look around.
karen		Tell me where Ripley's house is.  I'll meet them there.
maurice		White Boy, the man's not gonna hide no diamonds under the fuckin' mattress.
buddy		Checkin' the other rooms, like you said.
maurice		 Go keep an eye on him.
kenneth		 I don't recognize none of these bands.
maurice		Just pick one, put it on.
foley		They cut the lines, Richard.
ripley		Foley?  That you?
foley		How are you, Richard?
ripley		Jesus Christ, what the hell are you doing here?  What's going on?  Who's upstairs?
foley		Maurice Miller, couple of his friends.
ripley		Maurice?  From Lompoc?  Good God.
foley		What kinda man lets a woman answer the door, this time a night?
ripley		We thought it might be her husband. Sometimes he comes and checks up on her.  She told him I was down in Florida.
foley		A minute or two, you're gonna wish you were.
maurice		How do I look, mama?
maid		Like a fag.
kenneth		I think she like to tussle with me. Get boned a way she gonna remember.
maurice		White Boy!  Get your ass up here!
ripley		What do you want from me, Jack?  Name it.  You want money?
foley		You gonna write me a check?
ripley		We'll go to my bank.  I'll make a withdrawal.
buddy		They found the safe.
foley		You remember Buddy, don't you, Richard?
buddy		Yeah, hi.  Nice house.
ripley		Thank you.
maurice		We gonna open up this fucker...
ripley		 Good God... they're shooting Midge!
foley		 Siddown, Dick.  They're trying to open the safe, not your maid.
maurice		A'ight, this time we gotta get the motherfuckin' trajectory right...  Okay, on three:  One... Two...
maid		The combination is three-ten-forty-four.
maurice		...the fuck is this...
maurice		Go find Foley.  NOW!
ripley		I can't believe you're still angry with me, Jack, after all this time.
foley		I'm not angry, Richard.  In fact, I'm completely relaxed.  Thing is, I can't tell if it's the fish that're cooling me out or all those uncut diamonds on the bottom of the tank there.
buddy		Damn--
foley		Dumbfuck Glenn was right, there's about five million worth in there, wouldn't you say, Richard?
ripley		Five point two.
buddy		They look like plain old rocks.
foley		They sure do.
ripley		I'm not leaving Midge.
foley		Don't be an asshole, Richard.  They're gonna kill you.
ripley		If that's my fate, so be it.  I'm not leaving.  I love her, Jack.
buddy		C'mon.
foley		Good luck, Richard.
ripley		Are those my suits?
maurice		Where you been hiding, Dick?
buddy		Okay.
foley		Shit.
buddy		What?
foley		They're gonna rape the maid, aren't they.
buddy		From the looks of those boys, the Ripper too.
foley		And then they'll kill 'em.
buddy		At least.
foley		We made it, didn't we?
buddy		All you gotta do is get in.
foley		I'm going back inside.
buddy		I'll go with you.
foley		No, you dump the van, meet me at the airport. I'll take one of Ripley's cars.
buddy		Jack --
foley		Listen, Buddy, the shit that's about to go down, you'll be on the phone with your sister for a month.  Let me do this part alone.
buddy		Hey...
foley		Now get outta here.
ripley		 Midge.
maurice		Forget about her.  Tell me where the money's at.
ripley		Foley's got it.
maurice		Where the fuck is Foley?
foley		Midge?
ripley		Midge!
maurice		 You take the front stairs, I'll take the back.
maid		 Where's Dick?
foley		Downstairs.  But wait here.  There's two more.
foley		 You learn from doing.
maurice		Jack, you don't use a gun, do you?
foley		Not until recently.
maurice		 Nervous?
foley		A little.
maurice		 This kind of setup, you don't have any idea what the fuck you're doing -- do you?
foley		You're right.  So why take a chance--
karen		Hello?
karen		Oh-kay...
foley		Shit...
karen		Come on, Jack -- don't.
foley		Pretend I'm somebody else.
karen		You think I'd shoot you?
foley		If you don't, one of those guys will.
karen		What're you now, a desperado?  Put the guns down.
foley		I told you, I'm not going back.
karen		Don't do this.  Please.
foley		No more time outs.
karen		You win, Jack.
cruz		Karen, I told you not to--
karen		Wait, I know him --okay?
foley		You just did, for Christ sake.
karen		You know what I mean.
midge		Richard!
ripley		 What'd you do with my diamonds?
buddy		The airport.
karen		I doubt if they will.  The Bureau's put a detainer on him, so when they're through with him here he'll go back to Florida.
marshall		You gonna go get him?
karen		It's possible.  Why?
marshall		I was just thinking... you could have a nice time with him on the plane -- like picking up where your interlude, or whatever you call it, left off. And then throw him in the can.
karen		He knew what he was doing.  Nobody forced him to rob banks.
marshall		My little girl, the tough babe.
voice		Foley.
federal marshal		Have a nice trip.  I'll get the other one.
karen		I got you a present, something for the road.
federal marshal		Jack Foley meet Hejira Henry.
foley		Hejira?  What kinda name is that?
hejira		Islamic.
foley		What's it mean, "No Hair"?
hejira		The Hejira was the flight of Mohammed
foley		The flight?
hejira		The brothers in Leavenworth gave me the name.
foley		You were at Leavenworth, huh?
hejira		For a time.
foley		Meaning?
hejira		Meaning time came, I left.
foley		You busted out?
hejira		I prefer to call it an exodus from an undesirable place.
foley		 And how long was it before they caught up with you?
hejira		That time?
foley		There were others.
hejira		Yeah.  That was the ninth.
foley		 The ninth?
hejira		Ten, you count the prison hospital in Ohio I walked away from.
foley		You must be some kinda walker, Henry.
hejira		Hejira.
foley		And so now you're off to Glades.
hejira		Apparently, yeah.  I was supposed to leave last night with the lady marshal, but for some reason she wanted to wait.
foley		 She did, huh.
hejira		Cheaper I guess, take us both down in one van.
foley		Yeah, could be.  Or maybe she thought we'd have a lot to talk about.
hejira		Like what?
foley		I don't know.  It's a long way down to Florida.
****Dialogues from script :Pacifier.txt****

serb 2		Fifteen minutes to delivery.
pilot		All clear from above.
pilot		What's happening?
serbian 2		What happened?
serbian 1		We've been hit. We're taking on water.
serbian 1		Something must be below us! Shoot! Shoot!
shane		Lieutenant Shane Wolfe, United States Navy. I'm gonna get you outta here. But you have to do exactly what I say, when I say it. My way -- no highway option. Do you copy?  Where's the briefcase?
plummer		How did you know where I...
seal		KEEP SHOOTING!
shane		 I've got the Prof and the case. First round's on me back at Virginia Beach.
shane		Hold on.
shane		You know how to swim?
plummer		Oh my God. I can't believe you... how'd we... That was the most incredible...
shane		Better keep that on `til we get to the rendezvous point.
plummer		 Why? Poison gas?
shane		 No. I'm just not big on chit chat.
charles		Lieutenant, thank you.  You saved more than just my life today. Can I call my wife to let her know I'm okay?
shane		Negative. Not imperative to the mission. We have to keep moving. I have strict orders to get you out of here safely.
charles		I'm safe, Lieutenant. Please. She thinks I'm dead.  Don't you have a family?
shane		 Make it quick.
charles		Joe, Todd, Lulu, Peter, Tyler.
shane		Negative.
charles		Battery's dead...
shane		We're almost ready.    Just gives us a -
shane		Captain, sir.
bill		As you were Lieutenant.
shane		... I know sir. And I except full responsibility for the mission's failure.
bill		Why the hell did you let him use the satellite phone?
shane		He had to call his family. A lapse in judgement on my part that I regret sir.
bill		... Plummer was the best security expert the department of defense ever had -- a genius. He was working on a program that scrambles launch codes. He called it G.H.O.S.T.: Guided High-altitude Scrambling Transmitter. One pulse from the GHOST satellite and a country can't launch its own nukes. That's what the Serbians kidnapped him for, but they couldn't get S inside the briefcase.
shane		The case was empty sir, as I stated in my report.
bill		Not a surprise, really. Not like the professor to hide things where someone might look for them. G.H.O.S.T. is still out there,  which is why I'm going to give you another shot.
shane		Sir. Thank you. I... appreciate your confidence.
bill		 Negative. It's not that kind of mission.
9.		BILL She's scared. The family's scared. Whoever killed the professor must think G.H.O.S.T. is in that house. Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. Either way, I need someone to stay at that house, and protect them. And while you're there -- find out if the program is in there.
shane		That's it? Why would you want me for that, sir.
bill		The professor's wife requested you.
bill		... You gotta problem with this mission?
shane		Sirnosir. It's just that... I've never been very good with kids, sir. Not even when I was a kid sir.
lulu		Mom! There's some weird bald guy at the door!
shane		 Lieutenant Shane Wolfe, reporting for duty.
julie		Of course. I'm so sorry.   Thank you for coming.
julie		KIIIDDS!!!
kids		Hi.
julie		And this is Helga and Tyler.
shane		 Ma'am... Baby.
julie		Kids, go finish your homework.   And I'll be checking.
shane		You have a pleasant family, ma'am.
julie		Charles wasn't around too much. His work took him all over the world. He'd be gone six or seven months at a time. So I think for the younger ones it's a little confusing. Zoe and Todd... well, they're dealing like your normal teenagers. Maybe in Todd's case semi-normal.
shane		Mrs. Plummer, I have to tell you that I did everything I could...
julie		Charles was in a dangerous business. I knew it when I married him. No one's to blame here.  Everyone thinks that Charles told me or the kids where he hid it. And until G.H.O.S.T. is found, we're all in danger.
shane		Nothing will happen to your family as long as I'm here. I've dealt with much...
julie		That's Gary. He was Charles'.
shane		Mrs. Plummer-
julie		Call me Julie.
shane		... Mrs. Plummer, I'll go secure the perimeter.
julie		I'm glad you're here-
julie		What is it?
julie		That's wonderful. This could all be over!
julie		I'll be there.
julie		Don't worry about the Kids, Helga will handle everything.  But if there is an emergency, all the emergency numbers are on the fridge. And on the phone. And on the back door...
zoe		Mom -- we'll be fine, chill.
julie		 I know, it's just... I am a mom, it's my job to worry. ... I love you guys. I'm gonna miss you. I'll be back in 48 hours. And guys, whatever Lieutenant Wolfe asks you to do... do it. Okay? A ll the children nod in agreement except Zoe who pops her chewing gum bubble.
shane		Don't worry. They'll be safe with me.
helga		Everything will be fine, Mrs. Plummer.
shane		... No.
helga		 Too bad.
shane		Could you turn that dow-
helga		You don't like it? You're the SEAL. You do something. I make bottle.
scott		... Zoe?
zoe		He's my boyfriend, tool.
shane		So you're the one who broke in. Zoe -- go back inside.
zoe		Okay, fine... come on Scott.
shane		Not with this kid.  You -- Gimme twenty!
shane		My apologies. We had an intruder. A simple misunderstanding.
shane		Oh. Sorry.
shane		Sorry.
shane		Your mother thought you were in real danger. You should have told her the truth.
zoe		Who do you think you are -- my dad?
shane		Not anymore.
elga		When you're down and low, lower than the floor. And you feel like you ain't got a chance. Don't make a move `til you're in the groove, and do the Peter Panda Dance. Just hop three times like a kangaroo --
shane		This family's in for a rude awakening.
oe		Huh?   Wha--?!
todd		W-what are you doing??!
shane		You're burning daylight. Move.       Move.
odd		It's Sunday...!  And it's six a.m. You're insane.
shane		Now move it!
shane		Hey. Not in front of the kids. S he gives him a look of disbelief.
helga		What's it matter? Nobody speaks Romanian.
shane		Usca mi-as chilotii pe crucea lu mata!
shane		Listen up, ladies. Your behavior is unacceptable. In order to maintain a state of safety we need to maintain a state of discipline and order. I've only got one rule: Everything is done my way. No highway option. Do you copy?
lulu		Do you copy?
shane		What?   I said -- do you...
lulu		 What?   I said -- do you...
shane		Do not copy me!
ulu		Make up your mind.
shane		Tracking devices. Now that I know I can't trust you... Never take them off. The panic button is only for emergencies. Touch that -- you better be dying, or you're dead.
zoe		I am not wearing that. Just because my mom's paranoid doesn't mean we have to take orders from you.
shane		Let me explain how the chain of command works. I tell you what to do -- and you do it. End of chain. Now I'm not gonna have time to learn your names. So you are --  Red 1, Red 2, Red Leader, Red baby... wait, where's the older male? There were five.
helga		 He walks like Dracula, with footsteps silent like death --
zoe		He's in his room.
shane		Red 4!    Open this door!
shane		It didn't have to go down like-
shane		All I need is a hammer and some plaster of Paris. I can fix this.
todd		Can I get by?
shane		Here's your bracelet. If you'd been wearing it, this wouldn't have happened.
zoe		He has to go.
peter		Whhhoooooo!
lulu		Stop it, Peter!
shane		Hey, hey, good soldiers aren't afraid of anything.
lulu		This house is haunted. Daddy even said so. He said there's a ghost.
shane		Really?   And where is this ghost?
ulu		I don't know.     I've never seen it.
zoe		Here he comes...!
todd		He's coming back-
helga		AHHH!!!
zoe		Uh-oh.
bill		As we discussed, this is an urgent matter.
julie		Can't you call somebody? Do something to get us around all this paperwork?
bill		Sorry. Not in Switzerland, I can't.
banker		Marcel!
marcel		Oui.
banker		Je ne comprende pas.
marcel		 I'm so sorry, the chief does not speak English. But I can tell you -- you will have access to the box tout-suite. As soon as your background checks clear.
julie		Thank you. How long is that?
helga		AGGH!     These brats!   Sugi Pula!
shane		Red Leader, remain calm --
helga		I am calm. I QUIT, that makes me calm!
shane		Let's not be hasty.
shane		Red Leader! I command you to come back! That is a direct order! You can't leave a man behind!!
korean woman		Don't worry, if she loves you, she'll come back.
shane		Okay, listen up. There's been a change of plans. Your mom's not coming back as soon as she thought...
lulu		 When is she coming back?
shane		Soon. In the meantime, we're just gonna have some more big fun.
todd		That's what we've been doing?
lulu		But tomorrow's a school day.
zoe		I need a signed release for Driver's Ed!
lulu		I've got Brownies!
shane		Whoa, WHOA! HALT! We'll take this hill one inch at a time. Only then can we rise to the challenge. All for one, and one for all!
lulu		 "Be all that you can be!"
shane		That's Army. I'm Navy.     But I appreciate your enthusiasm.
shane		The things I do for my country.
lulu		Hi. Zoe thinks you look like the Hulk. I think you're cute.
shane		 Thank you.
lulu		Do you know Kung Fu?
shane		Affirmative.
lulu		Did you ever punch someone so hard that their head came off?
shane		None of your business.
lulu		I'll trade you a SpongeBob button for it.
shane		I think -- it's time for you take a nappy- poo, in beddibye land, little girl.
lulu		Do I look like I'm five to you?
shane		What are you waiting for?    Dig in.
zoe		Like I'm really gonna eat all those carbs.
shane		Okay, ladies. Your mama -- is not here to take care of you now. So -- here's how it's gonna be. We're gonna pull together, all for one, one for all. If I say in, you stay in, if I say out, you go out...
peter		Ba ba do the hokie pokey...
shane		I did not say at ease!
zoe		He's only two, he doesn't have any idea what you're talking about. I don't have any idea what you're talking about...
lulu		Can you kill a man with your bare hands?
shane		You play too many video games.  Yes.
lulu		... I can cross my eyes. Wanna see?
shane		Negative.
lulu		Tyler hates it when I do that...
shane		Plummer residence... yes, I know it's Monday. Oh. Thank you, sir.
zoe		Who was that?
shane		Your vice principal. He said if you're late again, you and Todd are expelled. He wants to see you in his office. With your ... legal guardian.
lulu		We're gonna be late.
shane		Not on my watch.
murney		I always said these kids didn't need a baby sitter, they needed a parole officer. Looks like Mrs. Plummer finally listened.
shane		Wolfe. Shane. Lieutenant. I'm in charge of watching these kids for... a few days.
murney		aby-sitter huh. Well, whatever work you can get. I'm Murphy. Duane. V.P in charge of discipline, conduct and truancy. Top to bottom, K thru 12. You're in my house now, boy. I coach wrestling, too.  And the creeper here played hookey from every wrestling practice this month.
oman's voice		Your school?
principal claire		Good morning kids. What are you doing in my office, Murney?
murney		I was explaining, that as vice principal, I am in charge of....
principal claire		Very little. I thought I asked you to find out who stuck to the baloney slices to the cafeteria ceiling with mustard?
murney		I'm got some leads.  My informant's about to crack.
principal claire		Then hop to it. I think I can handle this from here.
principal claire		So. You're the new baby-sitter?
shane		Bodyguard. You see, Mrs. Plummer called my captain, she thought the kids needed -
principal claire		It's okay, Lieutenant, I was briefed of the situation by Mrs. Plummer. She told me all about you.
shane		... You're kidding?
principal claire		Four years at Naval base Coronado.   The Service paid for my college.
shane		"Honor, Courage...
principal claire		Commitment". That's the way I live my life, and the way I run my school.
shane		Can't be too careful. So. Permission to stick around and keep eyes on the kids?
principal claire		Permission granted. Welcome aboard. Just try not to frighten the children.
shane		No one will even notice I'm here.
shane		Clean as a whistle.
shane		Give up now. Save us both a world of pain. Now -- last time: Open the hanger, Black Hawk coming in.
principal claire		What would you say is the secret with kids, Mr. Wolfe?
shane		Show no weakness.
rincipal claire		I'll drink to that.  Shane... Can I call you Shane?
shane		... Sure.
principal claire		So. When you agreed to serve your country, I bet you didn't know you'd be serving creamed bananas to one year olds, huh?
shane		Hey -- I out rank you, you know.
principal claire		Not here, you don't. You're on dry land, lieutenant.  Well, not so dry where you're sitting, I guess.
shane		Oh, man...
principal claire		Don't take this personally -- but you're pretty good at this. Seriously, I'm impressed. A whole day, and all three Plummer's stayed out of trouble. That's... unusual.
zoe		Kick his butt, Todd!
rincipal claire		Who started this?
murney		He did. 
principal claire		Todd started a fight with five students at once?
murney		The kid's mixed up. Look at him.
principal claire		If I catch anyone on the team fighting again, next week's tournament is off. I don't care who starts it.
murney		You heard the lady. Any more fighting and there'll be no more wrestling. Personally I think that's a little harsh. Boys'll be boys.  `Scept for Plummer here.
shane		... Nice moves, man.
murney		Pretty slick, Frogman -- I'm a black belt myself. S'why they asked me to coach the wrestling team.
shane		... Sorry, sir. I'm on duty.
murney		Oh, yeah. That's right. I forgot you had to baby-sit. Maybe some other time then.
principal claire		... Don't even think it, Murney. He'd kill you so fast, I wouldn't even have time to get my camera.
principal claire		Another day, another dollar twenty, minus taxes... aren't you gonna change him?
shane		I'd love to, for one who'll eat, and not cry.
principal claire		That's not what I mean, Lt.
shane		Oh -- change him. Roger that. Uh...
principal claire		Sirnosir. Not my job.
shane		But...
principal claire		Instructions are right on the box. Bathroom's down the hall. Have fun.
shane		Emergency!
lulu		See! My nanny can kick your nanny's butt.
shane		Thanks.
construction worker		What hell do you think you're doing?
shane		Tell me where the kids are and I'll let you all live!
construction worker		Buddy, you're about to get a beat down.
shane		Red 1?   Red 2?
cute cop		14 year old Male, weird hair. 16 year old female. Ditto.  Cancel that a.p.b..
claire		Shane are you okay?
shane		 Just fine, thank you.
claire		I should probably get going then. If you need anymore help... Call.
brownie		oo hoo! Hubba hubba!
shane		Who are those people?
lulu		It's my troop, it's Monday. Monday, Wednesday and Saturday are troop nights.
lulu		I can't. Everybody's parents go out on troop nights. They won't be home `til ten. Mom's our den mother.
shane		Selling cookies isn't imperative to my mission.
lulu		We have to. If we don't sell enough cookies, we can't go the Jamboree, and if we can't go to the Jamboree.  Come on, Shane. You gotta help me out. They already think I'm a loser. And it's not like I have any other friends, cause mom never lets me out of her sight...
shane		Alright, ladies. Here's how it's gonna be. Tonight, I'm gonna be your den -- commander. That means if you want to live to see tomorrow, do as I say. DO WE UNDERSTAND EACH OTHER?
brownie		Den Mother? ... I'm scared of you.
shane		Good. Now -- wait here.
zoe		... yeah, he's a total psycho. I think mom found him from one of those Tough Love boot camps or something...
zoe		This is totally cruel and unusual! You can't do this -- we could run out of air!
zoe		.. he's got us on lock-down, it's like Oz or something. No, not munchkin Oz -- HBO Oz.  Hm... I dunno if that's a good idea, Scott...
shane		I gotta get supplies. I can see you through the window, but if anything happens...
lulu		 I know.
brownie		Oh no... they're back.
shane		Where are my troops?
shane		What happened?  Well?
lulu		Those boys over there broke our cookies.
shane		Well then -- I'm afraid I have to eliminate them. If I don't come back -- avenge my death.
brownies		No!
shane		This is not a toy. I'm here to protect you. Not cookies. Get in the car, we're going home.
brownie		You can't take us home yet, you're supposed to take us to dinner.
shane		Where?
manager		Welcome to Chuck E. Cheese!
shane		I wish I were in Chechnya.
manager		Anything elsh I can do for you?
shane		In a big glass    This much ice... this much cyanide.
manager		How `bout a re-fill on that pischer of Mischer Pibb?
shane		What?
manager		 Pischer of Mischer Pibb?   Mischer Pibb?
lulu		Let's fight!
shane		I'm watching your brother...
lulu		I pressed two player. I thought you liked combat. Unless you're scared.
shane		That's not fair. Nobody can jump thirty feet.
lulu		The Hulk can.
shane		That wasn't a documentary.
lulu		You wanna switch?
shane		 You don't have a baby on your chest...
lulu		You're not even trying...
shane		I AM TOO TRYING.
lulu		Too slow... come on -- take a shot... oops too slow... swing and a miss...
zoe		Mom -- stop worrying.
zoe		Seriously, everything's cool. The guy's just a control freak.
julie		It's only a few more days. I hate leaving you, but you know I have to do this. I love you.
zoe		I know. Don't worry, we're okay. Tonight I'm just doing homework -- in my cell.
zoe		Dude, this is outta hand. Who are all these people?
scott		Jus' ma peeps. And the folks who read my BLOG.
zoe		Dude, not cool...
shane		Move, move, move! Go go!
manager		I figured you'd come back for him -- they almost always do.
shane		Inexcusable, to leave a man behind like that...
manager		Relax, we once found a kid in the ball pool when we opened in the morning --
lulu		Should we send someone in after him?
shane		Clear out! GO GO GO!
shane		Party's over.
shane		No one leaves until this house is spotless! I want to be able to eat off the floor! The latrine! Hell, I wanna be able to eat in the kitchen!!
scott		This is officially the worst party ever.
zoe		It was YOUR idea! I don't even know most of these losers.
zoe		... Thanks a lot, Rambo. My friends will never come here again.
shane		Those people aren't your friends. They show no respect for you or your house. Because you have no respect for yourself.
zoe		I do too respect myself.
shane		You got barf on your tank top.  Company, downstairs!
zoe		You're not my dad!
shane		You're right, Red 1. I'm not the man for this job.
lulu		Shane --!
shane		In all my years I have never been treated with such disrespect. Not even from the enemy. Don't worry, as soon as your mom comes back, I'm gone.
zoe		 It's Scott...
shane		Puberty... talking doesn't do any good. Go to your rooms.
ninja		GHOST -- hand it over!
shane		Okay -- who wants some?
furbies		Ow! Ow!
shane		Kids.   It's safe. You can open up.
lulu		Please don't leave us Shane.
shane		I'm not going anywhere.
zoe		I'm sorry for giving you a hard time.
shane		Shhh... It's okay.
todd		Who were they? What did they want...?
shane		They're looking for a program, that your father invented.
zoe		So Mom's not paranoid? There really are people out to get us.
shane		They're not after you. They want this. But nothing's gonna happen to you, as long as I'm here. And I'm not going anywhere.
shane		C'mon c'mon c'mon...
zoe		Hey mom we're fine, absolutely nothing happened you should worry about. Nope.
shane		Mrs. Plummer... two men tried to get into the house tonight.
julie		Oh my god!
shane		No - it's okay. They're gone, everyone's fine. They were looking for GHOST, but they didn't find it. You have any luck?
julie		Well, yes and no. We found something in the box... But we're not sure what it is. Bill thinks it's part of the GHOST. It looks like some kind of "key". We just don't know what its for.
shane		 ...So soon? We were just starting to have fun. Don't worry -- we'll be just fine.
shane		I gotta warn you guys: From now on, I'm gonna be sticking even closer.
second graders		Ooooooooh! 
shane		Don't worry. So, she wrecked a driver's Ed. car -- she'll pay for the damage...
murney		That? Lady drivers, what do you expect. No, it's not that -- it's the boy...
shane		Red two? I mean Todd?
principal claire		Ordinarily I would wait for his mother to return... but -- I'm a bit concerned, and I'm not sure what to do...
shane		Has he been skipping class?
principal claire		Well -- yes. He does always miss sixth period. But this...
murney		This is how he showed up to practice. And that's not all. I was doing a little re- con in his locker... and I found this:
shane		He's not a NAZI.
principal claire		It's certainly not normal.  See if you can talk to the boy.   Find out what's going on.
murney		hope you won't go light on him -- that whole family's no good, if you ask me.
shane		I'll talk to him.
murney		You're a good man, Shane. Bet you're a hell of a fighter on the mats, huh?  Maybe sometime we oughta strap up, we'll give these boys a treat.
shane		Another time, maybe...
murney		It's a date then. I'll show you a couple moves. I promise I won't hurt you.
shane		Did you kick me in the back? Is there a footprint on my jacket?
murney		Come on Frogman! Don't be a sissy!
shane		Wait Todd, I want to talk to you...
shane		Smart kid.
man		Alright. All my Nazis are finally here. Okay, I want all of you at attention.
director		Okeydokey. Starting from where we left off Gimme Rolf and Liesl -- let's give You are Sixteen a run up der flagpole...
todd		You wait little girl, on an empty stage/for fate to turn the light on/your life little girl, is an empty page/that men will want to write on...
todd		You are sixteen, going on seventeen...
director		Baby Jesus, have I done some unspeakable evil that I deserve to be saddled with the world's worst production of Sound of Music?  We open in a week. The set's not finished... The cast is a bunch of clumsy goats -- every kick ball change would make Bob Fosse dig himself out of the earth, so he could have a heart attack again.
todd		I'm sorry... I'll get it right.
director		None of you will ever get it right! Which is why, I quit.
liesl		You gonna fix him?
shane		No. My hands are freezing.
todd		I'm not going to quit. I hate wresting...
shane		AT EASE.  Would you listen, just once? Look, I don't know a hell of a lot about this kinda stuff, but... You're good. A lot to learn, but with hard work, discipline -- you could make a go of this.
todd		... but what about Murney?
shane		That guy's an idiot.
todd		You don't seem like the musical type.
shane		Come on. Julie Andrews was hot.
todd		What if... girls'll think I'm... weird or something?
shane		You know what girls think is weird? Wrestling. Men in leotards pinning each other to the floor? I've never understood that. Chicks dig guys who can dance.
todd		Doesn't matter now anyway... show's off... it's over.
shane		COMPANY -- CENTER STAGE!
liesl		We don't have a director...
shane		No director? I have directed rescue missions in Afghanistan! I've directed numerous snatch and grabs in countries who's names you are not allowed to know. I have choreographed multi-pronged amphibious landings and stealth air attacks!  Do you think I have the stomach to whip this production into shape, or not?
todd		Yes.
shane		YES WHAT?
shane		... What's up?
zoe		 Nothing... It's stupid... Scott. I called him in his room, another girl picked up the phone. I know it's no big deal. I don't know why I let it get to me.
shane		I don't see what you see in this guy.
zoe		It's just nice to think someone's thinking about you, you know? S SHANE  It won't happen again.
zoe		... No wait! ...What are you gonna do? You're not gonna hurt him are you? Promise you won't touch him.
shane		Okay. I promise. I won't touch him.
ulu		Tell me a story.
shane		Okay. Let's see. Once there was a family of Elves. 
68.		SHANE One day, the little Elf family -- Uh. Went into the magic forest. To find a secret gnome... facility, where gnomes where turning mushrooms into... Uranium. The elves had to go in and take it out.
ulu		Why?
shane		They were ordered to. By the Elf Unit commander at Elf station bravo. So -- they waited for cloud cover, and they came in from the north...
odd		You have to do the Panda Dance... or he won't stop.
shane		Oh, c'mon... I can't remember that thing.
todd		I'll write it down for you...
shane		When you're down and low, lower than the floor. And you ain't got a chance. Don't make a move `til you're in the groove, and do the Panda Dance...
todd		You have to do the dance. Like dad used to do. He made it up for him.
shane		What are you looking at?
shane		Today you drive.
zoe		But -- I can't even pass driver's Ed.
shane		Exactly.
zoe		Have you given a driving lesson before?
shane		N ot in a car, no... but it's a lot like a Bradley Assault Vehicle.
todd		Especially when Zoe's driving.
shane		Do you know what causes most accidents? ttention span. The most important thing is that you keep an absolute focus on...
zoe		What?!?
shane		No. Keep going. I trust you.
shane		Good. Next lesson, 1500 hours.
zoe		Ha ha ha. Very funny. T hey head into the school.   Shane spots something.
shane		I know 437 ways to hurt a man without touching him. Broken promises lead to broken legs. Do we understand each other?
rincipal claire		CHILDREN... STOP RUNNING!!
shane		Wow.   I'm glad I never had you for a CO.
principal claire		 I've noticed improvement in your troops lately, too. Noon and none of them have been called to my office. It's a miracle. S he sits beside him, and offers him a milk.
shane		Thanks.
principal claire		This old thing? Well, you never know who you're going to run into.
murney		I've had it. I just caught this boy dancing under the bleachers like some kind of Bavarian fruitcake.
todd		Hey. I'm right here. Talk. E veryone is shocked that Todd talked back. A hushed whisper goes through the cafeteria. Murney turns around.
murney		You got something to say? Boy?
todd		Yeah. Yeah I do. I quit, Murney.
murney		Winners never quit, boy. What're you so scared of, Freak?
todd		I am not scared. I... I want to sing.
murney		A musical? You're blowing off wrestling for a musical?  This is what happens when there's no man in the house.
todd		There is a man in my house -- me.  Let's get one thing clear. I'm not quitting cause I hate wresting. I'm quitting because you're a bad coach. You suck. The whole team wants to quit. I'm the only one with the guts to do it. M urney looks over at the Team. They look to the ground sheepishly, Todd's telling the truth. Murney looks around, humiliated, furious --
urney		So -- you're a tough guy now?
shane		You said you wanted to wrestle. You win. Let's do it.
murney		After school. The Gym. Your ass is mine.
shane		I'll be sure to lock up when I'm through.
todd		Pinned!
shane		Dislocated nerve, that's all. He'll be fine in  two months.
todd		That was awesome.
shane		 Let's go, Todd. I got my troops waiting.
shane		If you're ever lost in the woods, the first thing you have to do is find a source of drinking water! And make sure it's potable. If you're not sure, boil it for thirty minutes!
lulu		We're Brownies.
shane		No brownies   either. A lot of roots are edible. So    is some tree bark. When I HALO'd into   Rwanda, I lived off the underground   fern stem for three weeks!
brownie		He's eating Roly-Polies!
shane		 Wots of pwotien!
odd		... your life little girl, is an empty page/that men will want to write on... T odd tries the spinning kick, but blows it, landing hard. Shane blows a WHISTLE.
shane		Why don't we just let the Nazis win tonight -- huh? Now. From the top -- think of yourself as a gazelle prancing over the plains. Graceful.
shane		Don't touch that dial sleep for a while -- HEAAAY! And say good night, Peter Panda.
peter		 Good night, daddy.
shane		I'm not your daddy, Peter. But sweet dreams.
lulu		Go away and we won't hurt you.
lulu		Uh oh. You're gonna have to pay for that.
lulu		From now on, you do things our way -- no highway option!
brownies		I don't care what has been said, Brownies rock! Full speed ahead! Give me guff, I'm in your face! Brownies rule the human race!
shane		Sound off!
brownies		One two! Three four! One TWO THREE FOUR!
todd		West Side Story auditions in two weeks...
shane		It's all in the wrist...
zoe		Don't worry.    I'm not gonna jump.
shane		What's wrong... Scott?
zoe		o. Scott's fine. I don't know what you did, but he's really straightened up. Flowers, phone calls. ...I've never been in love like this before.
shane		How long you been together?
zoe		A month...
shane		That's longer than any relationship I've ever had.
zoe		You're okay, Shane. I'm not used to anyone giving me the benefit of the doubt. My teachers don't trust me. Mom doesn't. My dad didn't care about us, he was never here...
shane		 Hey. Your father cared about you very deeply. He told me you were the greatest things in his life. That what's bothering you? Cause -- we can talk about it, if you want.
zoe		I miss him so much...
shane		This was my dad's. He was the only family I ever had. Mom left when I was little, cause dad was always gone. Two years in... an indisclosable locale. Another six in... Another indisclosable locale. I didn't really have a home, so I went to military school -- then one day my mom got the letter. No more dad.
zoe		That's horrible, Shane.
shane		The hardest part was living without any details...why? How? Where? I always wondered if he thought about me.
oe		Me too.   So how did you get through it?
shane		You could say I just shut down my emotions. I turned off all feelings and dedicated myself to becoming the perfect soldier.
oe		I never even got to say good bye.
julie		The red tape is cleared up, we're on the first plane in the morning.
zoe		Mommy's coming home! Mommy's coming home!
todd		When?
zoe		Tomorrow morning!
peter		Mama!
shane		Just another assignment. No reason for personal attachments.
83.		SHANE I guess you've got it good.    Kids to play with. Three squares a day.
shane		What happened, Gary?
shane		Sir! Excellent news. I think I found GHOST.
bill		... Do you have it?
shane		No. It's in a steel vault. I've been trying all night, can't crack it, sir.
ill		 Good! Good work. Okay, don't do anything further. We'll be there shortly -- don't do anything `til I get there.
shane		One things for sure. After we turn this in to my CO, whoever's been bothering you guys won't be bothering you anymore.
lulu		But, Shane -- does that mean you'll have to go?
shane		You guys better get ready.    Your mom should be home soon.
julie		I had a fight with Zoe when I left, so they probably trashed the place...
bill		What's wrong?
kids voices		 ... with songs they have sung, for a thousand years...
zoe		Welcome home, mom.
bill		 Good job, Lieutenant.
ill		I'm really proud of you, Shane. I'm giving you your choice of assignment, anywhere you want. You just name it.
shane		That's kind of you, Sir... pause) But I'll have to think about it.
bill		I should hope not.
shane		But being with these kids has made me feel like there's more to life than taking out your enemy. And I think I want to explore that some more.
man's voice		PUT YOUR HANDS UP!!
shane		Mr. and Mrs. Chun?     They checked out-
korean man		H ands up!
shane		NOW!
korean man		 You promised us GHOST months ago!
bill		I'm sorry, Mr. Chun. There were delays...
bill		He won't be baby-sitting you anymore.
julie		I trusted you. Charles trusted you. So did the Department of Defense.
ill		North Korea pays better.  Keep an eye on them. You -- with me.
bill		You bring your stethoscope?
ill		Charles never made things easy.
oe		Now Peter!
lulu		Hi ya!
julie		AGGGH!
bill		Relax -- I've got the keys, they're not going anywhere...
oe		Omigod!   What are we doing??!
todd		Let's look for a cop!
bill		How does it work?
julie		How does what work?
bill		Don't play dumb. It's getting old. I want to know how to get through the booby traps. What's the code?
julie		I don't know any code -- Charles didn't tell me about the room...
bill		If I knew Charles had hidden it so well, I wouldn't have killed him so soon. Don't make me kill you too.
ill		... Do it.
julie		NO!
bill		Change of plan. Bring them back unharmed.
zoe		What's taking you?
todd		Don't wait for me!
peter		Wheee!
shane		Anybody got any perfume?          Hair spray... breath freshener...
ill		You think this is a game?! S SHANE But... That was the code! I swear! I saw Plummer use it on his briefcase.
bill		Code or no code, go get it -- now.
julie		 You can't make him do this -- He doesn't have a chance.
shane		 Haven't got a chance.
julie		QUICK LIKE A TURTLE LIE ON YOUR BACK!
lulu		Look out Zoe! Rollers!
cute cop		I'd say you could lose your license -- but you haven't got one!
zoe		People are trying to kill us. They have my mom, and our bodyguard -- you have to follow me!
cute cop		Just pull over!
zoe		Fine. Don't follow me!
murney		That Baloney Bandit struck again. I accept full responsibility. My intelligence proved to be faulty, but if I had more resources...
shane		Wriggle like a snake `til you can't no more. Then better jump quick, like there ain't no floor.
bill		Thank you, Shane. You were always my best man. I knew you'd figure it out.
shane		I was devoted to you, sir. And you betrayed all of that. All that we stand for.
bill		I'll take that as a "no."
shane		There will be no mercy.
bill		None requested.
shane		You're a... terrible neighbor.
julie		Shane!   Watch out!
bill		Any last words?
shane		... Say, good night, Peter Panda!
todd		Zoe! You're going too fast!! You're not gonna have enough time to stop-
zoe		Hey, I'M the one in Driver's Ed!    I think I know what I'm doing!!
shane		... GHOST.
julie		Thank you Shane. It's finally over. Now we can go back to our peaceful...
shane		Whoa, WHOA!    What are you doing to these kids??
cute cop		FREEZE. HANDS WHERE I CAN SEE THEM.
zoe		But, officer...
cute cop		I said FREEZE. Zoe, you're in a lot of trouble... Reckless endangerment! Driving without a license. Numerous, uh... trafficS violations --
shane		 These kids are heroes. They just aided in exposing a high-level espionage ring. I suggest you call the FBI. Now.
cute cop		You expect me to believe any of that?
principal claire		Ya!!
cop		I think I'll call the FBI.
shane		Just doing my job.
lulu		Do you have to wear that thing in your ear all the time?
fbi agent		Yes.
lulu		Does it itch?
fbi agent		Yes...
zoe		If you're reading this, then Julie found the key. Julie, Tyler, Peter, Zoe, Todd, Lulu -- I want to say: I love you more than anything. I always have.
principal claire		So. What happens now? You'll be stationed somewhere else, right? I guess there's no more reason for you to stick around here.
shane		Well. I'm kinda, re-conning the situation, here... And to tell the truth. I don't see anything but reasons to stay. P RINCIPAL CLAIRE So... What's the next move?
shane		... I don't know. I'm on dry land. You're the superior office. You tell me.
principal claire		Well. Summer's almost here. What if you and me did a little amphibious recon mission. On, say -- Maui?
shane		Sir yes sir.
lulu		This is it. Your work here is through. Guess you have to go now...
shane		Ah, come here you.
zoe		But...
shane		He would've wanted me to give it to someone I care about. Like he did. Thank you. For everything. P ETER Love you, Shane.
shane		Your dad would be so proud.
lulu		Shane, we're never gonna see you again!
shane		What are you talking about?      I'm gonna see you Friday night.
julie		What's Friday night?
shane		Tonight is the night we trained for, and failure is not an option! No detail is too small! We are the BEST! Remember your lines, hit your marks, and stay in character! I expect perfection! 
106.		SHANE Now let's break a leg.
****Dialogues from script :Pandorum.txt****

deep space		 A darkness like no other, a silence that is unsettling. Sharp pinholes of light show a sea of distant stars across the void of outer space. Our own motion is only realized as an enormous object slowly moves towards us, taking shape. A SPACE SHIP of unimaginable size, a tubular freighter easily ten times larger then any aircraft carrier. At first glance it appears lifeless and adrift, but slowly the small glow of cockpit windows come into view as we move closer. Moonlight cuts across the hull, displaying the name; EDEN.  BOWER 
bower		Burns are red! Bruises... blue- His voice echoes into the dark, alone in a cavernous room as he pauses, struggling for orientation. He gets to his feet, muscles twitching. His short-cropped hair is... pure white.
bower		Bower. He opens the locker to see an assortment of personalized belongings, uniform and gear, none of it seeming familiar. He uses a towel to wipe off the layer of sweat and oily substance coating his body, pausing to see an identification tattoo on his forearm that reads: FLT>>005015. He pulls on a black flight suit, emblems and military markings of rank on the chest. He pulls on shoes and a tool belt with a high powered pen-lamp. On the inside of the locker is a emergency manual card with block figures displaying breathing and stretching exercises, labelled; Hyper-Sleep Disorientation Recovery Procedures.
push in		There is a conflict in his eyes, memories trying to return.
flash cut		An image FLASHES past, EVALON smiling as BOWER kneels next to her, gripping her hands. BOWER'S gaze remains hollow, frown deepening as he sips the cup and... winces with disgust.
bower		Faa-uck! Distant THUMPS. He pans the pen-lamp across the ceiling and toward the sounds... PAYTON'S sleep chamber. THUMP, THUMP, THUMP: Muffled and desperate. CRACK! Bower jumps back as someone kicks their way out from inside, the hatch bursting open. Out climbs... PAYTON, a man in his forties, but the rugged physique of a man half his age, lean and agile. His military-style hair cut is also pure white. Gasping for breath, he hits the floor as BOWER tries to help him. PAYTON jerks with shock.
payton		Who are you?
bower		Bower. Corporal... Bower, sir. I'm the-
bower		That's right. You're waking from
payton		Corporal?
bower		Yes, sir. This is disorientation from-
payton		corporal... Bower.
bower		Yes. That's right, I'm-
payton		Wanna get that fucking light out of my eyes, pal?
bower		Sorry... sir. PAYTON rubs his face with a frown.
payton		Where... are we?
bower		We're aboard the Elysium. From what I've
bower		I don't... really know. There's no power in the com and I can't even-
payton		Where's the... rest of the crew? It's our shift? Our rotation-
bower		I believe so.
payton		Aren't they suppose to be here... to wake us?
bower		Sir... I don't know where anyone is. PAYTON takes breaths, trying to regain his senses, glancing around at their darkened surroundings.
payton		Hit the lights, will ya?
bower		Ah... we're having some power problems-
payton		Who woke you up?
bower		Umm, not sure. It had to have been the flight computer. There's no one here...  .except us.
payton		Cold in here. BOWER grabs him a towel and water container, turning back to see PAYTON doesn't waste any time, stretching his limbs.
bower		There's no power coming off the main grid. Can't fire any of the...  Dynos. Can't even open the doors. PAYTON glances to the other empty sleep-chamber with a frown.
payton		Bower .
bower		Yeah?
payton		Until I have two coffees you're just gonna have to repeat all this shit, so let's just idle here for a bit.
bower		Sorry. I just- Just glad to see you awake. i was... a little concerned. I didn't know what to do if- PAYTON gets to his feet, stumbling. BOWER catches him under the arm as they stagger into the wall.
payton		Coffee?
bower		I'm on it.
payton		Good man. BOWER helps him to the locker room as LIGHTS FLICKER past.
bower		This is you, sir.
payton		How do you know that?
bower		1 It's... the name on your sleep pod, sir. PAYTON opens the door to see his belongings inside, a photo of WIFE  inside the door. He stares at it with utter confusion. BOWER takes this in, looking to the memory recovery card inside the locker.
payton		Very reassuring. I guess when you gamma the brain into extended REM, sometimes it can take a while to get it back. PAYTON pulls on his flight uniform and squeezes his feet into his shoes. BOWER notices the identification tattoo on his forearm, partially obscured from view; FLT>>00... . Unlike his own, PAYTON'S tattoo is faded with age.
bower		I've been awake for at least an hour and I still can't remember my... anything.
payton		Listen, the last time I crawled out of a hyper bunk, it took me... quite a while to get it all back. BOWER holds his frown as PAYTON squeezes his finger into a wedding ring.
bower		What was... your last flight, sir?
bower		Sir? I know this is going to sound strange, but do you even know where we're going? I can remember the training, but... not the mission. Know the procedures, not the... destination.
payton		I figured you'd tell me.
bower		Didn't even know the ship's name until I saw it-on the console. For all I know this was another damn training exercise-
payton		Trust me, it's not. if this is a simulation... PAYTON notices both of their reflections off the mirrored panel inside the locker... revealing their WHITE HAIR.
bower		None of the activators are working.
payton		Figures. We can ride two hundred thousand tons of space freighter across the galaxy without a dent in the hood, but can't get one good cup of coffee. PAYTON flips a few switches with no result of power.
bower		Without the mainframe, we can't connect. I don't know how we'll ever be able to- PAYTON is in his element at the control desk, flipping open an emergency auxiliary-power panel. He snaps open a handle and he forcefully gives it several rotations with a MOAN of whirling magnetos. The hand-crank allows a dim glow of electricity to the light panels.
payton		Payton on the con. Respond? This is Lt. Payton of flight Team...? Shit-
bower		Five.
payton		Five? How do you know that? BOWER pulls up his sleeve, exposing his tattoo ID. PAYTON nods, "good thinking."
bower		Team Four suppose to be here for the shift rotation. Where could they be?
payton		Fucking teamsters. Maybe they couldn't get to us. BOWER eyes the third empty sleep-chamber.
bower		Where could he have gone? PAYTON gazes off blankly. A RUMBLE of FLICKERING LIGHTS pass and the computer screens slowly fade, going black.
payton		The power systems must be free-floating off blown circuits or something. The over-ride grid won't even lock in.
bower		Whatta ya think?
payton		I think we need to find a deck of cards and call the union. Distant THUMPS are heard overhead and they freeze... watching the ceiling with uncertainty.
bower		Somebody... is up there.
payton		Hmm. Ventilation... maybe. Systems keep re-booting after each surge. That could be anything. THUMPS fade as the ship eerily MOANS and CREAKS.
bower		Jesus. Somebody was trying to get out.
payton		Ironic. I think it was built to protect us.
bower		 Well, he got out... some how. A RUMBLE approaches... another SHUDDER that FLICKERS the lights. They watch the ceiling as BOWER counts in his head as it fades.
payton		What?
bower		It's not circuitry. Reactor timing is off-set in the core. Seems sporadic, but it's not. Each revolution decreasing before starting over from the beginning.
payton		How the hell do you know that?
bower		I dunno. I can't remember my own- but I know everything there is to know about that damn reactor.
payton		The training stuck.
bower		And I know that... Another SHUDDER approaches.
payton		Now if we only had a monkey and a rope. PAYTON climbs down as BOWER rotates his jaw with eagerness.
bower		Our 2nd Lieutenant must have gone this way. Don't you think?
payton		Must have.
bower		It's the only way out.
payton		I think we're better off... waiting here-
bower		For what? If the mainframe is off-line-
payton		We're not going to be able to get to the bridge or even be able to open that door from the other side-
bower		But we can at least find out what's
payton		Do you remember just how big this ship is, kid? We don't know where that will come out, if at all-
bower		But, we can at least try to-
bower		Can't do... Sir?
payton		Listen, I have to take a handful of Doxitol just to get in the hyper-bunk.
bower		You're... claustrophobic?
payton		I can take a lot, that's not one of 'em.
bower		You can guide me... over two-way. PAYTON eyes him over with reluctance.
payton		Just in case...  .there's mail you need to open quickly. BOWER tucks it into a zipper pocket and his photograph falls out. PAYTON watches as he tucks it back in and zips up.
bower		Yeah... I think so.
payton		Must be newlyweds. How can you forget something like that?
bower		What do-you remember? Anything yet?
payton		Some pieces.
bower		And you're the cranky old bastard who made me take the aisle.
payton		Give it some more time, pal.
bower		Nothing yet. Christ, not a single vent opening or- Nothing. How about on your end?
payton		Power surges keep coming across in longer increments, just like you said.
bower		Hey? BOWER quickly pushes himself forward reaching an intersection in the shaft.
bower		A whole lot of the same... nothing.
bower		Don't say that. BOWER lowers his head, breathing heavily.
bower		 I'll be damned. BOWER collects himself, a tightened jaw of determination.
push in		As he stares at the emblem, it seems memories are returning, a frown hardening on his face. Distant THUMPS snap him from his trance and he pans his flashlight towards the wall.
bower		I dunno. I dunno if I can- I can't tell if I'm going in circles or- There's nothing to- Can't breath-
payton		Easy, pal. Breath easy. Listen to me- BOWER squirms, pushing outward against the walls of the shaft with an increasing panic.
bower		I just want... to stand up for God's sakes! Can't breath-
bower		Back!? Are you kidding- I can't turn around! I can't even- Do you know how far I've gone!?
bower		I just want OUT of this FUCKING THING!
payton		Bower? BOWER!? Stop it. Stop it! Just listen to me. Put it out of your head. Stop moving and breath. Listen to
payton		Put your mind somewhere else-
payton		Well... this may not be the best time to tell you, but I got the door open.
bower		WHAT!? Are you fucking kidding me!?
bower		What's that?
bower		Dream like that, sounds like you've got some... guilt issues.
bower		Two years?
bower		You said two years. You think we've been asleep for two years?
bower		Why would I-leave her? I can't even remember saying good-bye. Why would I?
payton		Well, you aren't here on default. This was a select pick. This flight was... different.
payton		We're not just doing speed laps on the belt. This was something... special.
close up		PAYTON gently rubs his hand across the emblem carved in the steel, brushing away the layer of dust as his finger tips TREMBLE. He pauses with a frown as a SHUDDER approaches...
bower		Someone's been... BOWER notices the droplets of sweat dripping off his chin are rolling forward across the shaft floor with a frown.
payton		What's wrong?
bower		I'm... I'm at an angle! Shit!
bower		Aaaaeirrrgh!
payton		Bower!? What happened? Bower!? All he can hear is the muffled, panicked struggle. The RUMBLE of a power surge approaches.
payton		Bower...!? Through the static comes a HOWL of victory.
bower		I'm... out! I'm- PAYTON breathes a heavy sigh of relief.
payton		Jesus, don't scare me like that! Where are you?
bower		I'm- I'm inside a boot locker!
bower		I'm inside a God damn- He shoves outward and the door SNAPS open. He falls out, flips through the air and SLAMS to the floor, an IMPACT on the radio sends...
payton		Bower...? You alright? BOWER!?
bower		Make that an overhead compartment. You with me, Payton? I got out. Hear me? He checks the transmitter, crackling with static.
payton		Bower? Do you hear me? Bower...? Nothing but STATIC.
payton		Bower? You there?
nadia		Keine Bewegung!
bower		What-!? He tries to look up and... CRACK! Instant swelling over his eye from a hit. She kicks the envelope opener away.
nadia		Don't you move MOTHER FUCKER! She quickly pats him down, stealing tools. All he can see is her bare feet, blackened from oil. He frowns to see her toe- nails painted with bright pink polish. NADIA, a torn jump suit, snarled hair hiding her face, skin smeared with oil. A beautiful woman underneath an apocalyptic smear of grunge. Her hair is pure white, high- lighted with smears of oil.
bower		Wait- I'm part of the crew! I'm-
bower		I won't! Please! Just listen- I'm not-
nadia		Take them off!
bower		What!?
nadia		SHOES! I'll gut your ass-
bower		Alright, alright! Take it easy! He begins to remove his shoes and the radio on his belt suddenly CRACKLES with activity.
bower		Stop! Stop it! Listen to me! Hold it! she attacks and he frantically throws dishes and chairs to fend her off. She throws the blade, the blunt end deflecting off his forearm.
bower pov		The only clear view is off an overturned bowl that shows WEASEL'S face, oddly contorted in the rounded reflection. WEASEL is headed directly for BOWER until.., a HISS from HEFLIN calls him back. WEASEL takes one last look before turning back, the torch fades from view, taking us into black. We hear... BOWER'S breath, heightened gasps of fear as he begins to crawl away.
bower		But, why would she try to kill me!? She was going to slit my throat! And why would they look like that?
bower		You should have seen these guys. They were... a very fucked up looking gang. Why the hell would they be-- Payton, they were hunting. BOWER gives himself a shiver as he fearfully checks over his shoulder, eyes shifting with fear.
bower		They sure-as-shit weren't a welcoming party from the Promenade deck! These guys were... looking to do some damage.
bower		We've got to try to contact the bridge.
bower		You're not!? We're not the only ones awake. Team Four wouldn't go back to sleep without waking us for rotation. Maybe they're on the main deck?
payton		If they're in there... why haven't they thrown the security hammer into lock down? Seal and freeze it until the emergency units wake?
bower		Maybe they can't. With the systems kicking on and off- Maybe they're flying blind, with no control of the LFS? PAYTON eyes the scattered tools across the floor and the ripped open ventilation shaft.
payton		Either way we can't assume help will be coming. On-board or off. Out here, there is no rescue. There is no turning around. This thing wasn't even built... .to return. He pauses off the involuntary memory relapse, looking to the I computer screens, taking in the thought.
bower		What are you talking about? PAYTON glances across the control console, nodding with more memories returning.
payton		This is no regular transport. We're not out collecting data off the belt or hauling cargo... we are the cargo. It was a single launch trajectory for... That's as far as his memory allows, his words trailing off.
bower		.Tanis. Planetary processing and population. We're a settler's vessel.
flash image		Another place, another time, BOWER leans closer on a bed, watching EVALON sleep. There is a a deep love in his eyes.
payton		What?
bower		We didn't leave them behind. No one did. They're on this flight! Remember the recruitment.
bower		I've got to find her... before those fucking animals do! I've got to- BOWER ransacks the compartments, tossing aside items.
payton		Hold it, hold it! Think about this for a
bower		What's there to think about!? I remember! There was thousands of passengers that weren't part of the development team. Families that-
payton		No, listen to me! LISTEN! You know how big this ship is and there's no way of knowing exactly where- If you go on some wild goose chase to try to find her-
payton		And then we would be no closer to getting out of this situation with even less time to regain control of the ship. BOWER stews, wanting to retort, his mind is racing.
bower		But... how do we- I r PAYTON Where are you?
bower		 I dunno. Officer's quarters, somewhere above D-level, I think- I don't-
payton		I can guide you. Find out where you are. Hatch marker. Over the door. His flashlight finds one of the hatch doors and he climbs up the slanted wall to read the marker.
payton		Take it. Climbing up the angled furnishings, he searches for any available weapon. He notices a mantel that displays several antique astrological and navigation devices. He spots an antique pistol. He breaks the glass, grabbing the gun, but it crumbles under his grip, falling to pieces. He sighs, but pauses to see... because the furniture is angled, his light spots a hiding spot underneath the desk. He pulls out a silver flask, bone dry. He reaches further, pulling out an unusually shaped weapon, much like a sawed-off shotgun with rounded edges. He snaps open the hand-crank I lever and gives a forceful whirl. A slow MOAN of magnetos causes the weapon's lights to dimly come to life.
angle on		In the foreground, there is a small fish tank, completely dry with a tiny fish skeleton laying on the bottom.
payton		Back toward the flight decks. Back to me.
payton		What chance have you got out there on your own? We'll figure out a way to breach the command bridge- A power surge sends a SHUDDER and FLICKERING LIGHTS past...
bower		Listen... if you can get me to the reactor bay. I can... reset the reactor's cycle.
payton		Okay. Hold up. I don't want you to go too far down that lane. Just catch your
payton		I don't know vet. Hold on- BOWER backs to the wall, nervously scanning the corridor, struggling for breath. In the background a SHADOW moves at the end of the corridor.
bower		 Eden.
payton		What did you say?
payton		Of all things to remember, why would you pick that?
bower		I'm just thinking, maybe there's something we haven't considered. Eden failed... because of ODS syndrome. The one officer who was suffering from Pandorum. Cabin Fever. Maybe there was something similar with one of the earlier
payton		No, no, no. You're talking about- Eden was lost because of a mechanical failure,
bower		That was the report... but don't you remember the story of the one flight officer... the real story? They say he went lunar, launched the entire ship, five thousand people killed with the flip of a switch. All from a bad case of cabin fever-?
payton		spook story, along with a million others. Eden was mechanical failure, not human error. A. glitch... that was remedied way before we ever-
bower		And why did they switch the rotation shifts from three years to two? And they eliminated the manual over-ride-
payton		They did that for obvious reasons, not because of Eden. BOWER pauses... within reach of the window only to realize it was an illusion. A glass compartment door left slightly ajar was reflecting a circular light panel, smeared with oil to give the illusion of craters. His shoulders drop in defeat.
bower		Well, at least we didn't wake up... floating away in a coffin.
payton		 Who says we didn't? BOWER climbs down, peering out into the corridor.
bower		Something happened to the other team? Maybe there was... Pandorum. BOWER looks to his own hand, cradling the weapon... his FINGERS gently TREMBLING. He makes a fist and shakes his hand, firmly grabbing the weapon.
angle on		A shadowed FIGURE steps into view, slowly following his path into darkness.
payt on		What's wrong?
bower		Have I done a circle or am I doubling back?
bower		I've seen this before. This- We follow his flashlight to reveal... a BODY tangled in a wire snare. It appears to be the same dead body he witnessed before, but as he steps closer, it's different. This body has ripped clothing and isn't gutted. It's... SHEPARD, a thin-framed man in a torn crew uniform, tangled in a wire snare wrapped tightly under his arm and around his neck.
bower		Stop it! Jesus, I'm not gonna- SHUT-UP!
bower		He's... team six. The unit that's suppose to follow us. He's-
shepard		Shepard, Thomas L. Team Six. Sector Eight. I think I'm the only one, sir. I knew it. I knew you'd be coming.
bower		Huh?
shepard		Where's the rest of your squad?
bower		Squad? My Lieutenant and I were the-
shepard		Where's the shuttle?
bower		Shuttle? What are you talking about? SHEPARD'S expression drops.
shepard		Aren't you the... retraction team? The
bower		No, no. Hold on. I'm from this crew. I'm from Team Five. SHEPARD'S face goes pale, eyes going hollow. His demeanor slowly begins to shift.
shepard		You... just woke up?
bower		six... maybe eight hours ago. I had to crawl all the way from the upper deck
shepard		So... you don't have a fucking clue to what's happened? Is that it?
bower		That's what we're trying to figure out! Tell me- what happened!?
i shepard		 You know as much as I do.
bower		I don't know anything.
shepard		You'll fit right in. i SHEPARD feels along the pipes until he finds one leaking oil. He vigorously begins to rub the oil onto his body.
bower		What are you doing?
shepard		Get the scent off.
bower		What ! ? SHEPARD rubs oil across his neck and then goes to check the corner, wrapping a strap around his fist to secure a screwdriver into his hand.
shepard		I can't help you. I'm sorry.
bower		Help.me? Wait a second-
shepard		They go off scent and sound as far as I can tell and they're a lot fucking stronger and faster they you'd think.
bower		They- Who the hell are they!?
shepard		I can't wait for you. BOWER is bewildered as SHEPARD poised like a sprinter, preparing to run.
bower		God dammit, WAIT! You're still an officer of this ship and at present time, your CO is ordering you to-
push in		Fear over comes BOWER.
bower		Payton...?
payton		Bower!? BOWER!? Answer me God Dammit! All that is heard is GARGLED STATIC and PANICKED BREATHING.
bower		They got him! They fucking ripped him apart! They're-
bower		Aaaargh! Footsteps are heard approaching overhead. On the floor below him are his weapon and flashlight. He stretches for the gun... too far from his reach. The flashlight is "on", illuminating the area. He pushes off the wall and reaches for it... fingers touching, but unable to grab it. The GLOW of torches grows in the loading shaft and BOWER pushes off, reaching for the flashlight. Unable to retrieve it, instead he pushes it... into the open loading shaft. It drops all the way to the bottom as...
angle on		HUNTERS step up to the edge of the shaft, looking down to see the flashlight fall from sight...
angle on		BOWER swings back, grabs the wall and freezes.
angle on		The HUNTERS hear the flashlight HIT the bottom of the shaft and then slowly double back. Torches fading.
angle on		The silhouettes of the HUNTERS on the ledge, several levels above, inspect the loose cable and after a HISS, they turn back, fading into the shadows. BOWER lays on his back, squirming in the tangled wire as the FIGURE hovers over him, spinning a bladed weapon in his hand.
bower		What...?
tanaka		Japanese- No Subtitles
bower		I don't understand. I- I don't speak- TANAKA jabs a finger into the emblems on BOWER'S uniform.
tanaka		Japanese - No Subtitles
bower		I'm sorry. I don't- Do you... speak English?
tanaka		Japanese- No Subtitles They share a nod and an awkward silence, BOWER still eyeing the razor sharp weapon in his hand and not wanting to move.
bower		Thanks. Thanks for... that. TANAKA is dead pan. BOWER flinches as TANAKA picks up the energy gun and then... flips it over, handing it back to him. BOWER cautiously accepts as he climbs to his feet.
tanaka		Japanese- No Subtitles
bower		I'm sorry. I don't...
tanaka		Japanese- No Subtitles
bower		I don't know what you- TANAKA jabs the emblem on his uniform and presents his own
tanaka		 Japanese - No Subtitles.
bower		You're with... agriculture!? Jesus... Listen, I'm not- TANAKA jabs the emblem on BOWER'S chest, taps his tattoo.
bower		Yes! I know! I'm with the flight crew! But, I don't know what's happened! I
taanaka		Shee-ip?
bower		Yes, I'm going to the reactor to try to-
tanaka		Ree-actoh?
bower		Right. It doesn't really matter- You should stay put. Or go back to your compartment sector- Wait for the security systems to engage. Okay? We're gonna take care of this problem. Dead pan.
bower		Yeah... well no sympathy here. She left me with a few sore spots too, pal. They both go to work, attempting to wedge the door open with pipes. BOWER looks back to see... NADIA. They back pedal with weapons in hand and NADIA is unaffected, watching them with a frown.
bower		Huh?
nadia		You're... part of the flight crew?
bower		Yeah. I'm... a corporal, I'm-
nadia		I didn't think there was any flight crew left. What's happened to us?
bower		That's what I'm trying to figure out. Malfunction of some sort-
nadia		Gee, you think? Where are you going?
bower		I'm heading for the reactor bay.
nadia		You just wake up?
bower		Just joining the program already in progress, yeah. She eyes him over and TANAKA keeps the pipe raised.
nadia		You'll never make it.
bower		Oh yeah? And why is that?
nadia		You're going the wrong direction. She grimaces and turns, heading back up the corridor. BOWER and TANAKA exchange a look. BOWER chases after her.
bower		Hey? Wait a second- HEY?
nadir		SSSSH! Keep it down-
bower		Hold on. Who are you?
nadia		Nobody.
bower		Wait- Can't join the team without a name.
nadia		Team? Why would I want to join?
bower		Because I need you to show me the way.
nadia		To the reactor? No thanks. Don't like going that fax down. No one ever comes back. She continues up the corridor and BOWER grabs her arm. She yanks away from his touch, squaring off, weapon in hand.
bower		Hold on. Please- There's not much time left before we lose everything onboard. You understand what I'm trying to-
i nadia		Do you know where this ship is headed?
bower		I'm working on it.
nadia		Can you fly it?
bower		Huh?
nadia		Can you fly it... if you have to?
nadir		I'll get you as close to it as I can. But, I won't wait for you.
tanaka		Japanese- No Subtitles.
bower		My thoughts exactly.
bolter		You know where you're going? This doesn't... "feel" right.
nadia		Don't know. There's no way to tell time in here. Two... maybe three months.
nadia		Quiet! You wanna get us killed!?
nadia		Longer. I wasn't the first one up.
high angle		Their flashlight beams continue across the enormous room like two small searchlights. She leads them down into a side shaft, their lights fade from view.
bower		Where are we going? What are we doing-
nadia		i Shush! We're waiting.
bower		Waiting for what-?
nadia		Quiet! At the far end of the corridor, a faint BLUISH GLOW grows stronger. Shadows are moving, growing closer.
nadia		Ssssht! The HISS and CACKLES of the HUNTERS grow closer and it seems they're shortly going to be cornered and done for until... A SHUDDER is felt, a FLICKER of LIGHTS approaching. She goes to a control panel, holds down a switch and presses her palm F across a scanner. As the power SURGE passes, the control panel activates, scanning her hand and the steel door activates with a MOAN of
bower		Who are they? What the hell are those things?
nadia		 Never quite felt like sticking around to find out. Running... is always the best option. Believe me.
bower		They're not- They can't be from this ship. They don't seem... human. Do you think something got on board or maybe I something... He turns to follow her and pauses to see... The BIO-VAULT. A large lab storage compartment that has been "lived-in" for a long time. A bed has been created from assorted chair cushions and there is a collection of scavenged items. NADIA adds to the items, dumping the belongings of her bag onto the floor. BOWER is in awe as he approaches an entire wall of glass test tubes, a maze of micro-biological containers, glimmering with condensation.
nadia		Ecological Development, Embryonic Charter. Livestock and wildlife re- population. The rows of glass tubes are labelled, ranging from mountain goats to octopi, everything a new world would need.
bower		You've been living in here? You're... protecting it?
nadir		It' seems to be the only living thing left on this ship worth protecting. Regardless of the situation, we still have a mission. We've only lost about thirty percent of the specimens, mostly reptilian class. Never was big into snakes anyway. BOWER doesn't share the attempt at humor, wandering towards a darkened digital screen on the wall, displaying a charted graph of the new planet, TANIS.
bower		 Tanis.
nadia		 You couldn't remember?
bower		No, I- I didn't remember just how far away it is... until now. This was a hundred and twenty-three year flight. NADIA begins to gather a few items shoving them into a bag. TANAKKA leans closer to the glass display with fascination, tapping the tubes to see movement inside.
nadia		It comes only in pieces. Even after a few months. I know everything about this vault and its systems... but I still can't remember where I grew up. Or my brother's name. Only pieces... And the training comes back first. For good reason, I guess. BOWER eyes the darkened computer terminals, portions of the consoles coated in algae.
bower		How could we have become like this... in only eight years? NADIA ponders the thought, rotating her jaw. She digs into her supplies and tosses him a small block of orange material.
nadia		Dehydrated meatloaf. House special. I save 'em for the weekends. BOWER sniffs it with a sneer and tries to break off a piece... hard as a rock.
bower		How long?
nadia		I don't know, but it takes more then a couple years to turn coal into fucking diamonds.
bower		You think we've over slept?
nadia		This ship was built to outlast our children's children... and any engineer could tell ya the warranty is running out. I think we've been asleep longer then you may think. BOWER tosses the orange brick. to TANAKA and he sniffs it with a grin, breaking off a piece. NADIA finishes gathering tools and she slings the bag over her shoulder, "ready to go".
bower		Do you have a radio?
nadia		 Who the hell is there to call?
bower		I'm not the only flight crew officer awake. We're not in this alone.
payton		You want in? Come and get it you fu- The screwdriver SNAPS and the panel hits the floor. PAYTON raises the pipe, preparing to fight and... A desperate gasp is heard from inside the shaft.
payton		Who the hell... are you!? GALLO is tightly wedged inside the shaft, squirming to crawl out, trembling with fear and exhaustion.
gallo		Help me- I'm part- of the flight crew! I'm- Please- HELP ME! PAYTON oddly hesitates... before lowering the weapon. He digs into the shaft grabbing GALLO'S hand, pulling him out. GALLO collapses onto the floor, crumbling into a fetal position, naked. His hands are locked in claw-like grips, trembling uncontrollably. His gasps are rapid and unsteady.
payton		Easy... Easy. You're all right. PAYTON runs to grab a towel and water. As he turns back he notices GALLO'S hip and legs are sprayed with dried blood. PAYTON kneels over him and GALLO spasms from his touch.
payton		EASY! I'm here to help you! PAYTON lifts the bottle to his lips, but the water runs down his face, GALLO is frozen in shock.
payton		What's that? Gallo...? PAYTON frowns, mumbling the name with a hint of recognition.
payton		Where did you come from, Gallo?
gallo		The... bridge. Saying the words seems to send him into a terrified trance.
payton		The bridge!? Where are we? What's happened? Can you tell me-
nadia		We can't get through this way.
bower		I'd prefer to stay on foot.
nadia		It's the safest way to travel. And there's only one other way to get through that I know of.
bower		And what is that?
bower		Where are we?
nadia		Main corridor. Hyper-sleep chamber, Personnel. Keep your light down.
bower		Jesus... As they venture deeper inside they see numerous sleep- chambers, open hatches and empty. The further they move along the wall, more and more empty pods, too many to count.
nadia		Keep quiet.
bower		Wait a second. My wife-
nadia		Keep moving.
bower		No, wait. My wife could be in here. BOWER'S focus completely shifts, turning towards the pods, reading name plates.
nadia		What does she do? What's her specialty?
bower		She's not part of the crew, but spouses were brought with. I remember there were-
nadia		Then she's not in here. This is development settlers. Engineers. NADIA quickly continues as BOWER tries to keep up.
bower		Do you know where the family members are-
bower		I don't see what he's looking at, do you?
nadia		We have to keep moving. We don't want to stay out in the open for too long. Especially in here.
nadia		We can't stay herel NADIA heads across the main floor and BOWER tries to wave him on, but TANAKA is locked onto something, refusing to waver.
bower		Let's get out of here! Com'on- The THUMPS grow louder and TANAKA heads into the shadows. BOWER hesitates, turning to follow NADIA through a barricade of dishevelled equipment, leaving TANAKA behind.
bower		We can't just leave him. We have to wait-
nadia		Then you wait... and find your own way.
bower		We can't split up the team, it's all
nadia		I told you I'm not going to wait. I'm not gonna get myself killed for-
bower		The guy saved my life twice already. I'm not gonna leave him-
nadia		What do you think he's doing in there!?
bower		How the hell should I know-
nadia		He's hunting! Bagging the next notch on his belt. You wait for him! Good luck. I NADIA quickly heads deeper into the room and down a darkened and narrowing tunnel. BOWER hesitates with frustration. Having to choose, he turns and chases after NADIA. I They crawl through a maze of machinery and NADIA'S pace is difficult for BOWER to keep up.
bower		Wait! I'm coming- There's a CRUNCH under his foot. He lowers his light, picking up a small white object. He brings it closer to the light to realize it's... A HUMAN FINGER BONE.
reverse angle		Behind BOWER is a massive stack of human skeletons and carcasses. They've just crawled into a pit of human remains. They both back away with horror only to see a mountain of carcasses on both sides. The only route is upward and they begin to crawl up the slope on their bellies, over dead remains.
bower		What is he... doing? BOWER, NADIA and TANAKA quickly realize the effect as shadows begin to move.., the room is filling with HUNTERS, alerted by the tapping of metal.
nadia		Run.
bower		They're... everywhere-
nadia		Run!
bower		What the hell happened to them!? What the hell are those things!?
nadia		Shut-up! They listen for a long moment... hearing nothing as BOWER looks at his hand, finger tips trembling.
tanaka		Japanese - No subtitles.
bower		I second that. Let's get the fuck out of here. Which way did we come from?
nadia		You want to go back?
bower		No, I mean... let's just go!
nadia		We should go back. Find a different path. I don't think we can get through to the reactor bay from-
bower		You said there was no other path.
nadia		I'm ready to explore other options-
bower		Which way did they go-?
nadia		You really want to discuss it here!? A RUMBLE is heard approaching and they all crouch in unison. It's a power surge that sends FLICKERING LIGHTS across the massive corridor and a BLINKING LIGHT is activated on a nearby sleep-chamber. And then... BANG! The hatch door is KICKED from the inside, white gas erupting from the seam. Our gang quickly crawls toward the shadows, crouching behind equipment to watch as... Another KICK bursts open the hatch and a BIG PASSENGER crawls out, slamming onto the floor with a shiver of agony, gasping for breath, muscles twitching.
nadia		What are you doing-!?
bower		They'll hear him- They'll- We've got to
gallo		What are you doing?
payton		Just... checking you. GALLO narrows his eyes, pulling the blanket tighter.
gallo		For what?
payton		To make sure you're... alright. You... passed out. You-
gallo		Who the hell are you?
payton		Payton... Lieutenant Payton.
gallo		Lieutenant? You're... a lieutenant?
payton		That's right. You're Team Four? You're suppose to be... my predecessor. GALLO deepens his frown, glancing around with disorientation.
payton		Where are we? I can't get guidance off this system and I have no idea where-
gallo		I don't know.
payton		Well, what did you see? How did--
gallo		Listen, I'm not a navigator. Stars all look alike. I don't know! How the hell would I know!? Sensing GALLO is about to break down again, PAYTON tries a calmer approach.
payton		Easy. I just want to make sure... GALLO'S hands are trembling, uncontrollably.
gallo		I'm fine. PAYTON lowers his stare, hesitating, glancing across the dried blood still splattered across his legs.
payton		Is this your blood... Corporal?
gallo		Some of it is... sir.
payton		Whose blood is it? GALLOholds his stare, jaw muscles tightening.
gallo		They didn't give me any choice.
payton		Who didn't?
gallo		There was something wrong with them.
payton		i Something was wrong with who?
gallo		It was... Pandorum.  Of the worst sort. They were- I couldn't even- I had to defend myself.
payton		Pandorum. Both of them-?
gallo		You don't believe me?
gallo		What are you doing? What is that?
payton		It's just a sedative. Help you relax- GALLO lifts his fists with a threatening posture.
gallo		Then you take it... and relax. PAYTON backs off, setting the syringe aside.
payton		Take it easy. We're on the same team here. Alright?
bower		Didn't we come through here already?
nadia		We gotta find a way out.
bower		Out? Why did we come iii-?
nadia		I was trying to get us out of there alive-
bower		I thought you knew where you were going.
nadia		I was trying to save our asses-
bower		Could've mentioned that after the first mile. If I would have known we'd be doing laps down here- She angrily turns towards him, pipe in her hand.
nadia		I didn't need to help you at all! You and the Hong-Kong Express would still be playing ding-dong-ditch on level eight if it weren't for me! Their heightening confrontation is halted by...
tanaka		HIIISSST! 
bower		What the hell is that? They climb down the shaft, jumping from filter to filter. At one level they follow the sound into a shaft opening and towards the soft, warm GLOW of YELLOW LIGHT. They reach an open hatch, peering inside to see... Inside an empty storage tank, a comfortable living space has been created; numerous chairs surround a make-shift dinner table made from storage crates with hand-made candles and various food containers. The tank appears empty.
leland		No, no, no. Back in der' big boy!
bower		Get back! BACK! BOWER whirls the magneto lever on the weapon and he raises the barrel towards the hatch, nearly point blank. KA-CRAAAACK! The energy blast from the weapon hits the hatch like a lightening bolt sending a tremendous JOLT through the entire tank. A spark IGNITES the chemical gas and there's a BURST of flammable gas that rolls upward into the catwalks. LELAND is knocked off his feet and he GASPS with shock.
leland		Whoa... WHOA! What the hell was that!? LELAND is exposed from his hiding place, waving the smoke from his face, bewildered. He's an older man who's lost all vanity over survival. A thin-framed, spidery little man with assorted clothing and a clutter of tools on his belt.
bower		Shut off the gas!
leland		Where did you get that? BOWER angles the barrel towards a vent blowing out the chemical gas and LELAND jumps with fright.
leland		Fancy looking piece. Looking to trade?
leland		Com'in, com'in! Make yerselves at home. Just throw the coats on the bed and don't pet the rat, it's not mine. Just watching it for a friend. LELAND is excited to have guests as he runs along the catwalks, lighting candles and sealing valves. They watch him with leery suspicion, weapons still in hand.
bower		You... live here?
leland		Sublet. Got a roomier flat in the bow for the off season, but from here, ya just can't beat the commute. He grins, expecting a laugh, but doesn't get one. LELAND eyes BOWER over, admiring the uniform.
bower		Left? Have you seen any?
leland		Well, only the captain. informally, mind you.
bower		Captain? Where!?
leland		Umm, up on B-Deck. Some on C. A few pieces on the promenade and I think his nuts are in the foose-ball game in the rec room.
bower		Why don't you come on down so we can meet properly?
leland		Oh, no-no. No-can-do. I'm real touchy to the dust bug and who knows where yawl have been. No offense. There's something funky going around. But don't let that spoil the party. Here... LELAND lowers down a bin filled with assorted food items, using a wire to drop it to them. TANAKA sniffs it with suspicion.
bower		Where do you think we are?
nadia		I don't know. Gotta be somewhere below B- deck.
leland		Why, where you gotta be?
bower		The reactor bay. Know where it is?
leland		Reactor? Now why would you want to go down there?
leland		It's tough to properly season with a motor oil base. But if you use your imagination, kinda tastes like...
bower		How long have you been awake?
leland		Mmmm. Lemme think. What's today, Tuesday? That would be about, mmm... He counts in his head and across his fingers, carefully calculating, then a grin.
bower		Those things out there. Could it have been something... that crawled out of your lab? Something that-
nadia		No. That's... not possible.
bower		Then something got on board. Some kind of life form. Something that-
nadia		Or something that was already on board, with us in the hyper-bunks.
bower		What does that mean?
nadir		it could have been the accelerator.
bower		What?
nadia		It's the only theory I can come up with. The synthetic enzyme in our feeding tubes. The accelerator that would help our bodies adjust and adapt to the environmental conditions on Tanis. From what I've seen... these things have adapted... to the ship instead.
bower		But, why would- You're saying we'll become like them? Why would they be affected like that and we're not-
nadia		I don't know. Like I said, it's the only theory I can think of- Unless...
angle on		GALLO is looking at the empty sleep chambers while PAYTON remains at the control console, determined not to give up on contacting BOWER.
gallo		Do you know the symptoms of Pandorum?
payton		What?
gallo		Orbital Dysfunctional Syndrome. Pandorum. Ever witnessed the symptoms of first-hand?
payton		I've seen it before. But nothing that-
gallo		It's not something you can easily detect. Starts with a shiver. An itch. A slow boil... and without being able to get off the ship... there's no shutting off the heat. It'll boil over, no matter what you do. GALLO is slowly pacing the room and PAYTON watches him with uneasiness out of the corner of his eye.
payton		I didn't say that-
gallo		How could they both have had it? The odds are insurmountable.
payton		I wasn't about to question any of your
gallo		But, we all know Pandorum is greatly affected by any substantial psychological It has an emotional trigger effect.
payton		 That's what they say. GALLO slowly rubs his temples, with hesitation.
gallo		How do you think you would react... if you knew the truth?
payton		The truth... about what?
leland		B0000OM! Oh, how the world cheered to the thunder of it's mightiest creation. Eylisium! The heaven for heroes, to venture further and farther then any of man's machine dared before it. BOWER and NADIA watch intently as TANAKA lazily sips the soup. The first image is off the ship's launch and LELAND hobbles across to the crudely sketched image of three figures, flight officers.
gallo		we were only into our second term. All flight systems nominal. I'd picked up on symptoms with my CO and 2nd Lieutenant. Mild symptoms. Nothing I thought would... become a problem. Until we got the transmission.
payton		What transmission? GALLO'S eyes are welling up, his lip begins to shiver.
gallo		The final transmission. The last message... from home.
i leland		.until the last cry from home. All of God's creation... ending with mere words of encouragement. Mother Earth's last call. Boop! Leave a message, momma. LELAND presses a switch on a Jerry-rigged piece of equipment, a disc player... speakers crackling with static. A VOICE plays, heavily distorted.
recorder voice		Hoove arr awl dadz efft ah uz. Bood uck, boogz guezz... ab hoobz deeb. BOWER and NADIA are now completely engrossed in the story, both getting to their feet and walking closer to hear. TANAKA is asleep. LELAND is thrilled by their attention, doing a dance as he plays the recording... over and over.
bower		What is that... saying? LELAND cranks a power lever, speeding up the play back with eagerness, whispering along. The recording slowly grows less distorted the more he cranks the lever.
recorder voice		Yoove are all watt efft of uz. Good uck, gog besh... ab Gogz deez. You are all whadz left of uz. Gog besh... and Gogs sbeeb... God blezz... and Gogz speeb... Slowly LELAND'S whisper and the recording come into unison, eerily echoing through the tank.
gallo		You are that's left of us. Good luck, God bless... and God's speed.
payton		Earth... is gone? GALLO puffs across his hand with twisted amusement.
gallo		Wiped away. We ran a full sweep off the grid and they were... gone. One day there, the next... nothing.
payton		In one day... it had to be nuclear or-?
gallo		Whatever it was, they knew it was coming. Wished us well. We're all that's left. PAYTON sits back in shock, shaking his head in disbelief.
payton		Oh my God...
gallo		You can see why I was hesitant... to tell even you. My fellow crew members didn't take the news too well. I wanted to wake the primary crew... but my 2nd Lt was already over the edge.
leland		Three little Indians, with the burden to bare... no more law and nothing left to care. Three poor souls, destiny undone. Chop, chop, chop... now there's only one. The sketches reveal violence between the three pilots, two of them killed, one remaining alive.
gallo		They were my commanding officers. Men who had guided me through FT. I looked up to these men. But... it wasn't them anymore. They... were gone. They... tried to... I had no choice. I- With his body beginning to tremble, PAYTON tries to console him, touching his arm. GALLO flinches.
payton		Easy...
leland		One little Indian left... all alone with his doom.
bower		Play that transmission again. I want-
leland		Save yer questions til the end please. We'll have a review. LELAND continues his performance as NADIA leans toward BOWER with concern.
nadia		Could that be real? You think that could-
bower		I dunno. It can't be- It just-
leland		And now the newest chapter comes to us... three weary travelers, guided by the light. The new brave flyer, woken by the dying machine. He sketches Bower and his journey towards the reactor.
payton		How could they... how could they have let this happen? PAYTON slides his hands off the keyboard, his finger tips i nearly twitching, an uncontrolled tremble. He tries to hide his hands, sliding them under the console as... GALLO watches him blankly before wandering away to let him sit alone with the horrific realization. PAYTON shakes his head, refusing to accept it.
bower		What are you doing!? What the-
nadia		He was- He was gonna fucking eat me!
leland		 Whaw!? I waddn't-
nadia		He gassed us! He was gonna- All of us! LELAND is appalled, spitting out the breathing tube.
leland		Gas! What gas!? They see he's holding a fork and knife that he quickly tucks behind his back. NP.DIA jabs the weapon and he shrieks.
nadia		What is that?
bower		It's gone... into the final cycle.
nadia		What does that mean?
bower		it means we have less time then I thought. The last phase... before shutdown. It means we're... done. BOWER is oddly defeated, taking a seat, hanging his head.
nadia		Done!? What do you mean done? What do we do? Hey!?
bower		What difference does it make?
nadia		What are you talking about? You said you could reset the reactor- That we could- That there's a chance to-
bower		For what? They're gone. Everything is gone. There's no Earth to go back to,
nadia		We weren't meant to go back! We were meant to go on. And now it's more important then ever! We're the last of-
bower		And what is left of us? What's left, worth saving? This flight's over. NADIA is angered by his defeat, shoving LELAND aside and squaring off in front of BOWER.
nadia		What about your duty? What about... your wife!? There's still a chance she's-
bower		She's dead.
nadia		You don't know that for sure!
bower		I know... NADIA grabs him with rage, glaring him in the eye.
bower		You got a radio?
leland		Who the hell are you gonna call-?
payton		BOWER! I'm here! Where are you?
bower		Storage Tanks, just below B-level. Mid- ship Sector twelve... we think.
i payton		How the hell did you get all the way to Y the other side of-
payton		I hear you. How do we get you in there?
i bower		I need you to give me a path. PAYTON and GALLO'S silent stare hangs in the air for a moment, the tension between them unclear. PAYTON turns to the console, quickly typing into the keyboard.
bower		What? TANAKA motions toward the hatchway, shaking his head. He i gestures for them to follow and leads them over debris and through a hole, hidden in the paneling.
leland		What did he say?
bower		I dunno. But do what he says. They follow TANAKA, crawling through the hole and into...
bower		Child! ? That's no child! What the hell is it!? TANAKA lunges, but NADIA blocks his attack. The CHILD HUNTER erupts with a horrific SCREECH, HISSING at them before turning and leaping back up and over the rafters, disappearing into the shadows. They are speechless.
leland		Not as cute when they're little, are they? TANAKA runs after it. It takes a moment for the rest to react, chasing after.
nadia		My God. They're... breeding.
bower		What!? What do you mean they? How could they- That's impossible. It appears the CHILD has alerted his group as the BLUISH GLOW of flame can be seen growing stronger in the corridor, the sounds of CACKLES and HISSES approaching.
leland		Little bastard rang the bell. They all quickly turn back, running down a side corridor and into...
leland		This isn't going to work. Too many of them. Have to turn back.
nadia		There's no where to turn back to. We can't give up-
leland		Told you this wouldn't fly.
nadia		You didn't tell us anything. You never said that. You said you'd love to come-
bower		Why not?
leland		This is where they live. Reactor is the Keeper's temple. They watch and wait as the shadows move past the doorway with the GLOW of BLUISH TORCHES and vocal CACKLES.
gallo		What are you doing?
payton		I think the direct channels are fried. I'm gonna run a patch so we can get this door open as soon as we're back on-line.
gallo		What's so important on the other side of the door?
payton		The bridge. As soon as we're up we'll be able to take control of guidance. But only from on the bridge. GALLO continues pacing, throwing glances toward the empty sleep chambers.
gallo		This ship is not dying. PAYTON refuses to look to GALLO, continuing his work.
payton		He can do it.
gallo		Twelve hours ago, he didn't know his own name. Now, you think he's ready to re- configure a nuclear reactor?
payton		He's the only shot we have. Gotta have a little faith.
gallo		Faith? After what you know now, you can actually say that with a straight face? A little faith? THAP. A droplet of blood hits the floor at GALLO'S feet.
nadia		What are you doing? What is it?
bower		She's not here. She's dead.
nadia		How do you know for sure? She could be-
bower		She's not on this flight. She wouldn't come with me. She wouldn't marry me.  That's why I came. There was nothing left for me there. She stayed on Earth. Gone... with everyone else. And I left because of her. His gaze begins to gloss over, taking it all in.
nadia		Well, then... she saved your life. BOWER frowns on the thought, slowly nodding in agreement. His eyes look to the label of the chamber he was led to, the label reads; M. PAYTON. He mumbles to himself, memory returning.
bower		Marianne.
nadia		you... knew her?
bower		I remember her. Payton's wife.
nadia		Who's... Payton?
bower		I remember her. I remember- His eyes pull focus, coming out of his daze, memories returning with confusion.
nadir		Are you alright?
bower		Com'on.
angle on		M. PP_YTON'S name plate and the dried remains of her apparent death lay in the foreground.
gallo		He's right about one thing. Once that thing shuts down, we're as good as dead. Nothing on this ship will ever turn on again. Ever. Not the air, not the lights, the heat... not even the pod's escape launch systems. PAYTON refuses to look up from the computer.
gallo		I'msaying... once it's done. We're done. But, we still have a way out of this... before it's too late.
payton		What are you suggesting, Corporal?
gallo		We can still launch ourselves in the pods. Before the ignition systems are completely dead, sir.
payton		Launching ourselves... into deep space when we don't even know where we are? We wouldn't last more then a few days inside those things. That's suicide-
gallo		A few days is better then what we have left here. I'll take my chances. How long do you think that reactor has been sitting? That thing could melt-down when he tries to fire the core. This ship could be ripped in half-
payton		Stand down, Corporal. We're not going to abandon anything and we're not going to leave them behind-
gallo		We can't stay on this ship. You know that as well as I do-
payton		I said stand down, Corporal! That's an order! GALLO steps up behind PAYTON, his face revealed with a thin stream of blood oozing from under his nose, dripping off his chin, eyes hollow and pale. PAYTON refuses to look at him, continuing to type.
bower		This is our chance. BOWER leads the way out of the hiding place, heading quickly towards the open hatch where an eerie glow and rumble is felt. They crawl through the hatch and enter into...
bower		This is it. We've got to get down there before they come back. BOWER looks for a path downward along the tangled metal of catwalks, coated in algae. LELAND'S fear has instantly surfaced, unable to move.
nadla		Shut-up! Move! LELAND stays behind, watching as they begin a perilous descent down the walls of the reactor bay wall. Clinging onto the pipes and railings of the catwalks, the odd-colored algae grows more and more dense... a dim glow slowly coming into view from below. With a gap in the catwalk, BOWER leaps across, nearly losing his grip. He looks down to see an odd pattern of white shapes near the bottom. Squinting into the darkness, he's unable to make out what he's looking at and he manages to crawl down further, reaching a gangplank that crosses to the towering reactor. He motions for NADIA and TANAKA to stay put and begins crawling across... towards a darkened control panel.
payton		He's in! That's the reactor's activator panel. We're going to make it out of
gallo		Trust you? How can I trust someone who isn't even honest with himself. Tell me? PAYTON refuses to acknowledge him, continuing to monitor the control panel. He discreetly slides his hand closer to the pipe weapon as he senses GALLO'S presence behind him.
payton		Gallo... you have to listen to me... Carefully. You don't haveto- GALLO steps closer behind him, his shadowed outline showing an imposing posture, his voice is forced and unsteady.
gallo		Don't do that. TRAP... TRAP... THAP. Blood drops hit the floor heavily.
payton		Don't... do what? PAYTON slides his hand further across the console, reaching for the pipe weapon, eyes on the screen.
gallo		Don't talk to me like some child that needs reassurance. Think I don't know the risks? Think I don't know this ship?
payton		Take it easy- GALLO'S presence is felt behind him, his voice seeming to grow raspier and uneven with breath, anger simmering.
gallo		I know this ship and what she's capable of better then anyone. I know her... and I know what she can and can't do.
payton		Easy...
gallo		And this... she can't do! Why are we even arguing. You know it-
payton		I'm giving you an order...
gallo		You wanna stay here to die, that's your choice, not mine!
payton		.to stand-down... Corporal.
payton		Think about what you're doing...
gallo		I'm getting off this ship. My flight's over. OVER! Another panel on the console begins to gently blink as...
payton		This won't work...
gallo		Shut-up. GALLO jabs the syringe gun towards the back of PAYTON'S head while putting one foot inside the pod.
payton		just think about what you're doing-
payton		It wasn't the crew that was sick, was it?
gallo		Finish the code...
payton		What did you really do to them...? GALLO slides into the pod and...
payton		For your own good-
payton		You're not well, Corporal. You just need the proper treatment-
payton		This isn't your fault-
payton		Your mind... has turned against itself. GALLO EXPLODES with RAGE... POUNDING on the hatch with a jack- hammer of fists, bones shattering in his own hands. PAYTON ignores his screams, going back to the console and typing I into the keyboard.
nadia		Hurry! Go! BOWER turns back to the panel, flipping more switches and continuing the process as the reactor begins to HUM as...
bower		Com'on... NADIA looks back to see there are still HUNTERS in the reactor bay, ones who didn't join the chase, slowly coming out of the shadows, crawling up the walls.
nadia		Bower...?
bower		I'm going as fast as I can-
payton		I My God... he did it! He did it.
gallo		Let me out. I can... help. PAYTON ignores him, typing rapidly into the keyboard.
payton		shut-up.
gallo		Where do you think you're going?
gallo		Think about what you're doing, sir-
gallo		You don't want to see what's in there-
bower		Go... GO! GO! Half way up, LELAND looks back to see them coming with HUNTERS close behind. He gives them a look before closing the hatch and latching it.
nadia		You snake bastard- OPEN IT!
angle on		Inside the door at the far end... PAYTON is at the control console, quickly typing into the keyboard. He hears the E hatch CRACK open and he spins to see GALLO, out of the pod, with a twisted grin, holding the pistol-gripped syringe.
gallo		We both know who needs this shot...
gallo		Who's the one suffering... sir-
gallo		Corporal... PAYTON slams him against the wall, making him older.
gallo		Your mind... has turned against itself,
payton		I'll FUCKING CARVE YOU UP! Within the struggle, hands grab at weapons, a wrist is twisted... lining up both of their identification tattoos to be identical... FLT>>004>>012>>. The syringe is stabbed into skin. The trigger fires liquid, injecting the chemical into someone's arm as their voices converge, over-lapping at first and becoming one voice...
angle on		LELAND runs up the corridor, through the doors and into the room, gasping for breath, pausing to see...
leland		We made it! We- I'm with your boy. I was the one helping with- GALLO suddenly SLASHES his throat! LELAND reels back in shock, throttling his own neck in horror, blood gushing. GALLO casually turns back to the console, continuing to type as LELAND tries to cry out, his voice gargled with blood as he staggers, collapsing to the floor. GALLO hits a key and LIGHTS IGNITE, the last door finally engaging. GALLO sigh with relief as the doors slide open revealing a corridor of stairs leading to the bridge. A warm and gentle smile widens on his face.
i payton		Captain on the bridge. He heads toward the bridge, while flipping another switch that ignites the opposite doors just as...
angle on		BOWER and NADIA angrily burst through the hatch in the floor, jamming it behind them and run up the corridor. They see the doors sliding shut.
bower		That's it! GO! Go for it! With HUNTERS hot on their trail... they run full sprint towards the sliding doors. HUNTERS lunge out of side corridors with SCREECHING HISSES as BOWER and NADIA dive through the sliding doors... One HUNTER is crushed by the doors., split nearly in half with a heavy THUD of steel and a MOAN of hydraulics. The HUNTER spasms wildly, kicking and clawing as BOWER and NADIA back pedal into the room. HUNTERS gather at the gap, stabbing weapons between the doors, trying to crawl through with SCREECHES and HISSES of rage.
nadia		Where's... your lieutenant?
bower		He's not my lieutenant. She frowns off his look and turns to see... LELAND on the floor in a pool of blood, throat slashed, dead. BOWER pulls the gun and heads into the open doorway leading towards the bridge as NADIA follows behind.
bower		Flight log. It'll tell us how long we've I been out... and how far we've gone. BOWER types in a command and the computer begins to scroll through the flight computer's time-code. Starting with the launch date and time the numbers begin to roll faster and faster. BLIP... BLIP... BLIP.
bower		Who the hell are you? GALLO keeps his gaze towards the windows, emotionless.
gallo		I was younger then you when I first came on board. Funny, I can't even remember what it was like... before this flight began. It's all I know.
bower		You were the one... who first received the final transmission. Who refused to go back to sleep. You stayed awake... for all those years. What were you doing... what crimes were you hiding from when you took Payton's bunk? The time-code display rolls faster, years rolling into decades... BLIP, BLIP, BLIP.
bower		Is it true? What have you done to us? Where are we now? GALLO lazily nods towards the windows.
gallo		Go ahead. Take a peek. You tell me. BOWER hesitates, looking toward the darkened windows. He stays with the weapon on GALLO as NADIA wanders toward the front control console, towards the glass. With the lights fading on the weapon, BOWER gives the lever a quick whirl, motioning the barrel closer.
bower		And that makes it okay? To play God?
gallo		You think God survived? He's gone... with the rest. There's no one left to judge you, Bower. NADIA approaches the glass, squinting towards the heavily smudged glass. She frowns, trying to wipe away the layer of sludge.
bower		Judgement will come for you. You think you could cover it? Your victims survived. Evolved. That's your creation out there. Your crime. BOWER jabs the gun into his back with force.
gallo		No world left. No law. No order. Only us. You the law now? You gonna be the one that brings order to what's left? Wanna take a shot at it? I did my best with what I was given. Wanna be King for a day? Give it a whirl, Corporal. I'd like to see how you fare. With the laser sights fading on the weapon, BOWER quickly cranks the power lever, keeping the gun raised- A slow grin spreads across GALLO'S face as he finally looks to him, revealing the thick streams of blood that have dripped from his nose, coating his chin and neck.
bower		Shut-up.
gallo		Imagine... us both. What's left to stop you? I offer you the kingdom and you-
gallo		There's still quite a few sleeping beauties down there... a thousand flavors. You up for a little window shopping?
bower		Shut-up!
gallo		 I wanna see it. I'll bet you'd be a
bower		There will be law... in whatever world we create. And you'll pay for what you've done. Believe me. GALLO chuckles with his face pressed to the floor.
gallo		A real boy scout, is that it, kiddo?
gallo		You ready for the new world, corporal? BOWER keeps the gun on him as he goes to the windows. NADIA has a ghostly expression, unable to speak. BOWER leans toward the glass, squinting into the darkness and... SWISH! An object moves past the outside of the glass. He leans closer, squinting to see... a school of ALIEN FISH dart past. The shin is underwater. BOWER staggers in shock, back pedalling as GALLO continues to chuckle.
gallo		I guess this thing does land itself. Just doesn't float too well. BOWER lunges towards him and GALLO is ready for this one, quickly countering his move and SLAMMING BOWER into the console. He unleashes a vicious BLOW into BOWER'S throat. BOWER collapses, choking for air and GALLO kicks the gun away. He kneels over BOWER, slowly pulling out a blade.
close up		.sending a thin crack across the surface of the glass. She struggles to crank the lever again as GALLO charges, hitting the gun away. He SLAMS her over the console.
angle on		GALLO grabs her hair to expose her neck and angles the blade upward, forcing her to take a GASP as... BOSSSH! Water explodes through the windows, hitting the room like a hundred fire hoses. GALLO is hit directly and thrown across the room as NADIA and BOWER are engulfed by the blast of black water, sent tumbling.
nadia		NO!? Are you crazy-
bower		Hold on! Under the roar of the rushing water, hydraulics ignite. Micro-jets FIRE and WHOOSH! The pod launches, shooting down a tunnel until they're HIT with a tremendous JOLT. They are sent spinning into a wild tumble as bubbles and gas erupt across the outer surface. BOWER and NADIA slam into one another as the chamber turns end over end. Its roll seems to slow for a brief moment and BOWER squints toward the porthole to see...
pov		They are pulling away from the side of the ship. The exterior hull of the massive space ship slides past at a high rate of speed with a swirl of ocean water and bubbles. BAM! The pod SLAMS into something as SPARKS fly and seals are ruptured as WATER sprays in with a blinding BLAST. The chamber is sent into another violent roll as NADIA and BOWER tumble head over feet, as if caught within a washing machine. The chamber finally steadies as water washes across the control panel, one last burst of sparks knocks out the lights, taking them into BLACK. Only their gasps are heard as they squirm towards the upper corner... only a foot of air remaining. He grabs the mask connected to tubes in the side and pulls the straps over her head.
nadia		I What are you doing!?
bower		1 Put it on!
nadia		No! I can't- Not like this! I'm not going to wake up and drowned-
bower		Hey...? Hey? She chokes on the air and struggles to orientate herself, looking up to see him gazing down at her, coated with bright sunlight.
wide angle		They sit on the edge of the sleep chamber as it lightly bobs within the ocean waves. They're just off shore from a stretch of mountainous tropical islands with waves crashing against the beaches. The unusual shape of the islands and their geography are nothing like we've ever seen on Earth. Several moons dot the sky and the sun is rising with a brilliant glow on the horizon.
control console		A hand flips off the switch for the ventilation ducts. It's
young gallo		Well, if you're gonna be captain... what are we gonna do now? Off his look...
gallo		What is a King... without his Queen. He hits the control panel switch and...
****Dialogues from script :Panic_Room.txt****

lydia		-- seventeen feet wide, fifty-five feet deep, forty-two hundred square feet, four floors with a rentable basement apartment, so five altogether, courtyard in back --
meg		Could you slow down a little?  Or we could wait for the car...
lydia		No cars.  Feet are faster.
meg		How many more do we have after this?
lydia		None, there's nothing else, you know how tight the market is.
meg		This is it?  I told you on the phone, I have to be moved in in two weeks.  Sarah, please don't bounce that here.
sarah		Mom, it's the sidewalk.
lydia		Oh, that miserable little prick is already leaving.
evan		One day you will learn to respect other people's time, Lydia, one day you --
lydia		Evan, I am so sorry, you were a saint to wait for us!
evan		This is the middle of the house, the entry floor, living room's over there.  The kitchen floor's below us and there's two bedroom floors above.
evan		It's an enormous amount of space for the money and I'll be perfectly honest, the family is in no hurry whatsoever.
evan		I don't have to tell you there is an acute shortage of living space in Manhattan right now and this is a highly unique property.
lydia		No ball, kid.
evan		Working elevator.  Mr. Pearlstine, the previous owner, was disabled the last ten years of his life.  Highly unusual, the elevator, you will not find this in ninety percent of brownstones.
meg		Will they take asking price?  I need a two week escrow and I'm already approved for the loan.
evan		What say we see the house before we dicker, hmm?  I have to warn you, this is exactly the response we expected to get. It's a very emotional property.
lydia		Who taught you to negotiate?
sarah		It's not like Saks', Mom, you don't have to pay the price on the tag.
meg		I'm sorry.  Apartments, and... money, and... this is more my husband's area.
meg		Was.  His area.  I'm not very good at...
meg		Things, and if I can't prove to my soon to-be ex-husband that I can provide a suitable place for our daughter to live in the next fourteen days, it's going to get ugly between us.  Uglier.
evan		Top floor.  Two bedrooms, one bathroom.
evan		Third floor, spare bedroom, den, what have you.  Mr. Pearlstine used it as an office.
lydia		 He's talking about Bernard Pearlstine.
evan		 Master bath.
lydia		The hotel guy?  It's been in the papers lately.  His kids are all suing each other over his estate. He was a total recluse, paranoid, rich as hell, he was worth thirty million or something, now it turns out they can't find half of it.  Somebody took something didn't belong to them!
evan		I hardly see how family gossip is germane to showing the property.
lydia		 Stop calling it the property, you sound ridiculous.
evan		 Master closet.
evan		Could the child please stop that?
lydia		KID!  NO ELEVATOR!
evan		And we emerge in the master bedroom.
meg		Something's weird.
lydia		What?
meg		I don't know, doesn't that corner seem funny to you?
evan		I was waiting to see if you'd notice!  On caravan, no one from our office had the slightest idea.
evan		It's called a panic room.
meg		A what?
evan		A safe room.  An inner sanctum.  A castle keep, in medieval times.
lydia		Oh, I've seen these...
evan		It's quite in vogue in high end construction right now.  One really can't be too careful about home invasion.
lydia		Hey, this is perfect for you...  Absolutely!  You're a woman, you're living alone now.  Your alarm goes off, or you head glass break, or for whatever reason you think someone's broken into your home in the middle of the night.  What are you going to do?  Call the police and wait until they get here on Tuesday?  Traipse downstairs in your sexy little underthings and check it out?  I think not!
evan		Reinforced steel core walls.  Buried phone line, completely separate, not connected to the house's main line and never exposed throughout the house's infrastructure or outside the house -- you can call the police; nobody can cut you off. Your own ventilation system, complete with oxygen scrubber, so you've got plenty of fresh air for as long as you like.  And a bank of video monitors --
evan		-- covering almost every corner of the house.
meg		Makes me nervous.
lydia		Why?
meg		Ever read any Poe?
lydia		I don't think so, but I love her album.
meg		No, Edgar Allen.
lydia		 The furniture guy?
meg		 What's to keep them from prying open the door?
evan		Steel, four inches thick.
evan		Everything's spring-loaded, even if the power's out it's fully functional.
meg		Open it.
lydia		Old Bernie didn't miss a trick with this room, did he?
meg		Open the door.
lydia		And with kids like he's got, no wonder he wanted a place to hide.
evan		That's highly inappropriate.
meg		I said open the door.
sarah		My room.  Definitely my room.
lydia		That door is a safely hazard.
evan		Not at all.
evan		Infrared.  Like the beam in an elevator doorway.  Won't let the door close if something's blocking it.
evan		Watch.
evan		 Push that button for me, will you?
meg		Don't!
sarah		Too many stairs.
meg		Got us in here, didn't I?
sarah		Shoulda got an apartment.
meg		Well, I know that now.
meg		Battery's dead.
meg		The phone works.  Hey, I hooked up the phone.
sarah		 The crowd goes wild.
voice		Perry's Pizza, please hold.
sarah		Fuck him.
meg		Don't.
sarah		Fuck her too.
meg		I agree.  But don't.
sarah		"Tom's throat felt so dry and tight that it was a moment before he could make any sound come out.  "Dad!" He croaked.  "I'm - inside - the - machine!" "Great Scott!"  The elder scientist gasped.  He dashed across the laboratory and switched off the repelatron's motor.  "What happened, son?" "The Durafoam hardened, Dad. Get a solvent, quick -- you know the formula!"
meg		Bypass non-ready zones... shunt, enter, zone number...
meg		Bypass non-ready zones... ah, shunt, enter, shunt again, zone number... wait...
junior		Fuck.
burnham		I know.
raoul		What?
burnham		A woman and a little girl, both asleep upstairs.
junior		Fuck!
burnham		Keep your voice down.
junior		They're not supposed to be here!
burnham		This was your department, Junior.
junior		They're not supposed to be here!
burnham		That's why the key didn't work, they changed the locks.
junior		Fourteen day escrow, man, that's almost three weeks!  They shouldn't be here for another week!  They don't own this house yet!
burnham		 Exactly how is fourteen days almost three weeks?
junior		Fourteen business days.  Escrow is always business days.
junior		I mean, right?  Isn't it?
burnham		You're an idiot.
raoul		Watch your mouth.
junior		It's okay, Raoul.
burnham		 Who is this guy?
junior		Raoul is cool.  That's all you need to know.
burnham		This is insane.  I'm outta here.
junior		Wait a minute, wait a minute.  We can still handle this.  Can we still handle this?
raoul		It's just the woman and the kid?
burnham		Unless Daddy comes back later.
junior		Daddy's not coming back, she's in the middle of a divorce, it's just the two of them.  We're okay, here.  We can do this, right?
raoul		You're fuckin' A we can do this.
burnham		Not with me.  Not with people.
junior		Forty-five minutes.  That's all you said you need.  That's like nothing.
burnham		She'll call the cops, they'll be here before I get unpacked.
junior		So we keep an eye on her.  Raoul can totally administrate that part.
raoul		No problem.
burnham		I don't want Raoul to administrate that part.
junior		They won't get hurt.
burnham		What about us?  What if she has a gun?
junior		Raoul, what in God's name do we do if she has a gun?
burnham		Asshole.
junior		A guy shows you a gun, Burnham, and you insult him?  Hey, who's the idiot?  Huh?
burnham		Where did you get this clown?
junior		I met him at the tables, same as you.  And frankly, I'm grateful we have a little muscle right about now.
burnham		What tables?  I've never seen him before.
junior		Different tables.
burnham		 The fuck did you bring a gun for?
raoul		You're welcome.
burnham		Peace out.
junior		We can't do it without you, Burnham.
junior		It's still a good plan.  It's just... got a twist.
burnham		Yeah.  Kidnapping.
junior		Not if we keep 'em here.  You can't kidnap somebody in their own house. It's just breaking and entering, unless we take 'em someplace.  Or something like that, I'm pretty sure.
burnham		Pure idiot.
junior		I am.  I'm an idiot's son.  An idiot's grandson.  I'm third- generation idiot.  But for once in my life I had a good idea, and I'm not giving up so easy.  You are? Are you actually telling me that for the first time in your life you're gonna throw your cards on the table and go home early?  I can't believe my eyes.  Come on, Buddy.  One more hand.
raoul		 No face.
junior		Top floor, get the little girl and keep her there.  I'll bring the woman up.  Gimme.
junior		 Stay here.  Nobody gets past you.
meg		Wake up... wake up...
meg		Wake up...come on, come on...
sarah		WHAT DID YOU DO THAT FOR?!
sarah		What's going on?!
meg		People.  In the house.
raoul		IN THE ELEVATOR!  BOTH OF 'EM HEADED TOWARD YOU!
meg		He's going down.
sarah		That room!
meg		What?!
sarah		PANIC ROOM!
sarah		No.  you gotta...
junior		SHE'S COMING BACK UP TOWARD YOU!!
meg		Damn it!
sarah		It doesn't work?!
meg		Different phone line, I never hooked it up!
burnham		Tell me... tell me they're not in there...
meg		Can't hear a thing.
sarah		What do they want?
meg		I don't know.  Rob us.  I don't know.
sarah		What do we do?
meg		Wait.
sarah		What if they get in here?
meg		They can't.  They can't get in here. No.  They can't.
sarah		I heard you.
meg		Feel okay?
sarah		Yeah.
meg		Shaky?
sarah		Nope.
meg		Chills?
sarah		Huh uh.
sarah		Don't worry about me.
meg		Hey...
sarah		Go ahead.
sarah		You can do it.
meg		I suggest you leave.
meg		How'd he know that?
meg		 Take what you want and get out.
meg		"What we want is in that room."
sarah		They're coming in here, aren't they?
meg		No, I told you, they can't.  It's not a possibility.
meg		 What do you know about this room?
sarah		Say fuck.
meg		 Fuck.
sarah		"Get the fuck out of my house."
meg		 Get the fuck out of my house!
sarah		Answer.
meg		Oh, please.
sarah		Give me a break.
burnham		Got her right where you want her, Junior.
junior		Shut up.
burnham		When you said you'd let 'em go I thought she'd come running right out for sure.
junior		Shut up and let me think.
burnham		I'm afraid to let you think, Junior. Things get worse when you think.  Oh, that's gonna help.
junior		 Okay, fuckball, you think.  What are we gonna do?
raoul		What if she called the cops?
burnham		She didn't.
junior		She said she did.
burnham		She lied.  Cops woulda been here by now if she called 'em.  Besides, Junior cut the phones.
raoul		What the fuck is funny about this?
burnham		God.
raoul		There is not one thing funny here.
burnham		Who else but God could think this shit up?  I spend ten years building those fucking rooms to keep people out, now I gotta figure out how to get in.  God, man, He just loves the irony.
junior		Yes.  Yes, it's all terrible ironic and amusing.  You fuck.  Now how are you gonna get us into that room?
burnham		Can't.  Whole point.  Can't get in the room.
raoul		So what the fuck are we supposed to do?!
burnham		Make her come out.  And when she does, that's when we gotta be careful.  She can't get out of this house.  She can't even think she can get out of this house.  We just keep them here and keep them quiet for forty-five minutes.  And I don't want  Joe Pesci here standing over them with his fat sweaty finger on the trigger.  That's a sure way for us to end up with two dead bodies and little puffs of smoke burning out of our heads up in Greenhaven.  So we're gonna seal the place up.  They wanna hole up in here?  Fine, we'll help 'em.  Make it impossible for them to leave.  Once they come out of that room.
junior		And why exactly would they want to come out?
burnham		Workin' on it.
meg		Hey.  Relax, okay?
meg		I mean it, lie down.  You get your adrenaline up and you know what's gonna happen.
sarah		Are you freaking out?
meg		Little bit.  Yeah.
sarah		Small space?
sarah		Why did the chicken cross the road?
meg		What am I, a five year old?
sarah		Why did the chicken cross the road?
meg		I don't know, why?
sarah		To prove he wasn't chicken.
meg		What the hell are they doing?
meg		 ... locking us in...
sarah		Mom?
sarah		Are you okay?
sarah		 MOM?!  MOM!!
meg		Not here... not here... someplace else... someplace else...
sarah		THEY'RE COMING IN!  THEY'RE COMING IN!
sarah		YOU CAN'T DO THAT!  YOU CAN'T FREAK OUT LIKE THAT!  YOU HAVE TO STAY HERE WITH ME!
meg		I am.  I'm here.
sarah		YOU HAVE TO!
meg		I'm here.  I'm here.
meg		We're fine.  We're okay.
propane		CAUTION - FLAMMABLE
junior		Open it.
burnham		I did.
raoul		He said open it.
burnham		Just sending a message.  She'll get the point.
raoul		We ain't playin', here.
sarah		What, what, what is it?!
meg		On the floor!  Get on the floor!
burnham		Look, don't be stupid...
junior		Be quiet.
burnham		We're trying to scare them, not kill them!
junior		They're coughing.
burnham		They're gonna die in there!
junior		Nobody is gonna die, man, will you please have the balls to follow through with a good idea?  Think about it, what would you do if you were them, stay in there and choke to death, or come out?!  Huh?  We're just getting them to come out for forty-five minutes, forty-five fucking minutes!  The worst that's gonna happen is they pass out, we drag 'em out here into the fresh air, and they'll be fine.
burnham		Junior, you gigantic idiot, how are we supposed to get into the room if they pass out?
junior		Cut it back a little bit.
raoul		No fucking way.
junior		He's right, we can't get into the room if they're dead!
burnham		Oh.
burnham		I'M COMING IN THERE, BITCH, I AM COMING IN THERE!  I AM COMING IN THERE!
sarah		Neighbor!
raoul		 We're gonna talk.  Downstairs.
raoul		You stay.  Make sure she don't come out.
meg		Morse code?
sarah		 Dot dot dot, dash dash dash, dot dot dot.
meg		Where'd you learn S.O.S.?
sarah		"Titanic."
meg		Got him!
sarah		Come on, come on...
meg		Yes, yes, yes, yes...
sarah		We're never getting out of here.
meg		Shhh...
junior		We're not gonna do anything about him, he's fine.
raoul		If you think I'm gonna let my half of the fourteen million bucks slip away because of --
junior		"Half?"  What did you, take a nap in math class?  Three people, three shares, one third.  Four point six six six repeating.
raoul		I'm just saying, the man is a problem.  And he's your problem. Wasn't me idea to bring him along.
junior		That's right, Raoul, it wasn't your idea, none of this was your idea, it was mine, it's my family we're ripping off, it's my prick grandfather who built that fucking room, it was my idea to get the plans, I found the floor safe, and it was my idea to ask a guy who builds these rooms to help break into one!  Me, me, me, I, I, I, at no point did I say "you" or Raoul," got it?
raoul		He puts his hands on me again I'll bury a slug in his ear.
junior		No, you will not, because without Burnham there's no way in hell we're gonna get into that safe, so as far as I'm concerned he can paint your ass blue and run it up a flagpole and you won't lay a finger on him, you understand me?
raoul		Don't take no tone of voice with me, Homes.
junior		What is this shit you're talking all of a sudden?  You're a bus driver, "Homes," you live in Flatbush, so please don't start spouting some Elmore Leonard shit you just heard because I saw that movie too,
meg		Damn.
meg		Oh yes, yes...
meg		... the hell is he?
sarah		Do it.
meg		Yeah, but where's the third guy?
sarah		Not in the bedroom.  Do it!
meg		If it looks like I can't get back, just close the door.
sarah		No.
meg		Close it!
sarah		WAIT!
burnham		Oh, hell...
sarah		GO GO GO!
burnham		What'd she get, what'd she get, what'd she get...
burnham		Cell phone.
junior		Shit!
meg		Oh, no.  No, no, no no no no no...
meg		Oh come on, come on, come on...
burnham		 I don't think we'll be talking on our cell phone from in there...
meg		Wires...
burnham		Phone...
meg		... wires.
sarah		What are you doing?
meg		I saw something, I saw...
meg		... phone wires!
meg		I may not have hooked up the phone in here, but I hooked up the main line, and there's a jack at the base of this wall outside, I saw it!
burnham		Say, while we're on the subject of phones...
burnham		When I said cut the line, did you cut the main line at the junction box in the basement like I said, and which I repeated, or did you just cut the cord on the phone in the kitchen?
junior		I, uh, I...
junior		... hit a little snag finding the one in the basement.
meg		Strip 'em, expose the ends, try blue first, blue is phones!
sarah		Blue is phones?
meg		Yes, no, I don't know, do 'em all!
burnham		God damn it!
operator		911 emergency --
meg		I'm at 26 West --
operator		-- please hold.
meg		NO!
meg		Damn it!
sarah		Call Dad!
meg		On it!
voice		Hello?
meg		Listen to me!  There are three --
meg		Hello?  Don't... are...
meg		He'll do something.
sarah		Uh uh.
meg		He'll know we're in trouble.  He heard me, I said "There are three..."
sarah		He won't even know who it was.
meg		What would you think, in the middle of the night?  I mean, three what, three bears?  He'll call the police.
sarah		Stop it.
meg		He's just across the park, this is why we got places so close to each other, in case we needed each other, we're still a family, he'll help us...
sarah		He --
meg		He WILL.
meg		I'm sorry.
sarah		I'm sorry.
meg		Why?
sarah		I was trying not to tell you...
meg		What?
sarah		I'm dizzy and thirsty.
junior		She's never coming out.
burnham		Hey.
junior		And we're never getting in.
burnham		Do me a favor and don't talk.
junior		Jesus, what was I thinking?
meg		Come on, come on... stay with me... you gotta drink...
meg		Okay, listen, honey, you went double digit here, you must have been shooting out adrenaline like crazy, we gotta bring your blood sugar back up, okay?  Can you hear me?
sarah		I'm dizzy, not deaf.
meg		Hey, she's still a smart ass, excellent sign.  Did you see any sugar in here?  Any candy bars, anything sweet?
sarah		Huh uh.
meg		Okay, you just gotta calm yourself down, that's all, just stay calm and your adrenaline will go back to normal and you'll be fine.
sarah		What if I keep dropping?
meg		Not an option.
sarah		What if I do?
junior		We're leaving.
raoul		The hell we are.
burnham		Hey man, after all we went through I am not walking out when we're this close.
junior		Close?  Are you insane?  We're nowhere near close!  Fuck this, I'll make an anonymous phone call on Monday, they'll find the floor safe, and I'll inherit the shit.  Little piece of it, anyway, it's better than nothing.
burnham		What about us?
junior		Here.  For your time.
junior		Five hundred bucks here.
junior		Suit yourself.
raoul		Nobody leaves.
junior		Observe.
burnham		We're not leaving.  I'm getting in that room, and I'm opening that safe.
junior		Lookin' doubtful there, Big Guy, but ten out of ten for attitude.
sarah		What if I spazz out?
meg		 No biggie, we've been through it a dozen times, I just jab you with the Glucogen.
sarah		Where is the Glucogen?
meg		Oh, you know, it's uh... it's in the little fridge in your room.
sarah		 I'm sorry, Mom.
meg		Hey, quit apologizing, you're starting to sound like Grandma. You're not gonna have an attack. Okay?
sarah		Okay.
burnham		Would you wait?  Would you please just wait a minute?
burnham		You walk out that door and you lose your share of the money.
junior		Yeah, whatever.
burnham		I mean it!
junior		Adios.
raoul		Nobody leaves.
burnham		Oh God... oh, my God...
raoul		You should see the look on your face.
burnham		The fuck did you do that for?!
raoul		Fuckin' asshole, thinks he knows me. Drives his German car up to 125th Street a couple of times, buys a few rounds, thinks he's a tough guy, thinks he knows me.  You don't know one thing about me!
voice		What the h --
burnham		Stop it!  Stop it!
raoul		 Who's the clown now?  Huh?!  Who's the fucking clown now?!
burnham		Me.  I am.
raoul		That's right.
burnham		Burning me.  It's burning my eye.
raoul		I have the gun.
burnham		Yes.
raoul		Remember that.
burnham		Please...
burnham		What?  What do you want me to do?
raoul		What do you think?  Get us into that room.
burnham		I can't.
raoul		You can.  You're full of ideas.  You just need to squeeze one out.
burnham		I can't...
raoul		You got till the count of three. Then you end up like him.
raoul		One.  Squeeze.
burnham		This is ridiculous...
raoul		Two.  Squeeze harder.
burnham		I can't just...
raoul		Th --
burnham		Okay, okay!  Okay.
raoul		You got an idea?
burnham		Yeah.  Yeah, I got an idea.  I gotta check something.
burnham		Okay, look.  I know you can hear me. Your wife and kid are in there. You're gonna get 'em to come out. Or --
burnham		Or I can't stop what he's gonna do. Do you understand?
burnham		Good.
burnham		OPEN THE GOD DAMN DOOR!
burnham		OPEN UP!
harris		DON'T DO IT!  NO MATTER WHAT HAPPENS, DON'T OPEN THE DOOR! DON'T O --
burnham		STOP IT, MAN, STOP IT, THAT'S HIS KID IN THERE, HIS KID IS WATCHING THIS!!
meg		Oh God, oh my God...
sarah		You gotta jab me, Mommy...
meg		Oh... oh...
burnham		 I just... I just need forty-five minutes.
raoul		Saw my face, man.  Saw my face.
raoul		Shut up.
meg		 -- cine, she needs the MEDICINE! GIVE HER THE --
burnham		It's gonna be cool, kid.  Be outta here before you know it.
burnham		Are you okay?
raoul		Hurry up, for Christ's sake!
burnham		The hell does she want?
raoul		I don't know, she keeps screamin' the same thing over and over.
raoul		Drugs.  She wants drugs.  What the fuck?
burnham		Oh, man...
burnham		What is it?
sarah		I need...
burnham		Yeah?
sarah		... 'jection...
burnham		An injection?
burnham		That stuff?
burnham		Can you do it yourself?
burnham		Well, I don't know how.
raoul		I don't fucking believe this.  You gotta wait.
burnham		Yeah, just like a half hour, maybe a little more, and your mom'll give it to you.  You can wait a half hour, can't you?
raoul		Yeah.  She can.  She's fine, she's just like, tired, she's gotta rest. You rest, Kid.  Half an hour.
raoul		Come on.
burnham		Tell me the truth, okay?  What's gonna happen if you don't get this?
sarah		Coma.  Die.
raoul		You're wasting your fucking time, man, you're wasting my time.  You don't know how to do this, and the longer we stay in here, the more likely she's gonna lose it and call the cops!
burnham		Are you gonna open the safe?
burnham		Then shut up and get out of my way.
raoul		Don't look at me.
burnham		Okay, kid, all I know about this is what I've seen on TV, you gotta talk me through it.
burnham		Okay.  No talking.  No problem.  TV don't lie, right?
burnham		You seem like a good kid.  Your mom... only saw her for a second, but, woah.  Beautiful, huh?
burnham		Hey, nod or something, show me you're still alive, will ya?
burnham		Attagirl.  That too tight?
burnham		You guys are pretty rich, huh?
burnham		Yeah, you don't think about that stuff.  Good for you.
burnham		I know, I know.  I really screwed the pooch this time.  I never did anything like this before.  Break into somebody's house?  Not even close.  Bad cards, Kid.  I swear to God, I been on the wrong end of maybe six straight years of bad cards.  House.  Car.  Wife.  And you thought you were sick.
burnham		Feel better?
burnham		Woulda been a hell of a dad.
raoul		Congratulations.  You saved her life for ten minutes.
harris		Police.
meg		 You called the police?
harris		You... scared...
meg		Don't.  Say.  A word.
raoul		Holy shit... holy shit...
raoul		She's fuckin' crazy, she killed the kid!  She just killed her own kid!
burnham		It's not her fault, it's not her fault, the guy must have called them.  Look, look, look, she's telling us.
burnham		She's gonna handle it.
raoul		She better.
meg		Yeah?
cop 1		Everything okay?
meg		Huh?
cop 2		Are you all right?
meg		What are you guys -- what time is it?
cop 1		'Bout four o'clock.
meg		I don't get it.
cop 2		We got a call...
meg		Somebody called you?
cop 1		Can we come in?
meg		What do you want?
cop 1		We'd like to come in.
meg		No, you can't come in.
cop 2		Are you okay?
meg		I'm fine.
cop 1		Can we come in?
meg		Stop asking me that.  I'm fine.  Who called you?
cop 1		You don't look so good.
meg		You wake me out of a sound sleep at four in the morning and then tell me I look like hell?  Of course I look like hell, you don't look so hot yourself, Jack.  I'm freezing here, thank you for checking, can I go?
cop 1		Your husband says you said "There are three..." right before you got cut off.
meg		Oh, that phone call...
cop 1		Ma'am, if there's something you want to say to us right now that maybe you can't say to us right now, maybe you just want to make a signal, by blinking a few times, something like that.
cop 1		That's something you could do. Safely.
meg		Man, you are good!  You mean, like, if somebody was in the house or something?  That's great, they really train you guys these days, don't they?
meg		No.  I'm fine.  Cross my heart.
cop 1		May I ask what the rest of that sentence was going to be?
meg		 Huh?
cop 1		The sentence that started "There are three."  What was the rest?
meg		Okay, look.  My husband and I just broke up.  It's my first night in the new house, and I was feeling a little lonely and a little drunk. The sentence, if you insist on knowing, was going to be "There are three things I'll do for you if you come over right now and get in bed with me."
meg		But thank God I came to my senses before I said all that and hung up instead, so nobody would ever know what I was thinking, unless, of course, two policemen showed up in the middle of the night to interrogate me about it.
cop 2		You want her to show you which three things, Rick, or should we just go?
raoul		She saw my face.  The kid too.
burnham		That's your problem.
raoul		That's their problem.
burnham		Let me fucking finish this so we can get out of here.
raoul		You finish.  Then we finish.
burnham		Bullshit.
raoul		You know how this gotta end.
meg		Fourteen.
meg		No camera, no camera, no camera...
raoul		Hey!
sarah		Sorry.  Can't control it sometimes.
sarah		 Won't happen again.
neighbor		What the hell do you think you're doing, young lady?!
raoul		The walls are steel, right?
burnham		Not that one.
raoul		NOT THAT ONE?!
burnham		Hey man, it's the neighbor's house, who breaks in through the neighbor's house?!
burnham		WHO THE FUCK BREAKS IN THROUGH THE NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE?!
raoul		We've got the Kid!  WE'VE GOT YOUR KID!!  What the fuck is she thinking?!
burnham		She's got your gun, that's what she's thinking!  The FUCK you had to bring a gun for?!
burnham		Almost there...
burnham		ALMOST THERE...
burnham		JESUS!
burnham		I GOT THE MONEY, LET'S GO!!!
burnham		GO, LET'S GO, OUTTA HERE!!
raoul		YOU KNOW HOW THIS IS GONNA GO!
burnham		FUCK YOU, I'M GONE!
cop 1		Put your hands up.
burnham		Monster hand.
sarah		I mean, uptown is close to Dad's place, but somebody at school said the Village is really cool, so... I don't know, it's so great to be close to the park and everything... What do you think, I mean, give me a clue, here, where are we gonna live?
****Dialogues from script :ParaNorman.txt****

zombie		Brains! CLOSE ON the woman as she raises her hands and SCREAMS.
grandma babcock		What's happening now?
norman		The zombie is eating her head, Grandma.
grandma babcock		That's not very nice. What's he doing that for?
norman		Because he's a zombie. That's what they do.
grandma babcock		Well he's going to ruin his dinner. I'm sure if they just bothered to sit down and talk it through it'd be a different story. Norman CHUCKLES, as if the idea is absurd, then winces as he hears his father shout from the kitchen.
norman		Coming, Dad!
grandma babcock		Tell him to turn up the thermostat too, will ya? My feet are like ice. Norman nods to her and shuffles over to the kitchen door.
sandra babcock		Hi. Whatcha watching in there?
norman		Sex and violence.
sandra babcock		Oh. That's nice. Perry glares over as Norman wrestles with the garbage.
perry babcock		Can't you be like other kids your age and pitch a tent in the yard, or have a healthy interest in carpentry?
sandra babcock		Perry...
norman		I thought you said kids my age were too busy shoplifting and joyriding?
sandra babcock		Norman! He hefts the bag onto the floor and ties it in a knot.
courtney		Oh yeah, he's r-i-double p-e-d. Like, a seven pack at least.
sandra babcock		Courtney, be nice.
courtney		Yeah, she totally doesn't deserve him. I mean, she's nice and I really like her, but she's a complete loser. Yeah, I know. Courtney slumps into a chair at the table, twisting a strand of gum out of her mouth with a finger. Norman returns inside and shuts the door, pausing a moment as if thinking something over.
norman		Dad? Grandma says, "Can you turn up the heating?" Her feet are cold. The bubble Courtney is blowing POPS against her face, Perry rolls his eyes and GROANS, and Sandra pales.
sandra babcock		Now, Perry...
perry babcock		How many times do we have to go through this, Son? Your grandmother is dead!
norman		I know!
perry babcock		Then why do you keep on talking to her?
norman		Because she talks back!
courtney		O-M-G, you are such a liar!
norman		I'm not making this up! I swear! She talks to me all the time!
courtney		Oh yeah? Prove it! Norman levels her a look that says "you asked for this".
norman		She said it's not very ladylike to hide photos of the High School quarterback with his shirt off in your underwear drawer. Sandra and Perry raise their eyebrows.
courtney		I knew it! You've been sneaking around in my personal stuff!
norman		No I haven't! Grandma told me!
courtney		You are the worst! Courtney, brimming with outrage, storms out of the kitchen, her ponytail wagging furiously behind her. Sandra kneels down beside Norman with a wearily sympathetic smile.
sandra babcock		Norman, I know you and Grandma were very close, but we all have to move on. Grandma's in a better place now.
norman		No she's not, she's in the living room. Perry throws his arms in the air, swaying on the chair.
perry babcock		Your grandmother was old and sick, and she died. That's all there is to it!
sandra babcock		Perry, this is just part of the mourning process.
perry babcock		Stop indulging him! I'm nothing if I'm not liberal, but that limp- wristed, hippie garbage needs to be nipped in the bud! Norman SIGHS and steps between his parents as they argue. He mutely heads out of the room.
perry babcock		This isn't the West Coast, Sandra; people talk! They do!
mr prenderghast		Not much time, not much time... He pulls an old leather-bound book out from the mess, and traces a finger over a woodcut illustration on its cover; an ethereal woman lying beneath a cluster of stars. Wincing with pain, the man drops the book and clutches at his chest, COUGHING and GASPING horribly. CAMERA PANS to a wall covered in countless photographs, newspaper clippings and scrawled occult markings. It is a shrine of sorts; a madman's recondite genealogy project, and at its center is a photograph of Norman, posing with his family on vacation. ZOOM IN to the photograph, hurtling past the Babcocks and through dense trees further and further into a dark forest.
norman		Good morning! Hey Bruce! How's it goin'? Not much. I'm kind of late for school. I need to go. Hi, nice to see you guys. Good morning. Sorry I gotta run. Excuse me. Pardon me. See ya. At one street corner, Norman bends over a gutter. He is watched curiously by a man retrieving his morning paper across the other side of the street. MAN'S POV - Norman crouches over the flattened remains of raccoon road kill.
hairdryer ghost		Does anyone smell burning?
hippy ghost		Hey, peace, man.
norman		Totally.
norman		Sir, yes sir!
greaser ghost		Yo Norman, you playin' hookie?
norman		No no, I'm just late for school. Sorry, I gotta go.  How you doin'?
mobster ghost		Hey, how you doin'? A little further along Norman nods pleasantly to the ghost of a parachutist impaled in the branches of a roadside tree.
norman		Hi! How's it hanging?
parachutist ghost		Ho ho! Haven't heard that one before. Well, it's a nice day.
sheriff hooper		Watch and learn. "Parking violation" is my middle name.
deputy dwayne		Really? I thought it was Rhona. They glance up disdainfully as Norman passes by. Clearly in this town Norman has something of a bad reputation.
alvin		Hey, ghost jerk! You know what? Norman turns to find textbook bully ALVIN, the only 6th grader in his class who shaves, looming over him. He is flanked by a couple of leering sycophants, one of whom wears a T-shirt emblazoned with "TEAM ALVIN". Norman SIGHS.
norman		What do you want, Alvin?
alvin		Why don't you see some more ghosts, goober?
pug		Loser!
alvin		That was good, right guys? Norman mutters as they leave, but not loud enough so as anyone might hear.
norman		Flies don't talk. Across the hall, Neil continues to watch with sympathy, but he is already being hurried along by his friend SALMA, a nerdy Indian kid with braces.
salma		Neil, come on. Let's go.
mrs henscher		You stink of illiteracy!
salma		Why is the witch always a hideous old crone with a pointy hat and a broomstick? I don't believe it's historically accurate, Mrs Henscher! Mrs Henscher's knuckles clench white around her script. She attempts an understanding smile, in the same way a shark might.
mrs henscher		It's not supposed to be. It's supposed to sell postcards and key chains.
norman		The founding fathers of Blithe Hollow discovered an evil witch amongst them...
mrs henscher		No no, Norman, with gusto! Like this! Waving her arms theatrically, she bellows Norman's lines, milking every syllable for effect.
norman		Sorry, Mrs Henscher.
mrs henscher		So am I. Now, unless there's any other issues, let us resume... They put her on trial and hanged her! Neil turns excitedly to Norman.
neil		Ooh! This is my moment! He shuffles toward Salma and swings his branch around, not realizing Alvin has slung the hangman's noose around Norman's neck. Norman is yanked off balance and staggers into Neil who keels over, rigid branch arms unable to stop his fall. He lands on top of Salma, her kicking legs sticking out from under him as though Dorothy's house had just landed on stage. The kids break into uncontrollable LAUGHTER.
alvin		Boom, baby!
neil		Sorry! Mrs Henscher flings her script into the air, her face beet red.
mrs henscher		Oh, you useless bunch of... The school bell RINGS drowning out her howling voice.
neil		Norman, wait up!
norman		I keep telling you, Neil. I like to be alone.
neil		So do I. Let's do it together! You shouldn't let them get you down. They always do stuff like that to me.
norman		Why?
neil		Because I'm fat. And my allergies make my eyes leak. And I sweat when I walk too fast. And I have a lunchbox with a kitten on it. And I have Irritable Bowel Syndrome. I guess there's a whole bunch of stuff.
norman		Doesn't it bother you?
neil		Nah. You can't stop bullying, it's part of human nature. If you were bigger and more stupid, you'd probably be a bully too. It's called "survival of the thickest".
neil		That statue just "pissst" at us! Wild-eyed Mr Prenderghast suddenly leaps in front of them, startling them as he staggers closer.
mr prenderghast		You know who I am?
neil		The weird stinky old bum who lives up the hill?
mr prenderghast		 I was asking him.
norman		Yes. I know. I was told not to talk to you. Sorry. Mr Prenderghast steps in front of Neil, leaning closer to Norman and whispering conspiratorially.
mr prenderghast		And you know why you're not supposed to talk to me? Norman tries to back away.
norman		Actually, we're learning about it in school..?
mr prenderghast		There's something you really need to know! This is the most important thing you will ever hear! The fate of everyone depends on it! Now listen close... The witch's curse is real, and you're the one who has to stop it! Mr Prenderghast grabs Norman's arm and leans closer.
mr prenderghast		This ain't done with! You'll see it soon enough! Watch for the sign! As he hobbles away, Neil peers down the street after the old man.
neil		Jeez, what a dirty old creep!
norman		He's my uncle.
neil		So is it true?
norman		What? Norman just stares at him.
neil		Can you see ghosts? Like, everywhere? All the time?
norman		Uh, yeah?
neil		Awesome! Do you think you can see my dog Bub? He was run over by an animal rescue van. Tragic and ironic. We buried him in the yard. Could you see him? Norman frowns disbelievingly, completely taken aback.
norman		Maybe.
neil		Sweet! Come on!
mitch		Neil? That you?
neil		Hey Mitch! We're gonna go play with the dead dog in the garden and we're not even gonna have to dig him up first! Mitch sits up. He's a strapping six-foot jock with tattooed biceps. The kind of guy who wears year-round flip-flops.
mitch		What'd you say? Mitch pulls his brother aside so as to exclude Norman, who stands awkwardly a little way away, surrounded by cheery lawn ornaments and ineptly manicured topiary.
neil		Can you stop doing that? It's kinda stupid.
mitch		Now listen to me, you don't need to be hanging out with weird people. That's a tip. Neil scowls at his brother.
neil		Don't blow this for me, Mitch. This one's not weird. He talks to dead people. Neil has had enough and defiantly walks away from his brother.
neil		He's around here somewhere...
norman		No. My grandma told me it's usually people who still have stuff to figure out. Or sometimes it's the ones who died suddenly, or in a bad way. A BARK, and Norman turns to see a translucent puppy wagging its tail cheerfully, despite being chopped neatly into two halves.
neil		Is he there? How's he look? Bub BARKS, then his front half notices his tail and runs behind to sniff his own backside.
norman		Uh... good. Bub bounds over to Neil, runs clean through his chubby calves, then doubles back for another try.
norman		Yeah, I guess. Neil bends over and kisses the air by his ankles, making a "coochy-coo" face.
neil		Go get it!
norman		He can't fetch it, y'know.
neil		Yeah well, it's still fun. Good boy! Bring it back! Go get it, Bub! Good boy! CLOSE ON Norman as he watches Neil toss the stick back and forth across the garden. The stick lands near his feet and he bends down to pick it up.
norman		`Cos I don't really, uh... You can go.
neil		No, no, it's fun! Try it!
norman		No I don't want to.
neil		You throw it. It's really easy.
norman		No it's okay. You can throw it.
neil		No, c'mon, it's really fun.
norman		Here. You go first.
neil		No, you try it. I already went like fifty times.
norman		Okay, what do I do?
neil		You get the stick, you pull it back, and you throw it!
norman		Neil? Sorry! As Norman runs over to him, Neil lies on his back GIGGLING, the stick held between his teeth.
neil		I fetched it!
norman		Are you okay? CUT WIDE as the two kids enjoy their play, the sun above them breaking through the clouds in a bright blue sky.
mr prenderghast		I'll show him, and that scary little fat kid... He shakily rummages around the collected papers and trinkets, and pulls out the leather bound book, all the time GRUMBLING crazily.
prenderghast ghost		Aw, nuts.
perry babcock		Great, now we'll never get to remember this moment. ANGLE ON STAGE as Salma, in full witch get-up, waves her hands theatrically at the other children.
salma		I curse you accusers to die a horrible and gruesome death and rise from your graves as the living dead; your souls doomed to an eternity of damnation! The Pilgrims who aren't dying and rising from the dead begin to menace Salma with their farming implements, and begin a slow ominous chant.
kids		Kill the witch! Kill the witch! Sandra nudges her husband and cheerily points toward the stage.
sandra babcock		Gosh, aren't they adorable? Norman hears a HOOTING sound from above. An owl with big glowing eyes wheels down over the audience from the beams of the gymnasium. Norman glances around, wondering why no one else seems to notice as it glides low and alights in the papier mache branches on Neil's head. It turns to Norman and HOOTS.
neil		What?
kids		Kill the witch! Kill the witch! The chanting seems to deepen and slur and the air grows dark and thick. The shapes of the audience and the kids beside him swim around, blurring like a finger pulled through oil paint. The ceiling disintegrates into clouds, which CRACKLE with lightning.
norman		 Oh no! Not again! All around trees have sprouted out of nowhere, and through the darkness in the distance are occasional lights of small houses. This might be how this very spot looked three centuries ago.
puritan		Witch! We know you're out there! Norman stands on a twig which, naturally, CRACKS loudly, and the figure turns around and points at him.
norman		No!
puritan		Witch. More figures emerge from out of the darkness, wielding hayforks. They SHOUT threateningly and, as one man, surge toward him. Norman turns and runs. The trees around him are shifting, but there's no wind blowing the branches. Limbs GROAN as they twist, bearing down on him like ragged talons trying to stop his escape. Soon he can run no further, the way ahead tangled up into a wall of thorny fingers.
tree		The dead are coming! Norman GASPS and tries to push himself away, but the pursuing figures are drawing closer, and there's no escape. A familiar voice whispers out of nowhere.
sandra babcock		Norman!
mitch		Did he say the dead are coming?
perry babcock		This is where it stops! It's one thing being a mental case in front of your family, but not the whole freaking town! There's not gonna be any more talking to ghosts, or grandmas, or, or... what is it now?
sandra babcock		I think it's trees.
perry babcock		You're grounded! You hear me? Perry pulls the car up in the Babcock's drive and gruffly climbs out of the car.
norman		This is ridiculous. I wish everyone could see what I see! I didn't ask to be born this way! Perry mutters as he slams his door shut.
perry babcock		Funny, neither did we. Norman catches the remark and feels it hard in his gut. His mother hears it too, and leans over her seat with a look of sympathy. A beat as she sees the pain in her son's face.
sandra babcock		Y'know, sometimes people say things that seem mean, but they do it because they're afraid.
norman		He's my dad. He shouldn't be afraid of me.
sandra babcock		He's not afraid of you. He's afraid for you. Sadly, Norman climbs out of the car.
norman		You died?!
prenderghast ghost		Yeah, but I got unfinished business here!
norman		Ew! Couldn't you use another stall?
prenderghast ghost		My ghost isn't going anywhere until I pass on my duty to another! And that would be you!
norman		Me? No, you must have it wrong!
prenderghast ghost		Oh it's you all right! I've been holding back the witch's curse for years, but now I'm dead. It has to be you!
norman		But I... I don't know what any of it means!
prenderghast ghost		It means the past is coming back to haunt you! Time is running out! The anniversary of the witch's death is tonight. Her ghost is going to wake up, and when she does she'll raise the dead! You gotta keep her in her grave! The toilet paper on the ground twists up beneath Norman's feet, sculpting skull faces and clutching hands that reach for him as he shrinks back.
norman		But I'm just a kid! How am I supposed to stop it? In an instant the air and trees around him are eaten away, the school bathroom reappearing through the holes.
prenderghast ghost		Read from the book at the spot the witch was buried!
norman		What book?
prenderghast ghost		The one in my hands! Norman looks at the ghost's wispy hands.
norman		But this is crazy!
prenderghast ghost		Do I look crazy to you? Norman pauses a beat. Mr Prenderghast is floating upside down, various bits of bathroom detritus orbiting around him. A piece of toilet paper dangles off his nose.
prenderghast ghost		Swear!
norman		Y-you mean like the "f" word?
prenderghast ghost		I mean promise!
norman		Okay, okay, I promise...
prenderghast ghost		That'll do! Mr Prenderghast's ghost begins to disappear, bubbling and melting at the edges like a burning photograph.
norman		No! Mr Prenderghast, wait! Alvin, hearing only Norman's voice, gingerly peeks around the corner of his stall.
prenderghast ghost		Sorry kid, I'm done here! I'm free! I'm finally free!
norman		Wait! No, you can't leave now! Please! I don't understand. Mr Prenderghast hangs in the air a moment, face scrunched up as he awaits his release, CACKLING crazily. The ghost explodes into a million particles of light, blowing open the stall door and catapulting Alvin backwards across the room. The mirrors behind him crack and the light bulb shatters. From the floor, Alvin groggily looks up and sees Norman framed in the stall with the door hanging off its hinges. He reaches over and flushes the toilet.
neil		Norman? Alvin tears around the corner in pursuit, but Neil stands in his way, waving his arms indignantly.
alvin		Don't get your bra in a twist, fat boy, this has nothing to do with you! Keep out of my way!
neil		Or what?
alvin		Or I'll punch you in the boobs!
neil		I don't have boobs. These are pectorals! Alvin jabs him in the chest.
alvin		You're dead, freakshow! Do you hear me? D-E-D! DEAD! You're gonna be so dead you're gonna have to talk to yourself when you're dead!
perry babcock		I really don't think we should be leaving him.
sandra babcock		Perry, you promised me a meal that someone else microwaved.
perry babcock		He's probably up there right now fiddling with his ouija, or his orbs, or whatever it is he's got up there. This is not good.
neil		You wanna play some hockey? Norman SIGHS.
norman		I've kinda got other things on my mind right now. Neil looks a little uncomfortable.
neil		Is it all that walking dead stuff again?
norman		Mr Prenderghast appeared to me in the bathroom!
neil		Ew.
norman		No, his spirit! He says the witch's curse is real and I have to go up to the old graveyard to stop it! Before the sun sets tonight! Neil shifts uneasily as he processes.
neil		So you wanna come play a bit later?
norman		Didn't you hear what I just said?!
neil		Yeah, but I thought my idea was less likely to get us eaten. Norman knows he's on his own in this.
norman		Just go home, Neil. I'm better off on my own anyway.
neil		But...
norman		Go home! Norman reaches up and closes the window. Neil's shoulders sag and he turns away. Across the room, his Grandma materializes, and squints her eyes through the window as Neil awkwardly pulls himself over the garden fence.
grandma babcock		Jeez, who rattled your chains?
norman		No one. Norman isn't in the mood for any more discussion.
grandma babcock		Jackass. If I were a poltergeist I'd throw something at his head. Y'know, by rights I'm supposed to be frolicking in paradise with your grandfather, but I'm not.
norman		So why did you stay?
grandma babcock		I was never one for frolicking. I'll bet there's no cable or canasta up there either. Besides, I promised I'd always look out for you. She smiles, floating in a sitting position at the end of Norman's bed. She bobs gently, like a balloon. For a second, this seems to comfort Norman, but then another thought crosses his mind.
norman		So it's your... duty?
grandma babcock		In a manner of speaking...
norman		And you'd do it no matter what?
grandma babcock		Of course.
norman		Even if it was something really scary... Grandma eyes him curiously.
grandma babcock		There's nothing wrong with being scared Norman, so long as you don't let it change who you are. Norman thinks this over, then smiles up at her again. She goes to rub his head affectionately, but her ghost hand just passes right through his spiky hair. She gives him a wink, and drifts away through the wall. He is still scared, but now determined too. He steels himself and grabs his jacket from his bed.
courtney		So I said to her, "Girl, come back and talk to me when your basket toss gets twelve thousand hits on YouTube!" Yeah, no, I said that.  Yeah, I'm stuck on lame patrol. Tonight's gonna be a total yawn. From downstairs, a door SLAMS. Courtney frowns, puts her hand over the phone and shouts out.
norman		Hello? Mr Prenderghast? Motes of dust float around Norman as he moves slowly toward a door, slightly ajar, muttering to himself. He quietly makes his way past all manner of objects that epitomize the state of Mr Prenderghast's mind; a mannequin in a shopping cart, a pile of broken typewriters, a suspended bag of spoons, a closet full of identically soiled hobo suits, a Nordic track...
norman		Let go! Norman spends several strenuous moments dragging the body across the floorboards, Mr Prenderghast's head glancing off table legs and smacking repeatedly against the floorboards, as Norman tries to wrestle the book free. With a final yank the book pulls loose and, GASPING, Norman grips the book to his chest and runs to the door.
norman		This is it! The sun continues its descent, casting an ever lengthening shadow of treetops across the graveyard.
alvin		What ya got there, Geekula? Norman launches himself at the book, but Alvin holds him back at arm's length.
norman		Give it back!
alvin		Can't wait to see everybody's faces when they hear about this one!
norman		No, don't! Alvin!
alvin		Hey! Nobody makes me miss out on a possible date with a girl that almost had some interest in talking to me. Yeah? Thought so! You got nothin' to say!
norman		Uh-oh.
alvin		Dang straight "uh-oh". That's what happens when Alvin gets around here. Uh-oh is that Alvin? Uh-oh Alvin's gonna make me run home to mommy. As Norman twists and wrestles against the bully the turbulent clouds in the sky above them twist and coalesce into the vague semblance of a huge grinning face. The face of a witch. There is an enormous RUMBLE and a flash of lightning silhouettes the boys.
norman		It's her! Another violent CRACK of thunder and flash of light, and the wind instantly cuts out. The boys stand stock still. Reaching down like a colossal arm, a great plume of cloud spirals over the cemetery, enveloping the tumbledown chapel and seeping around the gravestones. Fingers of murky fog slither across the ground, occasionally pausing and hanging in the air as though sniffing it. There is something eerily playful in the movement of the tendrils. The boys are jolted as an awful high pitched SCREAM blows through the graveyard like a shockwave, pulsing through the fog like a heartbeat. Norman and Alvin cover their ears and cower as the fog suddenly rears up like a claw and fiercely gouges into the earth in front of the boys.
alvin		What's that sound? Norman watches, horrified, as the wet earth atop one of the graves splits and a skeletal hand bursts through! Norman watches as more graves bulge and break open and mud-encrusted shapes begin to emerge through the earth. The air is filled with anguished MOANING, the glowing fog dancing and whirling about the hatching figures. The two boys are rooted to the spot, mouths hanging open. CLOSE ON one of the figures crawling out of the ground into a patch of moonlight. Ragged and rotten it wears the mud-encrusted clothes of a colonial Puritan. It stares down at its hands, almost in disbelief, then lifts its face up to the sky and lets out a HOWL. Thunder that sounds like deep and abysmal LAUGHTER echoes through the turbulent clouds. The boys find themselves backed up against another headstone, this one engraved with the name "JUDGE HOPKINS". They leap aside as the ground swells beneath their feet, and the DEAD JUDGE punches through the dirt, bolt upright. His face wears a rictus grin and he looms over the boys like the Grim Reaper in a powdered wig. He tilts his head curiously when he sees the book in Alvin's hand, and HISSES through yellowed teeth. Norman makes a last ditch attempt at reading the book as the Dead Judge approaches, the other zombies gathering behind him.
norman		Once upon a time in a far-off... Once upon a... In a...
alvin		Make it stop right now, please!
norman		It's not working! The Dead Judge gives a hideous GROWL, but Norman frowns, confused, because he can hear words.
alvin		Norman? What are you doing? I think I peed my pants! Survival instincts finally kick in and Alvin makes a run for it, scrambling through the graves toward the gate.
norman		Wait! Norman follows, leapfrogging over headstones.
neil		I'm busy!
neil		No! The doorbell RINGS again.
courtney		I'm gonna kill them. She impatiently leans down to push open the mail slot.
mitch		Um, can I help you?
courtney		 Hell yeah. Courtney catches herself and quickly affects a LAUGH.
mitch		Yeah, he's my brother.
courtney		Oh wow! That's great! Your brother and my brother are like best friends! I'm Courtney. She tries to regain her composure as Mitch turns away.
mitch		Hey Neil! You come here a minute? There's a girl asking for you. Neil's face emerges dubiously from a room down the hall. Courtney flashes her widest fake grin and puts on a high pitched sing-song voice.
courtney		Hey there! How ya doin'... little guy...
neil		Neil?
courtney		Yeah, Neil. Do you know where Norman is? He kinda disappeared.
neil		Oh no...
mitch		Whoa, Neil! Better start talking, buddy.
neil		I didn't really think he was serious about going up to the old graveyard on his own!
courtney		So Norman!
mitch		Oh, man. That place is bad news! Total slasher movie vibe! Why'd he go up there?
neil		I don't know. Maybe we should go look for him.
mitch		I told you he was trouble.
courtney		No, it's fine. He sucks. But I really gotta make sure he doesn't die or anything tonight. Will you help me? Please? Mitch gets an eyeful of her best damsel in distress act, then SIGHS.
mitch		Okay... I guess I should go get some clothes on. Courtney gives a disappointed WHINE as he heads off down the hall, shoving Neil's head as he goes.
neil		Uh, is Norman in trouble?
alvin		Are they gonna try to eat our brains?!
norman		I think you'll be safe.
alvin		Oh, thank God!
norman		I don't get it! Why didn't it work? He opens the book and leafs through page after page of ornate calligraphy and woodcut illustrations.
alvin		Wait! Where are you going?
norman		Mr Prenderghast, I don't understand! Tell me what to do!
alvin		Dude, what are you doing?
norman		 He told me to read from the book to stop the curse! I thought it was a spell or something, but... Norman narrows his eyes as he sees Mr Prenderghast's desk, still strewn with pictures and newspaper clippings. He hurries over and begins rummaging through the mess, scattering papers across the floor.
alvin		I really need to get home! I've got like a seriously early curfew.
norman		Seven victims... Frowning, Norman glances up and sees a page from an old book tacked to the wall. It is an illustration of a hideous old crone, cackling evilly. Another THUMP from down the hall. Norman looks again from the photographs in his hand to the image of the old witch. There's something he's not seeing... He looks at the pictures in front of him. Graves. Jurors. Witch.
norman		Come on!
courtney		And she said I could totally consider a career in formation swimming. But I was like, "I wanna do something that helps people less fortunate than me", thank you very much, y'know, like the poor or people who are like dying or ugly or something, `cuz I really think that ecology and world peace are like totally important today. Do you use free weights? Your deltoids are huge.
mitch		I've never used deltoids in my life, I swear. You can test me. Neil lies back in his seat, eyes rolling.
neil		Kill me now.
courtney		Thank you for doing this Mitch. He means an awful lot to me. I love him like he was a brother.
neil		He is your brother. Courtney counters the backseat barbs by smiling demurely, but Mitch's attention has been drawn by something else.
mitch		Whoa! Look at that sky!
neil		Look out! Mitch slams on the breaks, twisting the wheel.
mitch		Oh no!
neil		That was Norman! Shaken, Mitch realizes another figure is looming out of the darkness in front of them. He slams on the brakes again, but too late. The tall dirty-looking figure stands stock still as the van plows straight into him. Dust flies up from the wheels of the van as it skids to an eventual stop in the center of the road.
mitch		Is everyone okay? Courtney and Neil answer in unison, both of them upside down in their seats with their legs sticking up in the air.
courtney neil		No! No! Mitch, trying to stay calm, looks in his rear-view mirror and sees a prone shape on the ground some yards back.
mitch		Er... hello, sir? He hunkers down and is immediately hit by the stench. A mud-encrusted face stares up at him. ANGLE ON the van, as Courtney leans her head out.
courtney		Is he dead or what?
mitch		I... I don't know! He's not moving! The figure's head lets out a faint GASP.
courtney		So he's okay?
mitch		Uh... not exactly.
courtney		What? What did you just say? Mitch looks from the head back to the van, then at the head again. He licks his lips nervously as he thinks.
mitch		Does anyone know CPR? Further down the road, Norman runs back toward the van, Alvin still in tow. He sees Mitch ahead of him, getting dizzily to his feet, still holding the head.
norman		Run! The head in Mitch's hands suddenly GASPS again, opening its mouth. Mitch SHRIEKS as the headless figure on the road sits up and reaches out its arms. Mitch drop kicks it like a football. It flies, WAILING, into the bushes.
mitch		Did you see that?
courtney		That was insane!
mitch		I know, right? I kicked that like a hundred yards!
courtney		Norman, what just happened?!
alvin		Zombies! I swear, okay? We saw them burst out of their graves! For real! He realizes Mitch and Courtney are staring at him, and tries to disguise his raw panic with nonchalance.
norman		Uh, guys... maybe we should actually drive away now.
mitch		Oh, right.
sheriff hooper		Pesky kids with their cell phones burning up the oh-zone, that's what this is! She finishes her shake and throws the non-recyclable cup into the bushes. Mitch's van shoots past at high speed in a cloud of dust.
courtney		I just knew something like this was going to happen tonight!
mitch		You did? Wow, `cos that zombie bit really threw me. Courtney turns in her seat and glares at her brother.
courtney		Why d'you have to go and get everyone involved in all your weird stuff?!
norman		Well, you weren't supposed to follow me, were you?
neil		Sorry. My fault. When I'm nervous I get mouth diarrhoea.
alvin		Ha ha! Diarrhoea!
courtney		Oh my gosh, I think I'm having an aneurism! This is so typical of you!
norman		You don't understand! I'm the only one who can stop this, Courtney!
courtney		Oh, I understand! I understand that this is all getting completely out of... The van's sunroof is suddenly ripped open, and the Dead Judge's arm reaches down into the vehicle, clawing inches above Courtney's head.
neil		Whaddawedo? Whaddawedo? Mitch?!
mitch		I don't know! I don't know!
neil		You're the oldest!
mitch		Not mentally! Mitch hears a SIREN wail out behind him, and looks in his mirror to see the flashing light of Hooper's bike.
sheriff hooper		Pull over the vehicle! The Dead Judge leans further into the van, Neil hanging off him like a pendulum.
courtney		Norman! How do we stop them?! Norman looks again at the book in his hands.
norman		I'm supposed to read from the book at the witch's grave!
neil		We've got to go back to the graveyard?
norman		She wasn't buried with the others. I don't know where else to look...
courtney		Well you better think of something quick! Norman wracks his brain.
neil		I have an idea!
salma		So Norman, let me get this straight; you guys all go on this big supernatural adventure and you're calling me in the middle of the night because you need someone to help you do your homework?
norman		Uh... yeah.
courtney		Mitch, do something! Mitch flicks on the windscreen wipers, which wipe the zombie's rotten flesh from side to side across the glass. Mitch and Courtney's eyes follow the Judge's movements from side to side.
norman		Salma! We need to find out where the witch is buried! I went to the old graveyard but her grave wasn't there!
salma		Well, duh. People found guilty of witchcraft weren't considered people anymore. Norman, your witch was buried someplace else... in an unmarked grave!
norman		Salma! Please! Hurry! Y'know, I would Google this myself if there wasn't a 300 year old dead guy trying to rip my face off! With a SIGH, Salma types at her computer.
salma		Okay. It says here she was tried in the old Town Hall on Main Street. There may be a record of her execution and burial in their archives.
norman		Quick! She said go to the Town Hall!
sandra babcock		I really think it might help if you tried to see things from his point of view.
perry babcock		I don't want to.
sandra babcock		Perry, not believing in the Afterlife is like not believing in Astrology.
perry babcock		I have no idea what you're talking about. Seriously, where did you learn that?
sandra babcock		Calm down. Perry rolls his eyes and GROANS.
perry babcock		Delinquent drivers! Where are the police when you need them? Hooper's bike hurtles through the air and bounces off the hood of the station wagon with a CRUNCH. Before Perry can react he is buried under the mass of Sheriff Hooper, dropping like a meteorite onto his head.
mitch		Oh my gosh! I'm gonna be sick!
courtney		Oh, I broke a nail! As Alvin climbs out, he gingerly holds up the Judge's arm, as if it were a dead animal, and dangles it limply in front of his face.
alvin		Yeah! Alvin the zombie slayer! I got you... The hand suddenly bends back on itself, slaps him on the face, and as he SQUEALS it drops to the ground and skitters away into the shadows. Mitch sizes up what's left of his van, and bids a tearful farewell.
norman		Uh oh. C'mon!
neil		Oh yeah! Neil HUMS his very own action movie score as he runs to follow Norman out of the parking lot.
courtney		Perfect. Now the geeks are in charge. The kids make toward the parking lot exit.
slob guy		See! I told you! Zombies! It's the witch's curse! Everyone in the street freezes in place, wide-eyed. Someone GASPS.
sweet girl		Mama?
rapper guy		What? A couple of the zombies exchange glances, waiting for the other shoe to drop.
gucci lady		What should we do? Barely skipping a beat, the townsfolk shift seamlessly from shock and awe to bullish aggression. Crystal pulls a pump-action shotgun from somewhere about her person and scowls menacingly.
crystal		Kill them in the head! Within seconds, the seedy-looking townsfolk have armed themselves with pool cues, mops, toilet plungers and any other household implements that can be waved threateningly, and the mob advances on the group of quivering zombies.
norman		Hurry! This way! Norman leads the way, but stops dead as they run headlong into a scene of zombie invasion mayhem. Townsfolk fill the streets, SHOUTING and acting generally mob-like. One or two of them have even got hold of burning torches from somewhere. It's apocalyptic chaos. The fat woman from the Drive-Thru runs past SCREAMING, her face and T-shirt covered in blood-red ketchup.
courtney		Oh, this is awful! The zombies are, like, eating everyone! Norman points beyond the bedlam to the dark shape of the Old Town Hall in the plaza.
norman		C'mon! They skirt around the edge of Main Street, avoiding flying bottles and limbs as best they can. Following the noise, the Judge staggers along some way behind. He surveys the scene as he emerges, his featureless face doing a nevertheless effective job of expressing horrified shock. After a moment, he comes to his senses, and spies the kids in the distance. A look of resolve crosses his face, turning quickly to surprise as a SHOT rings out nearby. The Judge looks down to a large hole blown through his midriff. Framed within it is Crystal, several feet away, rifle smoking. He looks up again, weighs up his chances, then lets out a ROAR of retreat to his beleaguered companions before running off into the shadows. Those zombies who haven't already tried to run for cover manage to extricate themselves from the frenzy and follow the Judge's CRY, some of them breaking into a sprint.
norman		Is everyone alright? Nobody got bitten? Neil flops down heavily against the statue, panting and holding his mouth.
norman		Does anyone know how to pick a lock? Everyone immediately looks at Alvin.
alvin		Sure. Picking locks is my thing. Alvin walks over to a notice board beside the door, upon which is a poster for a "CRIME PREVENTION SEMINAR". He yanks it out of the ground, hefts it through the window, then reaches through to unfasten the door latch.
norman		This is it!
neil		This is?
norman		Now we can find out where the witch was buried! Norman pushes his shoulder against the door and steps inside.
norman		Uh-oh. Courtney follows, faking enthusiasm.
courtney		Great! I'm super psyched! This is turning into the most fun night ever! The overhead light clicks on as Alvin steps into the room behind her and GROANS.
alvin		Man. Zombies take over the world and we lock ourselves in a library. Are you kidding me? There's an adult video store just across the street! Neil is more optimistic, and brightly makes his way over to a shelf, and pulls down a slim ledger.
neil		This'll be a piece of cake, you'll see. He pauses, and frowns, squinting up his eyes as he reads aloud, very slowly.
mitch		I really hate these places. Norman sizes up the masses of documents all around them, face panicked. It would take days to go through them all.
norman		Come on! No, that's not it. Time is running out!
slob guy		Ain't room for no more zombies in this town! Standing behind him, Teddy agrees with a slack-jawed
teddy		Yeah.
sheriff hooper		Would've been a quiet night too, if it hadn't been for those meddling kids. Huh! As Perry and Sandra exchange uneasy glances, Hooper suddenly points through the windshield to the riot in progress on Main Street.
sheriff hooper		What do you think you're doing, firing at civilians? That is for the police to do!
deputy dwayne		It's okay Sheriff, we've only been shooting at the dead ones! It's the living dead, come to take us all to Hell! We gotta stop them before they get away!
sheriff hooper		Move along now people, there isn't anything to see here! The townsfolk around her refuse to be allayed by this. Perry and Sandra have emerged dubiously out of their car and watch from the periphery, utterly bewildered. Mrs Henscher, newly arrived and wearing her avocado face mask like war paint, shakes her shotgun and points down the street.
mrs henscher		I saw them! I saw them! The zombies are in the Town Hall! The information sweeps across the crowd like wildfire. Several faces turn to Henscher, who is pleased to have an engaged audience and hams it up shamelessly, coming on like Braveheart in curlers.
courtney		We're not going to find it in here, Norman! This is useless!
alvin		Yeah, I know, and it's also really boring.
mitch		I thought I was driving the van. No one told me I was gonna have to do this other dumb stuff.
norman		If I'd known there was so much reading involved, I would have brought a completely different group of people who hate me. Neil suddenly YELLS out victoriously. Everyone turns to him, hardly believing he might have found the answer. He waves a book triumphantly above his head and grins at everyone.
neil		Yes! Book number one! Finished! That is right, twenty six pages, oh yeah! Everyone GROANS and turns back to their bickering.
courtney		I can't believe this is your plan! I'm gonna get bitten and start eating peoples' brains! I'm supposed to be Vegan! Mitch suddenly SHOUTS out from the doorway.
mitch		Guys! There's something moving out there! I think it's the zombies!
mitch		Oh, no it's not. It's just grown- ups.
mitch		That sound. Y'know what that is? That's not awesome... things...
norman		Guys, come on!
alvin		Just give it up, weiner!
norman		We have to keep trying!
courtney		We tried and look what happened!
norman		You never listen! No one ever listens! I'm scared too, but I've still gotta do this.
courtney		I do too listen! And whatever it was you just said, it's not working! You think you're going to go out there and do your talking to the dead thing and this is all going to be okay? What are you going to do, ask the zombies not to eat you?
norman		I should've known you wouldn't understand! No one ever does!
courtney		Norman, you need to stop all this weird stuff and start living in the real world!
norman		Everyone in the real world thinks I'm a freak! And you know what, maybe they're right, maybe I am a freak! But I never asked for your help... just go! Get out! Courtney, Mitch and Alvin back off a half step as Norman advances on them.
mitch		Jeez, that was dramatic. Courtney shoots him a look as if she's about to fight back, then shakes her head and shoves her way through the door. She turns to go, snapping at the other kids behind her.
courtney		C'mon!
neil		I'm not going anywhere. You can't make me. Mitch shrugs and picks his brother up, scooping him under one arm and carrying him out the door.
mitch		Dude, you're really heavy.
neil		I'm not speaking to you. You can't make me. Norman watches the doors shut behind them, and his anger begins to ebb. Alone in the archive room, he slumps to his knees feeling useless and frustrated.
courtney		Um, excuse me? Hello? Unmistakably living hands and arms suddenly SMASH through the barricade, clawing into the Town Hall. The kids recoil from the windows, SCREAMING as they bat ineffectually at the grasping hands.
slob guy		They're in there alright! I can feel its clammy flesh!
norman		Hello? He turns around to face his friend and finds himself staring up at a zombie, moving toward him along the dark aisle, pale moonlight shining off its exposed bones. Norman GASPS. He realizes zombies are converging on him from all directions, barring his way out through the door. The Dead Judge GROANS as he approaches. Norman backs away, clutching the book to his chest. Out of the corner of his eye Norman spots another doorway in the shadows of the wall behind him and moves toward it, calling out desperately.
mrs henscher		Let's burn `em out! Obligingly, a couple of townsfolk hurl Molotov cocktails at the windows.
courtney		We're all gonna DIE!
sandra babcock		Oh my gosh, do you think this has got anything to do with Norman? Perry waves her hand away irritably.
perry babcock		Of course not! He is interrupted by a SHOUT as someone sees Norman's tiny figure silhouetted against the raging sky on the roof of the building.
librarian		Everyone look! Perry and Sandra see their son begin gesticulating wildly at the clouds.
sandra babcock		Perry, do something! He cups his hands around his mouth and YELLS at Norman.
perry babcock		Norman! Get down from there this instant! You're supposed to be grounded!
norman		You horrible old witch! Is this what you want? The roiling face above him seems to CACKLE mercilessly.
mrs henscher		Necromancer!
female tourist		This is all his doing!
sandra babcock		Norman! Perry feels the shift in the crowd. They're not just baying for blood. They're about to start baying for his son's blood.
norman		Once upon a time in a far-off land there lived a king and queen... in a magnificent castle... The horrible cloud face above him CACKLES monstrously, drowning out the story.
judge hopkins		Agatha Prenderghast of his Majesty's Province of Massachusetts... As the Judge's voice continues, Norman sees played out against it a MONTAGE of the preceding court case. The notary stands up, waving a wad of testimonies.
norman		No! A young farmhand bows his head shamefully, as he adds further ammunition to the prosecution.
aggie		No! Norman reacts with horror. The "witch" cowering next to him is no more than eleven years-old. Her long hair is unkempt and dirt on her face is streaked with tears from her eyes. Her manacles have been specially made to fit her tiny wrists, and weigh her to the floor. She SNIFFS, scared and confused.
judge hopkins		Do you have anything to say for yourself?
aggie		I was only playing!
judge hopkins		Aye, with fire! You were speaking with the dead! The crowd GASPS and MURMURS fearfully.
norman		Wait! No! You can't do this! The grim-faced Sheriff moves toward Norman and Aggie. She backs away, tears flowing down her face.
aggie		I didn't do anything wrong! A terrible panic comes over her face.
norman		How could you?! She was just a little kid! She was no different than me! The Dead Judge takes a step forward.
dead judge		You... must... stop... the... curse. A beat. Norman is stunned.
norman		What? You don't want to kill me? The Judge shakes his head and points down at the book beside Norman's feet.
dead judge		You can speak to the dead. To us. To her. We need you to read from the book to send us all back to the grave.
norman		But it didn't work! It's a fairy tale! Just a bedtime... story... He narrows his eyes at the Judge.
dead judge		We were scared.
norman		Of what?
dead judge		Of her.
norman		Every year someone reads the story at her grave. Before me it was Mr Prenderghast, and before him there were others, but the curse doesn't ever go away. Nothing gets better. It's not enough. Norman looks at it a moment, thinking. He knows what he has to do.
dead judge		What will you do?
norman		Something nobody ever did before. I've gotta go talk to her.
mitch		Guys! Guys! Under here! Under here! The kids scramble beneath the shelter of the counter as more glowing embers rain down around them. Courtney grabs Mitch by the bicep and whispers weakly.
courtney		Mitch, if we die tonight, this might be the last chance I get to tell you how I feel.
mitch		Uh, well, no. Unless we get brought back as zombies, and then technically you'll have longer. Courtney opens her mouth to continue, but her love train is thoroughly derailed by the nearby CRASH of breaking wood, and the archive door beside them CLATTERS to the ground. The cowering kids all watch in silent horror as several dark figures limp and shamble out of the smoke and make their way past them across the room. It's the zombies, and they're being led by Norman.
courtney		Norman?
norman		Come on! This way!
courtney		You've gotta be kidding me... Norman, his mouth shielded by his sleeve, heads purposefully toward the front doors.
sheriff hooper		You stay right where you are! You may be dead already, but I will still shoot you!
norman		Wait! Courtney and the other kids GASP as they watch from within the doorway.
sandra babcock		Oh my gosh! Far above, the clouds THUNDER like demonic laughter. Perry steps forward, face red.
perry babcock		Son! Step away from the zombies!
norman		No! I won't! Sandra comes up behind her husband and holds his arm.
sandra babcock		Perry, calm down! You're going to have a heart attack and then what are you going to do?
perry babcock		I'll come back and haunt Norman! Maybe then he'll start listening to me!
norman		No! You don't understand what's happening here! I spoke to them and it's not what you think! Courtney edges forward out of the doorway, shocked but transfixed.
mrs henscher		He's in league with them! A few members of the crowd try to push past Perry toward the steps.
deputy dwayne		Let's hang him!
gucci lady		No! We can't hang him, stupid! It's the 21st Century!
deputy dwayne		Then let's burn him! Sandra turns despairingly to the crowd behind her.
sandra babcock		Can you stop being a mob for just one minute?!
norman		Listen to me!
crystal		Get them before they eat us! Punctuating every shout, the roiling clouds continue to RUMBLE their horrible laughter.
courtney		Leave him alone! Courtney suddenly emerges, standing right in front of Norman. Following her lead in true "I'm Spartacus!" fashion, Neil, Mitch and Alvin step forward too, creating a barrier all around him, all joining hands in solidarity. CLOSE ON Courtney's face as she hisses sidelong to Alvin.
neil		All night he's been trying to save you from the witch's curse!
mitch		Yeah, and all you want to do is burn and murder stuff, burn and murder stuff! Just burning and murdering!
alvin		Shame on every single one of you! How dare you all! Amongst the crowd, doubt is beginning to show. Even the rumbling clouds have gone quiet.
crystal		So they're not going to hurt us?
norman		No, does it look like any of them are trying to hurt you? They're just people. At least they used to be. Just stupid people who should have known better. Norman looks at the line of Puritans. They look quite sad and pathetic really. Hardly monstrous at all.
neil		Jeez, what is her problem? Norman takes in the chaos around them...
sandra babcock		Oh, Norman!
neil		So what do we do now?
norman		I... I really don't know...
courtney		Yes you do, Norman! You've got to get to that witch's grave!
norman		But...
courtney		But nothing! You listen to me, buster, we didn't turn away when Daleridge High was slaughtering our volleyball team, did we?
norman		I thought we did.
courtney		No we didn't. I've cheered the uncheerable, Norman, and I'm not letting you give up now! Norman turns to Perry, his eyes all business.
norman		Dad, could I borrow the car?
perry babcock		Excuse me?
sandra babcock		Boy, the traffic tonight!
courtney		Norman! He's on my side of the seat!
norman		She wants you to move over. The Judge MUMBLES.
courtney		I heard that! Mom! Tell the zombie to stop saying stuff about me!
norman		Can you quit using the "z" word?
perry babcock		So help me I will stop this car right now if all three of you don't quit it this instant!
norman		He says "take a left here". Perry gives a distasteful look, but turns the steering wheel. He peers out through the raging storm, windscreen wiper batting ineffectively at the onslaught of debris.
perry babcock		We've already been this way. We're going around in circles!
sandra babcock		Maybe we should pull over and ask someone?
perry babcock		Oh, right, you think maybe we should stop at a graveyard and dig up some other eighteenth-century corpses?
sandra babcock		It's not a bad idea.
perry babcock		I wish I understood you.
perry babcock		Please don't tell me he needs to use the bathroom. Norman listens as the Judge continues GRUMBLING, then leans forward over his father's seat, pointing.
norman		Turn down there!
sandra babcock		Oh my, do you think that's it?
perry babcock		So, why are we here?
norman		Someone's gotta talk to her, Dad.
perry babcock		Yeah, um, why's that person you, exactly? As they continue, the surrounding trees press in on them, just like in Norman's vision. Branches and thorns lash at their faces while thick roots entangle their feet. Norman's family are falling behind and realize too late that the encroaching trees are about to crush Norman.
sandra babcock		Oh my goodness, look out!
norman		Mom!
sandra babcock		Perry! Do something! Perry is finding it difficult to move; a tree bears down on him, its roots snagging his thrashing limbs.
perry babcock		I'm trying!
sandra babcock		Kick it in the knothole! Norman hops nimbly between two huge trunks as they SMASH together, blocking off the way ahead with gnarled wood. Sandra struggles free and shouts over the branches.
sandra babcock		Be careful! Now separated from the others, Norman turns to go ahead on his own. Ahead of him a phosphorescent glow shines off the trees, and he knows he is very close.
norman		Hello? Words echo around him in response.
aggie		You're not welcome here. Go away. Norman shivers as the voice RUMBLES coldly. The raging wind intensifies as Norman turns back around.
norman		Uh... I really need to speak with you.
aggie		Who are you?
norman		I'm Norman. Norman Babcock. You don't actually know me, but I know you. We're actually kind of the same, you and I. Norman takes another step closer, ducking as petrified branches and rocks fly over his head on the wind.
aggie		You're not dead.
norman		Well, no, apart from that.
aggie		And you're a boy.
norman		Well, yes, that too.
aggie		You're not like me at all. Norman hesitates, knowing he's on dangerous ground.
norman		Well, I know how you feel?
aggie		No you don't. You don't know anything about me.
norman		I know your name is Agatha Prenderghast. The ghostly voice wavers for the first time.
aggie		What?
norman		And I know you're probably tired. Right? Because, I mean, it's really late and it's been a long night and we're, like, only eleven years-old, and... The voice snaps back like a clap of thunder.
aggie		I don't want to go to sleep, and you can't make me! I burnt the book into dust, and now I don't have to listen to that stupid story any more! Leave me alone! Norman is terrified, but advances on the tree, the rocks under his feet churning.
norman		No. I'm not leaving. Just listen to me.  Uh... once upon a time... long ago... there was a little girl...
aggie		What?
norman		A little girl who was different from the other people in her village. The voice chants petulantly over him as if putting its demonic fingers in its ears.
aggie		I'm not listening! LA-LA-LA-LA-LA-
norman		She could see and do things that no one could understand, and that made them scared of her.
aggie		I don't like this story!
norman		She turned away from everyone, and became sad and lonely, and had no one to turn to.
aggie		Stop it! If Aggie weren't floating three feet above the ground, she'd be stamping her feet. Her voice blows bits of bark off the surrounding trees.
norman		But the more she turned away from people, the more scared they were of her, and they did something terrible! Arcs of white energy CRACKLE through the air. Where they hit the ground, they send up white flames.
aggie		No!
norman		But even though she was dead something in her came back.
aggie		Stop!
norman		And this part of her wouldn't go away, not for three hundred years...
aggie		Shut up!
norman		And the longer it stayed, the less there was of the little girl!
aggie		I'll make you suffer!
norman		Why? Aggie goes to shout, but stops, unsure of her answer.
aggie		Because... because...
norman		Because you want everyone to hurt just as much as you are! So whenever you wake up you play this mean game, but you don't play fair!
aggie		They hurt me!
norman		So you hurt them back?
aggie		I wanted everyone to see how rotten they were!
norman		You're just like them, Agatha.
aggie		No I'm not!
norman		You're a bully.
aggie		No I'm not! Norman has almost reached the eye of the storm. The world behind him is a whirling torrent of burning white chaos.
norman		They did something awful, but that doesn't mean you should too!
aggie		That's not true! Norman climbs up a tree root, Aggie's flames searing his skin and clothes as he gets close enough to touch her.
norman		Then stop. This is wrong and you know it! You've spent so long remembering the bad people that you've forgotten the good ones. There must have been someone who loved you and cared for you. You don't remember them?
aggie		Leave me alone!
norman		But you're not alone! You have to remember!
aggie		Keep away from me! Norman reaches the end of the root and jumps. His outstretched fingers shake madly as they approach Aggie's tiny hand, as though the air is fighting against him.
norman		Remember! There is a flash of white, and silence.
aggie		Aggie. My name was Aggie.
norman		Sometimes when people get scared they say and do terrible things. I think you got so scared, that you forgot who you are. But I don't think you're a witch. Not really. Aggie looks into his eyes.
aggie		You don't?
norman		I think you're just a little kid with a really special gift who only ever wanted people to understand her. He smiles softly.
aggie		But what about the people who hurt you? Don't you ever want to make them suffer? Norman thinks this over, and shrugs.
norman		Well, yeah, but what good would that do? You think just because there's bad people out there that there's no good ones either? I thought the same thing.
aggie		I just want my mommy...
norman		I'm sorry, Aggie. She's gone.
aggie		That story you were telling. How does it end?
norman		I think that's up to you. Aggie blinks through tears at the grass beneath her feet.
aggie		Is this where they buried me?
norman		It's a pretty good place to sleep. Then you can be with your mom again. Aggie holds Norman's gaze, then looks down to the ground, her tiny frame heaving with a last SOB. She sits down on the grass and curls up, resting her head on her hands. Norman kneels down next to her as she closes her eyes. Her breathing grows deeper and more peaceful; her tiny frame shifting softly under her long hair. The air around them grows blurry and indistinct. Aggie softens as though out of focus, and the whole world becomes a swirling dance of glowing orbs. Norman closes his eyes as a blizzard of light engulfs him, spiraling up into the clouds high above his head. Lightning flashes white far above and thunder RUMBLES softly through the sky, as if moving away.
norman		Sleep tight. He clambers down through the roots back toward the path.
sandra babcock		Norman? Norman! Sandra runs over to him and scoops him up in her arms, hugging him tightly.
norman		Mom, you're embarrassing me.
sandra babcock		That's my job.
courtney		Good job, Norman. Perry takes a deep breath and looks at his son. There is relief and a hint of admiration in his eyes.
perry babcock		Well done, Son. You did it. The Judge, stood some way behind them, lets out a GROAN, and the Babcocks turn to look at him.
deputy dwayne		So, uh, are we gonna need statements? She slaps it out of his hand.
mrs henscher		You know what it's like. You join a mob and you say things. I was merely inhabiting the role.
slob guy		Yeah, it was the others. They pushed me into it. Norman smiles as he passes Alvin, regaling a bunch of teenagers.
alvin		Yeah, me and Norman are in a lot of the same classes. Pretty much inseparable. Best buds. And we do a lot of psychic investigations together. We have a blog actually, you should check it out. Nearby, Courtney wastes no time cozying up to Mitch.
courtney		So I was thinking, maybe we could catch a movie sometime? Nothing scary.
mitch		That sounds great, Kathy! Y'know, you're gonna love my boyfriend! He's like a total chick-flick nut! Courtney stares at him, at a loss for words, then successfully reads between the lines and turns away
norman		Hey Neil. He climbs up beside his friend, who beams at him gleefully.
neil		You did it! You stopped the witch's curse and made the zombies go away and saved pretty much everything!
norman		I guess. I just wanted to say thanks. You stood by me. All the time.
neil		Yeah, of course. Don't get weird or anything. So you think now everything's gonna turn back to normal? Norman looks across the square. The smoldering buildings, the fallen signposts, the warped trees, the rubble...
norman		As normal as it could be.
perry babcock		Son.
norman		Hi Dad.
perry babcock		What're you watching?
norman		A scary movie.
perry babcock		Your, uh, your grandma here is she? Norman looks around and sees his father and grandmother sitting side by side on the sofa. He nods.
****Dialogues from script :Pariah.txt****

super:		"WHEREVER THE BIRD WITH NO FEET FLEW, SHE FOUND TREES WITH NO LIMBS." --- AUDRE LORDE  FADE IN:
laura		Where your singles at?!! Where your singles at?!! Yeah, baby!
female dj		Goddamn I love my job!
alike		Stop! Chill!!
laura		Whatchu' come here for?!
alike		Excuse me. Sorry. Excuse me. Oof, sorry ladies.
female dj		Let's go!
alike		Hi.
cute girl		What?!
alike		Umm...sorry. I was just sayin' Umm...hi.
cute girl		Oh.
alike		Oh. You wanna drink or something? Hey! Hey! Over here!
female dj		Give it up for Sin-A-Min ladies!!
alike		C'mon, we're late.
laura		Huh?
alike		I gotta go!
laura		Hold on a minute.
alike		C'mon, why you trippin'?
laura		What?
alike		Why are you trippin', you know I gotta go!
laura		What?
alike		You know I gotta go.   I'ma get in trouble.
laura		Lemme dance with shortie first, then I'll be ready.
alike		What?
laura		Stop pulling on my clothes!
alike		How many numbers you get? One?
laura		I could've gotten more, but your moms was holding me up.
alike		Oooh.   That's jacked up.
laura		How many you get?
alike		Tonya, Denise, Shelley. No wait that's old, I can delete that one. Tonya...
laura		Ain't Shelley that chick from your math class?! Denise... What? These are your damn study group numbers! Why you frontin'?!
alike		I don't see you with no list of numbers.
laura		I'm not the one looking for a girlfriend, man. You the one still a virgin!
alike		Shut up!
laura		Trying to help your ass. I'm sayin', whatchu waitin' for?!
laura		Kickin' that same `ol quiet shit since 6th grade. I don't need to press, I gets plenty. Shit.
alike		Wah-wah.
laura		I get more pussy than your daddy, nigga, what?!
alike		Oh shit!! Yeah, you got me with that one.
laura		Quit playing.
alike		Your stop.
laura		Huh?
alike		Your stop-- you're getting off here, right?
laura		Nah, I'll roll with you a few more stops.
alike		Why you gon' walk all the way back down for? That's stupid.
laura		Make sure you get home okay.
alike		You ain't big, nigga. Trying to protect somebody. Hurry up, man, get off!
laura		 That's alright man--next stop. Next stop!
laura		You ain't gotta push me, why're you beastin'?
alike		I'm not beastin'.
laura		You got a problem. Call me.
alike		I'ma call you.
sharonda		You late.
alike		 Be quiet.
sharonda		Where you been this late?
alike		 Movies.
sharonda		Movie ended at midnight.
alike		 Shhh. Shut up.
sharonda		 Don't push me.
alike		 Go to bed.
sharonda		I know what stays open past midnight.
alike		Shut up!
sharonda		Good night Lee!
audrey		Nice to know you still live here.
alike		Lost track of time.
audrey		You know what time your curfew is. Where were you?
alike		Movies.
audrey		The show ended at midnight. And your curfew is twelve thirty.
alike		I lost track of time.
audrey		At least you were cute. Where'd you get that shirt? `Princess'. I like that.
alike		It's old.
audrey		Compliments your figure. I saw something just like it on sale, maybe we could go shopping--
alike		Goodnight.
audrey		I really don't care for that young lady you run around with anyway.
alike		Yeah, okay!
audrey		And tie your head up.
alike		I don't have on make-up.
audrey		Wash your face anyway.
alike		Mom. I'm seventeen years old, please don't talk to me like--
audrey		Watch your tone.  Well, it's your skin.
alike		Yes, mom.
math teacher		As promised, I will be grading these on a curve.
alike		Hey!
alike		Nothin' you can eat.
alike		 I know.
alike		Did you see the one in the back?
alike		So?
alike		What do you think?
alike		Okay?
alike		I thought it was good.
audrey		Oh, so your log is all up to date?
clerk		No I--
audrey		And you've checked the round for any calls?
clerk		Well I --
audrey		Do you even know which doctors are on the floor?
clerk		No ma'am I--
audrey		Then I suggest you get busy.
audrey		No, not at all. Help yourself.
audrey		Oh, no. Just some yogurt. Some vanilla yogurt.
audrey		Oh I'm...I don't know where my mind is...Yeah, this is just uh--well let me get your opinion.
audrey		Yeah see isn't this cute?
audrey		Yeah, this is for Alike.
audrey		No she's the oldest one.
audrey		What, you think it's too young?
audrey		Thank you.
audrey		Now see that's what I thought... But Lee doesn't like anything I pick out for her anymore.
audrey		No, no. I just wanted to get her something nice. You know.
audrey		Well, no we--
audrey		Oh I will. I'll call you when--
sharonda		I don't see why we can't just watch TV like usual.
sharonda		Quit it!
alike		Shut up.
sharonda		You don't tell me what to do!
audrey		Girls.
arthur		I'm expecting a call.
audrey		This is your father's night off.
sharonda		Homecoming got moved this year. It's gonna be in September instead of October.
audrey		Oh really?
sharonda		Yeah. Which means I'll be able to go to Autumn Ball and the Homecoming Dance.
audrey		Who are you going with?
sharonda		I don't know. Maybe Derek. If he asks me. Maybe Parrish. I haven't decided yet. But for homecoming, I definitely want to go with Craig.
audrey		Oooh, I see. Lee, who are you going with?
alike		Umm. I'm not going.
audrey		Not going? This is your junior year. How can you not go?
arthur		Leave her alone Audrey, if doesn't want to go, she doesn't have to go.
audrey		But it's her junior year, she's not gonna have any memories.
arthur		I don't like all those boys buzzing around my daughters anyway.
sharonda		Nobody buzzes around Alike.
arthur		That's right and it better stay that way. Matter of fact, I don't know if I'ma let you go.
sharonda		Daaa-aad?!
laura		How much we paid him last time?
candace		Six twenty-five.
laura		So that makes--we owe another two seventy-five for the rest of the month.
candace		Half.
laura		Phone?
candace		Let it ride.
laura		Gas?
candace		How much?
laura		Eighty-five.
candace		Half. No let it ride.
laura		I can get some more hours--
candace		No. You know what you need to do.
laura		Nah Candy, I can't just dip out on you like that--
candace		I was doing just fine before you moved in, remember? I can handle it.
laura		Who?! Man, don't even--
candace		She would've--
laura		Stop.
candace		The next test is coming up soon!
mika's friend		It was like seven of us--Me, Khalil, Misha, Tamara....
mika's friend		Heeeell no--Fat Tamara.
mika		Oh I was about to say, Tamara Marks is a ughh--I can't stand her.
mika's friend		Anyway, it was all of us and oh Laura, you know that girl from the restaurant? She was there with one of her friends.
mika		That gay chick? Ya'll be hanging like that?
mika's friend		Yeah, well it's a couple of them. She's mad cool though, so sometime she come out with us every now and then, anyway--
mika		Man, y'all be doin' it on it weekends, let me find out!
mika's friend		But anyway--
mika		Some of them AG's are kinda cute-- I'm not saying I would, but I would holla.
mika		Isn't that one of them over there? What's her name? Amika?--Alisha?
mika's friend		Alike.
mika		Yeah, Alike--she's cute too.
mika		Look, I'm not gay--but if I was gay I might talk to her.
mika's friend		She's in the middle anyway.
mika		Yeah, but if she was just a little more harder--
cute boy		`Sup ladies?
mika's friend		Oooh--let me find out, Mika. You act like you bi- or something.
mika		I like girls but I love boys.
laura		Watch out, it's slippery.
alike		So what do you think?
laura		I already told you what I think.
alike		But you know her, right?
laura		I said I know of her, I don't know her know her.
alike		I'm saying, you know her friend, right? You gonna introduce us?
laura		Just put those on that stack right there. Yeah, thank you.
alike		You listening?
laura		I'm listening--all I'm saying is-- pass me that milkshake mix right there.
laura		All I'm saying is that I don't think you should put yourself out there like that. Especially if you don't even know if she likes you like that.
alike		She does.
laura		How do you know she does?
alike		I just know she does.
laura		Hmmph. We'll see.
alike		What're you doing?
laura		I thought I felt a drop of pig shit.
alike		Shut up.
laura		All I know is I been trying to get you to holla at girls in the club for the longest.
alike		I don't want to holla at girls in the club.
laura		Obviously. Why you pressed about this chick?
alike		I wanted to ask you about something else too.
laura		Oh God, what now?
alike		I need you to get something for me.
laura		What?!
laura		What?!
alike		Just for my image.
laura		WHAAAAAT???!! You trying to strap!!?? Whaaatt?!! Oh my God, what are you going through...
alike		Please.
laura		What difference you think having a bulge in your pants gon' make?
alike		Pleeeeease. By next Friday.
laura		Next Friday?! Okay-- Whatever. Oh my God I can't believe you ! Alright. Yeah. She better be cute for all of this...
laura		I think it looks natural.
laura		I'm serious, I mean it doesn't look that bad.
alike		I can't believe you.
laura		What?!
alike		Laura, this doesn't look right. I'ma look stupid.
laura		Well, first of all-- I don't think its supposed to be on top of your underwear like that.
alike		I'm not putting this thing next to my skin, it pinches already.
laura		It's supposed to fit like that.
alike		They didn't have any brown?
laura		I didn't have time for all of that. The brown ones were too big, anyway.
alike		Ugh! You gotta take it back.
laura		I can't take it back.
alike		Here's the receipt!
laura		Unh-unh. I'm not going back in there. One time was embarrassing enough.
alike		You grown!
laura		Still what if somebody would see me in there? I'm not going back, that's it.
alike		Then where's my change?
sharonda		Lee, where'd you put my make-up case...AHHH I'M GON' TELL. OOH LEE, I'MA TELL DADDY!
sharonda		Eeew get that thing, off a me! Get it off me it's nasty! I'm tellin'!
laura		Shhh!!
alike		Shut up!!! Thought you locked the door?!
sharonda		Eeew.    Get it offa me!
laura		I did!
alike		OK, look I'm offa you.     Just be quiet and calm down.
sharonda		I'm tellin' that you got that thing.
laura		You can't tell.
sharonda		I'm telling.
alike		Shut up.
sharonda		It looks nasty.
alike		 See, I told you so.
sharonda		Where's my make up case?    I know you got it.
alike		I just borrowed it.
sharonda		Give it back.
alike		Promise you won't tell.
sharonda		Give it back.
sharonda		LEE, STOP IT EEEW!!! I just got that one.
laura		Shhh!!
sharonda		Don't touch it with that... eeww that's so nasty. C'mon Lee give it back.
laura		Then promise you won't tell.
alike		Promise...
sharonda		Ughh, I hate you.
sharonda		OK, OK I won't tell.   Daag!
sharonda		I'm still tellin'
audrey		Tellin' what?
audrey		Lee...  Oh. Hello Laura, I didn't see you standing there.
laura		Hi Mrs. Freeman.
audrey		How's your mother?
laura		I haven't spoken to her in awhile. She's fine.
audrey		Well I hope so. And I'm so glad to hear your sisters finally getting back on her feet. Wasn't she--
laura		She's good.
alike		Mom?!
audrey		I think we'll just leave this open. Let some air circulate in here.
laura		I was just about to leave, anyway. So...
laura		Just try it.
laura		Will you chill? You just gotta get used to it.
alike		Owwww!
laura		Sit still, people gon' think you got something.
alike		This joint hurts, man. I'ma go take it off.
laura		You not gon' take it off.
alike		I'm gonna take it off.
laura		Where you gonna take it off at?
alike		In the bathroom.
laura		Then where you gon' put it? You gonna walk around the club with a dick in your hand? Chill. I knew we shouldn't have done this. You blowin' me right now.
alike		Then I'm out.
laura		Nah, you're `bout to stay and go through this. You're the one who wanted to meet her, not me.
alike		Then you come on, too. Hurry up--
mika		You alright?
alike		Yeah, no, yeah it's just--there's a spring in the cushion or something.
mika		You wanna switch seats?
alike		No, I'm good.
mika		And you don't wanna dance?
laura		Hey ya'll we're about to go dance!
alike		No, no not really. I'm not really feeling the music.
mika		Well you don't mind right? I mean you don't mind if I go dance with somebody else?
alike		No, do your thing.
mika		If you change your mind--
alike		No, no it's cool.
audrey		I hope it was worth it.
alike		Mom I lost--
audrey		Save it.
alike		It won't happen--
audrey		Oh I know it won't.
audrey		Lee are you ready?! Lee?!
alike		I am ready.
audrey		You're not going to church looking like that. Where's the blouse I bought you?
alike		What's wrong with this?
audrey		Hey there, you're home early--well actually late. I thought you would have called--
alike		Dad--
arthur		Do what your mom says.
audrey		Are you hungry? Let me heat it up for you.
alike		Dad--
audrey		Lee!
arthur		Leave me out of it.
audrey		Go get changed.
alike		Dad, what's wrong with this outfit?
arthur		Nothing.
alike		See?
audrey		I'm not gonna argue with you.
arthur		Do what she says.
alike		Dad--
arthur		 Umgowa!
audrey		And put on a skirt!
sharonda		Hey Dad!
audrey		Too much lipstick.
sharonda		It's lipgloss.
arthur		Gimmie kiss.
audrey		Did you talk to her?
arthur		Get me a beer, please. Sharonda's fine.
audrey		I'm talking about Lee.
arthur		Alike. And I don't see that there's a problem.
audrey		I'm tired of this tomboy thing she's got going on. And Laura. You said you were going to handle it.
arthur		Umm-hmm.
audrey		She needs a male point of view.
arthur		I said okay, dammit! Now can I please have a beer please?
audrey		It's Sunday morning.
arthur		It goes with the spaghetti.
audrey		Do you have to work tonight?
arthur		To put food on the table and clothes on our backs, no. To go out to restaurants and keep designer sneakers in the closet, yes.
audrey		Are you forever gonna be mad?
arthur		Are you forever going to be happy?  You made that decision a long time ago.
audrey		We both made sacrifices.
arthur		You look beautiful, baby.
audrey		Tuck your blouse in.
alike		This isn't me.
audrey		Tuck your blouse in.
arthur		Leave it out.
alike		What deal?
audrey		Comin' in late...
alike		Dad, I hardly ever--
arthur		Why don't you give that a break for a little while?
alike		Dad, come on...
audrey		You coming with us?
arthur		Nope. Sleep.
audrey		We could go to a later service. The one o'clock--
arthur		I said NO!!
sharonda		I'm ready.
arthur		Alike, you look beautiful. Everybody looks beautiful, okay?
audrey		Lee! Lee! Here's someone I want you to meet.
alike		Huh?
audrey		Get down out the car and come speak.
alike		Alright, Mom.
audrey		You'll have to excuse her, she's been feeling rude lately.
audrey		Alike, this is Mrs. Singletary, one of my co-workers and her daughter, Bina. Sylvia, Bina, this is my daughter Alike, we call her "Lee" for short.
alike		Hi.
alike		Nice to meet you.
bina		Hi.
audrey		And this is my youngest daughter, Sharonda.
sharonda		Hi.
bina		Hi.
audrey		Lee, Bina goes to the same school as you.
alike		Cool.
bina		Yeah, I think I've seen you around. Mrs. Alvarado's class right? AP English?
alike		Yup.
audrey		So. Now that we're all acquainted, don't be a stranger.
audrey		Bina I think you and Lee may even go to school the same way. Don't you live off of St. James Place?
audrey		Alrighty, I'll be around. Take care.
alike		You're funny.
audrey		I don't know what your problem is.
sharonda		Can somebody put in this CD please?
alike		I don't know what you think is going to change.
audrey		I know God doesn't make mistakes. I know that much.
sharonda		Moooom, can you--
audrey		Be quiet. Nobody's putting in anything. I'm gonna listen to what I want to listen to for a change.
bina		Look, I don't like lying to my mother, that's all.
alike		Then don't, she doesn't have to know.
bina		She does.    She asks me everyday.
alike		So tell her yeah.
bina		No, I'm sick of lying to cover for you.
alike		So don't.
bina		Look Alike, Lee. Whatever it is you wanna be called. I'm not trying to hang out with you, either, but I'm not about to take an L for it. So stop dodging me, let's just go to school together and be done with it. We don't have to see each other any other time than that.
alike		Hey!
bina		Yeah, you sorry your mom is gonna bug out.
alike		No for real, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to be that way. It's just... OK, I am concerned that my, my mom will find out, but...
bina		But?
alike		It's not like that. It's just-- she's just. If you knew her, you'd understand. She's like, I don't know.
bina		You don't have to make small talk. Let's just walk.
alike		I said I'm sorry. It's not you, it's just that my mom is like, she's like...
bina		Overprotective?
alike		Yeah.
bina		I can tell. I've seen--I mean, a lot of people's parents are like that.
alike		Yeah?
bina		Yeah.
alike		Yeah. But probably not like mine. But anyway...
bina		Anyway, like I said, we don't have to talk. Just walk.
candace		How's it comin'?
laura		It's good.
arthur		Oh my God!!
alike		You ain't got no range, either.
arthur		Yeah but at least I hit the backboard. Damn.
alike		Brick!!
arthur		What's the score?
alike		One up.
arthur		One?
alike		Yup!
arthur		One? Nah, I definitely have like three. At least three.
mack		It's on again... Check it out Free.
sock		Look who's big time.
mack		Brother was looking clean though. Looked just like, look like...uh-- Danny Glover!
sock		 Excuse me Miss??!! Miiiiissss??!!
mack		Certain Friday nights they got, you know special parties going on.
sock		Or should I say Sir??!! Siiiir??!! Hello?!!
arthur		Chill out, Sock.
sock		Hey, my man! You hear me talkin' to you?!
sock		Hey!!
mack		Mind your business.
butch woman		And a pack of Kools.
sock		Say, I been trying to get your attention. Do you go by Sir or Miss?
mack		That'll be all ma'am?
butch woman		Yeah.
sock		Look I just had a simple question I wanted to ask. See, I just want to know how does pussy taste?
butch woman		I can't lie, pussy do taste good.
sock		Oh yeah?
sock		Fuckin' Bulldagger! He-She! Dyke!
mack		Ask your wife!
arthur		She told you.
sock		She ain't tell me shit! I don't know what the fuck y'all niggas are laughing for!
mack		Awww shut up. Your big mouth got you in trouble as usual.
sock		Thought you was my friend, Mack. But I guess I ain't expect you to defend me Free, the way your daughter is--
arthur		Say what?!
mack		He don't mean nothin'! He don't know what he's talking about!
sock		 I been to Poughkeepsie!
mack		Carry your Poughkeepsie ass on out of my store!
sock		Fuck y'all!
arthur		I should arrest your ass.
sock		Man, fuck y'all!!
mack		Free, don't pay him no mind. Just talkin' trash.
laura		Damn, this is your color. So what's the deal incog-negro?
alike		Mom has me hemmed up.
laura		Your phone ain't broke. You coulda called a nigga. Put this on.
alike		My bad. She's making me hang out with this chick from church. It's crazy.
laura		Makin' you?! You a grown-ass woman, bruh!
alike		I don't even know if that's me anymore.
laura		Yeah, that's hot, yo. You should rock that.
laura		Different like what?
alike		I don't know--maybe like a open mic or something.
laura		Open mic? Nah, man. It's plenty chicks at the piers, you just gotta be more confident.
alike		Nah, I'm down.
laura		You sure? I don't want you getting hemmed up.
alike		Nah seriously, I'm down for whatever.
laura		Real?
alike		Promise.
laura		That's what's up! I'ma take the whole day off. It's gonna be tight watch... we gon' do it up!
alike		You should wear your hair down sometimes.
audrey		Your father likes it up.
alike		It looks nice down.
audrey		Maybe. Anyway give this back to Bina's mom when you go over tomorrow night.
alike		Saturday night?!
audrey		We talked about this.
alike		No we didn't.
audrey		Lee--
alike		I had plans for this weekend.
audrey		Well, you don't have to go to Bina's on Saturday night, you can always stay home with me.
alike		Oh my God!
bina		You like Destiny's Child?
alike		Uhh-uhh.
bina		Jay-Z?
alike		Nope.
bina		Fifty?
alike		No, I don't really like any of that commercial bullshit.
bina		Oh. Who do you like?
alike		Shit!
bina		Like who?
alike		People you probably haven't heard of. Conscious stuff.
bina		Like who?
alike		Roots. Black Star. Asheru and Blue Black. Pharcyde.
bina		Pharcyde? I heard of Pharcyde.
alike		Ah--for real?
bina		Yep. Tribe? J-Rawls? Bahamadia?
alike		Uh-oh, whatchu know about Bahamadia? Let me find out....
bina		I'm not as generic as you think.
bina		Alright, how about Rock?
alike		It's cool.
bina		Whatchu know about Santogold? Since you all underground and stuff.
alike		She's tight.
bina		Tamar-kali?
alike		I haven't heard of her, I heard of Res.
bina		Oh no this is way better, you gotta check her out.
alike		Wow.
audrey		He-llooo.
laura		Hello Mrs. Freeman. Is Lee home please?
audrey		She's out with her friend right now, Laura. You take care.
laura		Oh. Umm do you know when she'll be back?
audrey		No, I believe she's out for the evening.
laura		Oh, because we had umm... alright then... Thank you.
audrey		Goodnight.
bina		"Twist a virgin `round your dirty little finger! 
alike		Yo, this shit is hot!
bina		Told you. Don't you have to go? I'll cover. It's cool.
alike		Nah, I wanna stay.
laura		Where you at? Hit me up when you get here.
alike		Mrs. Alvarado was trying to get me to check out this one place.
bina		Oh hell, no. That's for old people-- I'll write down some places you should check out. Maybe you could read some of my stuff, too.
alike		Definitely.
alike		A butterfly, briefly Suffocated On the mucous of its own change Imprisoned 
alike		I liked your story, though. It was tight.
bina		Yeah? Which one? The one about the--
alike		The one about karma, how things come back to you. That one, I thought it was tight.
bina		For real? Thanks. I wasn't gonna say anything, but I liked yours too.
alike		Why?
bina		Why did I like it or why wasn't I gonna say anything?
alike		Why did you like it?
bina		I don't know. I guess because it felt honest.
alike		Oh.
bina		Didn't you have on a different shirt earlier?
alike		What?
bina		Nothin'.
alike		No, what'd you say?
bina		Nothin'.
alike		Yeah, I had on a different shirt.
bina		Oh... Well, that's cool.
alike		So why weren't you gonna say anything about it?
bina		About your shirt?
alike		About the poem.
bina		Cause you're moody.
alike		Moody?
bina		And quiet.
alike		Man, I'm not moody.
bina		Yeah, right.
alike		What?
bina		This is me.
alike		Who gave you this?
bina		What the bear? My dad.
alike		No, this.
bina		Oh that. Girl, my stupid ex- boyfriend gave me that.
alike		Oh. Cute.
bina		Not really. I mean I guess it was at the time.
alike		This is straight. You'll burn me a copy?
bina		Yeah, I have a bunch of other stuff, too.  So who do you hang out with? I don't really see you with anybody.
alike		My friend Laura used to go there. Not now, but she's going back.
bina		Oh because, I was just gonna say-- I'm going to this house party and you can come if you want to.
alike		Sure. How'm I supposed to dress?
bina		You don't dress. You just come however. Come as you are.
alike		Yeah...But that's mainly old stuff, though.
bina		This is the one you did today?
alike		Yeah.
bina		Nice.
alike		You play too much.
bina		Seriously, it's right here.     Just take it.
alike		Thank you...
bina		You're welcome...
alike		Nothin', just my writings...
bina		Sorry---
alike		No, I'm sorry. I just umm...I gotta go.
bina		I thought--
alike		Sorry.
laura		You'll get that for me?
alike		Wassup man.
laura		Board, goddammit!! I told you!
personal cheerleader		Good game, baby!
laura		What's good, Lee?
alike		Just came to say wassup.
laura		Whatchu got, Ty?
laura		We goin' eight!!
alike		Can I talk to you for a second?
laura		Now I got to cut you!! Grab `em partner. We gonna run a Boston on that ass! 
alike		I really need to talk to you--
laura		I said later!
laura		Mind your business. Bam! That's what I thought!
alike		 Hey Dad!
alike		Mom?
alike		Huh?
arthur		No, not you.  Hey, I'll talk to you later, alright? My daughter's up.
alike		Who was that?
arthur		What you doing up?
alike		Just wanted to talk.
arthur		Ate already.
alike		You ate at work?
arthur		No, just grabbed some take out.
alike		Oh. Where?
arthur		Why you asking me all these goddamn questions, girl? What's wrong with you? You don't question me.
alike		Sorry.
arthur		Hold up. I'm sorry, Alike come on back. Look-- I got patties...
alike		Beef?
arthur		And chicken. C'mon.
arthur		Listen uh...Your momma's worried that uh...How's school? Straight A's?
alike		Probably.
arthur		That's right. Want a sip?
arthur		I said a sip. A sip!
alike		Nothin'.
arthur		They like you? Or they like you, like you?
alike		Say they like you, like you.
arthur		Uh-huh.
alike		I mean, they haven't said anything yet. But what if... so what if the person is kinda like a friend, but you know they like you more than that?
arthur		Well, I think that's the best way to start--as friends.
alike		But then what if...What if the person is --
alike		Yeah.
arthur		Say uh--there's this new--uh women's club up there by the liquor store--have you--do you--you haven't heard anything about it, right?
alike		Nah, I never even heard of it.
arthur		Good. `Cause you know that's a uh...it's a rough neighborhood. You know that right? I had a case over there. You wanna be careful--stay away from that element. Just in case it ever comes up?
alike		I'll be careful.
arthur		Good. I know you will.
alike		Dad, when you were on the phone earlier? It sounded like...I mean...I guess you're headed back to work, huh?
arthur		Yep. Your mama still up?
alike		Probably.
arthur		Tell her I had to work.
laura		My sister gets home at six so, you gotta be gone by then.
laura		There's some lunchmeat in there too, help yourself.
alike		Hey.
bina		Hey.
alike		I'm sorry about the other day.
bina		It's cool.
bina		You still coming to the party?
alike		I don't know--I need to try and catch up with Laura.
bina		Oh.
alike		But I do wanna hang out...I mean...maybe we could do both.
bina		Cool.  You could spend the night if want to. Avoid the whole curfew thing.
alike		Yeah...
bina		You sure?
alike		Yeah.
arthur		Easy, easy now. Watch your right hand side.
alike		I am.
arthur		Don't ride the brakes though. Good.
alike		See? I'm getting better!! Can I drive back?
arthur		I don't about that. You're shaky girl, you're shaky. Get us some chips and I'll think about it.
mack		Hey, baby!
alike		Hey Mr. Ferguson!
mack		I see Alike's been running circles around you again!
arthur		Little bit, little bit. I still got it though.
arthur		We better get going.
arthur		I'll holler at you later.
alike		But you said I could drive--
arthur		I said get in the car!
arthur		Look...umm...you know you're daddy's girl, right?
audrey		Oh you're home?
arthur		Hey.
audrey		I must've dozed off. How long have you been in?
arthur		Hour.
audrey		Did you see the plate in there?
arthur		This is fine.
audrey		There's room over here. You can see the TV better.
arthur		This is fine.
audrey		Just alike.
arthur		Say what?
audrey		You and your daughter. Have you talked to Lee yet? I told you she--
arthur		I talked to Alike.
audrey		You did?
arthur		Everything's fine. Like I told you. Matter fact, she's got a boyfriend.
audrey		Boyfriend?
arthur		Just give her some space.
audrey		Space? She's hardly ever home in the first place and you're just like her, creeping in all hours of the night. Both of you. Running around like you got something to hide, like I'm the big, bad witch and what about me? I'm home by myself all the time and Sharonda's getting older and starting to go out and pretty soon--
arthur		I don't have anything to hide. Look I told you I talked to Alike and everything is fine.
audrey		Did you ask her?
arthur		No, because I didn't have to. Besides,I would know okay? If anybody would know, it would be me. I know my daughter--
audrey		Your daughter?!!
arthur		--better than anyone else and--
audrey		So now all of a sudden she's just your daughter?!
arthur		That's your damn problem, you're too much of a damn worry wart.
audrey		Let's hope you're right, Detective.
arthur		Will you shut the fuck up?!
audrey		An hour? Really? I'm not your dumb damn floozy in the street. And you will not talk to me that way.
alike		I know you're not scared.
sharonda		I'm not.
alike		Hmm?
sharonda		I hope you know it doesn't matter to me.
alike		I know.
alike		So whatchu you think? She's cool right?
laura		This one's just for me and you.
alike		And she's smart, too. She does poetry, you should hear it. It's like, it's good, you know?
laura		Look, I'm right here.
laura		Look, I'm sorry for all the drama.
alike		No, it's cool. I shoulda--
laura		What I'm saying is, I probably overreacted.  And then...I don't know. Seeing you two together or whatever. I'm glad to see you're finally happy.
alike		C'mon man, you know you're my best friend. Nobody's gonna --
laura		You don't need to say anything. I just wanted to get it off my chest. I'm happy for you, that's all.
mika		We goin' to get something to eat?
laura		That's what's up.
alike		Listen, umm--
laura		That's for later. Bina, nice to meet you.
bina		You too. We had fun.  Laura gives Bina a polite hug, pounds Alike on the shoulder and starts to lead Mika away.  MIKA                                 ALIKE Byyeee!!                           Hey hold up!  Laura pumps a lazy    fist in the air in acknowledgement. Bina takes Alike's hand    and slowly drags her away. Alike keeps looking back, then    finally gives up. Laura looks back just as Alike turns around    and disappears around the corner.  BINA  I like your friends. They're cool.
alike		I'm not sleep.
bina		Yes you are.
alike		Any brownies left?
bina		Nope.
alike		What?
bina		Nothing.
alike		Nothing.
bina		What're you doing? What's wrong?
alike		This is uh... I never... I'm sorry, I'm trippin' out.
bina		It's okay. We don't have to.
laura		Oh.
alike		Hey.
bina		Hey.
alike		You up already?
bina		It's after one o'clock, actually.
alike		What's wrong?
bina		Nothin's wrong, I'm just cleaning up. Don't worry about it.
alike		Okay then, I'll help you.
bina		No, I got it.
alike		Look um--I just wanted to say that last night...last night was amazing...thank you for--
bina		Last night we were just playin' around, that's all.
alike		Look... We can slow things down... Nobody has to know that we're together.
bina		"Together"? Whoa, no...
alike		Huh?! I thought... Look if you don't want to call it that, that's fine, but don't act like nothing happened.
bina		Look, I'm not gay okay? This isn't me--I wasn't--I'm not ready for all this...
alike		What?
bina		You promise you won't tell anybody?
audrey		Where in the hell have you been?!
alike		I'M NOT YOUR HUSBAND!!!!
audrey		LEE--don't you dare--Alike--I am your Mother--
audrey		You see, that's exactly what I'm talking about?! Get over here!
arthur		Go back to bed!
audrey		No, you come tell your father what you told me!
arthur		Don't drag her into this, Audrey!  Go to your room, Alike. Your mom and I are having a discussion.
audrey		We are not discussing!! I wanna know right now--
arthur		Go to your room!
audrey		Your father's leaving us!!
arthur		I am not leaving you!!
audrey		Sharonda, wake up!! Come see your father leaving us!!
arthur		I'm not fucking leaving!! Will you stop saying that?!
audrey		Come say goodbyeeee!!
alike		Shhh. It's okay. Go in my room and lock the door. Don't come out, `kay?  Sharonda bawls harder. Alike gently closes the door on her.  ALIKE  It's gonna be okay.
arthur		Audrey, stop it!! Alike go back to bed!
audrey		Meanwhile, your daughter's turning into a damn man right before your very eyes, and you can't even see it!!
arthur		No you take that back.! You shut the fuck up about that, Audrey!
alike		Dad?! Stop!
arthur		Go back to bed, Alike!!
audrey		Tell him, Lee!
arthur		Don't call her Lee!
alike		Mom, stoppit please!?
audrey		Tell your Dad where you hang out! Tell him about your butch-ass girlfriend--
alike		Laura's NOT my girlfriend!!
arthur		What the hell are you talking about?! You don't know what the hell are you talking about. Alike, please just go to your room, baby!
audrey		Tell him!
arthur		Tell me what?!
alike		I'm not tellin' you nothin'.
audrey		Tell him you're a dyke! You tell him you're a nasty ass dyke!!
arthur		No she's not gay. Alike we didn't raise you that way, baby.
audrey		There!! You see!!
arthur		You shut the hell up Audrey!!
alike		Dad--
arthur		Don't you lie now, you tell the truth!!
alike		You already know.
arthur		No, I don't know. You tell your mother it's just a phase.
alike		It's not a phase!
audrey		See, if you would've DONE SOMETHING!!
arthur		 What's wrong with you?
alike		There's nothing wrong with me!
audrey		This is your fault!! If you had--
arthur		AUDREY WILL YOU SHUT THE FUCK UP!!!
alike		YEAH I'M GAY!!
audrey		Say it again! Say it again!
alike		I'm a lesbian! Yeah, I'm a dyke.
audrey		No you're not!!!!!
arthur		That's enough! Stop it!
audrey		Don't you say that! Let go! Don't you say that!
alike		Get offa me!!
audrey		What? You a man now? YOU GON' FIGHT ME LIKE A MAN??!!
arthur		AUDREY STOP!!!!
audrey		AND YOU TOO! YOU TOO! YOU TOO! OH GOD!!  Tears stream down Arthur's face as Audrey shakes free and aims one last blow at his face.  AUDREY  YOU SAY IT'S NOT TRUE!!!
laura		Anything?
alike		No.
laura		How about now?
alike		No. Nothing.
laura		Shit. Fucking building.
laura		Here. Good thing I keep some these around.
alike		Yeah, for your many women.
laura		Hey, you thanking `em now.
laura		You okay?
laura		You bring clothes?
alike		Huh-uh. I stopped by the house--I stopped by---
laura		That's alright, man. You can wear some of mine. It's okay, c'mon. Lets get some sleep. My sister'll be home in a little bit, too.
audrey		Okay.
audrey		You want to say grace?
arthur		Heavenly Father...
audrey		Amen!
arthur		Amen.
audrey		I got this recipe from a magazine. Supposed to be very good. And you see I made those green beans you like. Sharonda pass the rice please.
sharonda		Dad. You know where she is.
alike		Where's Mom?
arthur		She...your mother couldn't make it.
alike		I've been accepted into a early college program. Starts in the Spring. Berkeley.
arthur		California's a long way away--
alike		Ten weeks writing boot camp, workshops. Then I can start summer semester.
arthur		We can talk about that. Okay?
alike		I need you to meet with my guidance counselor. Sign the paperwork so I can graduate early.
arthur		I'm sorry, alright? I'm sorry I let her hurt you--
alike		I need to know now if you'll sign the papers. Yes or no?
arthur		Can you forgive me?
alike		Yes or no?
arthur		You can always come back home. Things are gonna be different, I promise you--
alike		Dad, I'm not running. I'm choosing.
arthur		I know.  Okay.
alike		Tell Mom that she was right.
arthur		Right about what?
alike		God doesn't make mistakes.
arthur		You should tell her yourself.
alike		Mom.
audrey		Lee--Alike. How've you been?
alike		Fine. Did Dad tell you?
audrey		He told me, yes.
alike		How are you?
audrey		I just hope you're keeping yourself safe.
alike		I love you, Mom.
audrey		I'll be praying for you.
arthur		I got it.
alike		Thank you.
arthur		You want me to come in with you?
arthur		Well--
arthur		You can always come back home.
alike		I love you.
arthur		I love you too.
laura		Let me get a hug or somethin', damn.
sharonda		Call us when you get there.
alike		You know I will.
laura		You just better fuckin' call.
****Dialogues from script :Passengers.txt****

cafeteria		Super-modern and gleaming. Hundreds of tables, all empty.
hibernation bay		Endless corridors lined with vertical glass tubes. Inside each tube stands a PASSENGER. Eyes closed in sleep. If they're breathing you can't tell by looking. They sleep on their feet, leaning against padded supports. Straps secure them in place; sensors adhere to their skin. They wear shorts and tank tops with HomeStead Company logos. We survey their faces. No children, no senior citizens. Men and women of every ethnicity in the prime of their lives. We settle on one man. JIM PRESTON, 38. Sound asleep. A small display on his pod reads:
james preston		Rate 2 Mechanical Engineer Denver, Colorado 
video stewardess		Good Morning, James!
video stewardess		Don't worry, Jim. It's normal to feel confused. You've just spent a hundred and twenty years in suspended animation. She makes it sound sexy. Jim scowls and rubs his eyes. ONSCREEN - An animation. Happy people go to sleep in glass tubes in a hospital. The tubes are loaded onto a spaceship.
video stewardess		The Excelsior is on final approach.
jim		Right.
elevator foyer		Jim finds a bank of elevators. As he approaches, the indicators blink on. An elevator opens, spilling light. He steps inside, and muzak begins to play.
deck seven		A corridor lined with doors. A CLEANING ROBOT vacuums. Jim appears. Instantly the corridor lights brighten. The cleaning robot rolls past Jim.  CLEANING ROBOT Hello, Passenger.  JIM   Hello, robot. Jim follows wall markings to his cabin. Lets himself in.
jim's cabin		Cozy but small. A bed, a desk, an armchair. No window. A SCREEN lights up. The HomeStead Company theme music plays. An ANNOUNCER speaks. 
cargo robot		Passenger James Preston?
jim		Jim. Yeah.
cargo robot		Your luggage, Passenger Jim. Swipe your shipcard to confirm. Jim swipes his shipcard through a slot on top of the robot. The robot scoots inside and deposits Jim's bags on the floor.
jim		Thanks.
cargo robot		Thank you, Passenger Jim! The robot zips out the door. Jim looks up and down the corridor. The receding robot is the only sign of life. He steps back inside.
announcer		Your group's orientation starts in forty-five minutes. Join them in Conference Room Twenty on Deck One. Don't forget!
video instructor		Hello, Passengers. Will you all please take a seat. Jim looks around. He's the only one there. He sits.
jim		 Can I just...
video instructor		No questions until the end, please.
jim		Wait. Where are all the other...
video instructor		The Colonies offer an alternative. A better way of life.
video instructor		...thriving job markets in mining, farming and manufacturing. An explosion in the cultural arts. And if you long for the life less civilized, you can apply for a pioneer permit and seek your fortune in the wild.  Any questions?
video instructor		We're all on the Starship Excelsior. Five thousand passengers and fifty- eight crew members.
jim		But I'm the only one awake.
video instructor		No, all the passengers wake up at the same time.
jim		Then something's wrong with the other hibernation pods.
video instructor		Hibernation pods are fail-safe.
jim		So why am I the only one here?
video instructor		I'm sorry. I don't understand your question.
grand concourse		Jim finds an INFOMAT - an information kiosk. A banner scrolls across the screen: ASK ME A QUESTION! Jim taps the screen.
jim		I need to talk to a person. A real live person.
infomat		What sort of person? Personal trainer? Travel planner? Therapist?
jim		Someone in charge.
infomat		The Ship Steward handles passenger affairs. You can find him in his office on the Service Deck. ONSCREEN: A dotted line on the map shows how to get there.
jim		Thank you.
infomat		Happy to help!
elevator lobby		Another Infomat. Jim arrives at a jog. 
infomat		Hello! What's your quest...
jim		Who's flying the ship?
infomat		The bridge crew includes the Captain, the Pilot, the Chief Navigator...
jim		The Captain. I want to talk to the Captain.
infomat		The Captain rarely handles passenger queries directly.
jim		Emergency, okay? Where is he?
infomat		The Captain is usually found on the Bridge, on the Command Deck. ONSCREEN: A helpful map shows the way. Jim marches off.
command deck		Jim finds the door to the Bridge. He opens it eagerly - only to find a second door behind it - an armored hatch labeled FIREWALL and SECURE ACCESS AREA. A porthole of thick glass gives a narrow view of the Bridge. It's deserted. Instrument lights gleam in the dark.
jim		 Come on! What the hell is happening?
jim		 Hello? Hello!
jim		 Hello! A SOUND behind him makes him spin. But it's just a window-washer: a robot with long spindly limbs. It moves past Jim, polishing windows. Oblivious. A sign catches Jim's attention: "OBSERVATORY - Your Place In the Universe."
observatory		Jim enters the planetarium of the future: theater seats facing a holographic "stage." IN HOLOGRAM: An image of the starship hangs in space. Glowing text reads "Look through the eyes of the Starship Excelsior!" Jim goes to the control podium. Touches the screen.
observatory		 What can I show you?
jim		We're supposed to land pretty soon, but it looks like I'm the only one awake. Is that normal?
observatory		I don't understand. What can I show you?
observatory		Homestead II is the fourth planet in the Bhakti system.
jim		Right. And how soon are we landing?
observatory		Approximately ninety years.
jim		What?
observatory		We land on Homestead II in ninety years, three weeks, and one day.
jim		No. How long ago did we leave Earth?
observatory		Approximately thirty years ago. Jim stares at the hologram in horrified realization.
jim		I woke up too soon.
observatory		I don't understand.
jim		Neither do I.
hibernation bay		Jim sprints down a row of hibernation pods. Heart pounding. Slides to a stop in front of his empty pod. Jim fusses with the controls, pressing buttons. But the screen just reads "PASSENGER DISCHARGED." Crouching, he pulls at the pod's canopy, trying to open it with his hands. It doesn't budge.
jim		I'm supposed to be in there!
jim		How do I make a phone call?
infomat		Your cabin telephone...
jim		No. Long distance. How do I send a message to Earth?
infomat		Interstellar messages are sent by laser array. Speak to the Duty Officer in the Comm Center. ONSCREEN: The Infomat displays a helpful map.
infomat		Happy to help!
communications booth		Planet and connection?
jim		Earth. The HomeStead Company.
communications booth		There are thirty thousand phone numbers listed under "HomeStead Company." What number?
jim		I don't know. I'm emigrating to Homestead II. I have an emergency.
communications booth		Division of Colonial Affairs, Homestead II Program. I have a Customer Help Line.
jim		Sounds about right.
communications booth		Begin message. Jim's a deer in the headlights. He collects himself.
jim		Hi. I'm Jim Preston. I'm a passenger on the Excelsior. Something went wrong with my hibernation pod and I woke up too soon. Ninety years too soon. I can't get back to sleep. Nobody else is awake.  I'll keep trying to fix this. Maybe I missed something simple. But I could use a hand. Thanks. Jim pushes the "SEND" button. Sits back in his chair.
communications booth		Message sent.
jim		Outstanding.
communications booth		Message will arrive in nineteen years.
jim		Say what?
communications booth		Earliest possible reply in fifty-five years.
jim		No.
communications booth		We are nineteen light years from Earth. By the time your message arrives, we will be thirty-six light- years from Earth. We apologize for the delay.
communications booth		That will be six thousand dollars.
grand concourse		Jim crosses the Concourse like a sleepwalker in his robe and slippers. He looks shell-shocked. He comes to the Concourse Bar: the fanciest watering hole on the ship. Black leather stools along a marble bartop. Jim touches the bartop...and a MAN swings up behind the bar - as if mounted on a hinge. A handsome fellow in a bartender's uniform - his hair and skin eerily perfect. This is ARTHUR. Jim jumps out of his skin.
arthur		What can I get you?
jim		I thought I was the only one awake!
arthur		I doubt it. It's the middle of the afternoon. Are you drinking or not? He produces a cloth and polishes the bartop. In a startling movement, he glides the length of the bar, polishing all the way, and glides back as if on roller skates. Jim steps up on the footrail and peers behind the bar. Arthur's body stops at the waist. He's mounted on rails, built into the bar.
arthur		Android, technically. Arthur's the name.
jim		 I'm Jim. Arthur shakes his hand.
arthur		Pleased to meet you. What'll it be?
jim		Whiskey, neat.
arthur		I don't know. I know some things.
jim		What do I do if my hibernation pod malfunctions?
arthur		Impossible. Hibernation pods are fail- safe.
jim		Yeah, well, I woke up early.
arthur		Can't happen.
arthur		Ninety years or so.
jim		And when are all of us passengers supposed to wake up?
arthur		Not until the last two months.
jim		So how can I be sitting here with ninety years to go? Arthur's eyes take on a faraway look. His head twitches.
arthur		It's not possible for you to be here. He smiles as if he's solved the problem.
jim		But I am.
arthur		Sorry, Jim. My specialty is cocktails and conversation. Take your fancy trick questions to one of those Infomats. They think they know everything.  JIM Arthur, I'm in trouble. I'm screwed. I am completely, ridiculously screwed.  ARTHUR Lot of self-pity.  JIM Self pity? I'm going to die of old age on this ship!  ARTHUR Jim, we all die. Even androids end up on the scrap heap. It's not dying that matters, it's living. This is your life. Are you going to live it or lie down and die? Jim shakes his head in surrender.  JIM What do I owe you?  ARTHUR Jim, the booze is on the house.
cafeteria		Machines offer food and drink in dizzying variety. Each machine has a card slot and a screen displaying its menu. Jim enters, dressed in his own clothes - jeans, a T-shirt. 
coffee machine		Sorry. The Mocha Cappuccino Extreme is reserved for gold-class passengers. Please select another item. Jim presses one button after another, denied each time.
jim		Are you serious?
coffee machine		Please enjoy.
elevator		Jim ascends, sipping coffee and eating an egg sandwich. The doors open at the Command Deck. A sign reads "Crew Area - No Passengers beyond this point." Jim breezes past the sign.
command deck		Jim prowls the floor, opening doors. He finds a room marked EMERGENCY GEAR and opens it eagerly. It's full of space suits and oxygen tanks. He peers into a red HAZARD cabinet: fire extinguishers, an axe, an epoxy foamer for atmosphere leaks - all behind glass. He opens another door marked EMERGENCY MANUALS - and smiles: shelf after shelf of waterproof, fireproof technical manuals. Jim pulls a manual labeled HIBERNATION SYSTEMS.
hibernation bay		Jim sits in front of his empty hibernation pod. His toolbox beside him. The Hibernation Systems manual lies open. Jim tinkers with the electronics inside his pod. The pod hums to life. Its data screen flickers with information. Mysterious WHIRS and THUNKS. The canopy opens. Elated, Jim bounces to his feet. Strips off his shirt and scrambles in. The canopy closes over him. He assumes the position, his back against the backrest, waiting for the pod to put him to sleep. Nothing happens. He pokes at the ports where the sensors and intravenous lines used to protrude. Shakes the machine. He gives up. It's not working. But now he's trapped inside the pod. He pushes at the canopy, but it's locked shut. He pounds on the glass with no effect. Finally he loses it, shouting and stamping, hammering and raging - all muffled behind glass. Exhausted, he sinks to the floor of the pod, staring out at his tools and his manual, his discarded shirt. Then he notices the emergency release handle down by the floor. He pulls it, and the canopy pops open.
jim		I thought I'd figure something out. I thought it would just come to me.
arthur		Stands to reason.
jim		But I've tried everything.
arthur		Sometimes you can't catch a break. Jim gives Arthur a thoughtful look.
jim		I'm your only customer, but you're always polishing a glass.
arthur		Trick of the trade. Makes people nervous when a bartender just stands there.
jim		Okay. Lay some bartender wisdom on me. I'm lost in space here. Arthur polishes the bar while he thinks that one over.
arthur		You're not where you want to be. You feel like you're supposed to be somewhere else. Right?
jim		You said it.
arthur		Well, here's the thing. Say you could snap your fingers and be wherever you wanted to be. Back on Earth, or on Homestead II.
jim		Okay.
arthur		I'll bet even if you got your wish, you'd still feel this way. Not in the right place. Supposed to be somewhere else. That's not a crisis, it's the human condition. Jim takes a moment to consider that.
jim		That's not me.
arthur		Well, maybe not. The point is, you can't get so wrapped up in where you'd rather be that you forget to make the most of where you are.
jim		What are you telling me?
arthur		It's a big ship. You're always running around banging on things and yelling at the computers. Take a break. Live a little. Jim spins on his barstool, surveying the Grand Concourse.
jim		Live a little. When he comes back around he gives a shove. He spins faster.
arthur		That's the spirit. Jim goes for one more shove. Misses. Falls off his stool.
berlin suite		High ceilings, posh furniture, panoramic windows. The door jumps in its frame with a THUNK. Slides open. Jim enters, a crowbar in hand. A cargo robot follows him in, carrying his toolbox and suitcases. It deposits them on the floor.
cargo robot		The Berlin Suite! Enjoy your luggage!
spa		Jim lies on a massage table wearing a towel. A pair of robot arms emerge from the table and begin to massage him.
z factor		Jim Preston! Welcome to the cutting edge of gaming! The greatest challenge you will ever know!
jim		All right then. He clambers into the cockpit.
jim		Yes!
z factor		 Begin! IN HOLOGRAM: A fortress shines on a hilltop. War machines crawl over a blasted land. Letters flash: LEVEL ONE.
z-factor		You are victorious!
jim		Yes!
z-factor		You are the Grand Master of Z Factor!
jim		Another margarita!
jim		I am beginning to learn.
jim		 [I be study the Russian.]
arthur		 [Good for you! It's a beautiful language.]
jim		You speak Russian!
arthur		Of course. We have Russian passengers.
jim		Well, I'm trying new things. From now on, every time I sit down, I want a drink I haven't had before.
arthur		Fair enough. Arthur mixes a bright green drink, sets it in front of Jim. Jim takes a sip and makes a horrible face.
jim		What's that?
arthur		Something new.
jim		 [I'm ready for today's new drink]
arthur		 [I'm afraid I can't help you, my friend.] Jim thumps his fist on the bar.
jim		 [Don't argue with me, robot. Give me a new drink.]
jim		What do you mean?
arthur		I can make two thousand, seven hundred and thirty-eight cocktails. You've had them all. The news hits Jim like a death in the family.
jim		There are no new drinks.
traveling shot		The robot carries Jim up and down the Celestial Promenade. Down an elevator. Past the Concourse Bar. Jim waves. Arthur waves back, speechless.
deck one		The robot heads into a low hatch. Jim ducks to fit through. 
robotics center		A mechanical hive. Here the ship's robots are cleaned, repaired, recharged. Robots bustle everywhere - never colliding, never getting lost. A ballet. Jim's sweeper robot vomits its load of collected dirt into a waste chute. Heads into a recharging niche. Jim jumps off. He explores: it's an engineer's fantasia. Jim's eyes show signs of life. But it's a hazardous place, with cranes and platforms, hoses and blowtorches on the move. He exits through another low hatch to find himself in the...
hibernation bay		Thousands of sleepers in their glass tubes. Jim walks among them, looking at their faces. Suddenly he stops, staring. Inside a pod, a woman stands sleeping. This is AURORA DUNN. A breathtaking beauty.
jim		Who are you?  Aurora. He moves on, browsing people. Stops. Backtracks. He stands in front of Aurora, looking in through the glass. He glances at her data screen again.
jim		Did you know ninety percent of the businesses in the world are owned by just eight companies?
arthur		Is that right?
jim		She's good. She knows her stuff, and she's not afraid of anybody.
arthur		Who's that?
jim		Aurora.
arthur		Who's Aurora?
jim		A woman. A passenger.
corridor		Jim emerges from his room in boxer shorts and slippers. He's dragging a blanket. A housekeeping robot, its dustpan quivering in anticipation, hovers outside his door. Jim taps the "Do Not Disturb" button on his door panel and walks away. The housekeeping robot squeals in frustration as the door closes over the mess inside. 
cafeteria		Jim pours milk over a bowl of cereal.
elevator		Jim descends, the blanket draped over his shoulders like a serape. He holds his bowl of cereal in both hands.
jim		Arthur. Say you were trapped on a desert island, and you had the power to wish somebody there with you. You wouldn't be alone anymore, but you'd be stranding another person on the island. Would you make the wish?
arthur		I don't know. I've never been on an island.
jim		Okay. Say you figured out how to do something that would make your life a hundred times better. But it's wrong, and there's no taking it back. How wrong would it have to be to stop you? I mean, what if it made your life a thousand times better? How do you do the math?
arthur		Jim. These are not robot questions. Jim stares at Arthur in frustration.
jim		 I know how to wake up Aurora.
arthur		Sounds like a fine idea. You could use some company.
jim		I'd be stranding her on this ship for the rest of her life!
arthur		Oh. Well, you can't do that. Jim buries his face in his hands.
jim		What am I going to do?
arthur		Jim. I'm here for you.
corridor		Jim exits his cabin in his coveralls, carrying his toolbox. He finds a squadron of housekeeping robots waiting outside. He taps the "PLEASE SERVICE" button beside his door. The robots zoom inside with squeals of joy.
aurora's pod		Aurora's perfect lips part. She takes a shallow breath - and then a deep one. Her chest rises and falls. Her thighs shift as she bends her knees. The sensors on her body drop off and withdraw into the pod. She opens her eyes. They're beautiful. Her pod's backrest flexes, scooping up her knees as it becomes a seat. A video screen drops in front of her. 
video stewardess		Good morning, Aurora!
berlin suite		The luxury cabin now tidy and immaculate. Jim bursts in, wild-eyed. Drops his toolbox. Hides the marked- up manual in the closet. He splashes water on his face. Stares into the mirror.
video stewardess		You're ready to go to your cabin. Make yourself at home! Enjoy the rest of your flight, Aurora! Woozy, Aurora sees the other passengers still asleep.
aurora		Wait! Why are all these people still hibernating? The screen pivots to face her. The Video Stewardess points.
video stewardess		Aurora, your cabin is this way!
aurora's cabin		Posher than Jim's original cabin. A king-sized bed, a panoramic window. A widescreen video screen lights up. The Homestead Company theme music plays.
announcer		Welcome to your cabin, Aurora! Your home until we... Aurora slaps the display off. Goes to the phone. A touch of her finger brings up the ship's telephone directory. Aurora selects "Information."
phone		No one is available at that number. She touches other phone links, faster and faster.
aurora		What the hell's going on?
aurora		Passenger or crew?
jim		Passenger. Jim Preston. He sticks out a hand. She shakes it firmly. Electric for Jim. First contact.
aurora		I'm Aurora. Jim's lips move as she speaks her name, almost saying it with her. Aurora. She doesn't pick up on it.
jim		Yeah, I...same for me.
aurora		The crew's supposed to wake up a month before we do. But I haven't seen anybody. Jim swallows hard.
jim		The crew's still sleeping. They've got a special facility. I can see them in there but I can't get in. Aurora stares at him.
aurora		You're saying nobody's awake?
jim		Just me.
aurora		Just you?  JIM Just us.  AURORA But somebody's got to land the ship in a few weeks. Jim's finding it unexpectedly hard to deliver the bad news.  JIM I have to show you something.
observatory		Aurora's eyes, wide and staring. Her face a mask of horror. In front of them hangs the starship's progress indicator - the Excelsior hanging between Earth and Homestead II. Thirty- one years elapsed; Eighty-nine years to go.  AURORA  Eighty-nine years to go. 
jim		The other passengers aren't late waking up. We're early. Aurora stares at Jim.
aurora		We've got to get back to sleep.
hibernation bay		Jim and Aurora walk down a row of hibernation pods.
aurora		Nobody strands me on a spaceship for a hundred years. I work for the New Yorker. I'll write an expose so hot you'll need oven mitts to read it. Trust me.
jim		It's not that simple. Putting somebody into hibernation takes special equipment. Remember the facility where they put us to sleep? Jim points at a pod beside them. A middle-aged woman inside.
jim		Not that I can see.
aurora		There has to be. There's always a way. Where's the crew?
aurora		 How long have you been awake, Jim?
jim		A year and three months. Aurora covers her mouth. Her eyes full of horror.
aurora		Oh, my God. No. She turns her back. Suddenly she walks briskly away. And breaks into a run. Jim watches her go, astonished. After a moment he runs after her.
hibernation bay		Aurora runs down a row of hibernation pods, her eyes searching wildly among the glass tubes. She turns a corner. Hesitates. Runs down another row. She's fighting tears. She puts on speed. Her sash unknots itself and her robe billows behind her.
jim		Aurora! He turns another corner and sees her. She's sitting down, her back against a hibernation pod. Laughing at her own tears.
aurora		I can't even find the one I'm supposed to be in. Jim extends a hand. She lets him pull her to her feet. He gives her the sash, and she ties her robe around her.
jim		I shouldn't have told you like that.
aurora		No, I'm sorry. It just hit me how serious this is. How did you wake up?
jim		I just did. I woke up, my pod dumped me out, and there I was.
aurora		Me too. We have to get help.
jim		I've sent...sixteen messages to Earth. A bunch to the Homestead company, one to the Space Administration, one to the United Nations. A couple to Homestead II, just for the hell of it. My phone bill's about eighty grand.
aurora		How soon could we hear something?
jim		With speed-of-light lag, fifty-six years. That'll be from Earth. Nothing from Homestead II until we're almost there anyway. Eighty years or so. Aurora's mouth goes dry. She swallows hard.
aurora		What about the other planets?
jim		The other occupied worlds are even farther away. We'd die of old age before they could answer.
aurora		What about other ships?  Jim?
jim		 I never thought of other ships.
aurora		Jim, you've had more than a year! There has to be a flight plan or something... They search the Comm Center and find a map table showing the Excelsior's position relative to the Occupied Worlds. Aurora fiddles with the controls. Interstellar flight plans appear: a spiderweb of starship tracks between the worlds.
jim		The computer knows. Give me a ship.
aurora		 The starship Zephyr.
jim		Round-trip message lag...ninety-nine years.
aurora		The starship Andromeda.
jim		One hundred thirty-two years.
aurora		The Maximilian.
jim		Eighty-one years. Jim and Aurora deflate visibly.
aurora		That's the closest one.
aurora		I know I should be working the problem right now, but I can barely keep my eyes open.
jim		You just came out of hibernation. It'll be a couple days before you're a hundred percent. You should rest.
jim		I'll walk you to your cabin.
aurora		No, I'm all right.
jim		Okay.
aurora		Jim. Don't look so down. It's going to be okay. You've got me on the team now. Chin up, all right? Jim nods, speechless.
jim		I'm in the Berlin Suite if you need me. She stops. Turns to look back at him.
aurora		A year and a half? Must have been hard.
jim		It was.
aurora		Good night, Jim.
jim		Whiskey. Rocks.
arthur		Sure thing. How's your day been? Jim takes a stiff drink.
jim		Aurora's awake.
arthur		Congratulations.  You don't look happy.
jim		Arthur. Can you keep a secret?
arthur		I'm a bartender.
jim		Don't tell Aurora I woke her up. She thinks it was an accident. Let me tell her. Okay?
aurora		How can there be no way to put someone into hibernation aboard ship? What if a pod breaks down?
infomat		No pod has malfunctioned in thousands of interstellar flights.
aurora		Well, I'm awake.
infomat		Hibernation pods are fail-safe. Jim appears behind Aurora.  JIM Good morning. Have you eaten?  AURORA I'm starving. This is the dumbest machine.
cafeteria		Jim watches in astonishment as Aurora blithely orders the snacks that the machines deny him. The Mocha Cappuccino Extreme. The French Breakfast Puff. The Gourmet Fruit Salad. They sit. Aurora eyes Jim's tray.  AURORA You're a man of simple tastes.  JIM I'm a silver class passenger. The French Breakfast Puff is above my pay grade.  AURORA Oh, no! All this time? What can I get you?  JIM No, I'm fine, really...  AURORA Shut up. I'll be right back. She gets up. In a minute she's back, setting a tray down in front of Jim: A western omelette with a side of bacon...a cafe latte...half a honeydew melon. Jim shoves his old breakfast aside.  JIM Thank you. They dig in.  AURORA You think the crew members would know what to do?  JIM I was hoping so. 
aurora		Could we wake them up if we got in there?
aurora		Maybe there's another way to go to sleep. Did you check out the infirmary?
jim		I looked around. It's the usual hospital stuff. Scanners, autodocs.
aurora		Did you look for ways of going to sleep?
jim		Not really.
aurora		Well, Jim!
jim		You think they've got suspended animation pills sitting around?
aurora		You don't know until you look. What about cargo? Maybe there's a hibernation machine in the hold.
jim		I looked at the manifests. It's mostly farming stuff, industrial machines. We're not going to find a hibernation facility in a box.
aurora		You don't know that! We have to think big here. Maybe we can build our own hibernation machine.
jim		No, we can't.
aurora		You're not even trying!
jim		I've been awake a year and a half. I've tried everything I can think of.
aurora		 Well, it looks to me like you missed some possibilities. And I'm not ready to give up. She strides out. Jim watches her go. Reaches over and takes the Gourmet Fruit Salad off her tray.
workstation		No plans are available.
aurora		What about research articles, any kind of technical documents?
workstation		Hibernation technology is proprietary. The following articles deal with the subject on a theoretical level.
communications booth		Planet and connection, please.
aurora		Earth. The New Yorker magazine, office of the Editor in Chief.
communications booth		Begin message.
aurora		There's no way we're going to build a hibernation machine.
jim		No.
aurora		And there's no magic sleeping drugs in the infirmary.
jim		No.
aurora		I did find the gene bank. Five thousand sperm and egg samples on ice. I should be glad they do that. By the time we get to Homestead II, that little capsule in the freezer is going to be all that's left of me. We really are screwed, aren't we?
jim		Pretty much.
aurora		So who are you, Jim? I'm going to be seeing you around. I should know who I'm talking to.
jim		I'm from Denver. Lived there all my life.
aurora		What kind of work do you do?
jim		A little of everything. Transport, robotics, industrial systems. I fix what's broken. On the emigration forms I'm a "rate two" mechanical engineer. Means I don't have a Ph.D.
aurora		Neither do I. But a journalist doesn't need one; she just needs a way with words and an attitude. I'm from Manhattan, so I had the attitude.
jim		I noticed.
aurora		And the words have always been there when I needed them.
jim		Not all of them.
arthur		Evening, Jim. Who's the lovely lady?
jim		Arthur, this is Aurora. Aurora, Arthur.  ARTHUR Aurora. A pleasure. He takes her hand formally.  AURORA Arthur! Lovely to meet you. She peeks over the bar at Arthur's mechanical mounting, the rails he rolls on.  ARTHUR What'll it be?  AURORA Dirty martini!   Whiskey and soda.
later		Empty glasses show that Jim and Aurora have been doing yeoman's work at the bar. Both are tipsy and laughing.  AURORA   My God, I almost forgot my life is in ruins. That wipes the smile off Jim's face.  JIM Sorry.  AURORA What for? It's time to sleep. In the morning we'll think of something brilliant.  JIM All right.  AURORA Good night, Jim. Good night, Arthur. She exits. 
arthur		Good night.  She's wonderful. Excellent choice. Jim drops his head into his hands.
aurora		Jim! Wake up! The door opens. Jim stands blinking in his bathrobe.
jim		What? She pulls him down the hall, chattering.
aurora		It takes too long to get to Homestead II. But we're still closer to Earth. We'll turn the ship around.
elevator		Aurora drags Jim in and punches the button.
aurora		We'll go home.
jim		It would take decades.
aurora		It's our only chance of getting off this ship in our lifetimes.
command deck		Aurora drags Jim out of the elevator. Looks around.
aurora		Where's the...navigating place?
jim		That way. But... She drags him toward the Bridge.
aurora		We can learn how to pilot the ship. We have all the time in the world.
jim		There's just one problem.
jim		Everything important - the reactor, the gravity drive - it's all behind firewalls. There's no way through.
aurora		Oh.
jim		Sorry.
aurora		New file. My Voyage.
grand concourse		Jim sits at a table, a technical manual open in front of him. He looks up. Watches Aurora jog around the atrium and vanish.  AURORA  I'm not alone. Another passenger shares my fate. A mechanic named Jim Preston.
aurora		Vanished, like a dream, in the blink of an eye. She falters, frightened by her own words.
aurora		Why did you do it? Jim is thunderstruck. The game is up. He swallows hard.
jim		Do what?
aurora		Emigrate. Leave Earth. I'm interviewing you.
jim		You're what?
aurora		Interviewing you. You're the first victim of hibernation failure in the history of space travel. That makes you news.
jim		Who are you going to tell?
aurora		Posterity. So why'd you give up your life on Earth? Jim seems stunned by the question. He hadn't thought about it in quite those words.
jim		I, uh...I never really...
aurora		Were you running away from something?
jim		No. Things were okay.
aurora		So?
jim		I just wanted more, I guess. You know. More room. A fresh start. Back to basics.
jim		I guess.
aurora		Jim!
jim		I'm a mechanic. A rate-two mechanic. We're a dying breed on Earth. But in the colonies, they still have problems to solve. My kind of problems. In the colonies, a handyman is somebody. Nothing there for Aurora to scoff at. She looks impressed.
aurora		Now you're back to advertising.
jim		Can't it still be true?
hibernation bay		Jim and Aurora walk down an aisle of hibernation pods.
aurora		You know how much the Homestead Company's made off its first planet, Homestead I? Over eight quadrillion dollars. That's eight million billions. Colony planets are the biggest business there is. Did you pay full price for your ticket?
jim		No, I'm in a desirable trade.
jim		All you see here is five thousand suckers?
aurora		I see zeroes on the HomeStead Company's bottom line.
jim		I see five thousand men and women changing their lives. For five thousand different reasons. You don't know these people. Jim walks up to a hibernation pod. Glances at the data screen. He covers the screen with his hand.
aurora		Banker.
jim		Gardener. Jim moves down the row, peeks at another screen, covers it.
aurora		She's too silly to be a Donna. I think she's a Lola.
jim		Madison. Chef, accountant, or midwife?
aurora		She has to be a midwife. There's no way you made that one up.
jim		 She's a midwife. I didn't know they still had midwives. They move among the sleepers, quizzing each other.
aurora		 Married, or strangers?
jim		Married.
jim		 Sixteen, twenty-six, or thirty-six?
aurora		I'd almost say sixteen...twenty-six.
jim		Right.
aurora		 Politician, historian, or artist?
jim		I don't know. Artist?
aurora		It doesn't say. But I'll tell you this: I like her. We'd be friends. Jim looks at Aurora seriously.
jim		You think you can see that?
aurora		Don't you? Jim looks at the woman in the pod. Smiles.
jim		Yeah.
aurora		That was my plan. Travel to Homestead II. Live there for a year and see what emigrating's really like. Then back to Earth. I'm the only passenger on board with a round-trip ticket.
aurora		No! I end up in the future. Two hundred and fifty years in the future. On Earth, which is still the center of civilization, overcrowded or not. And I arrive in the future with an amazing story.
jim		And what's this amazing story?
aurora		The selling of the colonial dream.
jim		Big plans.
aurora		My friends threw me this huge farewell party. Everyone came. It was the happiest, saddest night. And look what it's all come to.
jim		Watch your step. I've made a few changes. Next to Jim's favorite seat there's a cluster of machines with power cables and hoses running to them. Jim and Aurora sit. A screen beside Jim lists movies.
jim		What are you so happy about?
aurora		I'm up two points! She cuts around him toward the basket.
aurora		The starship's designers gave the ship a daily rhythm. The light is warm in the morning, bright during the day, cool at night. We need those changes. But I miss other rhythms. There are no holidays here. Every day is a day of leisure. There are no seasons. The sky never changes. A mechanical whir distracts her. She looks down. Jim's pet robot looks up at her with binocular eyes. It carries a note in a clip on its back. Aurora pulls it free. A handwritten invitation from Jim. It reads:
- jim		Aurora reads the note with a grin. 
jim		Wow.
aurora		You clean up all right yourself. You went shopping.
jim		I went shoplifting. In the corridor stands a cargo robot to which Jim has attached an upholstered loveseat. He helps Aurora aboard and takes a seat beside her. She's charmed.
cargo robot		Yes, Passenger Jim! The robot zooms off to the sound of Aurora's laughter.
arthur		Evening. What can I get for you?
aurora		A manhattan, please.
jim		Single malt, rocks. Arthur pours.
arthur		You two look fine this evening.
arthur		Very nice.
aurora		 Took you long enough to ask.
jim		I was giving you space!
aurora		Space is one thing I don't need more of. I've been doing research.
jim		Really?!
aurora		But it's not suspended animation. We'd still be aging.
jim		Oh.
aurora		Yeah. If I have to grow old on this ship, I'd at least like to be awake for it. So that was a failure.
jim		A highly ambitious failure.
aurora		There's the title of my memoir. "A Highly Ambitious Failure," by Aurora Dunn. Jim laughs. He thinks for a minute.
jim		"Voyage to Nowhere," by Jim Preston.
jim		"A Spaceship Built For Two."
aurora		Incredible. They sit at the best table. Robots attend to their every need. The blue stars frame Jim's head; the pink, Aurora's. Beautiful dishes arrive: new wines with every course.
aurora		Rutherford, stop! The robot stops. She pulls Jim off.
aurora		Thank you. I had an amazing time. A great night.
jim		Yeah, me too. Well, good night. He turns to go.
aurora		Jim. He turns back. Aurora grabs him and drags him into her cabin.
aurora's cabin		They stagger across the room together. He backs her up against a wall, kisses his way down her throat. She drags his jacket off his shoulders. Pulls at his shirt. He slips the straps from her shoulders. Her dress slides to the floor. They roll onto the bed.
aurora		This is so good. I'm starving.  Last night was just what I needed.
jim		You are the most beautiful woman I've ever seen. You're so beautiful it hurts me. She stares, shocked. Leans across the table and kisses him. Soon they're making out right on top of breakfast. A passing robot pauses to observe the scene - then moves on.
berlin suite		Jim and Aurora lie in Jim's imperial bed, glistening with sweat and breathing hard. She lays her head on his shoulder, her eyes far away and wistful.
jim		You okay?
aurora		Yes, I'm fine. It's just...
jim		I know. She snuggles in tighter, and he holds her close.
jim		I'm going to finish my survey of the cargo hold. See what there is to play with.
aurora		Be careful.
jim		Back by happy hour.
aurora		The Polynesians set out into the Pacific Ocean with no destination. Searching for islands. They sailed into the endless sea on faith.
aurora		Is it movement that we need? Or the possibility of something new?
arthur		What's that?
aurora		I'm writing, Arthur. Hush. Aurora's slate has recorded this exchange: she erases the extra words with her fingertip.
aurora		Hi.
jim		Hi. How was your day?
aurora		I don't know. I wrote a few pages. I'm not sure what I'm doing anymore. I was writing a book, and I was keeping a diary. But the book and the diary are running together. I think I'm writing about us.
jim		Makes sense to me.
aurora		I'm not sure I want to write about this life. I don't even know how to think about it. I live in a palace. But it's also a prison. I'm moving at half the speed of light and I can't go anywhere! Jim takes that in.
jim		The cargo hold is full of pioneer gear. There's a submarine down there, can you believe it? Ships and airplanes and bulldozers. That's what I wanted, a world still being built. But I'll never see it. They sit for a moment in glum contemplation.
aurora		Did you find anything that could help us?
jim		Yes. I found these. Jim unzips his duffel bag and takes out a bouquet of long- stemmed roses. Aurora gasps. Reaches out to touch them.
aurora		Are they real?
jim		I cut them myself. Aurora leaps into action. She finds scissors, a pitcher. At the sink she trims the stems, arranges the flowers.
aurora		Thank you.
jim		You're welcome. She looks into his eyes.
aurora		For very unlucky people, we got pretty lucky.
jim		It's coming! Run!
celestial promenade		Jim and Aurora run up the stairs onto the highest promenade on the ship: glass all around, skylight above. The deep RUMBLE is louder. A bloody light fills the sky. A STAR looms ahead of the ship: a RED GIANT. The Excelsior rockets toward the star. The passage takes less than a minute. The Red Giant swells in the windows. The ship shudders. The engines howl. Aurora falls into Jim's arms. The ship bathed in red light. The star fills the skylight, fills the sky itself. A fiery surface turbulent with sunspots and mysterious currents. The engines howl. And then they're past. The star recedes, dwindling as quickly as it grew. The engines quiet. The ship's calm restored.
jim		Closest we'll get to a star on the whole trip. Happy birthday.
arthur		Birthday cocktail for the birthday girl.
aurora		Aren't you going to check my I.D.? I might not be old enough to drink.
arthur		I'd never ask your age in front of a gentleman.
aurora		Jim's not a gentleman. Anyway there's no secrets between me and Jim.
arthur		 Is that so?
jim		You heard the lady. Be right back. He walks away.
aurora		You know what I like about you, Arthur? You have a sense of occasion. I bet ladies fall for you on every trip.
arthur		I'd say you were pulling my leg, but I haven't got any.
arthur		I remember your last birthday, a year ago. Jim was really looking forward to meeting you. Aurora frowns, processing this sentence - her smile fading.
aurora		What?
men's washroom		Jim stands at the mirror, straightening his lapels, touching up his hair. He unwraps the ring. Looks it over. Smiles at his reflection.
concourse bar		Aurora scowls at Arthur, trying to get her bearings.
aurora		What do you mean, he was looking forward to it? How could he...
arthur		He couldn't stop talking about you, let me tell you. He spent months deciding whether to wake you up. Aurora eyes widen in shock.
aurora		Jim woke me up.
arthur		Oh, yes. Said it was the hardest decision of his life, but I see it worked out just fine. Aurora stops breathing. She stares at the bartop. Jim strolls up to the bar. His hand slides into the jacket pocket where the ring lies hidden. But Aurora's body language is all wrong. He stops, perplexed.
jim		What? She looks up, her face rigid. Her voice a whisper.
aurora		Did you wake me up, Jim? Jim's hand slides out of his jacket pocket. He shoots a look at Arthur, who smiles back, oblivious. Aurora's eyes bore into him. Finally Jim finds his voice.
jim		Yes. I woke you up.
jim		I tried not to.
aurora		You pulled me out of hibernation. You destroyed the rest of my life. You murdered me!
jim		That's a little strong...
aurora		You murdered me. I'm going to be sick. Oh, my God. I...I can't see. She gets up to leave.
jim		Aurora. He goes after her.
aurora		Get away from me! She slaps at him blindly, almost hysterical. Stumbles away.
jim		It wasn't like that.
aurora		What was it like? And you had it all planned out! Dinner and movies and our big date...Oh, my God! And I just ate it up. Fake! All fake!
jim		This was real. I didn't plan this. It...happened.
jim		Aurora. I love you.
aurora		This is sick.  Show me how you did it.
aurora		So?
jim		I looked at my pod. A couple different processors burned out at the same time. I triggered the same failure in your pod. Short circuit across these two contacts, and then these two. And cut these wires.
aurora		Just like that.
jim		Just like that.
aurora		I'm so stupid. I fell for all of it. I fell for you. I thought you saved me. But you didn't save me, Jim. You did this to me. And now I'm stuck with you. Stuck with the second-rate mechanic who ruined my life.
jim		Can I talk to you?
aurora		I don't want to talk anymore. I don't want to look at you anymore. If you see me coming, get out of my way. If you see me sitting, find somewhere else to be. There's plenty of choices. It's a big boat.
swimming pool		Aurora swims. Reaches the end of a lap and rests. She looks up abruptly as if she senses someone watching her - but the balcony above the pool is deserted.
robot's pov		Aurora looms close. She holds the note up to the robot's eyes and crumples it up.
aurora		Watching me through a robot is creepy, Jim. Cut it out.
elite deck		Aurora circles the atrium. OVER THE P.A. SYSTEM: Jim clears his throat.  JIM  Please, just hear me. Aurora rolls her eyes and resumes running.
aurora		That's great, Jim. Just great. I'm glad that ruining my life somehow improved yours. But I have a run to finish, so...
aurora		It's the modern way of life. We surround ourselves with people. A constant din of conversation. As if we need the mirror of other faces to see ourselves. The clamor of voices in our ears to reassure us that we exist. Do we need it? Can we live without it?
aurora		What are you doing here?
arthur		Actually, today's Wednesday.
jim		I slept through Tuesday?
aurora		Forget it. The bar's all yours. But I'd say a drink is the last thing you need. You're pathetic. Aurora leaves. Jim takes a seat.
arthur		What'll it be?
jim		I'm going to kill myself.
arthur		Why's that?
jim		I'm a murderer.
arthur		Who'd you murder?
jim		Aurora.
arthur		But she's alive. She was just here.
jim		She won't talk to me. She won't let me tell her what happened. How I fell in love with her. How I want to be with her. And I'm not sorry I woke her up. I'm not. I love her. And you know what? She loves me. Around the corner, out of sight, Aurora stands listening.
arthur		I think you've had enough. Jim looks at Arthur as if he's said something profound.
jim		You know what? You're right. I've had enough.
aurora		I haven't written in days. I don't know why. It's the old problem, I guess. Who's my reader? Who am I talking to? What's it for?
autodoc		Two separated ribs. Fracture of the right arm, radius and ulna. One fractured finger. Dislocated thumb.
jim		Am I gonna be okay? Blindingly fast, robot arms straighten Jim's elbow. Wrap his ribs and arm with smooth white bandages. Jim shouts in shock.
autodoc		Leave the bandages on for one week. The autodoc opens and Jim climbs out, testing his arm. A bottle of pills rattles into a tray in front of him.
jim		Thanks, doc.
autodoc		And take better care of yourself.
grand concourse		Jim kneels on the Grand Concourse. He's torn a huge hole in the carpet to expose the deck plates beneath. With his laser cutter he cuts a large rectangular hole. Pries the plate up with a crowbar, opening a cavity in the deck.
aurora's cabin		Aurora paces in her bathrobe, hair wrapped in a towel. She looks at her gallery of snapshots. Touches the pictures one by one. The faces begin to move and speak. A cacophony of good wishes. Laughter and cheers. Finally only one clip still plays. Aurora's mother.
aurora's mother		I promise you we'll think of you every day. When you wake up, I know we'll be gone...but you just know that we lived our lives remembering you, and holding you in our hearts.  I hope you find what you're looking for. I hope it makes you happy. Aurora watches, devastated.
arthur		Hello, Jim. Whiskey?
jim		Iced tea.
arthur		Coming up. Are you getting my barstool dirty?
jim		Got to get dirty to get things done, Arthur. If your hands are too clean, it means you're not making anything.
arthur		And what are you making?
jim		Improvements.
grand concourse		Aurora walks wonderingly up to a GARDEN on the Concourse: a ten-foot OAK TREE surrounded by flowerbeds and green grass.
aurora		I need you. The last thing Jim expected to hear.
jim		Wow. You do need a repairman.
jim		The control unit burned out. I took the one from the cabin next door. He throws a switch. The lights come on. Back to normal.
aurora		I'm fine, Jim. Thanks for your work.
grand concourse		Jim passes a cleaning robot stuck in a corner. He frees the robot: it plows right back into the corner. Another robot zooms in - and gets stuck beside the first one. Jim studies the robots thoughtfully.
grand concourse		GUS MANCUSO stands at a deck steward's station, intercom mic in hand. A stocky man of 55, with a bristling mustache, wearing a crewman's coverall. Haggard and weary. He stares in consternation at the garden in the middle of the Concourse. Running footsteps. Jim and Aurora race into the Concourse from opposite directions. They see Gus and stop, astonished.  GUS  How long have you been awake?  AURORA A year.  JIM Two years.  GUS This is not good.
cafeteria		Jim, Aurora, and Gus sit around a table. Gus leans heavily on his elbows, sipping from a mug. 
gus		I always get a hibernation hangover but this is the worst ever.
jim		Yeah.
gus		Two years. Ouch.  You know what it means, right? There's no way back into hibernation.
aurora		I was hoping you'd know something we didn't.
gus		No. We're awake for the duration. How far along are we? You know?
jim		Thirty-two years. Eighty-eight years to go. Gus blows air.
gus		That's tough.  Hibernation failure! They said it couldn't happen. And now three on one trip. Aurora shoots Jim a look. Gus doesn't notice.
command deck		Gus leads Jim and Aurora to the Bridge's armored hatch. He swipes his crew card and the door opens.
jim		You have no idea how long I've been trying to get in here.
gus		Now you're in. Don't touch anything.
bridge		The computer consoles of the Bridge brighten as they enter. Gus walks from station to station, studying the screens.
gus		We're on course....Whatever's wrong with the ship, NavComp's still minding the store.
jim		What do you think is wrong?
gus		Three pod failures? Something's wrong. Question is what. He turns to leave.
aurora		Wait. What about diverting the ship? Can we go back to Earth? Gus almost laughs.
gus		We're going forty percent of lightspeed away from Earth. To go home we'd have to come to a stop, accelerate back towards Earth, and then come to a stop again. It'd take as long as going on to Homestead II. Anyway, navigation's not for amateurs. Space is a big place, and a planet's just a little thing. Gus has a coughing fit. Wipes his mouth with his fist.
diagnostic center		Gus opens a secure compartment beside the bridge. Inside, the Diagnostic Computer stands dark and dead.
gus		I thought we'd see a lot of red lights here. That would mean trouble.
aurora		So everything's okay?
gus		No, if everything was okay we'd see a lot of green lights here.
aurora		What does no lights mean?
gus		No lights means big trouble. Diagnostic Computer's down. We've got some work to do.
jim		What do you need?
gus		Right now? Cheeseburger.
gus		 Never been so hungry. Worst hibernation hangover ever. Jim can't take his eyes off Gus. A new person.
jim		So where you from, Gus?
gus		Grew up in Chicago. But I've lived on this ship a long time. The Excelsior's made five inter-planetary runs, and I've been on every one. I live aboard. When she makes port, I live where she lands until she lifts again.
jim		 How old does that make you?
gus		Fifty-six.
jim		But how long ago were you born?
gus		Oh. Hang on...  About six hundred years ago.
aurora		You should rest.
gus		I think I will.  Tomorrow morning, eight bells, you meet me beside that tree of yours. Until I figure out what's wrong with the Excelsior, you work for me. Jim and Aurora smile.
jim		Yes, sir.
aurora		Good night, Gus. Gus waves and walks off. That leaves Jim and Aurora sitting awkwardly on the same side of a diner booth. After a moment Aurora moves over to the other side. Looks at Jim across the table.
jim		I've missed you. Aurora stares, caught off guard. She gets up.
aurora		See you in the morning.
gus		The CPU's burned out, can you believe it? Why should that happen? It's rated for five hundred years.
aurora		Can you fix it?
gus		You don't fix it, you replace it. There are spares for everything in storage. Make a note. Diagnostic Computer CPU. And a new cooling fan, this one looks shot.
aurora		Got it.
grand concourse		Gus and Aurora stand waiting as if for a bus.
aurora		Don't take this the wrong way - I wish for your sake you were still asleep - but I'm glad you're here.
gus		Thank you, sweetheart. A GROWL of gears. Jim drives up in his souped-up golf cart.
jim		The golf cart. Gus takes in the bank of batteries, the giant tractor wheels.
gus		This I like.
gus		Next bay is the ship's stores. So how fast can she go? Jim puts the pedal down. The cart lays rubber on the deck plates and shoots down the aisle while Aurora and Gus yell.
ship's stores		Up on a hydraulic lift, Gus digs components out of storage. Hands them to Aurora, who hands them to Jim, who loads them into the cart. 
diagnostic center		Gus works on the Diagnostic Computer while Jim looks on. Nearby, Aurora thumbs through Gus's technical manuals. Gus clamps a final component in place and nods at Jim.
gus		Start `er up. Jim closes a circuit breaker and powers up the computer. A deep electrical HUM as the machine boots up. The screen flashes a message: RUNNING VESSEL DIAGNOSTIC. A progress bar shows that the diagnostic is 0.0% complete. The lights on the indicator panel remain dark. The first light begins to flicker as the diagnostic runs.
jim		How long will it take?
gus		Full diagnostic from a cold start? Days. But it'll tell us everything.
grand concourse		Gus strolls through the ship, looking around nostalgically. He passes Jim's garden and shakes his head.
concourse bar		Gus walks up to the bar.
arthur		Chief Mancuso! Good to see you.
gus		Good to see you too, Arthur.
arthur		What can I get you?
gus		Just an ice water with a little lemon. I feel hot as hell. Gus mops sweat from his brow and sips his water. His hand trembles hard enough to rattle the ice cubes.
gus's cabin		A homey space, filled with Gus's possessions: pictures of fellow spacers and vacation spots on half a dozen planets. Books, keepsakes and mementos. Gus sits on his bed, on a handmade quilt. Coughs violently into a handkerchief, leaving the cloth spotted with blood.
aurora		Thank you. Gus arrives in a fresh coverall, a steaming mug in hand. No signs of frailty. He hands each of them a digital slate.
gus		All right. Last night I checked ten atmosphere stations and two of them were burned out. Twenty percent failure rate. Unheard of. So we're going to see how far the rot runs.
aurora		Yes, sir.
jim		Got it.
gus		I'm going down to the Hibernation Bay to look at our pods. Maybe I can spot what went wrong. Jim and Aurora exchange glances.
aurora		That should be interesting.
gus		Son of a gun. A sound behind him. Gus turns to find Jim watching. He looks from Jim to the pod mechanism and back again.
jim		I finished.
gus		 I looked at your pod. Very simple. The clock chips burned out. Not supposed to happen, but it's simple. Jim fidgets. Starts to speak. Gus cuts him off.
jim		Gus...
gus		You did this.
jim		Yeah.
gus		I was thinking what a lucky son of a bitch you were, stuck with a beauty like Aurora. But it wasn't luck.
jim		No. Gus sits down heavily, looking at Jim.
gus		She knows?
jim		She knows. Gus thinks that over, shaking his head at the idea.
gus		I could see there was some trouble between you. Gus starts putting his tools away. Jim lays the electronic slate down beside him.
jim		Here's your inventory. I'll be in the machine shop if you need me.
aurora		I finished the census.
gus		Yeah.
aurora		So you know. What Jim did. Aurora's chin begins to tremble.
gus		Yeah, he told me.
aurora		He told you? Just like that? And? She waits, trembling with righteous indignation. Gus doesn't want to get into this: he looks away uncomfortably.
gus		No, it's a bad thing. But...  Look. When a drowning man drags somebody down with him, you don't call it right. But he's drowning. A starving man steals a loaf of bread, what can you say? You should have starved?
aurora		I would have starved.
gus		Really? Aurora looks hard at Gus, thinking, and says nothing.
gus		By Aurora's count, about thirty percent of the atmosphere station CPUs are burned out.
jim		We can replace them.
gus		We will. But they'll just burn out again if we don't figure out why it's happening.
jim		Where do we start?
gus		We wait for the diagnostic report. You've been knocking around this ship for two years. A few days more won't kill you. Gus hacks and coughs. For a moment his weakness is plain to see...but robots sweep in and lay dishes on the table. Gus sets his slate aside.
aurora		So how did you end up in space?
gus		Only place I ever wanted to be. When I was sixteen I lied about my age and got onto a lunar shuttle crew. A few years later I moved on to planetary ships. Made the Venus run a hundred times, then Jupiter and Saturn. Then the gravity drive came along. Real spaceflight. I did everything I could to get onto an interstellar ship. I was thirty-six years old the first time I saw an alien sun. No going back after that. I've walked on seventeen planets in five solar systems.
jim		That's incredible.
aurora		Don't you feel homeless?
gus		I'm a spacer. My home is where I am. You can't take much with you, so you don't get hung up on things. You have yourself. The things you do. The company you keep. Gus pushes himself off his stool. Momentarily shaky, he pulls himself together. He takes a seat at the grand piano and plays - a fine beerhall pianist. Gus touches a switch and lifts his hands: the piano keeps playing. Gus stands and extends a hand to Aurora. She takes it, and Gus sweeps her across the floor. Jim watches from the bar.
arthur		 Gus always dances with the ladies.
gus's cabin		Gus lies feverish and semi-conscious in his bed. A THUNK! The door slides open. Jim and Aurora rush in.  JIM Gus! Are you all right?  GUS No. No, I'm not.
infirmary		Gus lies in a medical scanner. Jim and Aurora watch as the machine bathes Gus in light, sensors floating over his body.  GUS Couldn't get up. Weak as a baby. What does it say is wrong with me? The scanner's display screen lists not one diagnosis, but hundreds: disorders, diseases, dysfunctions.  JIM  It's a few things.  MEDICAL SCANNER Diagnosis complete. Gus hauls himself out of the scanner. Pulls a bathrobe on and comes around to look at the screen. He sees it and blanches. 
gus		What's the summary?
medical scanner		Pan-systemic necrosis. Progressive organ failure. Cause unknown.
gus		 I'll tell you the cause. My goofy hibernation pod is the cause.
aurora		What's the treatment?
medical scanner		No treatment known. Gus pivots the monitor so that only he can see it.
gus		Prognosis. A series of images flickers over the screen, casting shadows on his face. Gus swallows hard and looks away.
medical scanner		Between two and three days. A long moment of silence. Gus turns and exits.
corridor		Gus settles himself behind the wheel of Jim's cart.
jim		Gus!
gus		Sorry, Jim. Gus puts his foot down and the cart squeals away.
jim		He's not in his room. Aurora flips on the intercom, speaks into the mic. Her voice resonates through the ship.
aurora		Where are you? Gus, please answer. We'll be at the Concourse Bar every hour. I'm really worried.
jim		Where is he? What's he doing?
aurora		Where have you been?
gus		Making arrangements. You kids have dinner plans?
jim		No.
gus		Xanadu at eight.
aurora		You look magnificent.
jim		How you feeling?
gus		Fine, fine.
aurora		Gus, just because some stupid machine says there's no cure...
gus		State-of-the-art machine, Aurora. Anyway, I can feel it happening.
aurora		But you just got here. It's barely been a week. He takes her hand.
gus		No point counting the days.
gus		A pure oxygen environment is about as dangerous a place as you can be. A steel pipe will burn in pure O2. And there I am with a hammer, trying to close this valve and stop the oxygen flow, when one spark will kill us all. But the thing is, O2 makes you punchy. So I can't stop laughing. And then the guys behind me start in, and soon everybody's going. Captain's giggling like a girl. The Navigator pissed his pants laughing. Jim and Aurora laugh. But pain contorts Gus's face. He grips the table with white knuckles. And nobody's laughing anymore.
gus		I went through the ship's manuals and made notes wherever there was something special you should know. These should keep you straight. In a few days the Diagnostic Computer will show you what needs fixing. He takes his shipcard from around his neck. Hands it to Jim.
jim		Why are we standing by the airlock?
aurora		Oh, God! Gus, no!
gus		Got no choice about going. But I can decide how to go, and I'm going out on my own two feet.
gus		If you knew how this feels, Jimbo, you wouldn't ask me to stay. Gus extends a hand to Aurora. She throws her arms around him.
aurora		Gus. I can't stand it. There's got to be some other way. Don't do this. Gus gently frees himself from her arms.
jim		Yes, sir.
gus		And take care of each other. Gus turns and opens the airlock. He straightens, squares his shoulders, and steps inside. Turns to face them.
robotics center		Jim walks in.   Everywhere robots bunch and stumble. A pair of sweeper robots fight to enter the same recharging niche. They trip up a procession of gangly window washers - who stumble into a parade of robot waiters. Chaos spreads. The robots' clockwork perfection upset.
cafeteria		Aurora draws a glass of orange juice and gets green sludge. Dials for toast and gets two slices of charcoal.
aurora		There's trouble everywhere. Atmosphere systems, water systems, waste systems, robot control.
jim		 What's happening? Aurora goes to the worktable: its surface displays the diagnostic report. Thousands of faults and failures.
aurora		It started two years ago. Thirty years with no trouble, then forty- seven failures in a single day.  Structural concussion. System overvoltage. Transient pressure anomaly. Circuit reset, conduit 12.
jim		Pod 1498? That's me!
aurora		Whatever happened that day woke you up. She pulls up a graph of failures over time: A trickle of breakdowns that swells into a torrent.
jim		Ever since then, more and more failures. Faster and faster.
aurora		How do we find out what's going on?
jim		We start at the beginning. The breakdowns from the day I woke up. Aurora brings up a map of the ship on the display. Red markers blink on the map.
aurora		They're all on Deck One.
jim		Power Converter seems okay.
aurora		The failures are all below us.
aurora		It's beautiful.
jim		Scares the hell out of me.
aurora		What keeps it in?
jim		Gravity. The gravity plant gives us weight. Propels the ship. And it contains the fusion reaction. All one system. Aurora watches Jim as he walks among the consoles, studying the instruments.
aurora		The cluster of failures is still one level down.
aurora		This should be it. Jim cards the door with Gus's shipcard. The lock flashes a red light and stays closed.
jim		Gus's card should open any door.
aurora		 Let me try an override code. She squeezes past Jim. Taps at the door's keypad. Jim peers through the narrow window in the door.
jim		Wait a sec, maybe there's a reason the door... The light flashes green. The door begins to slide open. A HOWLING WIND sucks Aurora against the crack in the door. She screams. Jim grabs at her. A hurricane drags her inside.
aurora		Jim. Are you okay?
jim		I think I'm all right.  Look. In the center of the room a round column houses the CORE COMPUTER. There's a CRATER blasted in the machine.
jim		A meteor.
aurora		A rock. They stare at the meteor: the cause of it all. A BEEP: on the Diagnostic Computer's console, more green lights turn red. New errors pop up on the diagnostic report.
aurora		And every computer that burns out increases the load on the others.
jim		Yeah. The breakdown accelerates. If we don't stop it, the whole ship will go down.
aurora		I'm trapped on a sinking ship?
jim		Gus said there's spares for everything. If we replace the core computer, it'll pick up the load. The burnouts will stop. Another BEEP. Another green light turns red.
aurora		Let's go.
aurora		Two more rows, then left! The cart squeals around a corner.
aurora		First you connect the data bus, then the sync cable, then bridge the power and backup power...you're supposed to run a startup checklist, but Gus made a note. He says you can skip straight to power-up as long as you...
aurora		You just got sucked into outer space. Take a break.
jim		Aurora!
jim		What are you doing?
jim		We've got to get you down. The gravity might come back on. Aurora hadn't thought of that. She looks down fearfully. Jim swings over the railing. Braces his feet. Takes aim.
aurora		Whoa. Hey. Let's talk about this.
jim		Hang on.
aurora		To what?! Jim dives at her like Superman. Wraps his arms around her. They tumble through space until Jim grabs a railing.
jim		You okay?
aurora		There's no gravity.
jim		Yeah. That's bad.
aurora		Why is there no gravity?
jim		The gravity plant's failing. Internal field goes first. After that the engines die...then the fusion reactor goes nova.
aurora		That is bad.
jim		We've got to get the core computer online. Now.
jim		The engines just shut down.
fusion reactor		The caged sun boils and swells. Tentacles of flame graze the reactor walls, leaving charred trails.
announcer		Reactor failure. Reactor failure. Passengers please remain calm. Aurora holds the computer in place, gripping two handholds, her shoulder planted against the machine.
jim		Does the data cable go in the "bus" port or the "through" port?
aurora		Bus port! The blue one! The ship shudders violently, throwing them from side to side. Jim forces one cable after another into their sockets. Aurora tires: the computer slides out of place.
jim		Hold it! Hold it!
aurora		Trying! She strains. The computer slides back into place. Jim closes the last connection. Slips out of the niche and lowers the clamps that hold the computer in place. He throws the heavy power lever. The lights go out.
aurora		What's happening?
jim		Don't know. The core computer flashes to life. The lights come back on. So does the gravity. Jim and Aurora slam to the floor. Inches away, the old computer plunges down and embeds itself in the deck. Across the room the golf cart bounces on its tires.
jim		What's so funny?
aurora		We're alive! The engines rumble back to life. A distant, rhythmic sound begins: BOOM-CHAK...BOOM-CHAK...
jim		We have to replace the other burned- out computers. But we have time. Aurora slides her arm around his waist.
aurora		 Jim! He turns. Stares in shock as more pods drift past the window.
hibernation bay		Jim and Aurora sprint into the facility. The sound is loud here: BOOM-CHAK...BOOM-CHAK... It's the sound of hibernation pods being ejected. The wave of ejections marches down an aisle: one pod after another disappearing into the ceiling. Jim rushes to a CONSOLE. Scans the display.
jim		The hibernation system rebooted. It thinks the ship's in port. It's ejecting the empty pods.
aurora		  They're not empty.
aurora		Who's that?
jim		The Captain. The sounds of the ejection wave come closer. Boom-chak.
aurora		You don't have much time.
jim		I know.
jim		That's the last of the burned out processors. When it reboots we should be all green.
aurora		Can we talk?
aurora		You know, if it wasn't for you waking me up, I'd be drifting out in space right now with the others. And if you'd never awakened, the whole ship would have been lost while we slept. Jim shakes his head at the tangle of it.
jim		I've missed you too.
aurora		I don't want to be angry anymore. I can't be. We've come through too much. No matter what you've done... the fact is, I love you. Jim reaches out and takes her hand. She watches him intertwine his fingers with hers. Aurora gazes out at the stars - the endless shining sky that enfolds them. She looks at Jim and smiles.
jim		Hell of a life.
****Dialogues from script :Passion_of_Joan_of_Arc.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Patriot.txt****

south carolina		April, 1776
marion		Damnation!
marion		Sorry.
nathan		Father, I saw a post rider at the house.
marion		Thank you.  Did you finish the upper field?
samuel		We got it all cut and we bundled half of it.
marion		Those swimming breaks cut into the day, don't they?
gabriel		Father, a post rider came from Charleston.  You have a letter inside.
marion		Thank you.  How's the spotted one's milk?
thomas		Better.  She's near ready to calve.
marion		... and they bundled half... almost no trace of the boys you knew...
marion		... no, she still hasn't spoken... Margaret was her age when you... I remember the time at the river when we couldn't find Catherine... you couldn't stop crying... and she was asleep in the wagon the entire time...
marion		Your children.
marion		I smell turnips...
william		Father, Samuel broke the blue plate...
samuel		I did not...
margaret		Dinner...
gabriel		News of Boston, father?
nathan		I hate turnips...
samuel		William knocked it right out of my hands...
gabriel		Father...?
marion		Samuel, William, both of you clean it up...
marion		The Assembly has been reconvened, I've been called to...
margaret		Charleston!
nathan		We're going to Charleston!
samuel		When, father, when?
marion		We'll leave tomorrow...
the children		Charleston!  We're going to Charleston!
marion		I love turnips...
margaret		... now count five finger lengths up from the front two stars of the Big Dipper, and that's the North Star, that's her.
margaret		It helps her to know Mother's there.
gabriel		The New York and Rhode Island assemblies have been dissolved...
marion		The middle colonies?
gabriel		Rioting both sides of the bay, in Chestertown they burned the Customs House and tar-and-feathered the Customs Agent.  He died of burns. In Wilmington they killed a Royal Magistrate and two Redcoats.
marion		Anything about the convention in Philadelphia?
gabriel		Poor Richard says they'll make a Declaration of Independence by July.
gabriel		Scott Higgins joined the militia.
gabriel		He's seventeen.  A year younger than I.
the children		Aunt Charlotte!  Aunt Charlotte!
charlotte		Welcome!  Welcome!  Margaret, William, look at you...!  They're huge.  What have you been feeding them?
marion		They're from good stock on their mother's side.
charlotte		Thank you.
charlotte		Come, come, inside, wait until you see what I have...
the children		 Presents!  For me?  What do you have?
charlotte		Inside, inside...
marion		You look well, Charlotte.
charlotte		As do you.
marion		Inside, all of you...
marion		Very well.
thomas		Look!  There's Gabriel!
charlotte		Children, inside!  All of you! Right now.
marion		What news?
gabriel		The British army is barricaded in Boston.  Harry Lee, is here from Virginia, recruiting for a Continental Army.
marion		Is that why the Assembly was convened?
gabriel		Yes.  He seeks a levy of troops and money.
marion		And the Governor?
gabriel		He vowed that if the Assembly votes a single shilling to Lee, he'll dissolve the body.
marion		Which would force our delegates in Philadelphia to vote for independence.
charlotte		And send us to war alongside Massachusetts.
marion		Our governor is a bigger fool than I thought.
gabriel		Lee is counting on your vote and expects you to be the first to enlist.
speaker		ORDER!  ORDER!
speaker		Our first order of business...
simms		And out last if we vote a levy...
speaker		ORDER!  ORDER!  Mr. Simms, you do not have the floor.
speaker		Our first order of business is an address by Colonel Harry Lee of the Continental Army.
lee		You all know why I am here.  I am not an orator and I will not try to convince you of the worthiness of our cause.  I am a soldier and we are at war and with the declaration of independence we all expect from Philadelphia, it will soon be a formal state of war.  In preparation for that, eight of the thirteen colonies have levied money in support of a Continental Army.  I ask South Carolina to be the ninth.
simms		Colonel Lee, Massachusetts may be at war, along with New Hampshire and Rhode Island and Virginia, but South Carolina is not at war.
lee		Massachusetts and New Hampshire are not as far from South Carolina as you might think and the war they're fighting is not for independence of one or two colonies.  It's for the independence of a nation.
withington		And what nation is that?
robinson		An American nation.  Colonel Lee, with your permission?
lee		Please.
robinson		Those of us who call ourselves Patriots are not seeking to give birth to an American nation, but to protect one that already exists.  It was born a hundred-and-seventy years ago at Jamestown, Virginia and has grown stronger and more mature with every generation reared and with every crop sown and harvested.  We are a nation and our rights as citizens of that nation are threatened by a tyrant three thousand miles away.
lee		Thank you.  Were I an orator, those are the exact words I would have spoken.
marion		Mister Robinson, tell me, why should I trade one tyrant, three thousand miles away, for three thousand tyrants, one mile away?
robinson		Sir?
marion		An elected legislature can trample a man's rights just as easily as a King can.
lee		Captain Marion, I understood you to be a Patriot.
marion		It's Mister Marion.
lee		I understood him to be a Patriot as well.
marion		If you mean by a Patriot, am I angry at the Townsend Acts and the Stamp Act?  Then I'm a Patriot.  And what of the Navigation Act?  Should I be permitted to sell my tobacco to the French traders on Martinique?  Yes, and it's an intrusion into my affairs that I can't... legally.
marion		And what of the greedy, self-serving bastards who sit as Magistrates on the Admiralty Court and have fined nearly every man in this room. Should they be boxed about the ears and thrown onto the first ship back to England?  I'll do it myself.  And do I believe that the American colonies should stand as a separate, independent nation, free from the reins of King and Parliament?  I do, and if that makes a Patriot, then I'm a Patriot.
marion		But if you're asking whether I'm willing to go to war with England, the answer is, no.  I've been to war and I have no desire to do so again.
robinson		This from the same Captain Francis Marion whose anger was so famous during the Wilderness Campaign.
marion		I was intemperate in my youth.  My departed wife, God bless her soul, dampened that intemperance with the mantle of responsibility.
robinson		Temperance can be a convenient disguise for fear.
lee		Mister Robinson, I fought with Captain Marion in the French and Indian War, including the Wilderness Campaign.  We served as scouts under Washington and I have no doubts about Captain Marion's courage or competence on a battlefield. There's not a man in this room, or anywhere, for that matter, to whom I would more willingly trust my life.
robinson		I stand corrected.
lee		Nonetheless, I would like to know, Mister Marion, how... how... how...
lee		Damn it, Francis!  How in God's name do you expect to gain independence without going to war?
marion		Harry, Harry, Harry...
lee		My hairy arse!  You live in a cave if you think we'll get independence without war...
speaker		Gentlemen!  Please!  This is not a tavern!
marion		Wasn't it a Union Jack we fought under?
lee		A long time ago...
marion		Thirteen years...
lee		That's a damn long time...
speaker		Gentlemen!  Please!
marion		You were an Englishman then...
lee		I was an American, I just didn't know it yet...
marion		We don't have to go to war to gain independence...
lee		Balderdash!
marion		There are a thousand avenues, other than war, at our disposal...
lee		Name five hundred.
marion		Royal petition, delegates to court, judicial redress, economic boycott, bribery...
lee		That's five, keep going...
marion		... time, royal succession, regicide, bribery...
lee		You said bribery twice...
marion		We do not have to go to war to gain independence.
lee		Francis, I was at Bunker Hill.  It was as bad as anything you and I saw on the frontier.  Worse than the slaughter at the Ashuelot River. The British advanced three times and we killed over seven hundred of them at point blank range.  And still, they advanced and they took the ground.  That is the measure of their resolve.  If your principles dictate independence, then war is the only way.  It has come to that.
marion		I have seven children.  My wife is dead.  Who's to care for them if I go to war?
lee		Wars are not fought only by childless men.  A man must weigh his personal responsibilities against his principles.
marion		That's what I'm doing.  I will not fight and because I won't, I will not cast a vote that will send others to fight in my stead.
lee		And your principles?
marion		I'm a parent, I don't have the luxury of principles.
robinson		Mister Speaker, I call for a vote on a levy to the Continental Army.
hamill		Second.
speaker		So moved.
speaker		Mr. Robinson.
robinson		Yea.
speaker		Mr. Hamill.
hamill		Yea.
speaker		Mr. Johnson.
johnson		Yea.
speaker		Mr. Simms.
simms		Nay.
speaker		Mr. Marion.
speaker		Mr. Marion.
marion		Nay.
page boy		Twenty-eight to twelve, the levy passed!
gabriel		Father, I've lost respect for you. I thought you were a man of principle.
marion		When you have children, I hope you'll understand.
gabriel		When I have children, I hope I don't hide behind them.
marion		Do you intend to enlist without my permission?
gabriel		Yes.
lee		One of yours?
marion		Gabriel.
lee		I recognize him now.  Is he as imprudent as his father was at his age?
marion		No, thank the Lord.  He's more like his mother.
lee		I'll see to it that he serves under me.
marion		Thank you.
marion		Not yet, Thomas.
thomas		When?
marion		Seventeen.
thomas		But it's already been two years and that's two more years.  The war could be over by then.
marion		God willing.
thomas		Alright.  Seventeen.
william		Is it going to rain?
thomas		That's not thunder.
nathan		Father?
marion		Six-pounders.  Lots of them.
margaret		How far away?
marion		Four, five miles.
samuel		Waxhaus?
marion		Just east of it.
margaret		Are we safe here?
marion		Don't worry.
margaret		We could go stay at Aunt Charlotte's farm.  She's to the west.
marion		No, there'll be skirmishers on the roads.  We're safer here.
marion		Put those away.
thomas		But father, they might come this way.
marion		Put them away.
marion		Enough.  I'll be in the workshop. Samuel, the cows.  Thomas, attend to your studies here on the porch. Nathan, on the back porch.  If you see anyone, come get me.  Margaret, please keep William close to you. No one is to go past the yard wall.
marion		Children.
margaret		Samuel...
margaret		Samuel, get up to the house.  You heard father...
marion		Up to the house, now.  All of you, come on.  Now.
samuel		They're going to come.
margaret		Quiet.
samuel		We're going to have to fight them off.
william		Father will do that.
samuel		They'll probably kill us men and do Lord knows what to you women.
margaret		Samuel!
marion		Gabriel!
margaret		You're hurt.
thomas		The battle, were you there?
marion		Margaret, get bandages and water. Thomas, the porch, eyes open.
gabriel		Have you seen any Redcoats?
marion		Not yet.  What happened?
gabriel		It wasn't like Saratoga.  There, we stayed in the trees, but this time Gates marched us straight at the Redcoats.  They fired two volleys into us and we broke like straw.  I was given these dispatches... I saw Virginia Regulars surrender... as they laid down their weapons the British Green Dragoons rode into them and hacked them to bits... killed them all, over two hundred men.
marion		They had surrendered?
gabriel		I have to get these dispatches to Hillsboro.
marion		You're in no condition to ride.
gabriel		I have no choice, I...
marion		Margaret, take William and Susan down to the root cellar.  Thomas, go to the back porch.  Nathan and Samuel, the side windows.  Keep out of sight.
marion		He's dead...
marion		Thomas, help me turn him over...
marion		Thomas!
continental sergeant		Thank you.
marion		Sergeant, there are seventeen wounded men here.  Seven Redcoats and ten Patriots, counting my son inside.  That puts me in a difficult position.
marion		You three are the least severely wounded.  I have to ask you to leave and find care elsewhere.
sergeant		I understand.
sergeant		Come on, boys.
thomas		Father?
nathan		But they're wounded.
marion		There are rules, even in war.
marion		After the Battle of Ashuelot River, against the French, I got this and the one on my leg.  I couldn't walk. Washington had to march north.  He left me with other wounded men and a like number of French prisoners. Nine for nine.  When the French found us, their surgeon gave me the best of care.  We'll be safe this way.
marion		Your best chance is in Bennington, seven miles east, along the river road.
marion		Thank you.
tarleton		You're surrendering.
continental sergeant		Yes, sir.
tarleton		What unit?
continental sergeant		First Virginia Regulars under Colonel Hamilton.
tarleton		Who cared for your wounds?
continental sergeant		We did.
tarleton		With a lace table cloth?
tarleton		Kill them.
redcoat lieutenant		These men are of my regiment.  Thank you.
redcoat		Rebel dispatches, sir.
gabriel		I carried those.  I was wounded, these people gave me care, they have nothing to do with the dispatches.
redcoat lieutenant		I understand.
tarleton		Lieutenant, have a detachment take our wounded to our surgeons at Camden crossing.  Use whatever horses and wagons you can find here.
redcoat lieutenant		Yes, sir.
redcoat lieutenant		We found this, sir.
tarleton		Who carried this?
gabriel		I did.
tarleton		 Take this one to Camden, he's a spy. He will be hung.
marion		Colonel, he's a dispatch rider and that's a marked dispatch case.
tarleton		Fire the house and barns.
redcoat lieutenant		Yes, sir.
marion		Colonel...
redcoat lieutenant		And the Rebel wounded?
tarleton		Kill them.
marion		A dispatch rider with a marked case cannot be held for spying.
tarleton		We're not going to hold him, we're going to hang him.
marion		But...
gabriel		Father...
tarleton		Oh, he's your son.  You should have taught him about loyalty.
marion		Colonel, I beg you, please reconsider.  By the rules of war, a dispatch rider with a marked case...
tarleton		Would you like a lesson in the rules of war?
tarleton		Perhaps your children would.
marion		No lesson is necessary.
thomas		Father, do something.
thomas		Gabriel!  Run!
tarleton		Major.
margaret		Thomas, please, Thomas...
marion		Lieutenant, please...
redcoat lieutenant		I have my orders.  Sergeant!
margaret		Papa, look what they did to Thomas...
nathan		Father, they're going to take Gabriel...
nathan		Father, you can't let them take him...
marion		Quiet.
marion		Don't move.
marion		Nathan, Samuel...
marion		Margaret, take William and Susan to the river shed.  Hide there.  If we're not back by dawn, go up the river to the Richardson's house. They'll take you to your Aunt Charlotte's farm.  Nathan, Samuel, and I are going to get Gabriel.
margaret		But what about Thomas?
marion		Leave him.  Take care of William and Susan.
marion		Nathan, there.  Samuel, there.
marion		I'll fire first.  Then, Nathan, kill whoever is standing closest to Gabriel.  Samuel, kill the last man in the line.
marion		After that, Samuel, load for Nathan. If something happens to me, put down your weapons and run as fast as you can, that way, downhill.  Hide in the brush by the river, then make your way home, get the others and go to Aunt Charlotte's farm.
marion		Boys... steady.
redcoat sergeant		FORM BY TWOS!  BACK-TO-BACK LINES...
redcoat corporal		READY...
marion		Samuel, reload.  Nathan, untie Gabriel.
marion		There, there... he's alright... he's with your mother now...
marion		Lord, we pray that You accept this child, Thomas Marion and give him a place at Your side with his mother. We ask that You embrace him and help us to understand the manner in which Your mercy works.  This we ask, in Your name.  Amen.
marion's children		Amen.
gabriel		The Morgans, the Halseys, Williams, Stantons...
gabriel		Father, it's safe.
marion		Sleep, now.
nathan		Father... I killed those men...
marion		Don't blame yourself, you did what I told you to do.
nathan		I'm glad I killed them... I'm glad...
marion		Try to get some sleep.
charlotte		I'll stay with them.
gabriel		How are they?
gabriel		Gates is at Hillsboro with the Continental Army.  I'll leave in the morning to join him.
gabriel		I'll tend my horse.
charlotte		They're asleep.
marion		How did this... how did I let this happen?
charlotte		You couldn't have known.
marion		I should have known... once I would have... I used to be wary... and today I watched my son killed before my eyes... your sister civilized me and I damn myself for having let her...
charlotte		Thomas is dead but you've done nothing for which you should be ashamed.
marion		I've done nothing and for that I am ashamed.
charlotte		If you go, I'll care for them as if they were my own.
marion		I'll leave in the morning with Gabriel.
william		When will you be back?
marion		I don't know, William.
william		Tomorrow?
margaret		No, not tomorrow.
marion		Goodbye?
marion		Just one word?  Goodbye?  That's all I want.
susan		Goodbye.
marion		No, it's too late.
marion		Command posts... Patriot... British...
marion		Break for the trees... break for the trees...
marion		Send them to cover!  Goddamn you!
gabriel		Father, we have to do something...
gabriel		Father...
marion		It's already over.
lee		Damn you, Sergeant, don't move the wounded twice, put them straight on the wagons from the surgeons.
patriot sergeant		Yes, sir.
lee		Lieutenant, detail men for outriders.  We move out as soon as the wounded are ready.
lieutenant		Yes, sir.
marion		Green Dragoons came to my home, killed my son, Thomas.  It was Tarleton himself.
lee		I'm sorry.
marion		I'm sorry I wasn't here for this.
lee		There's nothing you could have done, Gates is a damned fool.
marion		We saw.
lee		I begged him to stay in the cover of the trees but he insisted the only way to break Cornwallis was muzzle- to-muzzle.  He spent too many years in the British army.
marion		Where is he now?
lee		Last anyone saw, riding hard, northeast, his staff a hundred yards behind, trying to catch up.
marion		Who's in command?
lee		I am, I think.
marion		What are my orders?
lee		If you want orders, I've got some for you.
lee		We're a breath away from losing this war.  In the North, Washington is reeling from Valley Forge, running and hiding from Clinton and twelve thousand Redcoats.  Here in the South, Cornwallis has broken our back.  He captured over five thousand of our troops when he took Charleston and today he destroyed the only army that stood between him and New York.
marion		So now Cornwallis will head north, link up with Clinton and finish off Washington.
lee		And Patriots will start dying on the gallows instead of the battlefield.  Unless we can keep Cornwallis in the South until the French arrive.  A treaty was signed at Versailles after our victory at Saratoga.  The French are sending a fleet and ten thousand troops.
marion		When?
lee		Fall, six months at the earliest.
marion		Long time.
lee		The bigger problem is where, not when.  The French fleet won't sail north of the Chesapeake for fear of early storms.
marion		So you're going to try to keep Cornwallis in the South until then.
lee		Not me, you.  I'm going north with every Continental regular I can find to reinforce Washington or he won't last six weeks.
marion		You expect Cornwallis to be held here by militia?
lee		Not held, just slowed down.
marion		They're nothing but farmers and you're asking them to try to keep a tiger in their backyard.  They'd be better off letting it move on.
lee		They'd be better off, but the cause wouldn't be.
marion		How many men does Cornwallis have under his command?
lee		Four thousand infantry and around six hundred cavalry...  ... including the Green Dragoons under Tarleton.
marion		I'll do what I can.
lee		I'm giving you a field commission as a colonel.
gabriel		Colonel Lee, I request a transfer to Colonel Marion's command.
lee		Granted.
lee		Good luck.
gabriel		What now, sir?
marion		We put out the word.  We'll start along the south side of the Santee...
gabriel		We'd cover more ground if we split up.
marion		It's safer if we stay together.
gabriel		Colonel, I didn't request this transfer because you're my father. I requested it because I believe in this cause and this is where I can do the most good.
marion		Oh?
gabriel		I've been doing this for two years. I'm the best scout in the Continental Army, the best horseman, the best shot, the best scavenger and I know every deer path and swamp trail between here and Charleston.
marion		Is that so?
gabriel		Yes, sir.  My father taught me.
marion		Did your father teach you humility?
gabriel		He tried.  It didn't take.
marion		Alright, Corporal, you take Bennington, Harrisville, Acworth and the farms along Black Swamp.  I'll take the north side of the river. We'll meet at Snow's Island.
gabriel		Yes, sir.
marion		And, Corporal...  ... be careful.
gabriel		Yes...  ... father.
marion		I'm looking for John Billings.
bartender		He's dead.
marion		If he comes back from the dead, tell him Francis Marion is looking for him.
bartender		I'll be sure to do that.
marion		I'll wait.  Miracles happen.
billings		You expect to hold Cornwallis with militia?
marion		I expect to try.
billings		Trust you and Harry Lee.  Remember that damned overland you two thought up in '62 to hit Fort Louis?
marion		It worked.  How many men can you raise?
billings		Not many.  Dalton, Scott, they've got their reasons; Rev. Oliver, he believes in the cause; some of the young bucks; a few like me with nothing to lose...  What about you?  You've got a lot to lose.
marion		You coming, or not?
gabriel		Father, this war is about more than Thomas.
marion		Is it?
gabriel		If you're here only for revenge, you're doing a disservice to him as well as yourself.
marion		How old are you?
gabriel		You know how old I am.
marion		God help us all when you're forty.
marion		Reverend.
marion		Dalton.
marion		You all have your own reasons for being here.  I lost a son and I intend to kill the man who killed him...
marion		... But I don't consider that man's life adequate payment for the life of my son, and killing him won't keep the sons of other men from dying...
marion		Cornwallis has to move north.  We have to keep him right here.  If he's south of the Chesapeake when the French arrive, if the French arrive, we have a chance of winning this war.
marion		Eat, get some rest, we move out in two hours.
cornwallis		Gentlemen.
cornwallis		Major, this is not an adequate map.
major huntington		We have better coming on the trailing supply convoy from Charleston.
cornwallis		A useful place for our maps.
major huntington		I'm sorry, sir, it won't happen again.
cornwallis		My harrier.  Join us, Colonel.
tarleton		Sir.
cornwallis		Gentlemen, celebration is premature. We have a difficult campaign ahead of us.  We are in predominately hostile country and we cannot rely on forage.  As we move north, the bulk of our supplies will reach us by sea, through Charleston, which will give us a long and vulnerable supply line, one that can only be secured if the locals are loyal to the crown.
cornwallis' officers		 Yes, sir.
cornwallis		Nonetheless, we must remember that this is a civil war...
cornwallis		These colonials are our brethren and when this conflict is over, we will be reestablishing commerce with them.  Surrendering troops will be given quarter and unwarranted assaults on civilians will cease.
cornwallis		I expect this war to be fought in a vigorous but civilized manner.
cornwallis		Have I made myself clear, gentlemen?
officers		 Yes, sir.
tarleton		Yes, sir.
wilkins		I believe he was speaking to us, Colonel.
tarleton		Did you know that Lord Cornwallis' father was a tenant on the estate of my grandfather?
gabriel		Less than a mile.  Forty-one wagons, a company of Redcoat infantry, horses at the rear.
marion		Flanking riders?
gabriel		I didn't see any.
redcoat lieutenant		Across the river!  Covering fire! Double rank!
marion		Epaulets first... Kill the officers.
marion		THE WAGONS!
billings		We have enough arms for an army. Now all we need is an army.
scott		Reamer, boring tool...
marion		Swage, broach, etching tool...
fielding		A rolling gunsmith's shop...
scott		We can rifle those musket barrels...
fielding		Get another hundred yards out of 'em...
marion		We'll need a forge...
scott		Easy enough...
marion		We've got clay to make a chamber...
fielding		Oak to make charcoal...
scott		Oil cloth and barrel staves to make a bellows...
marion		And we can yank a wagon wheel, weight it, rig a piston and drive shaft and we'll have a flywheel to power the bellows...
scott		 That's why he's a colonel.
billings		Shoot them!  Shoot the damn things!
marion		Put that pistol down!
scott		They followed us from the bridge. They won't let anyone near the wagon.
marion		Stay... stay... stay...
marion		Don't you growl at me!
marion		Now let's see what's in this wagon.
abner		Rum, French Champagne, Madeira, Port...
billings		No wonder they were guarding it.
marion		These four wagons must be his.
gabriel		And the dogs, too, I'll wager.
billings		I say we drink the wine, shoot the dogs, and use the papers for musket wadding.
marion		His journals, letters, maps, books...
abner		Colonel, we got a wagon full of officer's uniforms and more powder and muskets here.
marion		Today was hard earned but a good start.
marion		In the future wounded British soldiers will be given quarters.
dalton		Like they gave quarter to my family? My wife and three children were hiding in our root cellar when they came.  The Redcoats locked the door and torched the house.
marion		You have my sympathy... but the order stands.
dalton		And who are you to give an order like that?  We all know what you did after Fort Wilderness.
marion		I'm your commanding officer.  This is militia, not regular army.  I can't hold you here, but as long as you stay, you'll follow my orders.
marion		For what?
marion		Don't depend on my decency.  I'm one of that sort.
billings		Am I one of that sort?
marion		You're the worst of that sort. You're the sort that gives that sort a bad name.
marion		I'm going to check the watch.
gabriel		He shouldn't make light.  That Redcoat should not have been killed.
billings		He's not making light.
billings		You don't know him very well, do you?
gabriel		He's my father.
gabriel		I know him well enough?
billings		Don't fault him for having grown up on the frontier.  It was a harder time and a harder place than you know.
billings		Well?
marion		I've just been inside the mind of a genius.  Lord Cornwallis knows more about war than I could in a dozen lifetimes.
billings		Cheerful news to greet the morn.
marion		His victories at Charleston and Camden were perfect, strategically, tactically, logistically.  But he has a weakness.
marion		Lord Cornwallis is brilliant.  His weakness is that he knows it.
gabriel		Father?
marion		Pride is his weakness.
billings		Personally, I'd prefer stupidity.
marion		Pride will do.
cornwallis		Why am I here, Colonel Halbert?
major halbert		For the ball, sir?
cornwallis		Why, after six weeks, are we still here to attend a ball.  By now, we should be attending balls in North Carolina, not South Carolina.
major halbert		Our supply line, sir?
cornwallis		Excellent guess, Major.
cornwallis		And what, praytell, is this?
valet		Uh... I borrowed it from Colonel North.  I took it in at the back, added wider epaulets, a court sash and looped gold braiding on the cuffs...
cornwallis		It's a horse blanket.  First my personal baggage, then half the bridges and ferries between here and Charleston burned, a dozen convoys attacked.  Colonel, if you can't secure our supply line against militia, how do you expect to do so against Colonial regulars or the French when they come?
colonel halbert		Sir, they're not like regulars, we can't find them and we don't know when or where they're going to strike.
cornwallis		How impolite.  And who leads these clever, secretive fellows?
colonel halbert		We don't know, sir.  He's called, the Commander by some, the Swamp Fox by others.
cornwallis		Colonel, I'm a civilized man but I'm finding to difficult to remain civil.  Secure my supply line.
colonel halbert		Yes, sir.
redcoat guard		Hey, what you got there?
billings		We got our own little party...
dalton		To hell with the officers and their fancy dress ball...
guard		Give us a nip, here.
cornwallis		Fine animals, a gift from His Majesty.  Dead now, for all I know.
cornwallis		Yes, we have learned.
cornwallis		It's the weight of command and the lot of a widower -- memories, loneliness...  ... and long gazes at the moon.
major halbert		Good God!
cornwallis		Colonel Tarleton, you deal with these damned rebels.
tarleton		Yes, sir.
green		... four baskets of apples, salt pork, sweet potatoes, jerky, hard tack, salt and powder.  It's not much, but I'll get you more.
marion		We can't pay for this...
green		I'll give you what I can, when I can.  You pay me what you can.
green		Francis, you remember my daughter, Anne.
marion		Nice to see you again, Anne.
anne		I know who you are, Gabriel Marion. The last time I saw you, I was nine and you put ink in my tea.
gabriel		I... uh... that wasn't me, it was Samuel... I mean Nathan...
anne		It was you and it turned my teeth black for a month.
gabriel		Uh... uh... I...
green		He's sorry.  Come.
marion		... and your terms of enlistment will be month-to-month.  Every thirty days you can re-enlist or return to your families.
reed		I'm in.
marion		Talk to Abner and Scott about provisions, powder and mounts.
billings		Twenty men here, seventeen in New Brighton, a dozen along the Black River.  We'll pass three hundred by week's end if this keeps up.
gabriel		If I'd known you were going to look like this, I never would have put ink in your tea.
anne		You call that a compliment?
gabriel		It's a start.
gabriel		They look nice.  As white as can be.
billings		He reminds me of you before you got old and ugly.
marion		 No, he takes after his mother...
marion		... the younger ones barely remember her but Gabriel spent more time with Elizabeth... she taught him well, guided him, she was his North Star and mine... her father was a minister, in Boston, did you know that?
marion		... Gabriel's already a better man than I could ever hope to be...
marion		What do you mean, old and ugly?
billings		You got me beat on both accounts.
marion		The hell I do.
marion		Gabriel?  Are you asleep?
gabriel		We're low on salt.  I should go to Pembroke and get some.
billings		You got salt last week.
gabriel		Oh, right.  Baking powder, we need baking powder.
billings		We've got plenty of baking powder. You went to Pembroke and got five pounds two weeks ago.
redcoat sergeant		Halt.  Look alive, boys.
marion		Sergeant, this road is closed. Those wagons now belong to the Continental Army.
redcoat sergeant		Ready arms!  By twos!
marion		Sergeant, there's no reason for you and your men to die.  Just leave the wagons and go.
redcoat sergeant		Steady, boys...
redcoat sergeant		This is the King's highway and I advise you and your men to make way.  Prepare to fire.
marion		It's a trap...
redcoat sergeant		FIRE!
marion		GO!
tarleton		Which way?
gaskins		This way... no this... I think...
tarleton		HALT!
tarleton		Enough of this.  There are other ways to run down a fox.
gabriel		Father, no...
marion		That's him.  Tarleton.
marion		Damn you!  Let go!
gabriel		Father, please...
gabriel		Fourteen dead, eleven wounded, eighteen captured.
marion		I should have killed him when I had the chance?
gabriel		When was that?  In the swamp at the expense of your men?  Or when he killed Thomas at the expense of your family?
marion		No...
gabriel		Or perhaps tomorrow at the expense of our cause.
gabriel		There will be a time and a place for revenge but killing Tarleton at the expense of your duty serves no one but yourself.  Stay the course.
marion		Stay the course... your mother used to say that to me when I'd get drunk or lose my temper.
gabriel		She'd say it to me when I picked on Thomas or Nathan.
marion		You learned her lessons better than I.
gabriel		She got me at a more impressionable age.
anne		Next time we'll bring more blankets.
gabriel		That would be nice.
anne		Maybe we'll be lucky this winter and have just rain, no snow.
gabriel		That would be nice, too.
anne		Just because the French didn't come this fall, doesn't mean they're never going to come.
rollins		They're to be hung!
gabriel		But they're prisoners-of-war!
redcoat sentry		Sir.
tarleton		General, a message from the commander of the rebel militia.
cornwallis		It seems our Swamp Fox wants to have a formal parley.
tarleton		Are you going to meet with him?
cornwallis		Most certainly.  Arrange it.
major halbert		Lord Cornwallis will be with you presently.
marion		Thank you.
major halbert		You may, of course, keep your weapons, but I must warn you that...
marion		 I'm familiar with appropriate behavior at a military parley.
major halbert		Yes, quite, but you should know that...
marion		That will be all, Major.  I'll wait for Lord Cornwallis.
major halbert		 Yes... you will wait.
marion		One other thing.
marion		The proper form of address to a superior officer, even one of an opposing army, is "Yes, sir."
cornwallis		Jupiter!  Mars!
marion		Go.
cornwallis		My boys... my boys... you seem to have been well fed.  Thank you for that, Colonel.
marion		My pleasure, sir.
cornwallis		Please forgive me for keeping you waiting.
marion		Apology accepted.
cornwallis		Thank you, Colonel... I'm afraid I don't know your name.
marion		Colonel will do.
cornwallis		As you wish.
cornwallis		Colonel... Colonel Banastre Tarleton.
tarleton		Colonel.
marion		Shall we proceed?
cornwallis		Let us.  Unless you object, I would like to deem this meeting a formal negotiation and, as such, there are certain customary practices. Perhaps I could explain them to you...
marion		I'm familiar with how a formal negotiation is handled.
cornwallis		Oh?
marion		I served in His Majesty's army in the French and Indian War.
cornwallis		Oh.  Very well, then.  Would you, as the initiating party, like to begin?
marion		Unless you would like to claim aggrieved status.
cornwallis		You are familiar with how these things are done.  In fact, I would like to claim aggrieved status.
marion		Very well, proceed, sir.
cornwallis		First, you have in your possession certain belongings of mine, including clothing, private papers, furniture and personal effects of a non-military nature which I would like to have returned to me.
marion		I will do so as soon as possible.
cornwallis		Thank you.
marion		Please accept my apology for not having done so sooner.
cornwallis		Apology accepted.  Now, on the matter of the specific targeting of officers during engagements, this is absolutely unacceptable.
marion		That one is a bit more difficult.
cornwallis		Certainly you must know that in civilized warfare, officers in the field must not be accorded inappropriate levels of hostile attention.
marion		And what are inappropriate levels of hostile attention?
cornwallis		Colonel, imagine the utter chaos that would result from un-led armies having at each other.  There must be gentlemen in command to lead and, when appropriate, restrain their men.
marion		Restrain them from the targeting of civilians, including women and children?
cornwallis		That is a separate issue.
marion		I consider them linked.
cornwallis		I beg to differ.  One is a command decision on your part.  The other represents nothing more than the occasional over-exuberance of field officers attempting to carry out their duty in difficult circumstances.
marion		As long as your soldiers attack civilians, I will order the shooting of your officers at the outset of every engagement.  And my men are excellent marksmen.
cornwallis		Very well, let us move on to...
marion		Prisoner exchange.
cornwallis		Sir?
marion		You have eighteen of my men.  I want them back.
cornwallis		I do have eighteen criminals under sentence of death, but I hold no prisoners-of-war.
marion		If that's your position, then eighteen of your officers will die. Nineteen, if you hang me with my men.
cornwallis		What officers?
marion		In the clearing, just down from the crest, to the left of the dark pines...
cornwallis		Their names, ranks and posts?
marion		They refused to give me their names. Their ranks are nine lieutenants, five captains, three majors and one fat colonel who called me a cheeky fellow.  Their posts?  We picked them up here-and-there last night.
cornwallis		You are not a gentleman.
marion		If your conduct is the measure of a gentleman, I take that as a compliment.  Get my men.
cornwallis		Arrange the exchange.
marion		Thank you, General.  I'm sure your officers will thank you, as well.
marion		You don't remember me, do you?
tarleton		Ah, yes, that boy.
tarleton		Ugly business, doing one's duty.
marion		Yes, ugly business.
marion		If you are alive when this war is over, I'm going to kill you.
cornwallis		Jupiter!  Mars!
tarleton		Take a detachment and go get our officers.
cornwallis		This fox believes himself clever. We shall see.
gaskins		Nothing.
wilkins		No one's been here for months.
tarleton		But now we have a name for our Colonel... Francis Marion.  And with a name will come a family.
captain morrow		UPSTAIRS!
tarleton		They can't be far.  Check the outbuildings and the woods.
gabriel		It's all set.
charlotte		This will do fine.
charlotte		Thank you.
charlotte		So he's the one they talk about, the Swamp Fox.
gabriel		Yes.
charlotte		I thought it might be him, the bits and pieces we heard, a veteran, fought in the French and Indian War, knows the swamps.
gabriel		They won't stop looking for you and the children.
charlotte		We'll be alright, here, for now.  How is he?
gabriel		I don't know... I'm his son.
gabriel		These are for you and the children.
susan		Why didn't father come?
charlotte		Speaking for months now.
susan		Why didn't he come?
gabriel		He wanted to, Susan, but he couldn't leave his men.
susan		He left us.
gabriel		I know he did and he's sorry.  He'll come back as soon as he can.
gabriel		There are some letters here from him.  Some are just to you.
susan		I don't care.  I hate him.
gabriel		You don't hate him.
susan		Yes, I do.  I hate him and I hope he never comes back.
marion		She spoke?  Susan spoke?
gabriel		Full sentences.  As if she had been speaking all along.
marion		I don't believe it... and I wasn't there for it...
marion		Tell me everything she said, word for word.
gabriel		She said... she loves you and misses you but she understands why you can't be there with her.
marion		She said that?  Oh, my Lord, she said that?
marion		Isn't that something.
gabriel		Father, there's something else I need to talk to you about.
marion		What?
gabriel		Come with me.  I'll tell you when we get there.
gabriel		Father, I'm looking for a best man.
marion		I'd be honored.
gabriel		Sir, I'd like to request a furlough. Two days?
marion		Granted.  Where are you going?
gabriel		Cheraw Falls.
marion		It's beautiful there.  Your mother and I were there once, before you were born.
gabriel		I know.
marion		She would have been pleased.
anne		I'm sorry we didn't give you more warning.
marion		It's alright.  I'm very happy for you.
marion		It's a good measure of a woman that she'll have her honeymoon under the stars.
cornwallis		From General Clinton in New York...  "... insurgency, particularly because of the likely move south of Washington and the inevitable arrival of the French.  Militia, as you have so often pointed out, is not worth the attention of a significant army, hence it is mystifying why militia has bedeviled you for so long..."
cornwallis		 "Your guardedly respectful Commander, General Sir George Clinton."
cornwallis		If I fail, you fail.
tarleton		Perhaps.
cornwallis		And if I triumph, you triumph.
tarleton		Probably.
cornwallis		How can we end this madness?
tarleton		Difficult, sir.  This is, as you pointed out, a civil war.
cornwallis		Civility is a secondary virtue.  It is superseded by duty.
tarleton		I understand, sir.
tarleton		I believe they are almost ready.
gaskins		I'm sorry, sir.  He died.
tarleton		Very well, get one of the others.
billings		Damn your eyes.  Do your worst.
tarleton		I intend to.
dalton		You still want me to give wounded Redcoats quarter?
gabriel		Tarleton has a list of our men, most are on it.  A regiment of dragoons is going to the homes on the list, burning them, killing whomever resists, women and children, as well.
marion		Where?
gabriel		Seven homes along the Black River so far...
marion		Five day furlough for all men. Abner, Dan, Reverend, spread the word.  We'll reform at Acworth.  Any man who doesn't come back won't be thought a coward or uncommitted to the cause.  Attend to your families.
nathan		Father!
william		Papa...
marion		Thank you.
marion		Susan...
margaret		I told you, things would get better.
marion		The overlook, up there should be where you post the watch.  Work out a schedule.  Short watches, especially at night.  Now let's find someplace to cache extra weapons...
marion		Good apple.
marion		Very good.  Sweet.
anne		May I ask you a question?
marion		Yes, of course.
anne		Do you think Frances with an "e" is too manly a name for a girl?
marion		No.
anne		Do you think Francis with an "i" is too womanly a name for a boy?
marion		No.
anne		Good.
marion		When?
anne		Late summer.
marion		Congratulations.
anne		Thank you.
charlotte		I'm not my sister.
marion		Excuse me?
charlotte		I said, I'm not my sister.
marion		I know that.
charlotte		Do you?
marion		Of course, I do.
charlotte		 Very well, then.
marion		Just a little goodbye?  One word? That's all I want to hear.
marion		Goodbye, Charlotte.
charlotte		Goodbye.
susan		Papa!
susan		Papa, don't go, I'll say anything.
susan		Please, Papa, I'll say anything you want!
susan		Just tell me what to say!  Tell me what to say!
susan		Please, Papa, please don't go.
susan		... I'll talk to you, I'll say anything you want, just tell me what you want me to say, I'll say anything, I promise, please, Papa, just stay...
marion		I'll come back... I promise...
marion		How many came back?
redcoat sergeant		Excuse me, Ma'am, everyone has been requested to gather at the church.
anne		Everyone?
redcoat sergeant		Colonel Tarleton wants to address, the whole village.
redcoat		Into the church, please.
another redcoat		Colonel Tarleton wishes to address all of you.
voice		Open this door!
another voice		By what right are we made prisoners?
wilkins		Sir?
tarleton		Yes, Major.
wilkins		Sir, there is no honor in this.
tarleton		The honor is found in the end, not the means.  This will be forgotten.  Proceed.
gabriel		Anne...?
marion		Don't go in there.
gabriel		Is it her?  Is Anne in there?
marion		She is.  Don't go in there.
gabriel		Father, tell me what happened at Fort Wilderness?
marion		You know what happened.
gabriel		No, I don't.
marion		Everyone knows.  It's what made me a hero.  Me, Harry Lee, all of us.  I got a medal.  Men bought me drinks. They still do sometimes.  Everyone knows what happened.
gabriel		Tell me what everyone doesn't know.
marion		And what do they know?
gabriel		That the French and Cherokees captured the fort and when you retook it, you took revenge on them for what they did during the occupation.
marion		That's right.
gabriel		That's not enough.  Tell me.
marion		Your mother asked me the same question around the time you were born.  I was drunk and I was foolish enough to answer her.
marion		That's why it was four years between you and Thomas.  It took me that long to regain her respect.
gabriel		I'm not my mother.  I can't have the respect without the knowing.
marion		It was in '63.  It was a bad time. The French and the Cherokee had raided along the Blue Ridge.  All the English settlers took refuge at Fort Wilderness but the French captured it.  We were sent in relief.  Harry Lee, Billings, sixty of us.  We already had something of a reputation for being... harsh. When we got there the fort was abandoned.  Not a French soldier or Cherokee anywhere.  They had left a week earlier.  What we found was... bad.
marion		They had left the settlers there. The men had been burned alive, the women were in pieces and the children were on stakes.
marion		We buried them, then we went to track.  It was a cold trail and they were moving fast.  We went faster. We caught up to them at Kentucky Ford.
gabriel		Go on.
marion		We took our time with them and gave every one of them worse than they had given at the fort.  It was two weeks before they were all dead, all except two.  We put the heads on a pallet and had the two we let live take it to the French at Fort Ambercon.  That seemed to make a difference. The war went another year, things went better... and men bought us drinks.
marion		It was a different time, son.  And you're a better man than that.
gabriel		I see, do as I say, not as I do.
marion		Yes.
abner		THEY'RE HERE!  CONTINENTALS, THEY'RE HERE!
marion		If this war is about more than Thomas, it's about more than Anne, as well.  Stay the course.
gabriel		As you did at Fort Wilderness?
lee		Look at you!  I knew you could do it!
lee		We have a chance!  Better than a chance!  Cornwallis is running to the Chesapeake, probably to meet his fleet at Yorktown.  I wish I could see his face when he sees a dozen French ships floating there.  And Washington should be a day or two behind him.  And on top of everything, I have a son!  Born last month in Alexandria.
marion		His wife was killed yesterday.  She was with child.
lee		I'm sorry, I didn't know.
dalton		Gabriel and at least a dozen others. They must have left right after the watch change.
marion		That means they have two hours on us.
brother joseph		Fifty Green Dragoons, camped about a quarter mile from here.  Sentries at four points.
wilkins		FIRE!
gabriel		I'm alright, I...
marion		Let me help you...
dalton		Colonel...
marion		He looks as if he's sleeping, doesn't he?
lee		You have to bury him.
lee		I'll help you bury him.
marion		Don't touch him.
lee		How many men have we seen die?
marion		Two.  Gabriel and Thomas.
lee		They're gone.  And there is nothing you or I can do to bring them back. But there is something you can do to help end all this.
marion		It is ended.
lee		No.  It's not over yet.  Two days ride, Yorktown, Virginia. Washington, the French, Cornwallis and Tarleton.  It will end, one way or another.  Francis, nothing will replace your sons but helping us will justify their sacrifice.
runner		You called for me, sir?
marion		Take this to General Washington.
washington		Did you bring me this?
runner		Yes, sir.
washington		Take this to Colonel Marion.
runner		Yes, sir.
marion		Colonel Francis Marion.
marion		Gray.
washington		Earned.
washington		Come.  I have something I want to show you.
washington		Gentlemen.
washington		I was sorry to hear about your son.
marion		I lost another a year ago, Thomas. He was only fifteen.
washington		I've had no sons to lose, nor daughters.  I lose the sons of other men.
washington		Life was easier when we only had ourselves to get killed.
washington		Gentlemen, what do we see?
hamilton		Mortars, center, with two lines of enfilading trenches.
pinkney		More along the right flank and behind the forward redoubts.
lafayette		A formidable defensive position. Very formidable.
hamilton		They could hold out for weeks.
washington		Francis, tell me about General Cornwallis.
marion		Remember Braddock?
washington		That bad?
marion		Worse.
washington		Proud, priggish and competent.  A very bad combination in an adversary.
washington		For those of you who don't know, we intercepted a British dispatch this morning.  General Clinton has sailed from New York to relieve Cornwallis.
hamilton		How long before they arrive?
washington		Less than a week.  Sixteen ships and over nine thousand Redcoats.
lafayette		Sooner or later that message will get through to Cornwallis.
pinkney		And when it does, he'll just wait us out.
washington		And when the British ships arrive, the French ships will flee.  And when the French ships flee, General Rochambeau and the French troops will flee as well.
marion		Then you must let the message go through.
washington		If Cornwallis receives news that Clinton is coming, he'll simply hold tight and wait.  He'll fight a purely defensive battle and he'll win that.
marion		No, he won't.  There are two things you need to know about Cornwallis. First, he is a very proud man, He would rather risk defeat than share a victory.  If you give him what he thinks is an out, he'll take it.
washington		And what is the second thing?
marion		I'll let him tell you himself...  "... but it is this colonial militia that is the most irksome.  Not worthy of my attention, but demanding it; not worthy of British blood, but taking it; and not worthy of a soldier's honor, but sullying it.  Those nights of mine that are not sleepless, are filled with dreams of a cavalry charge on the heels of fleeing farmers..."
marion		He has no respect for citizen soldiers.  That's your bait... militia.
major halbert		Sir, a dispatch from General Clinton made it through the rebel lines.
wilkins		Sir?
cornwallis		Call a general staff meeting.
aide		Yes, sir.
marion		The British army believes in officers.  I believe in soldiers. After we engage, there will be no more orders.  Every man here must know what I'm about to tell you.
marion		We are the bait in a trap.  We're militia.  Cornwallis thinks we're rabble, nothing more than a bunch of undisciplined farmers.  And if he thinks that's what we are, that's what we're going to give him. Listen up.
cornwallis		Do you see that, Colonel?
tarleton		Unless I'm dreaming, I think I see irregulars at their center.
cornwallis		Fix bayonets... dispatch the Green Dragoons.
dalton		COLONEL!  OUR LINE!
dalton		OUR LINE IS FALTERING...
lee		Goodbye, Francis.
marion		Goodbye, Harry.
marion		And congratulations on the birth of your son.
lee		Thank you.  Maybe all of this will buy him some peace.
marion		I hope so.
marion		Your son, what did you name him?
lee		Robert.  Robert E. Lee.
marion		A good name for a farmer.
marion		Two pounds, fourteen ounces.
charlotte		Lovely.
susan		Wait for me...
****Dialogues from script :Paul.txt****

girl		Go on now Paul, don't be long.
girl		Paul... Paul? The girl draws near, illuminated by the orange glow.
girl		Paul?! The glow fades again. MUSIC: "The Boy In The Bubble" by Paul Simon.
clive		Beautiful piece.
vender		Damn straight. Practical performance. 100% Japanese, folded steel. Real hero shit.
clive		How much?
graham		Aren't you gonna get it?
clive		No, it's rubbish.
graham		What are you going to ask?
clive		Do you feel that the killing of Hicks and Newt in Alien 3, invalidates Ripley's struggle at the closed of the previous installment?
graham		I was going to ask that!
security		Alright, next! Suddenly nervous, GRAHAM approaches. MICHAEL BIEHN is signing pictures. He is pleasant, if business like.
michael biehn		Hey there. Who's it to?
graham		Graham.
michael biehn		Graham.
graham		Uh... are you... did you?
michael biehn		There you go. SECURITY moves GRAHAM on. CLIVE approaches.
michael biehn		Hey there. Who's it to?
clive		Clive.
michael biehn		Clive.
clive		Uh... are you... did you?
michael biehn		There you go. SECURITY moves CLIVE on. CLIVE scrambles for his camera.
clive		I... I need to photograph him.
security		You can take it from there. CLIVE and GRAHAM huddle together and try to position themselves with MICHAEL BIEHN in the background. CLIVE takes the shot. We see a frozen image of CLIVE and GRAHAM, with MICHAEL BIEHN barely visible in the background. The pair move off, looking at their spoils.
graham		That was amazing. I was actually a bit nervous.
clive		Really? I wasn't.
graham		Good egg, wasn't he?
clive		Yes, very unaffected. Damn, I forgot to give him my card. CLIVE points at SECURITY.
graham		Give it to Colossus.
clive		Nah. Hey, Rosario Dawson's here!
graham		She NEEDS to call me.
publicist		Looks good, right?
clive		Yes, it's very impressive.
publicist		It really does the image justice. I never noticed the third tit.
clive		That was Graham's idea.
publicist		Ladies man, huh? You guys happy? You got enough pens? You wanna Snapple? You wanna a Diet Coke?
clive		I'll have a fat Coke please?
publicist		A fat what?
clive		Coke.
publicist		Oh you man a FAT Coke.
clive		A what?
publicist		Fat coke.
clive		Yes please.
graham		When do we start?
publicist		Ten minutes ago.
clive		Why is it so quiet?
publicist		Sylar's doing a Q and A in the main pavillion.
clive		Oh man! I wanted to go to that . I wanted to find out if he actually eats the brains.
publicist		I can make a call.
clive		Please.
publicist		It'll pick up when he's done.
graham		I'm nervous.
clive		Don't be. The hard work's done, we have a great story and as usual your renderings jump from the page.
publicist		Yeah man. Three tits. Awesome.
graham		Thank you.
clive		All we have to do now is sit back and enjoy. A child approaches.
clive		Queen Jelva welcomes thee.
child		Do you know where Sylar's on?
clive		Main pavillion.
child		Thanks. Hey, three tits. Awesome.
publicist		Okay, that's the hour. How'd we do?
clive		Three copies.
publicist		Hey, one for each tit. Maybe you should have given her four.
graham		That's sick.
publicist		Don't sweat it. It's a sleeper.
clive		Yeah, but three copies?
publicist		Better than Carl Weathers.
graham		Would you like a copy?
publicist		Are you nuts? My office is full of junk. The PUBLICIST walks away chuckling.
clive		Graham, I need a drink.
graham		Nasty Hobbitses. CLIVE emerges from the bathroom. He is naked but for a black towel wrapped around his waist. His hair is wet and suddenly incredibly long. Around his neck, a large animal tooth hangs on a black leather cord.
clive		They think they're so cool.
graham		Hey, are you excited about going to Area 51?
clive		Hell yes.
clive		A-ffirmative. GRAHAM and CLIVE both look at their watches.
clive		Three, two, one...
graham clive		Beep. Beep.
clive		Good night, Graham.
graham		Good night, Clive. They switch off their respective bedside lights. The room is plunged into pitch darkness. A few seconds pass.
graham		Are you asleep?
clive		No.
graham		Shall we try and storm the Citadel before we nod off?
clive		Couldn't hurt could it? We hear some movement then the room is illuminated by the TV. The boys lie on their beds holding games controllers.
clive		Cover me.
valet		There you go.
graham		That's not ours.
valet		No?
clive		No, that's ours. A large RV pulls up. A 1985 Holiday Rambler, Imperial. Top of the range in its day. Still looks good.
valet		Oh. GRAHAM and CLIVE run off toward the RV. The four BORG from the previous day approach the VALET and exchange the key to the car for some small change. The BORG drive off.
valet		Fucking Borg.  Assimilate this! The RV speeds past the disgruntled VALET. GRAHAM and CLIVE can be heard whooping within.
graham		Breakfast?
clive		Java. Straight up.
graham		Any solids?
clive		No, let's punch through. Miles make the eggs taste sweeter.
graham		I love eggs!
clive		I hear that. Now, get that "Joe' on the go and jump in the Chewie seat. I need your map skills.
graham		Good job I pre-pared. GRAHAM flicks on the coffee and jumps into the co-pilot's  seat.
graham		It's a shame I don't have some controls on this side. That way, I could take over if you needed the loo.
clive		Yeah, I could say "take the helm."
graham		"Take the helm, number one."
clive		Yeah, "take the helm, number one, I need a number two." They laugh heartily. Through this, GRAHAM has been taking out his laptop and setting it up on the dash board.
graham		"Least I've got Cerebro, eh?
clive		Absolutely. Real-time sat-nav multi map and advanced geo-tagging with continual info stream?
graham		Impressive.
clive		Most impressive.
graham		And let's not forget, we've always got Analogue. GRAHAM pulls a map down. Obscuring the entire windshield.
clive		Not when we're driving Graham.
graham		Sorry. GRAHAM sends the map back up into the roller. The coffee percolator gurgles in the galley.
graham		Sounds like coffee o'clock.
clive		Thank god. I'm a wreck until I've had my first cup of J. GRAHAM high fives CLIVE and heads back into the kitchen.
graham		Looks like a pile of dead droids. A perky waitress approaches. GRAHAM and CLIVE become shy and awkward.
waitress		You boys all set? Can I get you anything else? GRAHAM spills his drink. CLIVE appears very uneasy.
clive		Amazing, isn't it? There are 295,734,134 people in this country and we haven't seen a soul for a hundred miles. Where is everybody?
graham		What about that old woman on crutches we saw hitchhiking?
clive		Apart from her. I suppose that's why they established the Dreamland facility out here.
graham		Far from prying eyes.
clive		Did you know the site was selected in the mid-1950s for testing of the U-2 spyplane, due to its remoteness, proximity to existing facilities and presence of a dry lake bad for landings?
graham		Yes.
clive		Oh.
graham		Shall we have a bite before or after we hit the Black Mailbox?
clive		Before.
pat		"Watch The Skies" or "Alien Onboard?" GRAHAM and CLIVE look at each other for a few seconds before looking back at PAT.
pat		Nice choice. So, where have you boys come from?
pat		Comic-Con?
clive		How could you tell? We see GRAHAM and CLIVE looking back at PAT. They look like the most painfully obvious Comic-Con attendees ever.
pat		Just a guess. My nephew launched a comic down there a couple of years ago. Sort of dramatized the accounts of some of the folk we've had in here.
clive		Encounter Briefs?
pat		That's it. You heard of it, huh?
clive		I've got all six.
pat		Well whaddya know? Small world.
clive		Do you get a lot of UFO types round here? We see PAT looking back at CLIVE, surrounded by UFO and alien paraphernalia, a slight smile on her face.
pat		Some.
graham		Have you ever seen one?
pat		A UFO? Oh, I've seen plenty.
graham		Really?! You've seen more than one UFOs?
pat		Well, I don't know what they were. So as far as I'm concerned they're unidentified and they were definitely flying.
clive		And objects.
pat		Damn straight. Whether or not they were spaceships, I can't say. Probably not, but I'd like to think they were. Be a shame if we were the only souls in the universe.
clive		Did you now, it's estimated that there are as many as 200 billion galaxies in the observable universe and each of those has approximately 40 billion starts, around which orbit countless planets and moons?
pat		Yes.
clive		Oh.
pat		Makes you think though, don't it?
clive		What?
pat		Where is everybody? GRAHAM and CLIVE ponder this.
pat		You boys all set?
clive		I'd like a cup of coffee please.
pat		Sure thing. How about you, sugar?
graham		Can I have an E.T. malt please?
pat		You wanna sparkler in that? GRAHAM smiles coyly.
pat		I'll take that as a yes. She beams at the boys and disappears into the kitchen. GRAHAM and CLIVE are left alone. They take it all in.
clive		It's nice here, isn't it?
graham		Absolutely.
clive		I think I might use the loo. CLIVE walks through a door marked "Maliens'. The adjacent toilet door  enter. GRAHAM becomes uneasy.
pat		Yes dear, what can I get you?
jake		Two beers.
pat		Coming right up.
clive		That is absolutely amazing!
clive		Hey Graham, an alien just sicked up into my palms. CLIVE doesn't see the two men sat up at the counter. He strides over to GRAHAM, full of excitement.
clive		I'm joking, of course. They have a soap dispenser, shaped like an alien's head. When you pump his jaw, soap comes out of his mouth.
clive		It's hilarious. GRAHAM flicks his eyes to the counter.
clive		What? CLIVE looks over and sees the two men. They are glaring back. CLIVE immediately loses his confident air.
pat		Okay then, beers for you gentleman. A cup of Joe and a extra thick malt with a sparkler for the boys from outer space. The man snigger derisively. PAT senses the tension.
pat		So, where you boys headed?
jake		We're heading into Utah. Do ourselves some hunting.
gus		Deer, coon, beaver, whatever steps in front of the bangstick, right Jake? They throw a look back at GRAHAM and CLIVE.
jake		You got that right, Gus.
pat		Well now, I heard Utah beaver puts up quite a fight.
gus		That's what we're counting on. They nudge each other and laugh.
pat		I better make you something good and hot. Long way to The Beehive. PAT give GRAHAM and CLIVE a look. CLIVE understands and fumbles for hi wallet.
clive		What took you so long?
graham		I was putting the sticker on.
clive		They were an odd pair, weren't they?
graham		Definitely didn't speak Bocci. CLIVE fires up the engine and jams it into reverse. CRUNCH.
clive		No.
graham		What's the matter?
clive		Nothing. How we doing?
graham		We should be just about there. They scan the roadside for a few seconds.
clive		I've found it.
graham		Where?
clive		It's amazing, isn't it? We're actually here.
clive		Dreamland.
graham		The Groom Lake Military Test Facility.
clive		MacArthur's Black Mile.
graham		Is that a real one?
clive		No, I made it up myself.
graham		I like it.
clive		Be great if we saw something.
graham		Yes, imagine if we got buzzed up by a craft.
clive		That would be incredible. It just sort of stops in the air and hovers then just goes up really fast. Whoosh.
graham		What would you do if they actually landed?
clive		Keep it together. First contact is a big responsibility. They come in peace, we go to pieces? That's not how I roll. CLIVE looks at GRAHAM who is staring off, wide eyed.
clive		What's wrong? GRAHAM points off into the distance. HEADLIGHTS.
graham		It's them. They found us. I don't know how but they found us.
clive		Who? Who's found us?
graham		The Libyans!
clive		Run for it Marty! GRAHAM and CLIVE scramble for the RV.
graham		Perhaps it's not them. Perhaps whoever it was turned doff.
clive		Of course it's them. We're dead. It's like Deliverance. They're going to rape us and break our arms.
graham		I don't want my arms broken!
clive		There's only one thing for it.
graham		What?
clive		I'm gonna have to fly blind.
clive		Probably best not to do that. I couldn't really see anything. They stare at the monitor. Suddenly, creeping up the rear of the RV, headlights. The front of a car becomes visible.
clive		Oh God, oh God, oh God.
graham		I need the toilet.
clive		Me too. The vehicle behind pulls out to overtake.
clive		They're trying to overtake.
graham		Don't let them get past.
clive		Should I ram them?
graham		What about the deposit? CLIVE gingerly jerks the wheel, causing the RV to swerve. A BLACK SEDAN car appears next to them, manoeuvering wildly to avoid the RV. GRAHAM and CLIVE stare in horror, their eyes widen as the car flips over and tumbles several times, bouncing across the asphalt and sliding to a smoking stop on its roof. GRAHAM's mouth hangs open. CLIVE blinks.
clive		It wasn't them. The RV pulls up to the crashed vehicle and stops. GRAHAM and CLIVE peer out of the window.
clive		We should see if they're okay.
graham		I still need a wee.
clive		I can hold mine. GRAHAM goes to the back of the RV and into the toilet. CLIVE remains int he driving seat, staring out at the mangled Sedan. The toilet flushes and GRAHAM reappears.
graham		The bulb's gone in there.
clive		Hello? They wait for a few seconds. Nothing.
graham		Maybe you should call for help. GRAHAM pulls out a cell phone and starts to dial.
clive		I rather think these men need help. Graham, give me the phone. GRAHAM passes the phone over.
voice		Seriously, I wouldn't do that. GRAHAM's mouth falls open, CLIVE continues to hold the phone to his ear. We hear the operator.
operator		911 Emergency. How may I direct your call? Hello? Hello? GRAHAM and CLIVE continue to gawp. The shape stand and steps into the light. GRAHAM and CLIVE go slack. Standing in front of them, clad only in cut-off short and flip-flops... is an
alien		Put - the phone - down. Without the slightest change of expression CLIVE rocks backwards in a dead faint. He hits the ground with a bump. GRAHAM looks at CLIVE then back at the ALIEN. When GRAHAM speaks his voice quivers with hysterical panic.
graham		What have you done to him?
alien		I didn't do anything. He fainted.
graham		Yes but you made him faint.
alien		I did not. Okay I did, but it's not like i set my phaser to "Faint'.
graham		You've got a phaser!?
alien		No! Look, I need you to help. Can you get this guy back onto your wagon?
graham		Are you going to probe us?
alien		No! Where does that come from? Why do people always assume we want to stick something up their ass?
graham		Don't you?
alien		No. There's certainly nothing about it in the encounter manual. As a rule, we don't even abduct. Maybe people find it easier to deal with earthly transgressions if they suppress it with absurd fantasies about alien probing.
graham		What?
alien		It's just a theory. Listen, focus okay? I promise you I won't hurt you, I just need your help.
graham		You need my help?
alien		Yes.
graham		How come I can understand you? Are you using some sort of neural language router?
alien		No, I'm speaking English you prick.  Sorry, I'm tense. Look, what's your name?
graham		Graham Willy.
alien		What about him?
graham		That's the writer, Clive Gollings.
alien		Well, let's get Clive into the RV and get going. I'll explain everything on the way. Please.
graham		Where are we going?
alien		North.
graham		The RV's gotta be back in 2 days.
alien		Well, then we're gonna have to hustle, aren't we?
alien		Look Graham, you're just gonna have to trust me, okay? GRAHAM looks at the ALIEN. It stands at roughly 3 feet tall. His black almond shaped eye glint. His large head tilts to one side, his small mouth opens slightly, his long fingers clasp together, pleading.
alien		Please man, I need you. GRAHAM considers the ALIEN for a moment.
graham		Okay then.
alien		Great. Thank you.
graham		What's your name?
alien		I'm Paul.
graham		Paul?
paul		Yeah. Now let's get Cloverfield onto the recreational vehicle and get the fuck off MacArthur's Black Mile. They attempt to move CLIVE. PAUL senses something.
graham		I told him he should have gone.
paul		Could have been worse. Know what I'm saying? They drag him into the RV. The door shuts, a few seconds later, GRAHAM appears and runs round to the back of the RV. He rips the bumper sticker off and gets back on board. The RV starts up and drives off.
paul		Can I have this ham?
graham		Uh... yes.
paul		Great! PAUL starts to dangle strips of sandwich ham into his mouth, wolfing it down hungrily.
graham		Paul? Where am I going again?
paul		I told you, North. Do you have a map? GRAHAM pulls the map. It obscures the wind shield.
paul		Not when we're driving, Graham.
graham		Sorry.
paul		Just head North. We need to get as much distance as we can between us and them.
graham		Them? Who's them?
captain		Sir?
zoil		Talk to me.
captain		Three survivors, company men, hurt but alive.
zoil		Anyone else?
captain		No sir. ZOIL looks into the sky and breathes in the night air.
captain		What's this? The CAPTAIN motions to a patch of moisture near his feet. ZOIL touches the wet patch and licks his finger.
captain		What is it sir? Brake fluid? Gas?
zoil		No. It's neither of those things. He looks around, then notices tire tracks in the dust by the side of the road. ZOIL stands, full of purpose. He returns to his car and hits a button on the dash.
voice		What's the situation?
zoil		We have a guest who's left the hotel without paying, sir.
voice		Damn it! Do you think he's "left' left?
zoil		Doubtful. NORAD would have picked up a bogie. Those guys can track Santa. No sir, he's still here. Question is, for how long?
voice		Don't you think this is all a bit of a coincidence?
zoil		How so?
voice		I signed the red document this morning, Zoil. Don't you think it's odd that he chooses today to go AWOL? How did he know?
zoil		Are you suggesting he has someone on the inside.
voice		Maybe.
zoil		Well he's definitely got someone on the outside.
voice		What?
zoil		Tire tracks, sir. Tire tracks... among other things. I'd bet my left nut that little bastard's hitched a ride.
voice		Lock down the area. Road blocks, spot checks, the whole nine yards. You're going to handle this personally, Zoil. I want this wrapped up before Letterman.
paul		The bulb's gone in there. CLIVE gets up silently and wraps his black towel around his middle. He creeps toward the front of the RV. GRAHAM drives, PAUL sits in the Chewie seat eating pistachios.
paul		I hate it when you get the closed ones, right?
graham		I usually bite them open.
paul		Are you fucking insane? You gotta tap "em and if they don't open you throw them away.
graham		That's molluscs.
paul		Shut up.
graham		It's true.
clive		I'm feeling like I've gone MENTAL MAD, Graham. If that is your name? You're happily sitting there chatting to... to... that, like it's the most natural thing in the world. The two of you laughing away like you haven't seen each other since 1990. PAUL spits a shell out into a cup.
graham		His name is Paul.
clive		Oh, Paul is it? Paul what? Paul Verhoven? Paul Freeman? Paul Reiser?
paul		Just Paul. You know, like Madonna or Dracula.
graham		Paul's from a small planet in the northern spiral arm of the Andromeda Galaxy.
clive		No he is not!
paul		I am man, seriously.
clive		How could he possibly have travelled that distance?
paul		Wormhole.
clive		Balls! Graham, this isn't what it seems. What about Ocham's Razor?
graham		The hairdressers?
clive		Yes, the old man who owns it told me that, in unbelievable circumstances, the most plausible explanation is usually the truth.
paul		And what's the most plausible explanation, Clive?
clive		That you're a thin midget in an alien costume.
paul		There's no such thing as a thin midget? Those guys are built. Have you not seen The Station Agent?
graham		He's right. I think that's less believable than Paul being form a planet in the norther spiral arm of the Andromeda Galaxy.
paul		Ow! Get off me!
clive		You're not real. You're not real!
graham		Excuse me.
paul		Get off me, you fucking psycho!
clive		Oh shit! CLIVE looks round to discover that PAUL has vanished. GRAHAM pulls the RV onto the hard shoulder.
clive		Where's he gone?
graham		Maybe he beamed up.
clive		As if. We would have seen the classic shimmer and hum.
graham		Good point.
agent 1		Where you boys from? Australia?
clive		Britain.
agent 1		Ah. G'day mate. The AGENT smiles. GRAHAM and CLIVE look terrified.
agent 1		Whatcha doin' in the US fellas?
agent 1		You're a long way from San Diego.
clive		We were having a little drive.
agent 1		Is that right?
haggard		Yeah? O'REILLY appears at the door waving a 10x8" photograph.
haggard		No shit! How was he?
clive		He was a good egg.
graham		Very unaffected.
haggard		That's nice to hear.
haggard		Okay, you guys can go.
clive		Thank you. May I ask what you're searching for?
haggard		Of course you may. There is a slight pause. GRAHAM and CLIVE board the RV.
clive		Well, it's pretty obvious what happened there, isn't it?
graham		Is it?
clive		Yes, the government used some sort of neurotoxic paint on the Black Mailbox, which was white by the way, and it caused us to suffer a shared hallucination about an alien. I mean, it's what we've always wanted, isn't it?
graham		I suppose so.
clive		Than that's what happened. PAUL materializes from thin air behind them.
clive		Where the hell did you go?
paul		Nowhere.
graham		What, you went invisible?
paul		It's not invisibility per so. It's more like what a chameleon does with a little light blending thrown in for good measure.
graham		Like Predator?
paul		Exactly.
graham		Can you do it whenever you want?
clive		No thank you.
paul		You sure? How about a cup of coffee?  Come on Hulk, I'll get you a nice cuppa J. PAUL goes back to the galley, flicking GRAHAM on the nose as he passes. GRAHAM wakes up with a start.
paul		Hey, look who's up!
graham		Hello Paul. GRAHAM approaches CLIVE who ignores him.
graham		What's the matter?
clive		Graham, there is a Grey in the galley, making me coffee.
graham		Did you want tea?
clive		No, I don't want tea.
graham		Tea's a bit weird in America, isn't it?
clive		No, what's wried, Graham, is that we have picked up an extra terrestrial hitch hiker and you seem completely fine with it!
graham		He needs our help, Clive. PAUL returns with the coffee. GRAHAM and CLIVE curtail their conversation. PAUL hand CLIVE his coffee.
paul clive		You got it? Yes I've got it.
paul clive		It's hot.  Thank you. GRAHAM looks at Paul and nods toward CLIVE. PAUL sighs and sits in the Chewie seat. GRAHAM hangs back...
paul		Look Clive, I'm gonna go out on a limb and say this is probably the weirdest thing that's ever happened to you. Am i right? CLIVE doesn't deny it.
paul		And I appreciate the fact that I have somewhat gate-crashed the party here but, truth be told, I'm in a hell of a pickle. I really need your help.
clive		Why us?
paul		Why not? CLIVE glances back at an expectant GRAHAM.
clive		What about the RV? It has to be back in two days.
graham		Clive, he's an alien. A living, breathing, alien. CLIVE look at PAUL who makes a sad face and does the hand gesture from Close Encounters. CLIVE wilts.
clive		I suppose we could phone the hire company and get an extension. PAUL looks super-pleased.
clive		How did you get here?
graham		Happens to the best of us.
paul		Also, I'm a shit driver.
clive		Oh my God! Roswell?! That was you?!
paul		Roswell was a smoke-screen man, designed to distract from the truth.
clive		They invented a fake alien crash to distract from an actual alien crash?
paul		I know, fucking stupid, isn't it?
clive		What have you been doing here all this time?
paul		Oh you know, kickin' back, shooting the shit. Advising the government.
graham		Not just the government.
steven spielberg		...I want him to have some kind of special power, you know? Something sort of messianic...
paul		How about molecular revivification.
steven spielberg		I don't know what that is.
paul		Restoration of damaged tissue through telepathic manipulation of cellular intrinsic field memory.
steven spielberg		I...uh...
paul		Healing, Steven.
steven spielberg		Oh right yeah. Like by touch sort of thing? His little finger could light up at the end and-
paul		You know what? Sometimes, less is more. The line beeps.
steven spielberg		You got another call?
paul		Yeah I gotta take this man. It's the fucking V guys again.
paul		Right.
graham		You'd be surprised how much he's influenced popular culture generally over the last 60 years.
graham		We had quite a long chat while you were unconscious. CLIVE looks miffed.
graham		...while you were asleep.
paul		You want a bagel Clive?
clive		No thanks.
paul		Graham?
graham		Yes please.
clive		Go on then, I'll have half.
clive		Jam.
clive		Jelly.
paul		Gotcha. PAUL heads to the kitchen. The boys drive in silence.
graham		I gave your jeans a swill and hung them up.
clive		Thank you. So, do you know where we're going?
graham		Just North. He said we had to make a right at Utah.
clive		Why can't he tell us?
graham		He said it was a surprise.
clive		Do you trust him, Graham? I mean, is he Strider or Black Rider?
graham		Strider, definitely.
clive		You'd better be right. I don't want to wake up and find him inserting a probe into my anus.
graham		It's okay, he doesn't do that. PAUL returns with three bagels on one long finger.
paul		Bagel time! The dashboard beeps. PAUL jumps throwing them into the air.
graham		Fuel level's critical.
paul		Sorry, I had a warning light just like that on my ship.
graham		For fuel?
paul		Anti-grav failure. CLIVE is looking at the sat-nav on the computer.
clive		There's a place called Ely five miles from here. It's small but there should be a gas station.
graham		Roger that, number one.
clive		Paul, don't do that!
paul		Here's what I need. Some organic beef mince, organic pork, some veal, red onions, pine nuts, pecorino cheese, plum tomatoes, a fistful of fresh basil and 3 war ciabattas.
clive		You know this is a gas station? PAUL looks disappointed.
clive		Ready?
graham		Ready. HOOOONNNNNKKKK! GRAHAM and CLIVE jump.
state trooper		After you.
clive		Thanks.
zoil		Orange?
zoil		Nice and juicy.
zoil		Do you mind telling me what's going on, Agent?
zoil		Where's the other one?
haggard		Sorry, I was just... hiding.
zoil		I see. You fellas had much traffic through here?
haggard		Just a big RV driven by a couple of nerds.
zoil		Nerds, huh?
haggard		Yeah, they'd been to Comic-Con and met Michael Biehn.
zoil		I've heard he's nice.
haggard		Good egg.
zoil		Did you search the vehicle thoroughly?
zoil		Find anything?
zoil		Did you get the license plate? HAGGARD and O'REILLY look sheepish.
zoil		Make? More sheepishness.
haggard		It was big.
zoil		I want everything you can remember. Descriptions of the occupants, height, hair, distinguishing features. We can do it on the way.
haggard		On the way?
zoil		You're coming with me.
zoil		It didn't work.
clive		Don't you think that's a bit much? Put it all back. Except the burrito... and the doughnuts... and the chocolate milk. Let's just pay for it and leave.
graham		We need bulb for the toilet.
clive		Essential only, Graham! They head to the counter. So does the STATE TROOPER.
state trooper		Morning Chris!
chris		Hey Dean.
state trooper		Who do you think I had in my office this morning?
chris		Jeremy Piven?
state trooper		No. The Secret Service. GRAHAM bumps into a display of sunglasses and just stops it tumbling. CHRIS and the STATE TROOPER glance over.
chris		They find out how you can afford a Dodge Viper on troopers pay?
state trooper		Not yet. They're all over this crash on the road up to Rachel.
chris		What you think's going on?
state trooper		Don't know, could be Muslims.
chris		Jesus Cheeerist! CLIVE and GRAHAM sidle up to the check-out.
state trooper		You go right ahead.
clive		Thank you very much, officer.
state trooper		Where're you guys from?
graham		Britain.
state trooper		Britain, huh? Nice place. No guns!
chris		No guns? Jesus Cheeerist. CHRIS take the money and the boys leave. The STATE TROOPER and CHRIS watch them go.
police controller		All units, be on the lookout for a cream and brown Recreational Vehicle, no plate number at this time. Officers are advised to contain but not board. Dean, if you still at Gas and Go, bring back a quart a milk and a box of doughnut holes? Dean? GRAHAM and CLIVE stop and stare, listening intently.
clive		It's find for you. You'll get whisked back to whatever lab they kept you in and we'll be arrested for harbouring a fugitive and sent to Guantanamo Bay. PAUL laughs.
clive		Why's everything so funny? They think we're Muslims.
paul		That's their excuse for everything. There are worse things you can be. We had a Muslim guy at the base. Systems analyst called Yusef. We used to do karaoke on Tuesday nights. You should'a heard him do Matthew and Son. Shame I didn't get a chance to say salam alaikum.
clive		Paul, the authorities know we're in an TV.
paul		We're hardly the only RV on the road. Trust me, if we stay off the highways, keep to the back routes, we'll have a nice uneventful journey. BANG!!! Something strikes the windshield. Everyone jumps. GRAHAM bring the RV to a halt. Silence.
paul		Fuck, that made me jump.
clive		Ah yes, the waspish markings of a Scott's Oriole. Unmistakable.
paul		What a waste.
graham		Poor thing.
clive		Nothing anyone could've done. PAUL looks at them, then scoops the bird up in his hands.
graham		What are you doing? PAUL closes his eyes. His skin ripples with color as he sways slightly. The bird's eyes flicker, its head lifts, it opens its beak and tweets. GRAHAM and CLIVE are astounded by what they are seeing.
graham		It's a miracle!
paul		I'll miss these.
clive		Why would you do that?
paul		I'm not gonna eat a dead bird, am
state trooper		By the time I got the bulletin, they were long gone. Seemed like nice fellas to me.
chris		Is it true they was Muslims?
state trooper		They said they were British.
zoil		I think you can be both.
chris		Jesus Cheeeeerist!
haggard		Agent Zoil?
zoil		Excuse me gentlemen. ZOIL leaves with the two men and returns to his vehicle. The voice of ZOIL's superior cuts the air.
voice		Report.
zoil		We've tracked them down to a gas station in Ely.
voice		So why am I not witting with my feet up, smoking a jay, watching Erin Brockovich?
zoil		We think he may be travelling in an RV with two British men sir.
voice		Goddamnit, I knew we should have gone ahead with invasion in "44. What are they, MI6?
zoil		No, sir. Just a couple of nerds on the lamb from Comic-Con.
voice		Shit. My sister's kid went to that. Little Manga faggot.
zoil		I still think this stinks, sir.
voice		Like fat man doo-doo. It's too much of a coincidence. He sits tight for 60 years and then suddenly now he decides to take off. If he wanted to go home so bad, he could've just given us the slip when he was playing golf with J. Edgar Hoover.
zoil		Someone must have told him. We need to find the rat.
voice		Leave that to me. In the meantime, if E.T. is still M.I.A. in the P.M. then F.Y.I. I'm tearing someone a new A. O.K.?
zoil		Yes sir.
graham		What do you think?
paul		Ask me when I've finished it. CLIDE rubs his yes.
graham		You tired, Sausage?
graham		Sorry. Are you tired though?
clive		Mummy, I am bushed.
graham		What do you need?
clive		Best case, I'd like a cold flannel on my neck and an honest meal.
graham		I hear that, Big-Rig. I can still call you Big-Rig can't I?
clive		Sure. Just not Sausage. Any luck with an RV park? We need somewhere off the beaten track, n'est pas?
graham		Roger that. Cup of Joe?
clive		You read my mind. GRAHAM head to the galley, ignoring PAUL, who jumps into the Chewie seat and stares at CLIVE.
clive		Can I help you?
paul		You want a cigarette?
clive		No, thank you. I don't smoke. PAUL lights a cigarette, the smoke wafts into CLIVE's face.
paul		Look, I'm sorry okay? About eating the bird. CLIVE continues to ignore PAUL. GRAHAM arrives with the coffee and a Honey Bun cake.
graham		Honey Bun?
clive		Could you unwrap it for me?
graham		By your command.
paul		Let me ask you something. Are you to...?
clive		What?
paul		You know... PAUL does a very weird, very long charade, demonstrating various "group' and "one on one' homosexual practices.
clive		No!
paul		Okay, that's great. I just wondered. I'm cool with it. Everyone's "bi' where I'm from. It's all about the pleasure thing, you know? We've evolved beyond paranoid notions of gender identity. I mean, procreation is only the functional aspect of sexual congress right? The human race is fairly advanced but most males still act like a cornered tiger if you imply the like "smoking the bone' and let's face it they probably do. Look at single sex, empirical institutions, boarding schools, prisons, pirate ships, places where the choice has been removed, everyone's banging everyone else and there isn't a whiff of socio-cultural angst. Get out into the real world and guys are getting smacked int he chops for wearing pink socks. You think you're so sophisticated because you can distinguish yourself from your own reflection but ultimately you're part of a deeply neurotic species and you'd all be a lot better off if you stopped worrying and learned to love the bum.
clive		What are you trying to say?
paul		Maybe you should start smoking.
clive		Great find, Graham.
graham		I sourced a website listing off the beaten track, North American RV parks.
paul		I really lucked out with you nerds, didn't I? GRAHAM and CLIVE look proud. CLIVE drives the RV over a speed hump into the park. PAUL loses his balance and falls over. GRAHAM and CLIVE laugh. They pull up to a gate.
graham		It's awfully quiet.
clive		Just the way we like it. PAUL scrambles to his feet, reaches across CLIVE and rest on the horn.
clive		Stop doing that!
graham		Someone's coming. PAUL shimmers and disappears. GRAHAM and CLIVE yelp.
voice		Hello?
clive		 We're just a couple of regular guys on a tour of the less touristy side of the American midwest.
graham		I don't think she heard you.
clive		I was talking to you.
graham		Oh, sorry.
voice		Hello? GRAHAM opens the door. RUTH BEHE, a young woman in her mid- twenties stands outside. She is pretty but has no idea. She wears glasses, one eye of which is blacked out. GRAHAM stares at her. We hear the slide guitar moment from Olivia Newton John's "Hopelessly Devoted To You".
ruth		Good evening, I'm Ruth Behe.
clive		Hello Ruth. Do you mind if we come in?
ruth		Sure. Park in Bay 9. The charge is $50 for the night, plus $10 for hook ups an I'll need to hang onto an ID too. CLIVE disappears, leaving GRAHAM and RUTH alone.
graham		We're just a couple of regular guys on tour of the less touristy side of the American midwest.
ruth		Where you heading next?
graham		Uh, east... apparently. CLIVE returns with his passport. RUTH looks at it.
ruth		England?
clive		Yes. London.
ruth		I love London.
clive		Have you been?
ruth		No. Did you know it was founded by the Romans in AD 43 as Londinium?
ruth		Oh. I'd love to go someday.
graham		You should.
ruth		There's lots a places I wanna go. Europe. Asia. The Antipodes. The world's a big place. I need one of these though.
clive		You don't have a passport? RUTH shakes her head forlornly. GRAHAM and CLIVE stare.
ruth		That's my father. I'll come over and take your money in the morning. Have a pleasant night now, won't you? RUTH opens the gate to allow CLIVE to drive through. GRAHAM watches RUTH intently as they pass.
clive		Doors to manual and cross check. Graham? Graham?
graham		Hmmm? PAUL re-materializes next to GRAHAM and CLIVE.
ruth		I was just talking.
ruth		Sorry Papa.
ruth		Just the night I think
ruth		Uh-huh.
ruth		East.
ruth		Yes, but they're from London.
ruth		No, London, England.
ruth		England, Papa. It's in North Western Europe. The atlas is snatched out of RUTH's hands. Behind her stands the towering figure of MOSES BEHE. Almost as wide as he is tall, his eyes glitter with fury and menace.
moses behe		Europe? I'll give you Europe, missy. Now, get and make my supper. MOSES lumbers off with the atlas. RUTH looks dejected.
paul		Arrghh, what the fuck?!
graham		Hungry?
paul		I ate already. GRAHAM and CLIVE look suddenly sad.
paul		Too soon? They nod.
paul		Hey, I'm sorry. I'd love to break bread with you guys. What are we having? GRAHAM waves a foot long hot dog around.
graham		Willies! PAUL gives CLIVE a "see what I mean?' look.
clive		I'll flame up the BBQ pit. Fire's my forte. CLIVE sparks up his lighter and waves it around looking mysterious. He then turns and jumps down all three steps and slams the door of the RV behind him.
paul		Hello Clive. From the squirting of the gas and the flicking of the tongue, am I do assume you're a Hendrix fan?
clive		I am actually, yes.
paul		I met him once.
clive		Really?
paul		Yeah. Nice man, really soft, He thought I was a hallucination. Shame what happened to him.
clive		All the good ones die.
paul		Meanwhile Bryan Adams releases album seventeen. PAUL and CLIVE share a laugh.
clive		So you've been here for 60 years?
paul		I know, right? Time flies when you're confined to a U.S. military installation.
clive		Why did you come to earth?
paul		I'm the vanguard of a highly aggressive invading force.
clive		What?!
paul		I'm fucking with you, man. I was on a science mission actually. Meteorological reconnaissance. We were surveying atmospheric conditions on CO2 spiking, M-Class planets. My specialist subject is tornadoes right? So I'm buzzing around the mid-west, looking for twisters and all of a sudden my A.G.G. goes offline and I crash in the middle of some field.
paul		No, it's 52. Area 51 is just full of old Pan Am jets and mini disc players and shit. It's another "clever subterfuge." GRAHAM joins them with the food.
graham		Ha ha yeah.
paul		So, with my cover blown and the natives cautious but friendly, I figured we might as well indulge in a little file sharing.
clive		Mulder was right!
paul		Mulder was my idea. They chuckle. CLIVE gives PAUL the bottle of gas.
clive		Would you like a go? PAUL takes the bottle and squirts it on the fire, making the Hendrix face. They laugh loudly.
clive		Who is it?
ruth		Good morning.
clive		Good morning.
ruth		May I come in?
graham		Yes. CLIVE give GRAHAM a "what the hell are you thinking?' Look as RUTH comes aboard. RUTH surveys the interior of the RV.
ruth		Was everything to your liking?
clive		Yes, thank you.
ruth		Where's the other one?
clive		The other one?
ruth		It's okay, we don't charge by the person. That was three pairs of legs I saw last night cavorting round the camp fire, right?
clive		Oh the other one. Um...
paul		I'm in the can. I ate a closed mollusc. PAUL blows a massive raspberry to prove his point. GRAHAM and CLIVE look embarrassed. GRAHAM changes the subject.
graham		I like your shirt. The shirt has a picture of Jesus shooting Charles Darwin in the head. Underneath it reads, "Evolve this!"
ruth		Thanks. I got it at my church.
graham		Why would Jesus want to shoot Charles Darwin?
graham		Would you like a coffee?
clive		I suppose we're men of science.
clive		If we believe in anything it would be macro evolution. Cause and effect. The establishment of a biological order from the maelstrom of physical and chemical chaos. RUTH looks scandalized.
graham		Or it could be God. You just don't know do you?
ruth		God created the earth in six days and on the seventh he rested. PAUL emits another huge raspberry from the toilet.
clive		Did you know that the universe has been dated as being 13.5 billion years old an that the release of neutral hydrogen at the moment of the big bang has enabled scientists to do this with categorical accuracy?
graham		Yes.
clive		Not you!
ruth		The world is 4000 years old.
ruth		Explain to me how something as complicated as the human eye simply comes into being.
ruth		They eye is comprised of three interacting parts. Remove any one of them and it ceases to exist. It has the precision and delicacy of a pocket watch and, when the good Lord permits, it works in perfect harmony with its environment. Something as functionally perfect as that doesn't just occur without the intervention of a guiding hand.
ruth		What are you talking about?
ruth		It'd design!
ruth		Nothing you can so or do can shake my belief, or faith in the sure and certain knowledge that God made Heaven and earth and created us all in His own image.
paul		Oh yeah?  Well then how do you explain me? RUTH's mouth hangs agape in a soundless scream, her eye rolls up, her hair turns white. She collapses.
paul		And that's Jenga.
clive		What did you do that for?
paul		I didn't do anything, she fainted.
clive		She saw you!
paul		Oh come on. Who's gonna believe anything she says?
clive		The authorities will be on the look out for exactly this sort of thing.
paul		What, a delusional, one-eyed God botherer?
clive		Paul, right now they're going to follow any lead they can get.
paul		I didn't think of that.
graham		We could take her with us.
graham		We're only going to be a couple of days. We could let her go once Paul's gone home. I'm sure she'll be fine once she gets to know us. PAUL and CLIVE consider this.
clive		How am I going to get my passport back? PAUL vanishes.
paul		Hallelujah.
paul		Boo?
graham		Hi.
ruth		Where am I? PAUL leans round from the Chewie seat and smile.
paul		Hey, look who's up.
graham		Would you like a cup of tea? RUTH starts to pray furiously.
graham		I'm so sorry it had to be this way Ruth. We're definitely not going to hurt you and we'll let you go as son as we can. We were just a little concerned that you might call the police.
ruth		You have been deceived. Deceived by an agent of Satan himself.
graham		He's not a demon Ruth, he's from another world and we're helping him get home. He's not evil. He's just very rude.
ruth		How can he be from another world? There is only one world. Our world, created by God the Father. PAUL sits down next to GRAHAM. RUTH whimpers.
paul		Look, if it makes you feel any better, my existence only disproves the notion of the Abrahamic, Judeo- Christian God, as well as all single earth theologies. Science still hasn't categorically rule out the notion of divinity, even though evolutionary biology suggest the non-existence of a creator by probability alone.
ruth		How could that possibly make me feel any better?
paul		Jesus Christ, I was just trying to be nice!
graham		I think what Paul's trying to say is, just because there are other inhabited planets, it's not the end of the world.
ruth		This isn't happening! You're a hallucination. You're not real. You're a test. A test from God.
paul		You can't win can you? RUTH starts to pray furiously, speaking in tongues, making an awful noise.
clive		I can't drive like this. We'll have to drop her off and take our chances.
graham		No!
paul		Oh, for God's sake. PAUL walks over to RUTH and places his and across her forehead. He appear to go into a trance. RUTH's eyes roll up into her head. We see a lightening montage of images. The cosmos, the surface of a planet, others like PAUL, PAUL's ship crashing into the ground. The images speed up as PAUL telepathically send his knowledge into RUTH's mind. They collapse in a heap on the floor. PAUL sparks up a cigarette.
graham		What did you do to her?!
paul		I broadened her horizons.
graham		Can you broaden mine?
paul		No, it's tiring. GRAHAM goes over to where PAUL is lying.
graham		Oh please.
paul		Come here then. PAUL puts his hand on GRAHAM's head. GRAHAM's eyes go all fluttery. We don't see the images this time. GRAHAM falls.
clive		Oh great! Everyone knows the secrets of the universe apart from me. He always knew what was going on in Buffy before me because his mum had cable.
paul		Can't I just tell you?
clive		No spoilers! PAUL sighs, then with enormous effort, reaches up and zaps CLIVE who falls to the floor. Everyone lays inert.
zoil		Given your description of the intruder, the police felt your call was perhaps better directed to us.
moses behe		And who are you?
zoil		Secret Service, sir.
moses behe		I knew it. You know that devil took my Ruth.
zoil		And Ruth's your daughter?
moses behe		That's right. Her Mama died when she was born. I good as brought her up by myself. Wasn't easy either. Two mouths to feed and this place to run.
zoil		I understand. Do you have a photography of Ruth, Mr. Behe? MOSES retrieves an old cigar box and produces a tattered photograph of Ruth. She appears younger, with both eyes intact and with dark hair.
zoil		She's pretty. MOSES snorts.
zoil		Do you have a phone Mr. Behe? In case she tries to contact you.
moses behe		I do... ZOIL nods at HAGGARD who immediately starts dialling on his satellite phone, moving into a different room.
moses behe		...and she'll call me if she can. Ruth's never really been outta Carbon County.
zoil		You say they went East?
moses behe		Uh-huh. They'll have to get off the 191 after Flaming Gorge if they ain't using the interstate, there's been a rig spill just South of Dutch John.
zoil		So?
moses behe		So that means they'll be on the 44. Only way to go. ZOIL looks at O'REILLY.
zoil		Let's go. Haggard!
moses behe		Tell me you're gonna kill that thing, Mr. Zoil. Kill it for what it is.
zoil		We'll do our best, Mr. Behe.
moses behe		Watch yourself now. I seen its eyes. It's evil. ZOIL, HAGGARD and O'REILLY leave. MOSES watches them.
moses behe		God's speed, Mr. Zoil.
zoil		Can it, you two! How many times do I have to tell you?
paul		Wow. Pull out to reveal him sitting next to GRAHAM and CLIVE, looking out through the RV's windshield. We see their POV. A breathtaking panorama of natural beauty. They are parked up at the summit of a mountain road, looking out across the vista.
paul		There it is, boys. Wyoming.
clive		Is that where we're going?
paul		Maybe. I gotta tell ya. It's at times like these you winder if the intelligent design crowd aren't onto something. I mean look at it. Hey Ruth, get up here. They look round, the door of the RV is open, RUTH is gone.
paul		Ruth!?
clive		Someone should go after her. Graham? CLIVE looks round to see GRAHAM gone.
clive		Graham!?
graham		Ruth!
ruth		Leave me alone!
graham		Ruth, please stop, I've got shin splints. RUTH stops. GRAHAM catches up to her.
graham		Are you alright?
ruth		He can't be from space. It's not possible.
graham		Ruth, you saw for yourself. It's not just possible, it's probably. There's probably millions of intelligent civilizations.
ruth		So, where is everybody?
graham		Well, one of them is right there. RUTH and GRAHAM look back at the RV. PAUL is stood on the dashboard with his bare buttocks pressed against the window. CLIVE is trying not to laugh.
ruth		Everything I've ever been told is a lie. My purpose. My truth. All false. DO you know how that feels? To suddenly have nothing?
graham		Just because your truth wasn't the truth, it doesn't mean there is no truth, Ruth.
ruth		Huh?
graham		I understand you're probably feeling very confused right now. Religious belief systems are devised to give us context and security. To stop us feeling lonely and unimportant.
ruth		I do feel lonely and unimportant! How can this all be an accident? It doesn't make sense. Did you know the reason we have solar eclipses is because the sun is exactly 400 times bigger than the moon and the moon is exactly 400 times closer to the earth? GRAHAM considers saying "yes' but decides against it.
ruth		How can that be an accident.
graham		It isn't, it's a coincidence. Or it probably is. That's the beauty of the universe.
ruth		But what's the point? If there's nothing afterwards, what's the point in living?
graham		This is the point, Ruth. Right now. This conversation. That tree, your next cheeseburger. Life is a miracle. People spend so much time focusing on rescuing the princess, they forget how much fun it is to fight the dragon.
ruth		Huh?
graham		Carl Sagan said "A religion, old or new, that stressed the magnificence of the universe as revealed by modern science might be able to draw forth reserves of reverence and awe hardly tapped by the conventional faiths.'
ruth		Huh?
graham		It's okay not to know, Ruth. It's wonderful because it means we still have things to learn. We still have life to live.
ruth		I'm frightened.
graham		So am I, but it passes, sort of. Ruth, we're on an amazing adventure and I think you should come with us. I know you feel confused and lost but if you get back on board that RV, you might just find the very thing you're looking for.
ruth		I... I'm not sure.
graham		I'm sure Ruth. I'm sure because I can honestly say, I have never talked to a woman for this long without blushing.
ruth		That's so sweet. GRAHAM blushes, deep, dark, red.
graham		She's going to be fine. I think your hair looks good by the way. You look like Storm.
ruth		Who's Storm?
paul		From X-Men.
graham		Exactly. RUTH goes to the bathroom.
clive		Small corrections! Small corrections! RUTH drives. Everyone else is asleep.
paul		11 o'clock, 12 o'clock, 11 o'clock, 12 o'clock, 11 o'clock. Come on! It's fun. We see CLIVE, GRAHAM and RUTH standing in the middle of the road watching PAUL.
ruth		This is the furthest I've ever been.
ruth		You don't mind, do you, Graham?
graham		It looks nice.
paul		Hey, we should stop for something to eat. Are you hungry, Ruth?
ruth		What?
clive		I'm hungry.
paul		What's new, fatty?
clive		Hey, it's not fat, it's power. I happen to be very strong. PAUL summons a phlegm ball with a grotesque snort and spits it onto the floor of the RV.
paul		Pick that up then.
clive		So childish.
ruth		Maybe I should call Papa.
ruth		Look, I've been missing for a whole day. If he's called the police, they'll be looking for us and if they find us, this "amazing adventure' is going to come to an end real quick. I just need to tell him I'm fine and that I'll be back soon, okay? PAUL offers up a high five to RUTH.
paul		Right up top! RUTH yelps, terrified that PAUL is going to zap her again.
paul		Too soon? CLIVE reaches down and picks up PAUL's phlegm ball.
clive		I did it!
clive		Okay, in and out, yes? Don't talk to anyone unless you have to and try to look inconspicuous. Angle on the most conspicuous threesome in America.
clive		I wish he'd stop doing that! They enter the bar. Parked nearby, is a black Lincoln Escalade, shiny, mean, dented.
ruth		I won't be long.
clive		We'll order food and wait for you at the bar.
ruth		Okay.
clive		Be careful. RUTH walks through to the back, past the toilets. As she passes, MOSES BEHE steps out of the Men's, they miss each other by moments. He walks up to the bar, next to GRAHAM and CLIVE who are looking at a menu. MOSES orders.
moses behe		Tap water.
ruth		Yes?
ruth		Wait, I...
ruth		Yes?
ruth		How did you...?
ruth		What if we don't want to turn ourselves in?
zoil		Where are you? Where are you headed?
zoil		Look, I know you think you're doing the right thing but I promise you, I'm only thinking about you. And Paul. You care about Paul, don't you?
zoil		Yes he is.
ruth		Who's there with you?
ruth		He showed me things.
zoil		You're not still talking about his balls, are you?
ruth		I... i just want to know what's real. I'm confused. I... I... RUTH struggles. Her expression shows great conflict.
jake		Hey, slow down there cyclops.
ruth		I need to get to my friends.
gus		Why the hurry? You know I got a friend with one eye who'd love to meet you.
ruth		I happen to have two eyes actually. I just have a severe stigmatism.
jake		You should get that fixed up. Reckon you'd be kinda pretty in the right light.
gus		Yeah, the dark.
ruth		Papa said the Lord would fix it.
gus		The Lord ain't gonna fix nothing sweetheart.
ruth		No shit. RUTH plants her knee firmly into the groin of GUS. He doubles up knocking his friend over. RUTH bolts.
graham		How's your dad?
ruth		We need to leave now.
clive		We're still waiting on a wet fries. The two MEATHEADS emerge from the pay phone. Angry.
jake		Holy shit! It's the space faggots that dinged the fuck-mobile!
clive		Look, I'm terribly sorry. Perhaps we can exchange insurance details?
jake		I'm sorry I don't speak "nerd'. GRAHAM and CLIVE look terribly offended.
gus		These the "friends' you told us about, baby?
ruth		Yes, they are.
jake		Well whaddya know? Small world.
ruth		We were just leaving.
gus		I don't think so.
graham		Leave her alone!
jake		What did you say?
clive		 He said, leave her alone. At this, JAKE pulls his fist back to hit CLIVE, knocking a tray of drinks all over a table full of men. They immediately spring up and lunge after the MEATHEADS who turn their attention to the attack. The fight spreads like fire. GRAHAM grabs RUTH's hand and follows CLIVE as he scrambles through the fracas. As they reach the door RUTH is yanked back and comes face to face with her father.
clive		Graham?
moses behe		I'm taking you home.
ruth		I... I can't.
moses behe		Don't talk back to me, girl!
ruth		What about Papa?!
jake		Hey, we ain't finished with you.
clive		Graham, take Ruth into the RV and lock the door. I don't want either of you to see this. CLIVE turns back to the MEATHEADS. BANG! CLIVE is struck in the face, he falls, nose bleeding. They turn to RUTH and GRAHAM, who back up against the RV. The MEATHEADS approach ominously. The RV door bursts open. PAUL stands silhouetted against the interior lights.
paul		Yo fucknuts! The MEATHEADS freeze. PAUL vanishes, then reappears a few feet from them, their eyes bulge.
paul		So, who wants to get probed first? The MEATHEADS swoon and simultaneously hit the deck.
graham		Ha! Only one of us fainted!
paul		Tell me you got the food? CLIVE gets up and opens his coat revealing bags of food. Sirens wail in distance. RUTH turns white.
ruth		It's them.
graham		Who?
ruth		It wasn't my fault. They answered the phone. He knew all about us.
clive		Who? Who are you talking about?
paul		Get in the RV! SMASH CUT. The RV roars to life, backing up at speed into the MEATHEAD's vehicle. MOSES BEHE bursts out of the bar, just as the RV passes. RUTH sees him out of the window. MOSES locks eye with his daughter. He runs to his pick up but realises he doesn't have his keys. The RV tears off into the night, leaving MOSES BEHE bellowing with anger and the Lincoln Escalade, shiny, mean, fucked.
graham		Was that your dad, Ruth? RUTH nods.
clive		He was so angry.
ruth		He's always angry. GRAHAM, CLIVE and PAUL all exchange looks.
graham		Are you alright, Ruth? RUTH nods, still distant.
paul		I'm feeling pretty amped up. Anyone wanna take a walk?
clive		I'm game.
graham		You want to come for a walk, Ruth?
ruth		Thanks, but I think I'm going to turn in. It's been a long day what with meeting you guys, being abducted by and alien and having my whole belief system called into question.
paul		Sorry about that.
graham		It was amazing though, wasn't it? Remember when Paul said "Yo fucknuts'? That was brilliant.
paul		You gotta talk the talk, right?
clive		What about when I got smacked in the nose?
paul		Yeah yeah Snorlax, you're a real hero. Come on. Let's skedaddle. You want anything Ruth?
ruth		No, you go, I'll be fine. Here Clive. RUTH hands CLIVE her handkerchief. It is embroidered with the words "JESUS SAVES'.
clive		Thank you. He mops his nose as they leave the RV. GRAHAM lingers.
graham		You can sleep in my bunk if you'd like. She smiles at him. He goes to leave but turns back.
graham		I'd use a pen to push the tissues off the bed. I've had a cold.
paul		Hey Graham. Check this out. What d'ya think? PAUL indicates to a small cowboy outfit, big enough for a child, displayed in the window.
paul		I'd look pretty hot, right?
graham		Space cowboy.
paul		Steve Miller Band. I love that song. Speaking of midnight tokers, I got a littler herbal refreshment in my pants. Do you guys partake?
graham		No.
paul		Shame. I get it from the military. This is the shit that killed Dylan.
graham		Bob Dylan's still alive.
paul		Is he? CLIVE comes out of the liquor store clutching bags of beer.
clive		Let's party!
graham		So why "Paul'? It's not very, you know, alien.
clive		Is it spelt like, P-'-a-w-l-l or something?
paul		No.
graham		P-o-o-u-r-l?
paul		No, it's Paul. Like Paul Newman or the little guy from Simon and Garfunkel.
clive		Paul Simon.
paul		Paul Simon. Paul's not my real name. It's a name I got given.
graham		What's your real name?
paul		You won't be able to pronounce it.
clive		I can speak Klingon.
paul		What a geek.
clive		Hey!
graham		Come on, what's your real name. PAUL opens his mouth and screeches.
paul		Roooooootttchaaaaaaaaaaa.
clive		Roooooootttttttccchhaaaa.
paul		That's pretty good.
graham		Rootchaa? That sounds like Roger.
paul		Fuck you!
clive		Calm down, Rog. More laughter. Even PAUL. He lights his joint.
graham		You look like a poster on a student's wall.
paul		That was my gag! "Take me to your dealer' right? Yeah, that was mine. Never saw a dime.
graham		You never answered my question. Why Paul? Who called you Paul?
paul		The little girl who found me when I crashed. It was terrible actually. I killed her dog. I didn't mean to! My ship sort of landed on it. When the military arrived I was delirious; I kept saying "Paul? Paul?" It was the only English I knew, because I'd heard the little girl saying it over and over. Spooks thought it was my name.
clive		She called her dog Paul?
paul		Least it wasn't Mr. Muggles.
graham		What happened to the little girl?
paul		Who knows? Never saw her again. Think about her everyday though. PAUL offers the joint round. CLIVE and GRAHAM decline. PAUL takes a deep drag. During the following exchange, GRAHAM, CLIVE and PAUL start to move simultaneously as though governed by some kind of psychic link.
clive		It's strange, isn't it? Ordinarily in this situation Graham and I would be looking up at the stars, wondering about life on other planets but we know now, don't we? It's a bit of an anti-climax.
paul		Thanks a bunch, Hurley.
clive		I don't mean that in a bad way. They all scratch their noses.
graham		Paul, can I ask you something?
paul		Shoot.
graham		Why are you in such a hurry to leave?
paul		I've outlived my usefulness.
clive		How so?
paul		There's only so much knowledge I can share about the universe and quantum theory and how to make a really nice meatball sandwich. The only thing I have to offer them now are my abilities.
graham		So?
paul		So the only way they're going to get hold of them is by obtaining some of somatic stem cells.
graham		So what, do they take a swab from your cheek?
paul		Negative.
clive		Stool?
paul		Sadly, not that simple.
graham		Blood?! Oh my god, I hate needles.
paul		Believe me, a needle would be a picnic compared to what they had in store for me.
clive		I don't follow.
paul		Stem cells are multipotent. GRAHAM and CLIVE look blank.
paul		Lineage defined? GRAHAM and CLIVE still look blank.
paul		Bingo! Fortunately, someone was kind enough to give me the heads up, if you'll pardon the pun. So, when they were transferring me to the medical facility and I noticed the bumper sticker on your RV, I figured you might be sympathetic types. I zapped the spooks, grabbed the wheel and took my chance.
clive		I thought the crash was our fault.
paul		Well it was, kinda.
graham		So, you're saying if they catch you... PAUL draws his thumb across his neck. GRAHAM and CLIVE look at PAUL in horror. All three scratch their heads.
paul		So tell me, are you guys virgins or what?
paul		Alright then, Clive, when was the last time you got laid.
paul		Three years ago you had sex with a midget?
clive		She was an Ewok! Sniff.
paul		There are only two types of person small enough to fit inside an Ewok costume.
clive		She was a midget.
paul		I can't believe you thought boning a space bear sounded less embarrassing than a person of short stature.
clive		I know. I'm sorry.
paul		Was it nice?
paul		You sly dog! PAUL rolls onto his back, clapping. GRAHAM snorts into his beer, laughing. CLIVE joins in. Before long, the three friends are rolling around in hysterics, utterly out of control. After about thirty seconds of this, they pass out.
paul		Oh shit! Hey, wake up. Wake up. We fell asleep.
clive		How did that happen?
paul		Sorry, I get this thing when I get high. It's called "projective empathy'. You feel what I feel.
graham		Like in E.T.?
paul		Exactly.
clive		Oh, thank God. For a second there I thought I'd got drunk on Lite beer. The guys gather their stuff and walk to the edge of the wood. Looking through the tree line they realize that the quiet town of last night has become very busy indeed.
graham		Oh dear!
paul		I can't walk through there.
clive		How are we going to get back? Close in on GRAHAM having the best idea of his life.
graham		Maybe we should hold hands, so that we look like a family.
paul		That's great! Two grown men who look like sex offenders holding hands with a child cowboy.
clive		You could be a midget.
paul		You're obsessed with midgets! They continue on, trying to look as if nothing is strange.
graham		Seem to be working, Clive. Clive? GRAHAM notices that CLIVE is no longer with them. He looks back to see CLIVE, gawping thought the window of a COMIC SHOP, at a sword resembling the one they saw at Comic-Con.
graham		Clive, no. CLIVE walks into the shop. GRAHAM and PAUL follow quickly behind. As they enter the COMIC SHOP, MOSES BEHE emerges from the adjacent Drug Store. He takes a couple of pain killers and flexes his sore shoulders. He wanders up the road, scanning the passers by.
graham		Now's not really the time, Sausage.
clive		I must have it.
graham		It's very cheap. Are you sure you don't want to save up and get a proper on?
clive		Oh, come on, we've got time.
ruth		Where have you been? I was worried. She opens the door. AGENT ZOIL flashes his badge.
zoil		Good morning, Ma'am. Sorry to trouble you. Agent Zoil, Secret Service. Your wagon here matches the description of a recreational vehicle we're currently looking for. May I ask, are you alone? RUTH pauses a second.
ruth		Yes, I'm alone.
zoil		Do you mind taking a look at these pictures? ZOIL pulls out three pictures and hands them to RUTH. CCTV shots of GRAHAM and CLIVE at the gas station and MOSES's pic of RUTH, looking younger, with dark hair and no glasses.
zoil		Do you recognise any of these people, Miss? She lingers on the picture of herself.
zoil		Miss?
ruth		No, sorry I don't.
zoil		Where are you coming from, Ma'am?
ruth		Christian ministry in Seattle. I've been driving for 5 days.
zoil		Going far?
ruth		Austin.
zoil		Great town.
ruth		Oh yes. It has an impressive bat population you know?
zoil		Is that so?
ruth		Uh-huh. Well, I really should be getting along.
zoil		Of course. Thanks for your time, Miss...? Beat.
ruth		Darwin, Charlotte Darwin. ZOIL smiles and nods. He laves.
paul		How's it going?
child		Is that you?
paul		No.
child		It looks like you.
paul		Suppose it does. What's your name?
child		Keith Nash.
paul		I'm Paul. Pleased to meet you. They shake hands.
paul		You on your own here, Keith Nash?
keith nash		My Mom's shopping for some new jeans. She lets me wait in here.
paul		Sounds like a good Mum.
keith nash		Yes and no. What're you doing here?
paul		My friend's buying a sword. He's a grown man.
keith nash		What a nerd. PAUL laughs. So does KEITH NASH.
paul		You an M&Ms man, Keith? PAUL produces his M&Ms. He offers one to KEITH.
keith nash		I am but I shouldn't.
paul		Strangers with candy, right?
keith nash		Right.
paul		Well, we've got a lot in common. We both like comics and M&Ms. Guess that makes us pals.
keith nash		Guess so. KEITH beams at PAUL and takes a few M&Ms. They turn their attention back to the racks of comics. PAUL pulls one out called "G-Men'. On the cover it shows an agent, not unlike ZOIL, shooting an alien not unlike PAUL.
paul		You read this one?
keith nash		No.
paul		It's a good one. Take it. Go on. It's a gift.
keith nash		Thanks Paul.
keith nash		I gotta go.
paul		Catch you later, Keith Nash. GRAHAM and CLIVE approach. CLIVE has a long sword shaped box under his arm and a big grin on his face.
clive		Who was that?
paul		Keith Nash. How much was that?
clive		$299.99. It's made of a low grade Turkish alloy.
paul		What did you get, speccy?
graham		X-Men action figure.
paul		Jesus Cheeeerist.
keith nash		I'm not lying.
keith nash		Honestly Mommy, he was an alien and his name was Paul!
haggard		What did you say, kid?
haggard		Agent Haggard Ma'am, Secret Service.
haggard		Kid?
keith nash		He was in the shop.
haggard		Is he still in there? KEITH shakes his head.
haggard		South. Toward New Mexico, huh? KEITH nods. HAGGARD stands, his mind racing. He looks meaningfully at O'REILLY not noticing the RV rumbling up the street behind him with CLIVE at the wheel.
haggard		You did good kid. Want a candy?
keith nash		No thanks.
haggard		Let's go. The two agents rush off.
haggard		Screw Zoil!
haggard		We picked up a lead, sir. Little kid in the town said he saw an alien. Said he was heading toward New Mexico.
zoil		And you were just gonna take off?
haggard		Thought it best to take the initiative, sir. We were going to radio you.
zoil		Well now, that's mighty civil of you. We have a chain of command. I expect you to abide by it. Where d'you say he was headed?
haggard		New Mexico sir.
zoil		Well, then let's move it. They scramble.
zoil		Oh, and Haggard? Don't go getting ideas about your station again. ZOIL gets into his car leaving HAGGARD looking pissed.
moses behe		Looks like you're going the wrong way, Agent Zoil. That's what happens when you don't got the Lord on your side.
paul		He likes you, y'know?
ruth		Graham? D'you think?
paul		What are you, blind? Beat.
paul		What you got there, a stigmatism?
paul		You know you can get on operation for that, right?
ruth		Papa said the Lord would fix it. Guess that's not gonna happen, seeing as we're living in a gigantic godless universe, with no hope of salvation.
paul		Hey, I don't know categorically that it's godless. I just said "probably'.
ruth		Oh, that's a relief.
paul		Look, the way you're feeling now, that's why religion appeared in the first place. It's like existential Prozac. Imagine being five year sold and having no adults around to tell you why it snows or what trees are for. That's how it is for much of humanity. Faith is a night- light. It illuminates the scary corners, fills the gaps, makes the universe easier to comprehend. Thing is, it's okay not to know everything. I mean, who knows what's really out there? Did you know astrophysicists recently identified the equation for the creation of matter?
ruth		Yes.
paul		Oh. Well, then you get it, right? If they have the theory, who's to say at some point in the future they won't put it into practice and who's to say someone else didn't do that 13.5 Billion years ago and that's how the universe came to be? Course, then we get the eternal problem of who created the creator but that's a whole other car park. I think Shakespeare said it best. "There's more in Heaven and earth than is dreamt of in your philosophy Horatio".
ruth		What did you call me?
paul		Horatio. It's from Hamlet. You know, the Prince of Denmark?
ruth		Denmark has a municipal population of 508,691. PAUL blinks.
paul		Anyway, if there is a God, didn't he create doctors and hospitals and scalpels and shit, so he wouldn't have to go round fixing people's lazy eyeballs?
ruth		I suppose so.
paul		The eye is a delicate and complex thing, Ruth. You should get it taken care of. RUTH smiles. PAUL smiles back. RUTH looks out of the window, just as PAUL reaches out to touch her face.
ruth		They're back. PAUL withdraws his hand. GRAHAM and CLIVE are approaching the RV clutching a large firework. They climb aboard.
paul		Perfect.
clive		What are you going to do with this?
paul		Phone home.
zoil		Yes, sir?
voice		Satellite's come up with a data analysis on all the traffic coming out of Prospect in the last 5 hours. There was only one RV, and guess what, nimrod?
zoil		It wasn't going to New Mexico?
voice		That's a three pointer Agent Zoil. You better spin your ass around. You got some serious catching up to do. Don't make me come out there.
zoil		No, sir. Where are they headed? If we gun it, maybe we can get the drop on their destination.
voice		They're on the 50, heading towards Gillette.
zoil		What else is around there?
voice		Not much. Thunder Basis, Bethlehem Creek.
zoil		Bethlehem Creek?
voice		Holy shit!
graham		You don't think she's still there do you?
paul		That's what you're going to find out for me.
clive		Us?
paul		I can't just knock can I? What if she's moved on and someone else answers? I'm sick of people fainting on me. I'll hang back with my buddy Ruth, you two make first contact. Just enjoy it.
clive		What shall we say if it's her? We're here with the alien that killed your dog sixty years ago?
paul		Yes. Hurry up, there's going to be a really big storm in exactly 34 minutes.
ruth		How do you know?
paul		It's my job to know.
graham		Hello?
clive		Knock again.
clive		Tara Walton?
graham		Okay. GRAHAM goes to leave. CLIVE stops him.
clive		Miss Walton, I'm the writer, Clive Gollings and this is my friend and colleague, Graham Willy. We're from England and we're here with the alien that killed your dog 60 years ago. Silence. The sound of multiple locks. The door opens to reveal a woman . Grey, dishevelled but with fire in her eyes. She scowls at GRAHAM and CLIVE.
tara		What is this, some kind of joke?
clive		It's no joke. PAUL materializes between GRAHAM and CLIVE.
paul		Hello Tara. TARA's faces sickens. She falls backwards into the house.
paul		Aw nuts.
ruth		Maybe I should make some tea.
tara		Where are my manners? I never really have guests. Nobody comes up here. I go whole weeks without seeing a soul.
paul		Can I do anything to help? TARA stand in the kitchen doorway, the lit match in her hand. PAUL stands and walks toward her, she watches him.
tara		I've only just stopped believing in you, y'know? Spent a very long time trying to convince folk about what happened that night. My parents, my friends. Everyone thought I was mad. They told me it was a meteor that squashed little Paul. Took me away and did tests they did, said it was for cosmic radiation. They said I was concussed, hallucinating, but I knew you were real. I pulled you from that spaceship myself. Sat with you till the men came and took you away. If Pop hadn't had to go to Casper, he would have seen you too. They kept telling me I'd imagined it but I knew different. Pop tried to understand but they filled his head with "delayed this' and "post- traumatic that'. He just used to smile and say "there, there Tara'. He got sick when I was seventeen and died a few years later. I inherited this place. Word got out about my story not long after it happened, so I didn't really have any friends. Kids used to throw stones at the house and call me names. I just kinda retreated into myself. I'd spend whole nights up on the roof, staring at the sky, hoping to catch a glimpse of you again. I always believed that one day you"d come back and here you are. The match flame reaches her fingers, she shakes it out.
tara		Listen to me gabbing. Milk and sugar?
paul		I'm so sorry.
tara		What for?
paul		For killing your dog and ruining your life.
tara		That doesn't matter. Don't you see? You're real. I was right and all those folk that said I was crazy? Well, they can all go fuck themselves.
paul		It's good to see you, Tara. The tinkle of glass. Something hits the floor. A tear gas canister spins at their feet, spewing thick fog.
tara		Now, where do you suppose that came from?
paul		Fuck a duck! Get out!
paul		Tara, where's the back door?
tara		In back. The gang bustle out of the room just as the front door splinters inward, revealing O'REILLY in a gas mask.
zoil		Paul, wait- A burst of psychic images explode into ZOIL's head. The agent and the alien fall on the ground in an exhausted heap.
paul		Clive?
clive		Yes?
paul		A little help?
haggard		Freeze, space monkey!
graham		We're cut off.
tara		Storm cellar! TARA opens a nearby door and motions them down some stairs, as HAGGARD fires wildly. Crockery explodes around them.
zoil		Godammit Haggard!
paul		Not a fucking cent.
zoil		Oh great!
paul		Come on!
graham		Ow, my shins!
zoil		Help me up!
ruth		Papa? PAUL grabs RUTH's hand.
paul		Come on.
moses behe		 Take your hands off her, devil!
clive		I'll drive!
graham		Punch it!
tara		My weed!
zoil		Damnit Haggard, wait! HAGGARD takes off. ZOIL staggers to his car and with great difficulty, takes off in pursuit, narrowly avoiding MOSES BEHE's truck. Lightening flashes. Loud thunder.
graham		Your dad's persistent, isn't he?
ruth		You have no idea. CLIVE sees their pursuers in his wing mirror.
clive		I think we have a problem.
graham		What do we do?
paul		Go left.
clive		What?
zoil		Sir, I-
haggard		In pursuit, sir.
voice		Who the hell is this?
haggard		Haggard, sir. Agent Zoil has been compromised. I'm assuming command.
voice		I don't give a shit who's in command. Where' my fucking mooncoon?!
haggard		Just ahead of me sir. We're heading East across scrubland just North of Mitchell Creek.
voice		I don't wanna hear from either of you jokers until that little mother fucker is under glass.
haggard		Yes sir! HAGGARD floors it. He is manic and wild eyed.
clive		They're trying to overtake.
paul		Don't let him get past.
clive		Shall I ram him?
clive		What are we doing exactly?
ruth		Oh my God.
zoil		-Shit!
clive		Are you sure you know what you're doing?!
paul		Twenty seconds.
tara		Paul, we'll get sucked right up.
paul		Stay on target. A branch smacks on the windshield, cracking it.
clive		Paul!
paul		Stay on target.
zoil		He's insane!
zoil		Haggard, stand down. Stand down!
zoil		Haggard, it's suicide.
graham		It's gone!
clive		Where did it go?
zoil		Son of a bitch! ZOIL looks at the sky. His face drops.
zoil		Haggard. Wait a minute! An engine revs nearby. ZOIL turns to see MOSES BEHE pull off in pursuit.
zoil		Haggard, he knows what he's doing.
zoil		It's a trap!
clive		They're still coming!
paul		Ruth, why don't you count back from
paul		Back where I'm from, tornadoes are part of our daily life. We've learnt how to live with them, how to understand them.
clive		They're gaining!
paul		We've learnt to anticipate their behavior, know their personalities, know when they're playing games.
graham		What games?
paul		Hide and seek?
clive		Great Caesar's ghost!
ruth		How did you do that? How did you know?
paul		Evolution baby.
clive		We've lost them. TEAM PAUL erupt into cheers. PAUL jumps in the air and whoops. He high five GRAHAM and pats CLIVE on the back. GRAHAM embraces RUTH and tries to kiss her, she pulls away.
graham		Sorry.
ruth		Wait, what about Papa?
clive		I only saw one car following us.
paul		Where's Tara? TARA comes out of the toilet.
tara		The bulb's gone in there.
graham		That was just awesome. Amazing driving Clive. It was like G.T.A. but potentially fatal. Wasn't it, Clive? Clive? A knocking and a gurgling sound is coming from the engine.
clive		Oh no.
graham		There goes the deposit.
clive		Fare thee well friend. You were a faithful and mighty steed.
tara		She rode that storm with a bullet in her heart and didn't stop until we we're safe.
ruth		If there is a benevolent creator watching over everything then may he, she or it bless the 1985 Holiday Rambler, Imperial. Everyone looks to PAUL for his comment but he is not there.
graham		Paul?
voice		Zoil! What the hell is going on?
zoil		We got hit by a twister, sir. Haggard's dead.
voice		What about the other one?
zoil		I lost him when the ranch exploded.
voice		Jesus Christ, Zoil, this has been one fuck up after another. I should have handled it myself. I want that little bastard dead by midnight tonight or you'll be working security in a convention centre. Now where's that RV? ZOIL's eyes widen. Parked on the roadside is the RV.
voice		Zoil? ZOIL? ZOIL is staring at DEVIL'S TOWER.
ruth		What you may not know is on the outside of the tower they bolted a series of ladders, all the way to the top, put there by William Rogers in 1893. He was the first man to climb the tower.
tara		I climbed up there in 1976. Thought it would make a good site for some UFO spotting. Turns out I wasn't the only one.
paul		We call them IFOs.
tara		Cute.
paul		I-thank-you.
paul		This is it. PAUL takes out the firework, Zippo and cigarettes from his back pack. He lights his last cigarette and takes a drag.
paul		I'll miss these. PAUL takes the firework a little way off and sticks it in the ground. He crouches down and lights the touch paper with the cigarette, then scampers back to the gang. Beat. The firework rises into the sky. It explodes. The star-burst is massive and bright red, it illuminates the tower.
tara		Pretty.
graham		What now?
paul		We wait. A light appears in the sky some way off.
paul		Wait a minute... A HELICOPTER swoops in to land, kicking dust and debris into the air. TEAM PAUL turn back to the woods but are stopped by the sight of a torch getting nearer.
voice		Well, whaddya know? Small world. VOICE appears flanked by two faceless, heavily armed SOLDIERS. They level their weapons, just as ZOIL bursts through the trees behind them.
paul		Lorenzo?! PAUL spins round. We go into slow motion. ZOIL fires. The bullet explodes from the gun, straight at us. Angle on the bullet as it passes in ECU. The shot moves round behind the bullet to reveal PAUL, looking shocked. The bullet whizzes past him, slamming into one of the soldiers. ZOIL rolls, coming to rest on one knee. He fires a second shot into the leg of the other soldier who collapses. He leaves his gun at VOICE just as the PILOT bursts from the cockpit. The PILOT fires but misses ZOIL. ZOIL takes out his shoulder, spinning him off his feet. VOICE steps forward, holding a smoking gun.
voice		It was you! You told him. I should've known.
zoil		He's my friend! I've known him for twenty years. He introduced me to my wife damnit!
voice		You stupid son of a bitch. In five years, you could have been where I am.
zoil		I don't want to be where you are.
voice		Too bad, seeing as I'm the one hold'ng all the cards and when I say "cards", I of course mean big fucking gun. VOICE points his gun at PAUL.
paul		How'd you find me?
voice		It was pretty easy once we got a fix on the geek-mobile. Wasn't hard to figure out where you were headed. You always did have a flare for the dramatic. PAUL nods, a sad smile creeping across his mouth.
voice		Let's go. TARA stands in front of PAUL, then RUTH, then GRAHAM then CLIVE, who summons every ounce of bravery in his body.
clive		He's not going anywhere.
voice		Be honest with yourself, two scoops. What is it that you think you can possibly bring to the table at this stage in the game? CLIVE reaches beyond his back and produces his KATANA SWORD, he holds it like a proud Samurai.
clive		Blind fury. The blade falls off.
clive		Bloody low grade Turkish alloy.
voice		Step aside, you fat nerd.
ruth		Leave him alone! VOICE hits out at RUTH. GRAHAM renews his attack.
graham		Leave her alone! VOICE throws them off and comes face to face with TARA.
tara		Leave them alone. WHAM! She whacks VOICE across the face with a large stick.
tara		You're not taking him away again. He staggers backwards and falls to the ground, unconscious.
paul		Thank you, Tara.
tara		Don't mention it. PAUL rushes to ZOIL who lies on the ground, wounded.
zoil		The things I do for you, huh?
paul		You know I appreciate it.
zoil		Do you have any idea how difficult it was to catch you guys?
moses behe		Oh Lord, Ruth. My little Ruth.
graham		Noooooooooo! GRAHAM gathers RUTH up in his arms. She coughs, flecks of blood around her mouth.
moses behe		I...I never meant to shoot her. I was aiming for the goblin.
clive		He's not a goblin he's from another planet.
moses behe		But he can't be. He... he...
graham		He's an alien you stupid man! Oh Ruth, Ruth I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. I should have never persuaded you to come with us. RUTH focuses on GRAHAM. She smiles, weakly.
ruth		What, and miss all this? Graham, I've lived more in the last 48 hours that I ever did in that trailer park. Isn't that what you said living was all about? Right now? This conversation? That tree? My next cheeseburger? I'm not afraid anymore Graham. I'm cold though. Hey, where is everybody? RUTH shudders and dies. TARA and ZOIL look aghast. GRAHAM buries his head in RUTH's hair. CLIVE, his eyes are filled with tears, puts his and on GRAHAM's shoulder.
moses behe		What have I done? I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. A shadow is cast across RUTH. Everyone looks up to see PAUL, silhouetted against the moon. His eyes glint.
paul		There is no way this thing isn't gonna end happy.
moses behe		Get away from her! Don't you touch my little girl. CLIVE holds out a hand to stop MOSES. He obeys. The air hums, charged with static. PAUL's skin ripples with color. Everyone watches transfixed. RUTH's eye flickers and opens. With some difficulty, she sits up and takes off her glasses. She blinks both shining, healthy eyes.
graham		Ruth, are you okay?
ruth		I think so. Is anyone hungry? I really feel like a cheese burger. Relief and joy spreads through group. MOSES falls to his knees and sobs. He feels a hand on his shoulder and looks up to see PAUL.
moses behe		Thank you. RUTH and GRAHAM hug. She smiles at him.
ruth		You can kiss me now. They kiss with awkward passion. Everyone smiles then after a bit become uncomfortable and a bit grossed out.
paul		Looks like the geek shall inherit the earth.
voice		I wouldn't say-
paul		Happens to the best of us.
paul		I'm sorry I frightened you so much your hair turned white.
ruth		You didn't frighten me. You freed me. You helped me see the light.
moses behe		I will sir. God be with you.
paul		Whatever dude. They high five. PAUL turns to ZOIL, whose arm is in a makeshift sling and shakes his hand.
zoil		Safe trip Short Round. PAUL turns to GRAHAM and CLIVE. He pulls JELVA - ALIEN QUEEN OF THE VARVAK from his pocket and hands it to them.
clive		You can keep it.
paul		Cool. Okay.
graham		What did you think?
paul		Yeah. Three tits, awesome. Although you know what? Sometimes, less is more. The boys nod.
graham		No, thank you.
clive		You are, and always will be, our friend.
paul		Come here you fucking geeks. They hug. He takes in incandescent orb from his pocket.
tara		What?
paul		I ruined your life Tara. Think I owe you a new one. TARA takes PAUL's hand.
tara		I don't have my toothbrush.
paul		Baby, where we're going, you won't need teeth. TARA frowns then follows PAUL aboard. PAUL and TARA stand in the doorway. One of the other ALIENS comes out of a small room behind them, speaking in a strange tongue. Subtitle: THE BULB'S GONE IN THERE. As the door slowly closes, GRAHAM and CLIVE give PAUL the CE3K salute. PAUL gives them the finger. The boys laugh, tears in their eyes. The ship lifts off into the sky. GRAHAM, CLIVE, RUTH, MOSES and ZOIL watch them go. The light form the ship gradually fades, leaving them in darkness. Pause.
graham		That was good, wasn't it?
publicist		Just one item per person please. He winks at the boys. RUTH rushes up to GRAHAM, she is dressed as Storm from X-Men and pushes a customized buggy, in which sits a baby dressed as Professor X.
ruth		Hey.
graham		Hey babe. You okay?
ruth		I'm just taking Tara over to the autograph pavilion. Michael Biehn's here!
clive		Oh, say hi from us, won't you? RUTH kisses GRAHAM. Two nerds approach.
security man		Guys, if you've had your book signed please move on. Tilt up to reveal the security man. It is none other than former Special Agent LORENZO ZOIL. CRANE up to reveal the whole convention floor.
****Dialogues from script :Pearl_Harbor.txt****

rafe		Bandits at 2 o'clock.
danny		Power dive!
rafe		It's Germans!
danny		Kill the bastards!
rafe		Good shooting, Danny!
danny		Good shooting, Rafe!
rafe		Land of the free...
danny		Home of the brave!
rafe		There's another one!
danny's father		You no count boy!  Johnson come lookin', said he'd pay a dime for you to shovel his pig shed, and I can't find you no place.
danny		Daddy, I told you I was comin' here.
danny		Da!... Dad...
rafe		Let him alone!
danny		Rafe... Daddy... No!
rafe		I'll bust you open, you...German!
danny's father		I fought the Germans.
danny		Daddy!  Daddy!  Wait.
rafe's father		What's goin' on, son?
rafe		Nothing.  Danny's Dad just come to get him.
rafe's father		Hey, boy -- you wanna go up?
rafe		Daddy, sometime will you take Danny up too?
rafe's father		Sure will, son.
training captain		McCawley!  Walker!  Cut that out!
rafe		I thought this was a training flight. I'm just trying to give Danny some training.
danny		Not on your best day, boy!
training captain		That's it, get into a wedge!
rafe		Didn't you say test the limits?
danny		Hey, you wanna test my limits, you better line up a couple dozen women on the GROUND...cause I got NO limits in the air!
training captain		Everybody down!
training captain		Where are McCawley and Walker?
training captain		Aw shit...
training captain		You know what they say... You can take the crop duster out of the country -- but
danny		If I had guns I'd be chewing up your --
rafe		If you had guns, you'd be pissin' on 'em.
anthony		He's doing an inside loop!
training captain		Aw, shit...
danny		Yee-hawww!!!
danny		Where's Rafe?
training captain		You're down, Walker!  That's an order!
danny		What about him?
training captain		He's not taking my orders anymore.
danny		He's gonna do it.
billy		Do what?
danny		It.  Aw, shit.  Aw shit shit shit...
danny		I shouldn't'a done an inside loop. I shouldn't'a done an inside loop.
billy		Why?
danny		Cause now he's gonna do an outside loop.
training captain		Aw shit.  Aw shit shit shit...
red		Aw sh- sh- sh- sh-
billy		Shit.
red		Yeah.
danny		You can do it, Rafe.  You can do it.
danny		You could've killed yourself, you stupid bastard!
danny		That was the most beautiful thing I ever saw.
doolittle		There are some people who think the outside loop is reckless and irresponsible.
rafe		How could it be irresponsible, Sir, if you were the first man in the world to do it?
doolittle		Don't get smart with me, son.
rafe		Never, Sir.  I just meant it's dangerous only for the kind of pilot who wants to show off, rather than inspire the other pilots in his unit.  And all you've done for me, Sir, working out the transfer, I did it to say thanks.  To honor you, Sir. What the French call a "homage."
doolittle		That's bullshit, son.  But it's really good bullshit.
rafe		Thank you, Sir.
doolittle		Good luck over there McCawley.  I admire your decision.
rafe		Thank you, Sir.
billy		You good-lookin' sumbitch...don't you EVER die!
anthony		That's your line for tonight, ya know.
billy		What, good-lookin' sumbitch?
anthony		No, numbnuts, die.  You get your nurse alone, you look her in the eye, and say, "Baby, they're training me for war, and I don't know what'll happen.  But if I die tomorrow, I wanna know that we lived all we could tonight."  I've never known it to fail.
red		He's n-never known it to work, either.
danny		Doolittle didn't kill you?  Attaboy!
rafe		Danny, there's something I gotta tell you...
danny		How could you do this?
rafe		The Colonel helped me work it out.
danny		I don't mean how'd you do the paperwork, I mean how the hell did you do it without letting me in on it?
rafe		I'm sorry, Danny, but they're only accepting the best pilots.
danny		Don't make this a joke, Rafe.  You're talking about war, and I know what war does to people.
rafe		Danny, you know how many times I saw you come to school with a black eye or a busted nose, and couldn't do a thing about it -- for you, or for your mother... or your father, with his lungs scorched out with mustard gas, and more left of his lungs than there was of his spirit? You've made your sacrifice, Danny.  It's time I made mine.
billy		 The nurses are waiting!
rafe		Let's go.
danny		Nah, you go on.
rafe		I have to talk to Evelyn.  And I want you to meet her.
danny		Some other time.  I don't feel like a party.
pilots voice		Nurses!  Nurses!  Nurses!
betty		Do you have trouble with your boobs in the uniform?
barbara		You mean hiding them?
betty		Hide them?  On a date with pilots?  I'm talking about how you make them show!
sandra		Loan 'em to me, I'll make 'em show.
betty		The boobs or the pilots?
barbara		We'll ask Evelyn.  Evelyn?  Evelyn!
betty		Ooo, she's thinking of her date!  Come on, you've been dating a pilot.  We want to know what we can expect.
evelyn		I've been dating one pilot.  And only for a few weeks.  But I know he's different from all the others.
sandra		True love!...
betty		Morphine, give her morphine!
barbara		Give her an enema.
evelyn		But I do have a warning for you.  There's one line you all need to know, and you're likely to hear it from any man in a uniform.  It goes like this:  "Honey, Baby... We never know what's gonna happen, and I may die tomorrow...so, let's live all we can tonight."
barbara		I tell you.  Any one of those arrogant, leather-jacketed, slick-lookin' flyboys tries that line on me...he's gonna get anything he wants.
evelyn		Stick with me, I'll find you somebody good.
betty		I'll take that one.
evelyn		He's taken.  But come on, I'll introduce you.
rafe		Hello, Lieutenant.  Good to see you.
evelyn		You too, Lieutenant.
evelyn		Oh, this is Betty.
rafe		Nice to meet you, Betty.
rafe		Danny would'a brought this.
evelyn		Danny's not coming?
rafe		No, he...got some news today.  He'll be okay, he just didn't feel like coming tonight.
evelyn		I was hoping to meet him.
betty		I was hoping to meet him.
rafe		We'll just have to find a substitute, won't we?
betty		I just want to tell you one thing.  If you're thinking this might be your last night on earth?... I'm prepared to make it meaningful.  Very meaningful.
evelyn		At ease, Betty!
red		He, I'm R-Red.  Red S-Strange.
betty		Red...Strange?
red		You know the football player, Red G- Grange?  Well the guys called me R-Red, cause you know, I'm red...and they thought I was strange, so, you know, Red G-Grange, Red Str-Strange.
betty		But...they called you Strange?  Because of Red Grange?  I don't get it.  Was Red Grange strange?
red		How would I know.
betty		Do you always stutter?
red		Only when I'm n-n-n-
betty		Nervous?
red		Yeah.  But if I have to get something out, I c-can always s-s-s-  SIIING!
betty		Don't be nervous.
evelyn		There shipping us out.  Hawaii.  The Germans are overrunning Europe, and we're sent to paradise.  How about you?  Have you heard anything?
billy		You're a very special woman, and...well baby, they're training me for war, and we don't know what happens tomorrow.  So we gotta make tonight special.
barbara		I hope you can back that up, flyboy. Cause you're not ever gonna forget tonight.
evelyn		Whatever you're trying to tell me isn't good, is it.  Or it wouldn't be so hard to say.
rafe		The only reason it's hard to say is that I keep thinking I don't have the right to say it.  But I've got to because it's true.  I love you.  That must surprise you.
evelyn		It surprises me that I'm not the only one on this balcony who feels that way.
rafe		There's one thing I have to say.  I'm going away.
evelyn		We're all going away.
rafe		I'm going to the war.  The real war. Hitler's taken Europe.  The Brits are hanging on by their fingernails, and If they lose, there'll be more people killed than anybody can imagine.  And not just there, but here.
evelyn		But you're in the U.S. Army, how could you --
rafe		Colonel Doolittle pulled the strings, and put me on loan to the R.A.F.  They need pilots, and we need experience.  I leave tomorrow.
evelyn		You waited til tonight to tell me?
rafe		I had to tell you in person.  Because there's something else I need to say.
rafe		Evelyn...you know the line -- let's make tonight memorable.  What I feel about you makes it impossible for me to say something like that.  If I don't come back, I don't want to saddle you with regret and sadness you'll carry the rest of your life.
evelyn		I don't know if you can choose that, Rafe.
rafe		Maybe not.  But I need you to know.  I love you.  And I will come back.  I'll find a way.  And then we'll get a chance to know if what I felt the first moment I saw you, and every minute since then, is real.
evelyn		Do one thing for me, before you go.
conductor's voice		All aboard!
danny		Didn't you say you told her not to come?
rafe		Yeah.
danny		Then why are you looking for her?
rafe		It's a test.  If I asked her to come and she came, it wouldn't tell me anything. If I tell her not to come, and she comes...then I know she loves me.
voice		ALL ABOARD!
danny		You're still a kid, ya know that?  Take care of yourself.
rafe		You too.
danny		Give 'em hell, Rafe.
rafe		Rafe McCawley, Sir.
rafe		That's me, Sir.
rafe		If you're patching up bullet holes right here on the runway, maybe we should skip the housekeeping and get right to the planes.
rafe		Not anxious to die, Sir, anxious to matter.
guard		I've died and gone to heaven.
barbara		You know the ratio of men to women on this island?  Four-thousand...to one.
barbara		See ya on the beach, boys!
evelyn		Thank you...Ensign.
evelyn		Thank you, but...I really want to be alone right now.
evelyn		I'm sorry.  I've got a letter to write.
evelyn		What did you say?
evelyn		Cold?  No, I'm just thinking about a war. And maybe you should be too.
president roosevelt		Please be seated, gentlemen.
president roosevelt		Churchill and Stalin are asking me what I'm asking you:  How long is America going to pretend the world is not at war?
general marshall		We've increased supply shipments to them, Mr. President, and we're losing merchant vessels every day.
president roosevelt		Shift in every destroyer and anti- aircraft weapon you can find.
admiral		Sir, our Pacific Fleet is already down to almost nothing.
president roosevelt		Gentlemen, at this moment the nation of Hungry has a larger military then the United States.  We have no choice but to draw from whatever we can.
nishikura		So you join us, Admiral.  Some of us thought your education at an American university would make you too weak to fight the Americans.
yamamoto		If knowledge of opponents and careful calculation of danger is taken as weakness then I have misunderstood what it means to be Japanese.
nishikura		The time has come to strike!  Or to sit and let the Americans cut off our oil and our future.  I know what you whisper to the others, Yamamoto -- that the Americans are strong.  Yet look at their leader.
oyama		Franklin Roosevelt.  Born into great wealth.  Fifteen years ago, he was stricken with polio.  Now he cannot walk, or even stand without help. Photographers will not take pictures of him in his chair; Americans do not wish to know how weak their President is.
nishikura		You have something to say, Yamamoto?
yamamoto		The Council knows I have opposed fighting the Americans.  No matter how great our resolve, they have resources beyond ours. If we must go to war, there is only one way -- deal them a blow from which it will take them years to recover.  In that time we can conquer all of the Pacific, and they will have no choice but to ask for peace.
nishikura		You see us as capable of such a blow?
yamamoto		The Americans themselves have made it possible.  We will annihilate them in a single attack -- at Pearl Harbor.
red		If I ain't n-never on a b-boat again, it'll be too s-soon.
billy		Where are the women on this --
red		They're s-still asleep!
danny		Drop your cocks and grab your socks, boys!  The terror of the skies are here!
anthony		They're all drunk.
danny		Hey.  You.  Mr. Coma.
coma		Where's that lizard?
danny		What lizard?
coma		The one that slept in my mouth last night.
danny		What the hell happened to you guys?
coma		Ever hear of mai-tai's?  Comes in a big...pot.  Like...like...
red		A m-missionary?
coma		No, like...
danny		This is an Air Base?  Where's your squad commander?
red		I th-think I'm gonna like it here.
coma		You guys are new?
danny		Yeah.
coma		Mai-tai's.  I got this to tell ya, about mai-tai's.
danny		Hey!  What is this, the planes all bunched up like that?
mechanic		The brass is afraid of sabotage.  This makes 'em easier to protect -- and easier to service.
danny		What about easier to hit in an air raid?
mechanic		Who's gonna to that?  Japan is four thousand miles away.  So you guys just arrived, huh?
danny		Yeah.
mechanic		We got a saying here.  A-low-HA!
danny		Well guys...I reckon there's just one thing to do...
red		More m-mai-tai's!
coma		Absolutely right.
coma		No, you guys aren't doing it right.  It's in the hands.  They talk story.
coma		Fish swim in ocean... Happy in the Mother Sea... Girl, beautiful girl, with big jugs, walks into water...waves lapping at her thighs...
anthony		I never knew those dances were so sophisticated.
coma		...Fish nibble at her breasts...
coma		A more beautiful girl walks by...
billy		Hey, isn't that Evelyn?
danny		Rafe's girl, Evelyn?
coma		You guys know her?!  I gotta have an intro!  Man, I'd like to --
danny		A friend of mine's in love with her.  So you don't even look -- not ever.
danny		I'm a better pilot than any son-of-a- bitch on this island!  So I'm the one to say this!  Here's to Rafe McCawley!  A better pilot...and a better man...than me.
other pilots		To Rafe.
coma		Uh oh.  Volcanic eruption!
coma		Shit, he's puking on my feet!
red		Well, you p-puked on his feet.
coma		Yeah, but he was wearing shoes!
admiral kimmel		...transfer twelve more destroyers to Atlantic Fleet, and all the available anti-aircraft weaponry?!  Washington has gone insane!
strategic analyst		We've done what you ordered, Admiral, and war gamed the likely outcome of a Japanese attack against each of our major bases in the Pacific.  Wake, Guam, Midway, the Philippines.  In each case, we lose.
admiral kimmel		You left out Hawaii.
strategic analyst		Pearl Harbor can't be attacked effectively from the air.  It's too shallow for an aerial torpedo attack. Pearl Harbor's safe.  It's everywhere else that we're vulnerable.
admiral kimmel		Step up surveillance of Japanese communications.  They're gonna do something somewhere.  I can feel it.
genda		Look at the ships -- all grouped.  Perfect targets!
japanese officer		And the planes!  They are -- what is that American expression?  Sitting geese?
yamamoto		Sitting ducks.
japanese officer		How can they be so foolish?
yamamoto		They think no one would be stupid enough to attack them at Pearl Harbor.
genda		Or perhaps they think no one is capable. Look at this...
genda		Pearl Harbor's depth of only forty feet makes them feel safe.  A torpedo dropped from an airplane plunges to one hundred feet before it can level off.  That is a conventional torpedo.  But we have been experimenting.
genda		Wooden fins.  We are testing them tomorrow.
genda		We have chosen this place because its depth is exactly the same as Pearl Harbor's.
yamamoto		Uncharged torpedoes have different balance.
genda		I have arranged a live fire drill -- with your permission.
genda		Of course against a ship the explosion will not be dissipated, and will have more force.
billy		Are you sure they're here?
anthony		If Evelyn's here, the rest are here!
anthony		Looking good, Red.
red		Shut up.
anthony		What is it with Red?  I've never seen him this way.
billy		He's been like that all day.  Hey Danny, you coming?
danny		Nah, I'm gonna stay here.  Read.
barbara		Now listen, it's hands off Billy.  I mean, you can put your hands on him if you want to, but then my hands will break yours.
betty		He was that good?
barbara		No, I was.
billy		Red, Peeping Tom stuff can get us court- marshaled.
red		Shhh!
red		 Oh...Betty, Betty, Betty, you're the one for me, Betty, Betty, Betty, Betty, can't you see...
red		 I'll be yours for eternity, Betty, Betty, Betty, Betty, Betty!
anthony		 Oh Sandra...I like you...love you...
ian		Leapin' Jesus!
rafe		 The struts are loose, the hydraulics are leaking, and the electrical system's shorting out in the cockpit.
ian		Well which of those three ya want fixed?
rafe		All of 'em.
ian		If ye'd wanted a bloody Cadillac ya should'a stayed in the bloody States!
rafe		And if you don't give me a plane that can handle combat, you better start learning to speak German.
ian		Fook ya!
rafe		Learn English, then!
ian		Fook ya dooble!
british pilot		Bloody Krauts!  Night raid!
ian		I have'na been able ta --
rafe		Crank her!
ian		God speed ya, laddie.
rafe		Here they come.
rafe		We've got him hurt, stay on him!
rafe		We've got him going!
squad leader		McCawley!  Get to the clouds!  Get into the clouds!
rafe		I can't see the clouds!
squad leader		Get out of there, McCawley!  Get out of there!
squad leader		McCawley down.  No 'chute.
white boxer		You hit hard -- for a cook.
barbara		Let's get into civvies and find a bar.
martha		Right after church?
barbara		You've gotta sin some, to get forgiveness.  Come with us, Evelyn.  You need some sin.
evelyn		I've got to write some requisitions. We're undersupplied with morphine.
betty		Morphine?  We've been here a month and nobody's had worse than a sunburn.
betty		I wish she could forget him.
barbara		You don't forget love, Honey.  Not ever.
evelyn		Can I help you, sailor?
dorie		'Scuse me, 'Mam.  All the ship's doctors is golfing, and I couldn't find nobody to look at this.
evelyn		Our doctor's gone too.
dorie		Sorry to trouble you.
evelyn		Wait, let me look at that... You better come in here.
evelyn		How'd you get this?
dorie		Boxin'.
evelyn		Win?
dorie		Yes'm.
evelyn		What's your name?
dorie		Dorie Miller, 'Mam.
evelyn		I'm Evelyn.  And I'm just a nurse.  But I'm not playing golf, and that cut needs sewing, or else it's gonna make a big lumpy scar.  Whatta ya say?
evelyn		How often you fight like this?
dorie		Every other Sunday.  I'm heavyweight champion of the West Virginia.
evelyn		What do you get for winning?
dorie		Respect.
dorie		No doctor would'a give me that good.
dorie		Thank you, 'Mam.
evelyn		Tell me something, Dorie.  A man as big as you -- and smart too, you knew where to come when your ship couldn't help -- do you still have to fight with your fists to get respect?
dorie		I left my Mama and joined the Navy to be a man.  They made me a cook -- and not even that, really -- I clean up after the other sailors eat.  I shine the officer's shoes.  In two years, they've never even let me fire a gun.
evelyn		You take care, Dorie.
dorie		You too, 'Mam.
evelyn		...Rafe...
danny		Lieutenant... I'm Danny Walker.  I'm Rafe McCawley's best friend.
evelyn		Were.  Isn't that what you mean?  Were. Because he's dead, isn't he?  And that's why you've come.
danny		Before Rafe left, he asked me to be the one to tell you, if it happened.
evelyn		He told me about you.  That he had no other friend like you.
danny		Rafe's folks had a crop dusting business, owned their own planes.  Real straight, frugal.  My father was the town drunk. Went to sleep one night on the railroad tracks and was still there when the Dawn Express came along.  Rafe and I were the only ones at the funeral.  He took me back to his house, and I never left.
evelyn		You were more like brothers.
danny		I taught him to drink beer.  He taught me how to fly.
evelyn		He said you're the only one he ever saw who was better in the air than him.
danny		...He said that?
danny		Look, uh...Rafe's dad...he wrote me with the news, and it took me a couple of days to work up the guts to come here and tell you.  I'm not as brave as Rafe, or as noble.  But if there's anything I can ever do to help -- you let me know, okay?
danny		I understand why Rafe loved you.  You're as strong as he was.
yamamoto		Everything real except the fact that no one is shooting back at us.
genda		If we achieve surprise, they will offer little resistance.
yamamoto		Set up teams of radio operators to send out messages the Americans will intercept, concerning every potential American target in the Pacific.  Include Hawaii -- the clutter will be more confusing that way.
genda		Brilliant, Admiral.
yamamoto		A brilliant man would find a way not to fight a war.
aide		Mr. President, we've received a message from the Argentinian ambassador to Japan. His sources tell him the Japanese are assembling their fleet to attack us.
president roosevelt		We're picking up warnings for every American base in the Pacific.  Does this ambassador know the target?
aide		Not for sure.  But he thinks it's Pearl Harbor.
president roosevelt		Tell the Pentagon.
president roosevelt		No, George, I need the practice, in case there's a fire.
admiral		The attack seems inevitable.  The question is where?  The way to answer that question is to ask:  if we were the Japanese, how would we do it?
vice admiral		Between America and the Far East are the sea lanes where the winds and the currents make the best route for shipping.  Far above is the northern route, between Canada and Russia. Between these two is something they call the Vacant Sea.  If I were the Japs, I'd send a task force there.  You could hide the entire land mass of Asia in the Vacant Sea, and nobody would know.
admiral		So they pop out and attack where?
vice admiral		That's the problem, Admiral.  They could hit anywhere they want.
dental assistant		Dr. Takanawa, you have a call from Tokyo.
dentist		Please excuse me.  Just relax.
dentist		Takanawa... Yes?...
dentist		Yes, they are all...no wait, I see the big one moving.  The one that's flat on top, what do they call it?...
listener		Here's something, over the line from Tokyo.
tracer		It's connected to a local dentist.  His office is beside Pearl Harbor.
intelligence supervisor		This dentist, is he a spy?
listener		Sounds too innocent.  His accent is from the old country.  Somebody official- sounding calls, he thinks it's discourteous not to respond.
aide		Sir, we just had an intelligence intercept.  Someone from Tokyo called a local dentist whose office looks over Pearl.  They wanted to know the exact location of the ships.
admiral kimmel		Someone from Tokyo asks a dentist how the ships are sitting... What are we supposed to do about that?
aide		I...don't know, Sir.  But it just seemed significant.
admiral kimmel		Have intelligence keep monitoring him.
photographer		Closer, ladies!  Closer!  Now smile!... Great!  Next week I'll show you a print and you can order your Pictures of Paradise!
betty		Barbara, here's yours...and Evelyn, here you are.
betty		It's been a month and you haven't smiled. We just want you to know we love you.
barbara		What is it with nurses and pilots?
colonel		You're Walker, right?
danny		Yes Sir.
colonel		That was a nice little stunt you pulled, buzzing the base.
danny		You liked that?
colonel		Oh yeah.  I liked it so much I'm cutting you out of the squadron.
danny		Sir?
colonel		I don't buy that hot dog shit.  So you and your buddies are gonna transfer your planes up to Haleiwa.
danny		Hale-what?
colonel		You'll love it.  No base, no bars, just lots of sun and aircraft maintenance.
danny		Sir, I --
colonel		Too late for apologies, Walker.
danny		I wasn't gonna apologize, Sir.  I was just gonna say it was worth it to feel like a real pilot again, even if it was only for five seconds.
danny		How's everything?
evelyn		We got some soldiers in traction from a jeep accident, but it's quiet.  Except for the occasional fighter plane buzzing us.
danny		That might not have been such a good idea.  They're making us fly out of a half-paved airfield.  The real punishment is that I won't be back to the barracks till it's too late for dinner or coffee. So I guess it's goodbye for awhile.
evelyn		I was just thinking that war is a series of goodbyes.  Do you think that's why we're meeting.  To help us say goodbye to Rafe?
danny		I swore not to talk about him tonight, but there's all this stuff I think I ought to tell you, that he didn't get a chance to.  Rafe was...he was lonely.  He had such high expectations of himself that he always felt empty.  The week he met you he told me he felt his heart had always lived in winter, and for the first time in his life he has seen the spring.
danny		Sorry.
evelyn		He told me he didn't want to leave me with regret.  Now that's all I have.
danny		Hey, have you seen Pearl Harbor at night?
evelyn		Well...sure.
danny		From the air?
evelyn		So beautiful!
danny		Hang on.
evelyn		I didn't realize until tonight that I've stopped wanting to live.
evelyn's voice		Dearest Rafe --
evelyn's voice		...Every sunset...
evelyn's voice		...gather it's heat into my heart, and send it to you...
message boy		Daniel Walker?...
danny		Rafe!
rafe		Evelyn.
rafe		I sent telegrams, I guess the military traffic held them up.
evelyn		Why were you sitting here, instead of...
rafe		I saw you, I couldn't go in, I...just stood there wondering if you knew.  You looked...sad, and I had to sit down a minute.
evelyn		How did you?...
rafe		...Survive?  I jumped in a patch of fog, and nobody could see me.  I hit the water hard.  And it was so...cold.
rafe		I don't know how long I was in the water. A Norwegian freighter picked me up.  They were headed to Spain.  They docked in La Rota, right beside a German ship, and told me to stay hidden below.  I was afraid they'd turn me in, so I stole some clothes, jumped ship, and found a church, where the priest contacted the resistance, and got me on a freighter to New York.
rafe		I called my folks, then Colonel Doolittle.  The Colonel sent a man to pick me up.  They wanted to debrief me. I told the Colonel I needed to see somebody first, and he had a supply flight heading out in an hour.  I've done a lot of talking.  You haven't said anything.
evelyn		I'm just...so amazed, so glad to know that you're okay.  You are okay, aren't you?
rafe		Nothing that won't heal.  I guess.
evelyn		It's been...so different, being so sure you were dead.
rafe		I'm so sorry for what you must've gone through, but I'm back.
rafe		Maybe I've assumed too much.  Has something changed?  Have you fallen in love?
rafe		It's all right.  Danny always said I see things with my emotions instead of my eyes.
evelyn		It's not your fault, Rafe.  The letter I wrote you, they --
rafe		Don't worry about that.  Guys away from home, lonely, good-hearted women try to cheer them up.
evelyn		It's not that I didn't mean everything I wrote.  It's just that -- I thought you were dead.  And now --
danny		You're alive!
rafe		Aw, God.  Oh my God.
evelyn		Rafe --
rafe		Evelyn...
danny		Don't worry.  I'll find him.
betty		This came while you were gone.
danny		You'd always go sit in a plane whenever you were upset.
rafe		Upset?  Why should I be upset?
danny		Let's go get a drink.  Unless you're scared to talk about it.
danny		Drink up.  Then we'll talk.
anthony		Rafe?!
rafe		They'll go under you because their planes are faster, then they run so you can't catch 'em.  But then they'll come around and take you from behind -- like some Americans will.
rafe		Sorry.
danny		Why be sorry?  That's what you feel, it's better to come out with it.
rafe		I didn't mean it.
danny		Sure you did.  So come on.  Say what you think.
rafe		Waitress!  Four beers!
danny		You don't wanna put beer over mai-tai.
rafe		If you can't keep up, don't drink yours.
rafe		We gotta face some facts here.
danny		What facts are those?
rafe		I understand how it could happen.  I know why any guy would love her.  And I can't blame you that it happened.  You thought I was dead, she was grieving, you were trying to help her.
danny		I was grieving too.
rafe		Yeah, right.  Anyway, you didn't know.
danny		So what are you saying?
rafe		I'm saying now you do know.  So it's time for you to fuck off.
danny		You left her.  How's that for a fact?
rafe		How's this for a fact?  I loved her first.
danny		You know, you're a lousy drinker. Drinking's supposed to make men feel bigger.  It only makes you stupid.  And weak.
rafe		How's this?
danny		You want it, you got it.
anthony		Let 'em fight, they need it.
sailor		Is this a private fight or can anybody jump in?
rafe		That hurt?  I didn't think you had any balls.
yamamoto		The submarines will be reaching the harbor soon.  I hope they don't set off the alarm too soon.
watch officer		Captain, lookouts report a sighting, two points off the starboard beam.
selfridge captain		How big?
sonar operator		...I've lost it.
selfridge captain		Probably a blackfish.  I've seen them look like subs.
duty officer		Sir, Selfridge reports a contact, then lost it.  Now our sonar reports the contact.
intercom		Sir, the Squadron Commander on Selfridge denies permission.
intercom		Denies, Sir.  He says it's a blackfish.
rafe		How come you're not pukin'?
danny		I guess I'm used to it.  I've felt like throwing up every minute since you got back.
danny		Don't blame her, Rafe.  It's not like you're thinking.
rafe		 Fuck you.
danny		She loves you.  I know that.  And part of what she loves in me is how much of you she sees in me.
danny		We were both torn up.  I started dropping by to see her, because we understood what each other felt.  We'd have coffee and try not to talk about you, but we always would.
danny		She said I was so much like you.  I said, No, I'm not.  I'm like I am because of you, but I'm not you, not as good as you. Everybody else saw me as a loser with a big chip on his shoulder.  But you saw the better part of me, the part of me that could be like you, and changed me. You made me who I am.
rafe		How sweet.  Is that when you put the move on her?
rafe		That's better.
sub commander		Prepare to launch midget sub.
lookout		Captain, do you see that, in our wake?
officer		Could it be one of ours?
ellis		Time to shut her down.  That was a good first session.  You'll get the hang of this new radar soon.
private		Thank you, Sir.  Hey...what's this?
ellis		I've never seen anything like that before.
officer		Watch command... Coming from which direction?... Hold on.
officer		Radar station has picked up a cloud of blips, coming in from the northeast.
commander		KGMB is on early.  That means we've got a flight of B-17's coming in from the mainland, they use the radio music for a homing beacon.
ellis		All right, Sir.  They say don't worry about it.
yamamoto		We have achieved surprise, but their carriers are not in port.  I don't like this.
genda		We have a fighter screen up, in case we are attacked, Admiral.
yamamoto		We must go ahead.  This is our moment.
lieutenant		Admiral, one of our destroyers reports sinking a sub on its way into Pearl.
admiral kimmel		Relay that to Washington...and cancel my golf game.
admiral kimmel		Any response from Washington?
kimmel's aide		Nothing, Sir.
sailor 1		Look at that.
sailor 2		It's the Army again, practicing on us.
sailor 2		Practice torpedoes.
sailor 2		Now listen, you'll hear a little thud when it hits the side of the ship.
sailor		Shit!  I'll get some ammo!
intercom		Battle stations!  Battle stations!  This is not a drill!
bloody officer		Boy!  We need stretcher bearers on the bridge!
evelyn		Oh my God... EVERYBODY TO THE HOSPITAL!
evelyn		Get everything out!  Bandages, sutures -- oh God, the men in traction... Come with me!
evelyn		Cut them down, and take cover!!  Hurry!
red		Th-th-th-th-th-
red		Th-th-th-th-Dammit!  Th-th-th-
red		 The Jaaaps!!  The Jaaaps!!
billy		Goddamn Japs!
anthony		Billy!
rafe		Get me into a plane!
danny		Come on!
rafe		You're making a phone call?!
danny		 This is Walker!  We're under attack!  Get those planes fueled and armed RIGHT NOW!
anthony		They got Billy.
danny		Come with us!
rafe		Where are we going?
danny		Auxiliary field at Haleiwa, ten miles north of here.
rafe		What's there?
danny		Six P-40's.
panicked sailor		The water's rising!  It's coming up, we're all gonna drown!
terrified sailor		Get me out!  Get me out!
terrified sailor		MY FOOT'S CAUGHT!
earl		Sum-bitch!
danny		They ready, Earl?
earl		They'll all fly, but -- oh, shit...
danny		Cover!
earl		You absolute mother-fuckin' son of a bitch!  You shot one of my planes!
danny		This ain't a little feud, Earl, it's World War Two!
rafe		They're coming around for another pass. You got extra weapons and ammo?
earl		Cock-suckin' right I do!!  In the gun lockers!
danny		You guys get those!  Earl, Rafe, come with me!
rafe		Danny, over there!  We're in a canyon, they'll come straight down it, we'll get 'em in a crossfire.
red		D-don't like it when we fight back, do ya!
danny		Earl!  You said the planes were ready but -- but what?
earl		Of the four left, only one is full of fuel.
rafe		Will the others get into the air?
earl		Danny, I don't like this fuckin' guy.
danny		Anthony, Red, stay with the guns!  Coma, you cover the cannons!  Joe, Theo, come with us!  Earl, you get on the radio! We're gonna fight these fuckers.
joe		How do we do it?
danny		Your call, Rafe.
rafe		Get rolling as fast as you can.  Stay low!  We'll use the topography to separate them and then we can take 'em one on one.
danny		It's tight.
rafe		Tighter 'n a bulls ass in fly season. Don't hit the barn.
earl		I see six...seven...eight of the cocksuckers!  Don't let 'em hurt my planes.
danny		They're all over us!
rafe		Bet they don't dust crops in Japan.
rafe		Danny!  Let's play some chicken!
earl		Oh shit, oh shit...
rafe		You hear my okay?
danny		Yeah.  So you can call me if you need help.
rafe		I got a half a tank.  You?
danny		Little less.
rafe		They're in strafing formation, we'll blow right through their line.
rafe		Land of the free.
danny		Home of the brave.
rafe		They're trying to hold formation.  We can chew 'em up!
japanese bombardier		West Virginia... Oklahoma... Ah, Arizona.
evelyn		Put criticals in ward one, stables in two!  Barbara!  Fill every syringe you can find with stimulant and antibiotic --
medic		Where are the doctors?
evelyn		On the third tee.
sandra		Evelyn!  Where's the morphine?
rafe		Ain't no time for spectatin'!
rafe		I'm out of ammo!
danny		I'm out of fuel!
genda		Second attack wave is in the air.
disc jockey		All Army, Navy, and Marine personnel to report to duty.
general short		Mobilize everything!  We're at war!  Send a message to Washington:  Hostilities with Japan commenced with an air raid on Pearl Harbor.
hopkins		Oval Room... Yes, he is.  It's Knox, Mr. President.
roosevelt		 Yes?
roosevelt		The Japanese have attacked Pearl Harbor.
hopkins		My God.  Do we have damage estimates?
roosevelt		Our Pacific Fleet, at anchor, unprepared? It's terrible.  It has to be.  And it's not over.
danny		We need ammo too!
earl		Strip it from the wrecks!
earl		Who the fuck taught you to fly?
danny		He did.
shimazaki		Second wave, deploy over the military bases.  High level bombers to the air stations, dive bombers attack ships in harbor.  Fighters strafe and cover.
officer		Grab a dinghy and get ammo from the base ammo storeroom.
gunnery sergeant		We need weapons and ammo!
supply sergeant		You need authorization.
gunnery sergeant		The fuck I do!
sandra		I can't tell who's gotten morphine and who hasn't!
evelyn		Take a grease pencil and mark an M on the forehead of everyone you stick.
evelyn		Don't look for a vein, just poke.
sandra		My pen's dry!
evelyn		Use lipstick.  Use ammo belts for tourniquets, use your own nylons if you have to!  Barbara!  Grab anything that will hold a pint of blood and sterilize it.
senior doctor		Evelyn!  You have to do the triage! They're bringing them in with trucks!
evelyn		Critical -- front ward!... Give him morphine, he can't wait...
evelyn		Take him outside and cover him; he's dead.
evelyn		She's gone too, take her --
evelyn		Go to the base hardware store and get some of those canister spray things they use for killing bugs.
orderly		Insecticide?...
evelyn		No, just the sprayers.  We'll fill them with tannic acid, it'll sterilize them and cool the burns!  GO!
evelyn		We're gonna need every bed.  If they can breathe, make 'em get up and move someplace else!
genda		We have achieved complete surprise!  The first wave is returning, the second is attacking now, and we have lost only a few planes.  We can launch a third wave, Admiral.
yamamoto		The second wave has not returned.  And we have no idea where their carriers are. What is the damage report?
communications officer		We have Commander Fuchida on the radio now, Admiral.
fuchida's voice		I am over the harbor now...
fuchida		 We have a tremendous victory.  Many ships damaged, some totally destroyed.  But the Second Wave's attack is being hindered by the smoke.
yamamoto		The more we attack, the harder it is to find targets.  And we no longer have surprise.
genda		If we launch the third wave and annihilate their fuel depots, we destroy their ability to operate in the Pacific for at least a year!
yamamoto		And if we fail, and lose our carriers, we destroy our ability to fight them at all.  As soon as the second wave returns, we will withdraw.
conscious soldier		Sarge?!  Where are you, Sarge?
medic		We've got two more over here!
short		I want lookouts and sentries everywhere, with orders to shoot first and ask questions later.
colonel		You think an invasion possible, General?
short		After this morning, we better not consider anything impossible.
short		From Washington.  "Intelligence reports an ultimatum from Japan to be given precisely at one p.m.  Washington time. Just what significance the hour set may have we do not know, but be on alert accordingly."
captain		Well, son, we won't worry about the dinghy today.
rafe		How can we help?
rafe		What else can we do?
evelyn		There's nothing you can do here, they'll die or they won't, we just --
evelyn		There was a sailor, a black man on the West Virginia, named Dorie Miller.  I'd like to know if he's alive.
danny		Where is the West Virginia?
officer		There.
danny		We're looking for Dorie Miller.
dorie		That's me, Sir.
rafe		A friend of ours wanted to be sure you're alive.  Evelyn.  A nurse.
dorie		How is she?
danny		Like we all are.
dorie		There's something out there I need to get.  Will you help me?
dorie		The Arizona.  Hold the dinghy steady, so it doesn't bust open.
sailor		What's that?
sailor flashlight		Just hand on.  They'll find us.
sailor		How do you know?
sailor flashlight		Because we would find them.
sailor flashlight		Breathe easy.  Stay calm.
sailor		You hear something?
sailor		It's letting out air, and letting in water!
roosevelt		Yesterday, December 7, 1941 -- a date which will live in infamy -- the United States of American was suddenly and deliberately attacked by naval and air forces of the Empire of Japan.
roosevelt		The distance of Hawaii from Japan makes it obvious that the attacks was planned many days or even weeks ago.  During the intervening time the Japanese Government has deliberately sought to deceive the United States by false statements and expressions of hope for continued peace.
roosevelt		...I regret to tell you that many American lives have been lost.
roosevelt		Yesterday the Japanese Government also launched an attack against Malaya.  Last night Japanese forces attacked Hong Kong... Guam...
roosevelt		...the Philippine Islands... Wake Island... And this morning the Japanese attacked Midway Island.
roosevelt		The facts speak for themselves.  With confidence in our armed forces -- with the unbounding determination of our people -- we will gain the inevitable triumph -- so help us God.  I ask that the Congress declare that since the unprovoked and dastardly attack by Japan on Sunday, December 7, 1941, a state of war --
roosevelt's voice		War...war...war...
roosevelt		Gentlemen, the crisis we face is not the fact that our enemies believe they can defeat us -- it's the fact that our people believe it too.  I want a plan -- a workable plan -- to hit the heart of Japan, to bomb them the way they have bombed us.
admiral		Mr. President, Pearl Harbor caught us because we didn't face facts.  This isn't a time for ignoring them again.  There are no planes in the entire American arsenal capable of covering the distance to Japan from any land base we control while carrying enough bombs to do any damage whatsoever.
general marshall		He's right, Mr. President.  The Army has long range bombers, but no place to launch them from.  Midway's too far, China is overrun by Japanese forces, and Russia refuses to go to war with Japan and won't allow us to launch a raid from there.
admiral		The navy's planes are small, carry light loads, and have short range.  We would have to get them within a few hundred miles of Japan, and therefore risk our carriers.  And if we lose our carriers, we have no shield against invasion.
roosevelt		What if the Japanese did invade?
general marshall		We've done studies.  We're confident we would turn them back eventually...after they'd gotten as far as Chicago.
admiral		Mr. President...with all respect...what you are asking can't be done.
roosevelt		Do not tell me...it can't be done.
minister		...Where is God in this?  Our enemies believe a divine wind protects them.  We see our friends laid out before us, and find it hard to believe in anything at all.
minister		Though we cannot understand why our friends should die while we live, we can affirm our truest selves in our belief that any God worth divinity would choose both justice and mercy, and would take these fallen brothers and sisters into eternal peace.  Amen.
evelyn		Rafe --
rafe		I need to tell you something.  I didn't know what it was to lose somebody, to see death and find how much it scares you. That you haven't lived and loved enough. I didn't understand.  Forgive me.
evelyn		Rafe... No.  You forgive me.
rafe		Of course I forgive you.  I know what you feel for Danny is real.  And your choice is your choice.
evelyn		That's what I have to tell you, Rafe.  It wasn't a choice.  It --
major		Lieutenant Rafe McCawley?
rafe		Yes, Major.
major		Lieutenant Daniel Walker here too?
danny		I'm Walker.
major		You're going Stateside.  We fly out in half an hour.
rafe		What for, Sir?
major		Ask Colonel Doolittle.  Those orders are from him.
danny		I told her not to come.
danny		This hasn't been easy for any of us.  I feel awful for how it's happened.  But I've seen my first spring too.  Thanks for knowing that's true.
doolittle		I heard what you did.
rafe		We can explain, Colonel.
doolittle		Explain what?
danny		Whatever is was you heard about us.
doolittle		You mean the hula shirts you were flying in?... Or the six planes you shot down? You're both being awarded the Silver Star, and promoted to captain.
rafe		Is that the good new, Sir, or --
doolittle		You're just about the only pilots in the Army with actual combat experience, so you're volunteering for a mission I've been ordered to put together.  Do you know what top secret is?
rafe		Well sure, Colonel --
doolittle		Top secret means you help me pick the other pilots, train, and go -- without knowing where you're going until it's too late.
danny		You can count on us.
doolittle		There's only one other thing I can tell you.
doolittle		You won't need any goddamn hula shirts.
voice		Attention!
doolittle		Be seated.  The mission you've volunteered for is dangerous.  How dangerous?  Look at the man beside you. It's a good bet that six weeks from now, either you or he will be dead.
danny		Sorry you're gonna die -- cause I'm gonna make it.
rafe		What color flowers you want me to bring to your funeral?
doolittle		In flight school you qualified in single and in multi-engine planes.  You'll be flying multi-engines here.
rafe		 Bombers.
doolittle		I want to introduce a couple of people. Doc White is a flight surgeon; he has volunteered for gunnery training so that he can go on the mission, because we can't spare the weight of an extra man.
danny		 A long range bomber mission.
doolittle		...And Ross Greening, who will oversee your equipment.  Any questions?
danny		Who'll be the first one in, Colonel?  I'd like to volunt --
doolittle		I thought I'd made it clear, I'm not just putting this mission together -- I'm leading it myself.
rafe		I take it back, about the flowers.  We're all gonna die.
doolittle		This is what we'll fly -- the B-25. There's one thing you have to be aware of from the very beginning.  You see that private?
doolittle		Green means go.  Red means dead.
doolittle		You're having trouble getting airborne in the shorter space because you're not revving the engines enough.  You've got to push them to the limit before you ever start to move.
doolittle		We've got to get the weight down.
greening		Okay, forty pounds gone.  And in it's place, this.
greening		Weight, 3 ounces.  Cost, 20 cents.
doolittle		Does it work?
doolittle		Right down to the treetops.  Low as you can.
danny		Fun today.  Like old times.
rafe		Danny, what the hell are you trying to do out there?
danny		What do you mean?  I'm just doing what we've always done.
rafe		No.  You're trying to beat me.
danny		We've always tried to beat each other.
rafe		Bullshit.  We've played with each other, pushed each other.  This is different. Like you want to prove that you're better than me.  Who's that for -- Evelyn?
danny		Maybe just trying to measure up.
rafe		What's between you and her is between you and her.  But here's what's between you and me.  Everybody has a hero, Danny. And you're mine.
rafe		When we were growing up, I had everything.  You had nothing.  You climbed out of a hole I couldn't even see the bottom of.  I think maybe when I went off to England, I was trying to measure up to you.  Measuring up's over.  Let's just look out for each other.  Okay?
roosevelt's voice		Good evening, America...
roosevelt's voice		I'm told that 80% of American families are listening to these fireside chats of ours, and I'm happy we can come together, as one great American family.  I'd like each of you within the sound of my voice to find a map...
roosevelt's voice		Look at the Pacific Ocean.  It covers half the surface of the earth.  And look at the great Atlantic.  The oceans both divide and connect us to our enemies, and either they will come to us, or we will go to them...
red		N-naval station?  What's g-going on?
rafe		Wish I knew, Red.
doolittle		Want to see where they're going?
anthony		I guess that settles it.  Somewhere in the Pacific.
red		With a s-short r-runway.
doolittle		You have rooms at the Biltmore.  I suggest a nice meal and a good night's sleep.  We leave tomorrow.
anthony		San Francisco, here we are!
danny		 I don't reckon we can get hogbrains and grits, but I hear a man can eat good in this town.
rafe		I'm gonna turn in.  I hate being on the water.  I think this is the last sleep I'll get for awhile.
rafe		McCawley.
manager		Have fun.
rafe		What?...
evelyn		They were bringing back a ship full of wounded and needed extra nurses along.  I wrote Colonel Doolittle, and told him I needed to see you before you go.
rafe		It must of been a convincing letter.
evelyn		It was.  I couldn't have you go away, wherever it is...to war...without knowing something.  You think I made a choice, of Danny over you.  I didn't.  I didn't have a choice.  I'm pregnant.
rafe		Does Danny know?
evelyn		I wasn't sure, until the day you turned up alive.  I never had a chance to tell him.  Now I can't have him thinking about this when he needs to be thinking about his mission, and how to come back from it.
evelyn		I want you thinking about that too.  Just come back.  Rafe, I see it in your face.  You're thinking you don't have anything to live for.  Don't you dare think that way. I'll never write a letter, or look at a sunset, without thinking of you.  I'll love you my whole life.  And I want you to live.
ship's intercom		Army pilots to the briefing room.
doolittle		Gentlemen, I can now tell you that the target of this mission is Tokyo.
red		And where's the secret base, Sir?  The one we t-takeoff from.
doolittle		The navy will get us to within 400 miles of the Japanese coast.  We'll launch off the carriers from there.
anthony		Sir, has this ever been done, launching an army bomber off a navy carrier?
doolittle		No.  Any other questions?
red		C-Colonel, we been p-practicing takeoff's, but I ain't sure we can land on these carriers d-decks.
doolittle		We won't have the fuel to get back to the carriers; they'll turn and run back to Hawaii the minute we're airborne.
red		Then wh-where do we land?
doolittle		I have a phrase I want you all to memorize:  "Lushu hoo megwa fugi."  It means "I am an American."  In Chinese.
red		A-a-asshole!... Maybe it's l-longer going this way.
danny		It's shorter than our practice runway.
rafe		They'll turn the ship into the wind before we launch.  That'll help.
danny		We'll be loaded with 2,000 pounds of bombs and 1,500 pounds of fuel.  I got another Chinese phrase for Doolittle. "Mug wump rickshaw mushu pork."  It means "Who the fuck thought up this shit?"
doolittle		He was a navy man.
rafe		Maybe we'll be lucky with the weather.
doolittle		Since we'll be on our own once we're in the air, I thought I had a good idea letting each crew select it's own target.
doolittle		Now we have fifteen requests for the Emperor's Palace...and one for Tokyo baseball stadium.
red		I d-don't think Japs ought'a be allowed to p-play baseball.
doolittle		I'd like to bomb their Emperor too.  But I think that'd just piss 'em off.  The idea here, Gentlemen, is not revenge. We're here to prove to them that they're neither invincible nor superior.  So let's try this again.  Military targets only.
red		Colonel, to f-fight you need strategy. To have strategy, ya gotta practice.  And to practice it, ya gotta play --
doolittle		No baseball diamonds, Red.
red		Y-Yes Sir.
admiral		The Enterprise will ride shotgun when we launch the bombers.  They wanted our carriers at Pearl, and now we've come to them.  If the Japanese get us, they'll be having dinner in San Francisco next month.
rafe		It's not getting any longer.
danny		Longer?  It's getting shorter.
doolittle		We'll take off late this afternoon.  I'll hit Tokyo at dusk, and drop incendiary bombs.  You'll come after me at night, guided by the fires.  Then it's on to China, where you'll arrive at dawn, guided to their airfields by the homing beacons the Chinese are going to switch on for us.  That's if everything is perfect -- like every other military mission I've ever been involved with.
doolittle		Listen you guys.  I'm the first plane -- then McCawley, Walker, the rest of you. I'll have the shortest run.  If I don't make it, you don't go.
rafe		Colonel...we're all going.  Whether you make it or not.
doolittle		I know.
officer		Sir, lookouts on the cruisers report patrol boats, ten miles away!
halsey		The Japs have set up a picket line! Order the cruisers to open fire!  We've got to sink them before they get a message away.
radio operator		They've reported our position!  Tell the Admiral.
doolittle		How far are we from Tokyo?
admiral		Seven hundred miles.
loudspeaker		Army pilots, man your planes!
doolittle		Load in every bit of extra gas you can carry!  And strip everything you don't need out of the planes.  I mean EVERYTHING!
danny		Broomsticks instead of tail guns.
rafe		We'll get separated over the target, but you and I will rendezvous for the run to China.  I'm on your wing.
danny		And I'm on yours.  Land of the free.
rafe		Home of the Brave.
halsey		Of all the other things this mission is doing that have never been done before... I've never sent out planes that I wasn't going to see safely home.  Let's get out of here.
rafe		What's our ETA for Tokyo?
navigator		Almost exactly at 12 noon.
red		High n-noon.  I k-kinda like that.
danny		We got a 25-mile-an-hour head wind.  How we doing with fuel?
gunner		How do you think?
doolittle's navigator		Time for the others to break off.
supervisor		From the sea?... That couldn't be right, it must be part of the air raid practice this morning.
coma		Listen to this -- it's Tokyo Rose.
anthony		We'll give that bitch something to announce.
japanese mother		Yes!  So beautiful!
rafe		Open bomb bay doors.
gunner		Bomb bay doors open, sir.
rafe		It's all yours.
emperor's attendant		Surely just a drill, Divine One.
navigator		Last bomb away.
gunner		We got Zeros!  And they're pissed off!
rafe		Can you get 'em off us?
red		Whatta ya want me to do, sweep 'em!
rafe		Danny, get the hell out of here!
rafe		Danny, run for the clouds!
rafe		We burned a lot of fuel back there. Flash them and ask about their supply.
anthony		"How's your fuel?"
general marshall		We have bombed Tokyo, Mr. President. Radio Tokyo interrupted it's own broadcast to make the announcement.
roosevelt		Have the planes made it to China?
general marshall		There've been some complications, Sir. The Chinese didn't receive our request for homing beacons until is was too late to get them set.  And the planes had to take off so early they may lack fuel to make the mainland anyway.
roosevelt		So those brave men are flying blind and running out of fuel.
general marshall		The Chinese are sending out search parties to try to find the crews before the Jap patrols do, if any of the planes make it.
roosevelt		God help them.
doolittle		We'll fly till we run out of fuel, then bail out.
doolittle		Chute!
doolittle		Nobody else is gonna make it either.  If I live through this, they're gonna put me in Leavenworth Prison.
coma		We're running out of fuel.  And I can't find the beacon.
rafe		I don't know if we're over sea or land. Drop flares and try to spot something.
danny		Flash Rafe.  We're gonna bail.
red		They've gotta jump.
rafe		Not unless we know he's over land!
rafe		You are not bailing out into water!
rafe's navigator		Coastline below!
rafe		We've got coast!  Signal him to climb and jump.
red		They don't have fuel to make altitude. He's gonna set it down in the water.
red		Y-O-U... G-O.  You go on.
rafe		N-O!  We stay together!  I'll go in first.
rafe		Hang on tight!  I'll put her in the smooth water and we'll swim in!
rafe		It won't open til the plane fills!
rafe		Danny!  DANNY!
danny		I've made better landings.
rafe		You hang on, Danny!  You hang on!  You're gonna make it!
rafe		Danny...
danny		I can't make it.
rafe		Yes you can.
danny		Take care of Evelyn.
rafe		I will.  And your baby.  You're gonna be a father.
danny		No.  You are.
rafe		Danny... Land of the free... Land of the free...
voice over		The Doolittle Raid was the pivotal moment of America's war with Japan.  Before it, America knew nothing but defeat; after it, nothing but victory.  One crew of Doolittle's raiders made it to Vladivostok, Russia, where they were interred for much of the war.  Thirteen planes crash landed in China, where the Chinese people helped the Americans escape, and had their villages destroyed and citizens executed by the Japanese forces of occupation.  Two crews were captured by the Japanese and three fliers were executed without trial, called "war criminals" by the Japanese.  Jimmy Doolittle was promoted to General, and given the medal of honor.
****Dialogues from script :Peeping_Tom.txt****

peeping tom		 Screenplay by Leo Marks
shooting draft, 1959		 Copyright, 1959, Michael Powell   Copyright, 1959 1988 & 1998 Leo Marks
dora		It'll be two quid...
man		Hey, you peeping...
small man		What paper are you from?
mark		I beg your pardon?
small man		What paper are you from?
mark		The Observer.
mark		Sorry, sir.
mark		Those with girls on the front covers - and no front covers on the girls.
elderly gentleman		The Times, please.
elderly gentleman		And The Telegraph.
elderly gentleman		I... er... have been told by a friend that you... er... have some views for sale?
elderly gentleman		Well, er...
elderly gentleman		I, er... how much each?
elderly gentleman		I'll take this one... and, er... this one... and, er... how much would the lot be?
elderly gentleman		Well, er... thank you very much.
elderly gentleman		Oh no! But I'll look in again...
mark		The Louvre.
mark		Thank you, sir.
mark		Buy cameras.
milly		Well look who's here! Cecil Beaton!
milly		Come on, sonny... make us famous.
milly		can you fix it so the bruises don't show?
milly		Well, can you?
mark		...think so, Milly.
milly		Then be quick about it, sonny! I'm freezing.
milly		There he goes again! What have you got under there? A girlfriend?
milly		I suppose you have a girlfriend?
mark		No, Milly.
milly		Hear that, Lorraine? He's available.
mark		Raise your head, please - and look at the sea.
milly		What sea?
mark		I just wanted that puzzled look.
milly		You're a puzzle and a half.
milly		This is a spare time job for you, isn't it?
mark		Yes, Milly.
milly		Well, what do you do for a living?
mark		Take pictures.
milly		This sort?
mark		No, Milly.
milly		Don't you like this sort?
mark		No, Milly.
milly		Well what sort do you like?
mark		I may show you - one day.
milly		That'll be a treat, I'm sure.
mark		That's all, Milly.
milly		Oh no, sonny! Now take one I can show my mother.
mark		Think of her then.
milly		Some house! Hope it falls on his ruddy earhole!
milly		It's your turn now, love...
milly		Come on, love. Don't be shy.
lorraine		He said... you needn't photograph my face!
mark		I want to.
lorraine		I suppose you'll fix my bruises too?
mark		I want to...
milly		What about the customers?
mark		You needn't be shy... of me... it's my first time too.
lorraine		Yours?
mark		In front of eyes... like...
mark		...eyes... as full of...
mark		Lorraine - let my camera tell you.
young people		 Happy birthday to you, Happy birthday to you,
tony		Happy birthday... dear Helen
tony		happy birthday to you.
young people		Twenty-one today, She's twenty-one today, She's got the key of the door, She's never been twenty-one before.
tony		May I?
young man		Look!
helen		I'll ask him in...
helen		I don't know how many times we've passed each other on the stairs?
helen		... but tonight I'm determined at least to say hello to you! So hello!
helen		I'm Helen Stephens.
helen		I'm having a party - and the other tenants are there...  And a few friends. We'd like you to join us.
mark		Mark...
helen		Pardon?
mark		I'm Mark...
helen		Hallo, Mark.
helen		Please come in... you'll meet the others who live here, and...
mark		Thank you, but... work.
helen		Oh...
helen		Well, I hope to keep it going for hours yet... so when you've finished why not look in?
helen		...Mark?
tony		Darling, your cake - everyone's waiting.
mark		Thank you.
mark		Happy Birthday.
helen		I hope I'm not disturbing you?
helen		I knew you wouldn't come down... so I've brought you this.
mark		Thank you...
mark		... very much...
helen		I mustn't keep you from your work
mark		I'd like to offer you a drink.
helen		Thank you, Mark.
mark		I haven't one.
helen		I'd adore some water.
helen		a hostess can't drink water at her own party, it looks like a hint to the guests.
mark		Will you... would you... like to come in?
helen		Yes, Mark...
helen		Very much... if you can spare it?
helen		Thank you, Mark...
helen		This is a pleasant room... and you've another inside?
mark		Yes.
helen		How long have you lived here?
mark		All my life.
mark		I was born in this house Oh?
mark		It's my father's.
helen		Do you mean I've at last found out who our landlord is? Your father?
mark		Well - no... he's dead!
mark		I'm the landlord.
helen		YOU?
mark		Yes.
helen		But you walk about as if you haven't paid the rent.
mark		I haven't.
helen		I meant...
mark		I know.
mark		It's his house - and I'll never sell it... but I can't afford the upkeep, so I let rooms.
mark		... if I charge too much, tell me and I'll tell the agents.
helen		The rent's very reasonable, but don't say anything to the others or you'll have no peace.
mark		Peace...?
helen		Mark, what do you do?
mark		 Most of the time, I work in a film studio.
helen		On the photographic side, I'll bet.
mark		I hope to be a film director... very soon.
helen		How exciting.
mark		I have some spare time jobs... as well.
helen		To do with photography?
mark		More milk?
helen		No thank you... to do with photography?
mark		Yes... to do with photography...
helen		When I came in were you looking at some films?
mark		Yes.
helen		Of yours?
mark		Yes.
helen		I'd like to see them...
helen		Know I'm being rude... but I really would like to see them...  ...it would be a birthday present... from you to me.
mark		Would it?
helen		Yes, Mark.
mark		Oh...
helen		But I suppose you're too busy?
mark		Will you... would you... like to see them now?
helen		Thank you...
mark		I'll... go first.
helen		This is so... well - so many things... but above all - it's so...
helen		...completely unexpected!
helen		Is all of it yours?
mark		Yes.
helen		I mean... is it designed by you? Furnished by you? Tell me about this room.
mark		It belonged to my father
helen		What was he?
mark		Scientist...
helen		Then this equipment was his?
mark		No...
mark		Sold his to buy it...
helen		But it seems to be so... technical.
helen		If this is where you work, I can't wait to see what you work at.
mark		Don't know what to show you?
helen		Well... what were you looking at when I interrupted you?
mark		All right!
mark		This is the first... twenty-first birthday present... I'll ever have given.
helen		It's the first I've ever asked for...
helen		Mark, what a beautiful child.
helen		Who is he?
mark		Me
helen		Of course it is!  Then who took this film?
mark		 My Father.
helen		What a wonderful idea...
helen		You'll be able to show it to your own chi...
helen		You must have had a bad dream...
helen		...but what was that light?  ...The camera, I suppose?
helen		Whatever are you after?
helen		Naughty boy I hope you were spanked!
helen		... but, Mark... what a strange thing for your father to photograph.
mark		Switch off?
helen		No.
helen		No.
tony		Me, Mrs. Stephens?
helen		I hate people who chatter in films - but there's so much I want to ask.
helen		 Again?
helen		Mark, this isn't some kind of jo...
mark		 No, Helen.
helen		Mark, whatever is that?
helen		What are you...
mark		wanted to photograph you... watching...
helen		No, Mark!
helen		No!
helen		help me to understand this... this nightmare...
helen		All right... now look... Mark - what was all that about?
helen		... that was a lizard, wasn't it? Or a...
mark		Liz...
helen		Well how did it get there?... How did it get there Mark?...  Was it a pet?
mark		Not mine...
helen		Won't you try to explain?
mark		You'd better go!
helen		I like to understand what I'm shown!
helen		What was your father trying to do?... Photographing you at nigh...
mark		better go...
helen		Mark... what is this?
mark		I am saying... goodbye... my mother...
helen		 He... photographed... that...?
mark		Yes.
mark		...and this!
mark		...her funeral!
mark		...and this!
mark		...her burial!
mark		...and this!
helen		Mark, who is that?
mark		Her successor.
helen		Suc-?
mark		He married her... six weeks after... the previous sequence.
mark		She filmed... what comes now.
helen		Is that your father?
mark		The morning that he left for his honeymoon.
helen		What is he doing?
mark		Giving me a present...
helen		What was it?
mark		Can't you guess?
helen		Switch it off!
helen		Switch it off, Mark!
helen		So he was a scientist?
helen		What kind of scientist, Mark?
mark		Biologist.
helen		What was he trying to do to you?
helen		Mark!...
helen		What was he trying to do to you?
mark		Watch me... grow up...
mark		He wanted a record of a growing child... complete in every detail - if such a thing were possible - and he tried to make it possible by training a camera on me... at all times...
mark		I never knew... the whole of my childhood... one moment's privacy...
helen		And those lights in your eyes?... and that - thing?
mark		He was interested ... in the reactions of the nervous system... to fear...  Fear?
helen		Fear?
mark		Fear.
mark		I think he learned a lot... from me... I'd wake up... screaming... sometimes... and he'd be there... taking notes... and pictures... and I'm sure good came of it... for some people... He was brilliant.
helen		A scientist drops a lizard onto a child's bed - and good comes of it?
mark		I don't know... if he did... but if he did... he'll have learned something of value...
helen		If only about lizards!  Mark - it sounds to me as if your father was...
mark		He founded clinics.
helen		He sounds completely...
mark		He was famous! Professor A. N. Lewis... three clinics.
helen		Why do you still live in his house... and watch his films?
mark		They helped make me... what I am.
helen		A photographer? It's no wonder, is it? But you still haven't shown me anything you've photographed!
helen		Will you?
mark		One day...
tony		Excuse me, but...
tony		Oh, there you are, Helen.
tony		The party looks like breaking up, and we were wondering if...
helen		I'm coming.
helen		I wish you'd join us.
mark		Thanks... work.
helen		I hope that you...
helen		... have a sweet tooth!
helen		Thank you... for my present.
tony		Good night, old boy.
baden		OK. Print that one!
assistant director		All right, everyone! Back at two!
vivian		Mark?
mark		Hallo...
vivian		Were you spotted?
mark		Don't think so.
vivian		 Is it tonight?
mark		Yes.
vivian		Mark...
mark		Yes?
vivian		You're sure we won't be caught?
mark		Not if you do as I tell you.
vivian		I will, I promise.
mark		You haven't... said anything... to anyone?
vivian		Of course not.
mark		Good... like some cake?
vivian		Thank you.
vivian		Mark... I want to be quite clear about this...
vivian		Tonight, when the studio's empty... I'm to come back-and you're going to give me a film test... right?
mark		Right.
vivian		You'll then print the film - so I can show it to my agent and anyone else who matters - right?
mark		Right.
vivian		Mark...
vivian		I've been offered film tests before... but I haven't liked the terms.
mark		There aren't any.
vivian		Then why are you doing this? Risking your job and...
mark		Not just for you... Viv... I have an agent too - and I want to show him what I can do... I want to direct...
vivian		 There's someone coming.
extra		Hallo - lousy morning's work, wasn't it?
vivian		Yes.
extra		Thought I saw you talking to somebody...
vivian		I was learning my lines.
extra		Didn't know you had any...
extra		Want a drink? Dutch?
vivian		Later... perhaps.
extra		Be seeing you
vivian		Mark...
mark		Yes?
vivian		 You didn't mind me asking?
mark		No, more cake?
vivian		No... you want to direct... more badly than anything don't you?
vivian		Don't you, Mark?
mark		I want... to photograph... the impossible...
vivian		What is impossible?
mark		Something... that has never been photographed before.
vivian		What?
mark		You really want to know...?
vivian		Very much, especially if there's a part for me.
mark		I want... to photograph a murder... while it's being committed.
vivian		No part for me then.
mark		But that... isn't enough.
vivian		Is this a new script?
mark		I want... to frighten... someone... to death... and photograph... their expression of fear...
vivian		Mark! What's this story called?
mark		That is something... he never photographed...
vivian		Who?
vivian		Who is he, Mark?
mark		Anyone.
vivian		No one could... they'd be caught!
mark		I wouldn't care... if I had my picture.
vivian		Besides, how would you frighten anyone to death?
mark		There's a way.
vivian		Well, what?
mark		There's a way.
vivian		You'd better not tell me! I'll be scared to death tonight as it is!
vivian		Back on the set - shall I go first?
mark		Please.
vivian		What are you doing?
mark		Getting into practice.
vivian		See you tonight!
mark		See you tonight!
baden		Would you enquire if our leading lady is ready to start leading.
diane		How are you, Sparks? Chippy? Bob?
voices		Hallo, Diane...
diane		How are you, Tom? Roger?
voices		Hallo, Diane...
diane		How are you, Phil?... Mark?
mark		Hallo, Miss Ashley.
diane		 How are you, Pete...?
voice		Hi, Di!
baden		Darling, you've only been playing this part for three weeks, so in case you haven't yet had a chance to read the script...
baden		... may I remind you that you're a girl with an irresistible impulse!
baden		a kleptomaniac! Who cannot help stealing... Get inside her, Diane!... What - in all the world - do you most want to steal?
diane		The limelight!
baden		We'll run the scene where you catch sight of the store detective and faint... Where's the girl who plays the bystander?
baden		How are you?
vivian		Hallo, Diane...
baden		Hit that floor with a thud!
jarvis		But is it commercial?
jarvis		Are those budgets ready? Well bring 'em in.
jarvis		There's an error!  The total should be a hundred and fifty thousand pounds fourteen shillings and sixpence - not thirteen and ninepence... That could mean the difference between profit and loss on a first feature!
miss simpson		Sorry, D.J.
jarvis		Any units working late tonight?
miss simpson		Only one, sir. Night exteriors on the lot. The Elephant with two...
jarvis		That animal needs a stick of dynamite!
jarvis		Remind me to pay them a visit tonight.
miss simpson		Yes, D.J.
jarvis		Now, Miss Simpson... take a memo to all department heads...
baden		Again, please... and, darling...
baden		... just this once... will you please make an effort to forget that you're stunning, and try to look as if you're stunned...?
diane		Say one kind word - and I would be!
assistant		 Positions, everyone!
diane		If I have to faint once more I shall faint!
baden		Cut! How was that?...  Mark?
baden		Print it!
assistant		That's it, boys and girls . . . wrap it up! Night-night everyone! Baden puts his arm round Diane's shoulder.
baden		How are you, darling?
clapper boy		Catching the bus?
mark		Not tonight... meeting someone... for a drink.
clapper boy		Wanted to discuss the film at the Everyman... Tomorrow then?
mark		I hope so.
clapper boy		Good night, Mark.
mark		Good night.
extra		Greetings... lousy afternoon's work, wasn't it? Who wants a lift to town?
extra		colleague's car... there's room for two on my lap - three at a pinch.
vivian		No, thanks... I've a date... at the Local.
miss simpson		I'm to remind you to pay a surprise visit tonight to The Elephant with...
miss simpson		Good night, D.J.
vivian		 Mark...?
vivian		Mark...?
vivian		Mark...?
vivian		Mark!
vivian		Listen... we must...
vivian		Where are you?
vivian		You frightened me!
vivian		Now listen... they're working late on the lot.
mark		I know. They're branched off this stage - I'm using their juice.
vivian		We must call it off... someone's bound to see us.
mark		They might...  ... but they won't interrupt us while we're filming... I've put the red light on.
vivian		You've what?...
mark		Put the...
vivian		Then they'll know someone's here.
mark		They won't come in.
vivian		They'll wait outside... what's the difference?
mark		The difference is... a perfect film...
mark		... have waited... a long time... for this... and so have you ... no one... must interrupt it.
vivian		We'll be caught.
mark		What does that matter?
vivian		Matter!
mark		You stand to lose... a job as an extra... I stand to lose... nothing.
mark		...the results must be so perfect... that the risks don't count...
mark		So perfect... that even he ...  ... even he... would say...
vivian		Who Don Jarvis!?
vivian		Oh! He'd say:  Mark... if you're sure it's worth it?
mark		It's time to find out, Viv...
vivian		Come on! Get hot! 
mark		You belong there...
vivian		I do feel alone in front of it...  I suppose stars never do?
mark		They feel alone without it... 
mark		... and the great ones... feel alone... all the time...
vivian		Then I'm great, boy! What is it you want me to act? 
vivian		Being frightened to death?
mark		You remembered?
vivian		Yes - and I'll have a go!
vivian		I've been wondering all the afternoon how you'd do it!  I'll bet you've thought of a wonderful twist! 
vivian		What are you doing?
mark		Building us a set.
vivian		Why not pull the studio down while you're about it? They can only hang you once.
mark		Exactly.
vivian		If only Don Jarvis could see me now!
vivian		If only I could see Don Jarvis now!
vivian		I warn you, Mark - I'm hysterical... I'd rather act dying of laughter, if it's all the same to you...
vivian		 What are you doing?
mark		Be patient, Viv... it's going to be worth it.
vivian		Oh well! I've stood alone in front of a studio camera! That's more than most have.
mark		Ever stood... behind one?
vivian		No.
mark		Help yourself.
vivian		 I can see you, Mark... perfectly!
mark		Good...
vivian		Yes, sir! I'll bet I'm the best camerawoman in the business! . . . 
mark		I'll be back.
vivian		Welcome, stranger!
vivian		What are you doing?
mark		Photographing you photographing me...
vivian		 Mark, you're brilliant...
vivian		Lost you again!
mark		I'm ready now, Viv...
mark		Go and stand on that cross, will you?
vivian		 Yes, sir, Mr. Director, sir.
vivian		Am I supposed to imagine someone is going to put me in there?
mark		Yes, Viv...
vivian		Mark - I hope I won't let you down... I know you're trying to create atmosphere for me - but... I just don't feel frightened! Wouldn't it be better if I just did my number?
mark		 Later.
vivian		Oh all right! I could do anything - I feel so relaxed - and that's due to you... You're so at home with that camera you make me feel at home too... you have it in you, boy!
mark		Ready, Viv?
mark vivian		 Well-I'll try -
mark vivian		But what... would... frighten me to death?  Set the mood for me, Mark...
mark		Well...
mark		Imagine someone... coming towards you... who's going to kill you - regardless of consequences...
vivian		A madman?
mark		Yes - but he knows it... and you don't... and just to kill you... isn't enough for him.
vivian		But how would he frighten me to?
mark		Stay there, Viv... you're... just right.
vivian		I can't imagine what you've thought of!
jarvis		Smoking on duty!
jarvis		Come with me!
vivian		That..?
vivian		Yes... that would be frightening!
mark		But... there's something else...
vivian		Well? What is it?
vivian		 That...?
vivian		 Mark... take it...
vivian		... away!
vivian		MARK - YOU!
helen		What else can I read you?
helen		Certain.
helen		Is that your last tonight?
helen		Your last but one?
helen		 Toss me double or nothing?
helen		Bad luck, darling.
helen		The ceiling!
helen		Yes.
helen		Yes, darling.
helen		He has a quality...
helen		... and I think he could help me.
helen		Yes...
helen		Yes?
helen		 Mummy, what's worrying you?
helen		What else?
helen		Don't you like Mark?
helen		You don't like him! Now why not?
helen		He's shy!
helen		Now darling.
helen		May I?
helen		Thank you.
helen		remember that you lost the toss.
helen		Yes, darling?
helen		Done!
mark		Who is it?
mark		 Come in, Helen!
helen		Mother heard you come in - so I guessed you wouldn't be in bed ...
helen		Are you sure this is conven...
helen		Hallo, Mark...
helen		I hope you don't mind - is it a tape-recorder?
mark		Yes.
helen		I'm sure I'm being a nuisance... but, Mark, I very much want to...
mark		Happy birthday.
helen		Mark! That's very sweet of you - but really.
mark		It isn't much... I don't know anything about... presents for twenty-one... but I saw it this morning... so... please.
helen		 Thank you...
helen		It's beautiful...
mark		I like the design... More milk?
helen		More?... No, thank you, Mark... and I really appreciate this... I'm going to put it on now.
helen		There?... Or there?...
mark		The first place...
helen		I think so too!...
helen		I am keeping you.
mark		No... I promise.
helen		Mark, I'm here for some advice.
mark		From me?  Please...
helen		... I work in a public library - in the children's section... I'm telling you that to postpone admitting what always embarrasses me...
helen		In my spare time... I write.
mark		What's embar...
helen		I write stories for children... but so did Grimm... Hans Andersen... Lewis Carroll...
mark		Had any published?
helen		Some short stories.
mark		I'd like to read...
helen		I learned today... that my first book... has been accepted! ... For publication in the spring...
mark		But that's wonderful... what's it about?
helen		A magic camera - and what it photographs...
mark		Whatever made you... think of that?
helen		I'll tell you one day - I promise...
mark		Well what does it photograph?
helen		I'll tell you that too - but, Mark... this is the problem... The children who read the book will want to see the pictures the camera takes - but the publishers say they're impossible to photograph, and suggest drawings... but I don't agree.
mark		No - nothing's impossible.
helen		was hoping you'd say that! There must be photographs - however difficult to take - and I was wondering, Mark - if you'd...
mark		Oh yes.
helen		discuss it with me.
mark		take them.
helen		Mark - I can't ask you to do that...
helen		I mean... the publisher's mightn't agree.
mark		I'd take them... for you.
helen		Yes but... the money.
mark		There are some things... which I photograph... for nothing.
helen		I didn't mean to offend you.
mark		Offend?
mark		Helen... if you knew what it meant... for something to happen to me... that I don't have to make happen... it's like... you've given me a twenty-first birthday...
mark		What does your camera photograph?
helen		Mark - I must go... I just wanted to know... if you'd talk it over with me.
mark		When please?
helen		That's up to you.
mark		Helen ... I don't know much about... dinner out... but would you come with me?
helen		Thank you.
mark		Thank you.
helen		When?
mark		Oh...
helen		What's the matter?
mark		It had better be soon...
helen		Are you going away?
mark		Almost for certain! ...
helen		Oh... well you suggest when.
mark		Are you free... tomorrow night?
helen		Yes.
mark		I hope I am!
helen		I'll understand if you're not.
mark		I'll try to be - I'll try my hardest to be.
helen		Thank you for listening... and for my present.
mark		and for mine.
helen		Good night, Mark... 
mark		Good night... Helen...
man's voice		Looking for a trunk?
baden		No - no - no - we must get some comedy into this...!
baden		We'll retake it this morning...
diane		 I'll take it.
baden		I want some comedy in this scene...
baden		Instead of taking the first trunk you see, I want you, darling... to ask for a blue trunk - and when he brings it to you, to ask for a red one - and when he brings that, to ask for a white one...  And you, Michael... get the trunks one by one - growing more and more fed up - and we'll end on a gag which I'll think of in a minute - all right?
diane		I don't feel it!
baden		Don't feel it! Do it!
assistant director		 Positions, everyone!
assistant director		Anyone seen Vivian?
baden		Who?
assistant director		The red-headed bystander - Viv.
baden		 Never mind - I'm cutting her out of this scene... Let's run it.
assistant director		 Quiet, everyone!
assistant		Can I interest you in a trunk?
diane		Thank you...  I'd like to see that one...
assistant		Certainly, madam...
assistant director		It's beautifully fitted - 
diane		I'd like to see one in red.
assistant		Certainly, madam.
diane		... do you have one in white?
assistant		Certainly, madam.
baden		The silly bitch! She's fainted in the wrong scene...
sergeant miller		Excuse me, Chief.
chief inspector		Mm?
sergeant miller		We pass my house when we reach the bypass. Would you mind if I drop off for a minute?
chief inspector		 To collect your kid's autograph book?
sergeant miller		Yes, Chief!... If the nipper hears where I've been...
chief inspector		 ... and it's about time the Sergeant helped me - we're getting nowhere with this.
sergeant		What about that man the landlady passed?
chief inspector		She couldn't describe him - except to say that he was carrying something that she couldn't see.
sergeant		That's a help.
chief inspector		Sergeant, I've been on the force thirty odd years... and I have never seen such fear on anyone's face as on this girl's...  What was it she saw?
sergeant		Surely, Chief... a man coming at her - with a sharp weapon.
chief inspector		I'm familiar with that kind of terror. This is something new to me... but what?
chief inspector		...now take a look at how we found her.
assistant director		Till the police arrive... D.J.'s orders.
assistant		and when she opened that trunk... and I saw what was inside... my dears - I nearly fainted with her -  and do you know what horrified me most?
assistant director		D.J. says not to discuss it.
assistant		Any more sauce from D.J. and I shall refuse to sign for seven years! My dears... that poor girl's expression.
sergeant		 Chief, it's exactly the...
inspector		I know...  Well, sir... we shall probably have to interview everyone at the studio, so we'd better plan a campaign that won't interfere too much with your productions.
jarvis		 Thank you, Chief Inspector... if you knew what even a single day's delay could cost.
inspector		Oh, we do sir. 
jarvis		The police wish to interview each of you individually... after which you will be at liberty to leave.
jarvis		There will, of course, be no shooting today... but work will be resumed, as usual, tomorrow... with, I hope, all of you present.
jarvis		I look to you to give the police your fullest cooperation. 
sergeant miller		Well now... let's get ourselves organized...  We don't want to keep you cooped up in here, so we've worked out a timetable... We'll talk to the artists first, then the technicians in this order...
extra		...she said she didn't want a lift - because she had a call to make locally.
chief inspector		Did she say where?
extra		No, sir... and when I left, she was still in the dressing room.
chief inspector		I see... let's have a look at this dressing room, shall we?
extra		Yes, sir ...
girl		Hallo, Mark...
sergeant		Hey, I don't think you ought to do that!
mark		Sorry, sir.
inspector		 Do what?
sergeant		Make me famous. Some chap was giving me a screen test
voice		And whoever did it must be...
chief cameraman		You're next.
clapper boy		I've been watching you...
mark		Oh?
clapper boy		Have you been filming those policemen?
mark		Yes, I've a few quite interesting shots of them - it's a chance I never expected!
clapper boy		A chance for what?
mark		To photograph... an investigation... or as much of it as I can.
clapper boy		What on earth for?
mark		It will complete a documentary I'm making.
clapper boy		documentary?
clapper boy		What's it about?
mark		I'd rather not tell you till it's finished. And it soon will be ...
clapper boy		But suppose they catch you?
mark		Oh they will - they look very efficient.
clapper boy		Don't you mind?
mark		No.
clapper boy		But they might confiscate your camera.
mark		I'm afraid they will! But by then... I'll have finished with it.
clapper boy		I don't...
mark		Thanks...
clapper boy		Mark, hadn't you better leave that with me?
mark		No, John.
clapper boy		I'd look after it.
mark		I'm sure of that - but I'd like to photograph them while they're questioning me.
mark		I don't suppose they'll let me.
clapper boy		Mark, are you potty?
mark		Yes, do you think they'll notice?
clapper boy		Don't get into any trouble for heaven's sake  I want to discuss that film at the Everyman...
mark		Yes... I'd like that...
sergeant		Mark Lewis - focus-puller... Whatever that may be?
sergeant		Come in.
inspector		Mr. Lewis?
mark		Yes, sir...
inspector		I'm Chief Inspector Gregg and this is Sergeant Miller. Grab a chair.
sergeant		Ah! My photographer.
mark		I've brought the camera in case you want to take the film away.
inspector		That's all right, Mr. Lewis - as long as we don't appear at the Odeon next week in place of the cartoon.
mark		Thank you, sir.
inspector		Well now; have you anything to tell us?
mark		Don't think so, sir.
inspector		Did you know the girl?
mark		Yes, sir...
inspector		How well?
mark		Mainly by sight.
inspector		When did you see her last?
mark		Yesterday afternoon - when we broke...
inspector		Speak to her?
mark		Called out good night - don't know if she heard?
inspector		What did you do then?
mark		Took sqme shots, sir - for a film I'm making.
inspector		Oh... where?
mark		All over the place, sir... it's a documentary.
inspector		Anyone with you?
mark		No, sir. Just my camera.
inspector		What time did you arrive home, Mr. Lewis?
mark		About ten... ten-thirty...
inspector		Anyone see you?
mark		Yes... the people downstairs.
inspector		I see.
sergeant		Sergeant Miller - Right, I'll tell him...
sergeant		The doctor's finished his examin...
sergeant		...wants to see you -
inspector		Right.  That'll be all for the moment, Mr. Lewis - thank you.
mark		 Thank you, sir ...
inspector		Wait a minute.
inspector		direct me to that set of yours, will you? I'd probably end on location.
mark		I'll take you there, sir. 
inspector		Thanks.  Carry on with the interviews, Sergeant.
sergeant		Yes, sir.
clapper boy		 I warned him to be careful!
inspector		I think I can find my way now...
inspector		...thanks for the escort
doctor		...still cannot determine - but look!
inspector		Quiet, everyone.  Please...
detective		I thought I heard a putty cat!
inspector		I don't want to spoil anyone's fun, but we do have a maniac on our hands, and if we don't get him quickly there'll be a third unsolved murder to report to the Commissioner. So let's hurry things up, shall we?
detective		Sorry, Chief!
helen		she was appearing in Arthur Baden's new film The Walls Are Closing In, starring Diane Ashley.
helen		a spokesman at the studio said that her performance in the film showed such promise, that her role was to have been built up... All work at the studio ceased today as a tribute to her memory!
helen		Yes, darling... It is reliably...
helen		I'll ask him tonight...
helen		If he's free.
helen		I've no idea - and I don't suppose he has...
helen		I'll ask him.
helen		I'll bring him in and introduce you if...
helen		Now how can you?
helen		How did you know where he was standing?
helen		Hallo...
mark		Free?
helen		Yes.
mark		Good! So am I...
helen		I'd like you to come in for a moment - and meet my mother.
mark		Yes, please...
mark		Yes...  ... didn't want to be late for Helen.
helen		Thank you, Mark - You deserve a drink for that! What would you like?
mark		Nothing - thank you... very much...
helen		Darling, I've left your supper in the...
mark		No - No, I didn't...
mark		The station.
helen		Darling, may I tell you about your supper?
mark		I hope so - Goodbye... 
helen		Darling, we forgot to toss.
helen		Supper's laid out in the kitchen.
helen		We'll be early! Good night, darling.
helen		Mark...
mark		Yes, Helen?
helen		I want to ask you something rather personal...
helen		How long is it since you've gone out without that?
mark		Without what?
helen		Your camera...
mark		Oh...
mark		I... don't think I know?
helen		Exactly. I've never seen you without it... but are you going to need it tonight?
helen		Well are you? And if so... shall I bring some work with me too?
mark		I'm not going to need it tonight!
helen		Good - then give it to me!
helen		...It'll be quite safe - I'll put it away for you.
mark		 No!
helen		Then take it upstairs - if you can't trust me with it...
mark		I trust you.
helen		Then look...
helen		...let's put it in here.
helen		Come in - and see for yourself.
helen		We'll put it in here - and lock it.
mark		This... was my mother's room.
helen		Was it, Mark?...
helen		I am being tactless, aren't I? ... It's just that... I thought it was growing into an extra limb, and - but you bring it with you if you want to.
helen		Thank you...
mark		You...
helen		Thank you.
mark		I feel...
helen		Yes?
mark		Can't describe it! Could only photograph it -
helen		Shall I tell you what I feel?
mark		Yes.
helen		Famished!
mark		Good!
mark		There's a small place round the corner... It's awfully good on Christmas Day.
helen		Is it?
mark		Yes... there aren't too many open then.
helen		No - it sounds fun.
mark		This way.
helen		I adore new restaurants...
helen		Where is this restaurant?
mark		Round the corner...
helen		Come on then...
mark		Thank you.
tony		Oh!
tony		Oh!
tony		Well I...
tony		Well...
tony		No, I...
tony		Chipperfield, I suppose...
tony		Certainly... and then I must go to my room.
helen		I like this place! And this dinner!
helen		...thank you, Mark...
mark		Are you ready to talk about your book?
helen		I'm ready to talk about you...
helen		It won't take a second - and it's best to have it said.
helen		Carrying a camera is only one of your habits, isn't it, Mark?
helen		... when you stared at that couple, you were like the little boy on that film you showed me... looking over the wall at something he shouldn't see. But Mark - you're strong enough now to lift that child off the wall... aren't you?
helen		... aren't you?
mark		I'll try to be.
helen		Will you, Mark?... Will you really?
mark		Yes...
helen		Lecture finished...
mark		When your book's published - will you go on working in a library?
helen		Yes, Mark... in case, one day, a child comes in and asks for it!
mark		I'll come in.
helen		I'm not popular with my customers! They ask me for horror comics - and I take their sticky hands and drag them to where there are books!
helen		... and do you know, Mark, waiting for them to come in next time and ask for books... is as exciting... as a horror comic...
mark		What does your magic camera photograph?
helen		People...
mark		Yes?...
helen		It's owned by a little boy who is terrified of grown-ups... but when he looks in his magic camera he sees grown-ups as they were when they were children... and he isn't frightened any longer.
helen		... and one day he gives his camera away to a little boy who is even more frightened of grown-ups than he was - and do you know what he finds?
helen		... that when he looks at grown- ups without his camera he can still see them as they were when they were children!  And that means that he's grown up himself...
mark		What made you think of this story?
helen		You did!
helen		... I looked out of my window - and saw you going off to work carrying that camera like a little boy with a satchel... and an idea came... so thank you...
mark		I'd like to think... I was responsible... in some way...
helen		Now what do I do about the photographs?
mark		Take 'em!
mark		Oh!
mark		There isn't a single face that doesn't look like a child's - not a single one - if you catch it at the right moment.
mark		It would be a challenge!... Unlike anything I've photographed!
helen		What have you photographed, Mark?
mark		Everything. But nothing I'd want children to see.
mark		But this would belong to them - and they'd know if it wasn't right... Oh, Helen... I would like to find those faces for you... with you...
helen		Very well! Let's try!
mark		You made a promise to your mother -
helen		 Yes, Mark...
mark		You'd better keep it.
helen		Thank you...
helen		Mother must have gone to bed.  Mark, it was a wonderful evening...
mark		That's what I was going to say... a wonderful evening...
helen		 And you made it wonderful... without your camera.
helen		 I'll get it for you.
helen		wonder how this sees grown-ups? 
mark		Not you! 
helen		Mark.
mark		It never will... see you!
helen		Why not?
mark		Whatever I photograph -
helen		Yes?
mark		I always - lose...
helen		I don't understand.
helen		He'll wake Mother!
helen		... thank you, again, for my evening.  Will you go to bed now - and not stop up watching those films?
mark		Well... I've a little work to do... then I'll go to bed... and think of how to find faces for you...
mark		...faces which - are faces which...
helen		Good night, Mark...
mark		...how did you?
mark		I was never allowed a key..., can't get used to them.
mark		I brought her home early.
mark		Is there something you...
mark		Next door would be more...
mark		Visit?
mark		I've no one to talk to... in the rooms I live over...
mark		It's a changing bag... we put films in it - so that the light won't spoil them...
mark		You'd know at once -
mark		Yes.
mark		 It's no good - I was afraid it wouldn't be.
mark		The lights failed too soon.
mark		I'll have to try again.
mark		An opportunity... now I must find another.
mark		Please let me finish! It's for Helen!
mark		She wants to see something I've photographed!
mark		Yes!
mark		It's late.
mark		You must be tired...
mark		No... thank you.
mark		Run out of film.
mark		I'll never photograph her... I promise you that.
mark		You'll never have to move... because of me... I promise you.
mark		taking my picture?
mark		It's been a long time... since anyone did...
mark		Good night, Mrs. Stephens.
jarvis		Have you any suspicions, Chief Inspector?
inspector		It could be any of them...
sergeant		That's the trouble with film people - they're all peculiar...  ... present company excepted.
publicity man		Speaking of peculiar people.
publicity man		We've a psychiatrist coming down today. Dr Rosen -
inspector		I know him.
publicity man		It's pure publicity - and I promise he won't do any work.
inspector		What will he do?
publicity man		Get himself photographed... We're telling the press he's here to help the case - and to see if he can spot the murderer.
sergeant		And the best of luck!
jarvis		Do you object. Chief Inspector?
inspector		No...
inspector		I'll be frank. I'd welcome anyone's help... I don't know how this maniac kills - or why he kills - or who he'll kill next, but if he isn't caught quickly... 
baden		Inspector, have you convinced yourself he's a member of my unit?
inspector		No, sir ... but a few things seem to point to it... No one outside your unit admits to knowing the girl... There was a trunk all ready for her... and with the risks he was running, I think he'd have to use surroundings he was familiar with... Where is your unit now?
baden		Waiting for me on the set.
inspector		I'd like to watch them at their jobs, sir. It may tell me more than a hundred interviews.
baden		But, Inspector, the strain on them is already...
jarvis		Come now, Arthur, if that's what the Inspector wants.
inspector		I'm afraid it is, sir... now where could I get the best view?
baden		 On the dolly... the camera... You can watch everyone and everything from there... including me!
inspector		Very well, sir ... I'll become a member of your camera crew...
baden		 ... if the unions don't object!
voice 1		I hear they're making an arrest today.
voice 2		hope it's D.J. It's about time they caught up with him!
driver		We're there, Doctor.
doctor		 Dr Rosen!  What a pity.
baden		Try it, darling... We'll all be with you.
assistant director		 Quiet, everyone. Let's run it!
doctor		Terribly sorry.
assistant cameraman		That sneezer geezer's a psychiatrist!... Heard it on the grapevine.
assistant director		 All right, everyone - let's run it...
diane		I'd like to see... that one...
diane		... have you it... in red...?
assistant		Certainly, madam.
diane		... in... red  I can't! I can't, Arthur!
assistant director		Ten minutes break, everyone!
assistant director		Can you suggest anything, Doctor?
doctor		No. It looked jolly interesting to me.
assistant director		I mean to help her psychologically...
doctor		Yes. Give the girl a proper rest... Ten minutes is useless!
assistant director		 Thank you, Doctor.
doctor		What's your job?
mark		I'm a focus-puller...
doctor		Oh... so am I, in a way.
mark		I was wondering if you knew my father - Professor Lewis...
doctor		Professor... but of course I knew him. He lectured to me.
doctor		He was an extraordinary man - quite brilliant!
mark		You know what he was interested in before he died?
doctor		No? Tell me...
mark		I don't remember what he called it... It was something to do with what causes people to be... peeping Toms...
doctor		Scoptophilia!... That would interest him! A most fertile mind.
mark		Scopto...?
doctor		philia... The morbid urge to gaze... Coined since his day... Have you any manuscripts of his which I could...?
mark		He thought... it could be cured...
doctor		Usually. Now about his manuscripts -
mark		Quickly?
doctor		The cure? Very quick... A couple of years analysis - three times a week - an hour a time - and it's soon up-rooted...
doctor		... if you've any of his papers on the subject?
mark		Yes, Doctor...
doctor		I'd like to see them - I'll give you my address, young man.
sergeant		Wonder what all that's about?
inspector		We'll find out afterwards... Now, listen... I want you to watch who brings their own lunches... Someone ate homemade cakes and sandwiches by the side of those bushes - and we may get a lead.
sergeant		Right, sir.
assistant director		We're stopping at four today - so have a quick lunch, everyone! Back at two sharp!
voice		Hey, Mark!
clapper boy		Can't wait to show you this!  I ought to charge you!
mark		You've given me... an idea...
clapper boy		I'll bet I have!
clapper boy		Hey! Where are you going?
mark		Phone - may be my last chance - and... thanks.
clapper boy		But your lunch?
mark		You have it!
clapper boy		... some photograph! Well lit too!
mark		Can't manage Saturday, sir, but they're letting us off early today! This afternoon - after work - may be my last chance!
mark		Six o'clock...
mark		I'll be there, sir.
mark		Hallo? Is that the Public Library? ... You have a Miss Helen Stephens employed there?  Yes... can you tell me if her name is spelt with a V or a PH, I want to send her a tic-PH? ... Thank you.
clapper boy		They're waiting!
doctor rosen		He asked if I knew his father... which I did... a brilliant man!
inspector		Is that all he wanted?
doctor		think so... we had a little chat about scoptophilia - and he's going to show me...
inspector		About what?
doctor		Voyeurism.
inspector		Eh?
doctor		What makes people into Peeping Toms, one of his father's subjects, apparently.
inspector		 Peeping Toms...
doctor		An interesting boy... he has his father's eyes... you don't suspect him, do you?
inspector		I suspect 'em all - what about you?
doctor		I'm interested in that chap with the bald head and hatchet face... there's something on his mind!
inspector		No wonder... he's the director!
assistant director		All right, everyone. This is the last shot... Make it a good one!
inspector		 Got your list, Sergeant?
sergeant		 YES, SIR.
inspector		I want to see how some of them spend their spare time...
sergeant		Which ones, sir?
inspector		Exactly, Sergeant...  ... which ones?
mark		I won't, sir.
mark		Right, sir.
milly		You've spoiled my whole evening, you have!
mark		Sorry, Milly.
milly		What's the idea?
mark		I shan't be here tomorrow. 
milly		Why? Going on manoeuvres with the boy scouts?
mark		I thought so!
milly		Have you gone absolutely...
mark		I'm just... completing a documentary.
milly		You're a document and a half, you are. Is it safe to be alone with you?
milly		... might be more fun if it wasn't...
helen		Darling...
helen		Darling.
tony		Hallo.
helen		Hallo, Tony...
tony		Where are you going?
helen		To leave something for Mark...
tony		You haven't much time for me these days.
helen		Tony...
tony		It's all right - I'll be here - if you want me.  ... by the way... your mother was yelling out something before you came in... about Mark photographing her.
helen		Photographing Mother? You must be mistaken!
tony		Of course. See you sometime.
helen		Mark...?
helen		Mark?  No answer. She looks thoughtfully at the envelope in her hand - then goes in to the dark-room.
detective		... don't know what to make of it, sir ... He went to a library, a solicitor's office, and a newsagent's shop - private photography there, if you ask me. Shall I hang around outside the house, sir? Don't think so, either... All right, sir, I'll give you the details when I get back... Bye, sir. 
chief inspector		Chief Inspector Gregg! What?  Put him on the line...
chief inspector		Yes, yes... What's the address? ... Newsagent's shop? ... Did you say news...?
mark		Don't let me see you... frightened...  Hurry, Helen!
helen		Not...
mark		Leave!
helen		Not...  ... till I know...
mark		Now!
helen		That film...
helen		That film...
helen		... is ... just a film...
helen		... isn't it?
helen		... horrible ... horrible... but... just a film... isn't it?
mark		No...  And now that you know... I want you with me... a while.
mark		You'll be safe - as long as I can't see you frightened - so stand in the shadows, Helen... please...
mark		... please...
helen		She's right... your mother... must tell someone everything... sorry... has to be you!
helen		This was his laboratory... and you know some of what he did... but not all.
mark		... aged five...
mark		... aged seven...
mark		All the rooms were wired for sound... and... still are.
mark		Your room.
mark		Your mother's .
mark		Tony's.
tony		But darling...
helen		 Turn it off!
helen		Look at me, Mark!
mark		Not if you're frightened...
helen		Look at me!
helen		What did you do... to those girls?
mark		No.
helen		What did you do, Mark...?
helen		If you want to torment me... for the rest of my life... then make me imagine!
helen		What did you do ... to those girls?
mark		Can't...
helen		Show me, Mark...
mark		But if you're frightened...
helen		Show me - or I'll remain frightened... for the rest of my life.  Show me!
mark		It's fear.
mark		So I did something... very simple...
mark		Very simple.
mark		When they felt the spike... touching their throats... and knew I was going to kill them...
mark		... I made them - watch their own deaths!
mark		Made them see their own terror as the spike went in... and if death has a face, they saw that too!
mark		Not you! Not you! I'll never photograph you! I promised - I promised - Not you!
helen		... frightened ... for you...
sergeant		Look out!
helen		Mark! Mark! Give yourself up!
mark		I've been ready for this... for such a long time...
helen		What are you...
mark		It'll be all right.
mark		I can beat that!
helen		Give yourself up... Mark!
mark		Watch them, Helen... Watch them say goodbye - one by one -  I've timed this... so often...
helen		No - No!
mark		I wish... I could have found your faces for you...
mark		Helen - I'm afraid!
mark		I'm glad I'm afraid!
****Dialogues from script :Peggy_Sue_Got_Married.txt****

scott		Boy, have they changed. Who gets it?
beth		I don't know, just put it back.
charlie		Goddamnit, I just can't hit those high notes anymore.
janet		You know Charlie, if you're serious about this, I know a great vocal coach.
beth		Hi Dad, can I have 100 dollars for a brake job?
charlie		Did I hear 70 dollars? What do you need 50 dollars for? How's your Mom?
worker		Coming through.
charlie		Frank, watch the clock.
peggy		There's something pathetic parked in front of my house.
charlie		Come off it, Peggy. And what do you mean your house? This is my house. I paid for it, I'm still paying for it.
peggy		I'm still waiting for the mortgage check.
charlie		I mailed it to you on Wednesday.
peggy		Well, today's Saturday and it's still not here.
charlie		Jesus, Peggy. Take it easy. I'm not used to that stuff. You always did the bills. Blame the damn post office.
peggy		That stays.
charlie		You got a Tab?
peggy		I don't buy them anymore. You were the only one who drank them.
charlie		You don't want them? They're going to make a big comeback any minute. Mark my words, these lamps are going to...
peggy		I know. Put Scott through college.
charlie		I'll think of a way to sell, them.  One day.
peggy		Are you taking Janet to the reunion tonight?
charlie		I'm not going.
scott		Come on Dad!
charlie		Be right there. I'll go through the rest of this stuff next weekend.
scott		Bye Mom.
peggy		Bye sweetheart.
charlie		 I never thought it would go this far.
peggy		If the pastries aren't here by nine thirty, call Monica and threaten her life.
peggy		I'll be back by noon.
beth		Hi Monica. You just missed Mom.
monica		Sorry I'm late. My Bobo's back in town.
peggy		Oh, Dolores.
peggy		Carol!
carol		Peggy Sue!
carol		I haven't seen you in years. In all that time, haven't you at least tried another hair style?
peggy		1 just did it for the reunion. I thought it would be fun.
carol		You're probably the only one who could carry it off.
beth		Where were you? You said you'd be back at twelve.
peggy		This is my old friend Carol.. I told you about her.
beth		r was worried about you  You didn't even call. You're always on my case if I don't call..
peggy		How do you like my hair?
beth		It looks great. Don't change the subject. You know how busy Saturdays are. And I can't do the icing. I always mess up the roses. You're not being very responsible.
carol		Who's the mother around here?
beth		Sometimes I wonder.
waiter		Here Charlie, extra fortune cookies. Good luck.
charlie		Thanks.
charlie		 Crazy Charlie...
charlie		You'll give away Mitsubishi giant screen TVs for twelve hundred and ninetyfive dollars! Oh no! I'll go broke!  Crazy Charlie...
charlie		You won't be undersold on stereos, videos, microwaves or blenders!  Crazy Charlie, he insane.
bets		When are you going to stop being so mad at Dad? How do you think that makes me feel?
peggy		I have a lot of unresolved feelings about him. I don't trust him. Besides, I hate those commercials.
beth		I'm sorry I asked. We don't have time for another heartto heart. Here, try on the dress.
peggy		But I want you and Scott to understand.  Do you think he loves Janet? Maybe he's smashed too many fortune cookies.
beth		Come on Mom. Give him a break. He's missing the reunion because of you. You know he wants to go.
peggy		Then we'd both have a miserable time. What do you think?
beth		Hey, you're a hip chick. You look like you stepped right out of Life magazine. Any time you want to borrow it again, just ask.
peggy		Borrow?! This was my dress.  Hi.. Where's Crazy Charlie?
beth		Mom, lots of people are separated and divorced.
peggy		Not from the guy with the lowest prices in town.
peggy		I feel ridiculous. Maybe I should go home and change.
beth		Why are you so nervous? What is the matter with you today?
peggy		I don't know. Reunions do funny things to people.
maddy		You two look like that soap commercial. Which one's the daughter and which one's the mother?
arthur		You took this seriously. You're a real blast from the past.
peggy		It was Beth's idea.
maddy		I wish I had the nerve. And the figure.
arthur		You always were a crazy little gal, Peg.
peggy		Arthur, please don't call me Peg.
peggy		Beth's boyfriend is playing in the band.
maddy		It must run in the family.
beth		What does?
arthur		You and your mother both seem to fall for musicians.
arthur		Hey, there's Terry and Leon.
maddy		Peggy, would you find a table? We'll see you in a little while.
peggy		Okay.
peggy		I was once. Richard!? Richard Norvik? I didn't recognize you.
richard		You look exactly the same.
peggy		I just did it for tonight. I don't normally dress like this.
sharon		It's adorable.
richard		Oh, I'm sorry.. Peggy Sue Kelcher, my wife Sharon.
peggy		Hello. Nice to meet you. Please call me Peggy. I'm Peggy Bodell now.
richard		Where's Charlie? I was in town about a year ago and caught one of his commercials. Really made me laugh.
peggy		He's not here. We're getting divorced.
richard		Gee. I'm sorry to hear that.
doug		Or, uhh, Richard?  David Snell, Merrill Lynch.  I read about the Cordex deal in Business Week. Congratulations.
richard		Thank you, Doug.
doug		Hi Peggy. How are you? How's Char1ie?
sandy		 I can't believe how she let herself go. She was so beautiful in high school.
carol		Everyone's got a gold Rolex. I had this one specially made in platinum.
richard		...fifth generation core capacities are going to cause another shakeout in the smaller companies.
drunk man		 Your damn computers put me out of business. You're a billionaire, and I'm a goddamn failure.
carol		 Welcome to the singles scene.
peggy		I don't know how you do it. I've never even dated anybody but Charlie.
carol		You just have to remember... men are like houses and trade upwards... I thought you had a pretty good marriage.
peggy		We did for a long time. We just got married too young, and ended up blaming each other for missing out on things.
carol		So he started having affairs, and you got depressed.
peggy		It's not the place. I don't buy that.  Trapped in the same town forever. The price she would pay for her teenage lust.
carol		After you got knocked up, my mother didn't want me to talk to you. She thought it was contagious.
peggy		Oh, it's not so bad. I have two wonderful kids, my own business.  Still, knowing what I know now, if I had the chance to do it all over again, I'd sure do things a lot differently.
carol		Wouldn't we all.
dolores		Madeline Hutton and Arthur Nagle were high school sweethearts. Married right after graduation, they're still together. In this day and age, that's remarkable... Maddy, Arthur, how does it feel to have missed the sexual revolution?
maddy		 What kind of question is that? It has nothing to do with the reunion.
arthur		 I'm glad you asked, Dolores. Four years ago Maddy and I found Jesus...
dolores		Spiritual renewal.. That's what reunions are all about. Familiar faces, forgotten memories, ancient dance steps and music...the great time machine.
carol		I never could keep up with you.
walter		 Just call me Walter the dancing dentist. Taps and caps. My specialty.
rosalie		I remember that dress.
peggy		Rosalie Testa!
rosalie		I remember when you got that locket, too. You were so excited I think you showed it to the whole school.
peggy		You have an incredible memory.
sharon		It's beautiful. Does it open?
peggy		Yes. These are my children. But they're not babies anymore.
rosalie		 I think you got married when you were three.
dolores		Carol Pritchard Heath and Walter Getz were high school steadies who went their separate ways. After twenty years and four divorces between them, they meet again Walter a successful dentist, Carol a mature career woman. Carol, why did you really come back for this reunion?
carol		Curiosity mostly. I heard you finally found a man of your own. Too bad he's married.
walter		 Whoa! Cat fight! Purse war!
dolores		Hello everyone. Richard Norvik? I'm Dolores Dodge with KARP Radio. Could I have a minute of your time?
richard		Sure. I remember you.
leon		Let's play "Rate the Moment". I give tonight an eightyseven. Better than sex, not as good as racquetball.
walter		The best thing about being a dentist. Pure pharmaceutical grade. A couple of lines of this, I can drill my own teeth...  Hi.
carol		Hi.
serious man		 Joe would have enjoyed this. God, I still miss him.
maddy		 Peggy was a mess right after they separated, but I think she's coming out of it... It seems to be pretty friendly now..
carol		Sometimes it's easier when you hate them.
lisa		Doesn't it feel like it was yesterday?
terry		Youth is like an amputated leg. Long after it's gone, you still feel it.
woman		My husband's a pig. But my son's in social work and my daughter, God bless her, is in India with Mother Teresa.
leon		For the fitness generation, we've sure got a lot of porkers.
sandy		I don't remember anything about the seventies.
lisa		Breaking up was horrible. I said we had a very special attachment, he said, so does a Hoover.
leon		I don't know why I came back. I hated high school.
rosalie		I enjoyed it.
sharon		Who's the one with the hair?
peggy		Michael Fitzsimmons. I had such a crush on him.
carol		Hi, Peggy. God, that Walter Getz    can still dance.
peggy		Your first boyfriend. What do you think? Any sparks left?
carol		Who knows. Remember...  Whatever Walter wants...
peggy		Sharon Norvik this is Carol Heath, and Maddy Nagle. My oldest and dearest friends. Sharon's married to Richard.
carol		Lucky lady. Hi.
maddy		 Michael Fitzsimmons! Is he here?
peggy		No. I asked Rosalie. She couldn't track him down.
sharon		He must have been quite a guy.
peggy		He was the only one in high school I wished I'd gone to bed with.
carol		The only one?
peggy		Well, besides Charlie, of course.
sharon		Peggy, would you please rescue Richard? Ask him to dance.
richard		Are we through Dolores? Good.
dolores		Well...
richard		 You'll be okay?
sharon		Yes. You go ahead.
richard		The only time people like Dolores used to pay any attention to me was to laugh at me or insult me. That guy, Doug Snell, who shook my hand when we walked in, he used to call me a foureyed worm.
peggy		Well, you showed them. You're rich and famous and successful. And you have a beautiful wife.
richard		You were always friendly to me. I appreciated that.  You know, this used to be a fantasy of mine.
peggy		What was?
richard		Dancing with you.
peggy		You're a sweet man, Richard.
richard		I guess part of us never really leaves high school.
peggy		You know, I never told anybody this, but I always had a feeling that when you die, before you go to heaven, you get a chance to fly around high school for a while.
terry		Here comes the life of the party.
terry		You know, they could've at least asked us to sing. We'd refuse, of course, but they could've asked us.
arthur		 Hello. Can I have your attention, please.
arthur		I know it's getting kind of late, and some of you have a long drive home, so the reunion committee decided it was time for the moment you've all been waiting for. You don't know what you've been waiting for because we didn't tell you, but the committee has selected a King and Queen. Now don't worry, I took care of it so the band's gonna keep playing for at least another hour, and my old pal Judge Crystal said that the bar can stay open as long as we want.
arthur		Now back to business. The members of the committee have given this a lot of thought and decided on the two people who best represent the spirit of Buchanan High's Class of '60. The king is someone who, in more ways than one, has come a long, long way since he left here.
arthur		We're proud to welcome him back, Richard Norvik! Come on up here, King Richard!
richard		Sharon and I thank you all for making us feel so welcome. It's good to be back.
arthur		Every king deserves a queen. Now, we had a Lot at worthwhile candidates. And I don't want any of you ladies to feel left out, 'cause you're all beautiful. But when we sent out the invitations, we didn't mention anything about this being a costume party.
arthur		Maybe we should have, 'cause just looking at her brings it all back for us. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you our queen, Peggy Sue Kelcher Bodell. Come on up here, Peggy Sue.
carol		They're waiting. Come on.
peggy		 I can't. It's all too much.
carol		Go on. You can do it.
peggy		 Thank you.. Thank you very much.
nurse		Would you like your Twinkie now?
charlie		I vant to suck your blood. I also vant to suck your Twinkie.
peggy		Charlie! Am I dead?
charlie		No. You are the undead. You will live forever if you give me your Twinkie.  Come on, let's have it. You hate them anyway.
nurse		Young man, stop that.
charlie		Hey! I just made a deposit in your blood bank. Now I want to make a withdrawal.
nurse		I think it's time for your next class -
charlie		I'm changing banks!
nurse		Lie back down and take a deep breath.
peggy		What's going on? Where am I?
nurse		You passed out for a moment. Nothing to worry about.
peggy		How did I get here?
nurse		Why don't you let your friends help you?  Take her into the washroom and splash some cold water on her face. That should perk her up.
maddy		Yes, ma' am.
carol		 Wanna smoke?
peggy		No thanks. I gave them up years ago.
peggy		Where is it?
carol		Were taking you back to the nurse.
peggy		Maddy, what did you do to your hair?
carol		We're going to take you home.
peggy		That's okay. I'm sure I'll remember the way.
carol		I'll call you Later.
peggy		Yes. Let's stay in touch.
peggy		Peggy.  Peggy Sue.
peggy		 Mom!
peggy		I have a note.
peggy		I'm excused.
peggy		Mom!
peggy		Chanel Number Five. That always reminds me of home.
peggy		I'm home now.
peggy		Okay, I'm alone now. Is anyone here?
peggy		No. This is crazy. Is somebody going to tell me what's going on? Why me? What happened? You don't have to show up. I don't have to see you. Just send me a sign.  Thanks a lot. 1 guess I'm on my own.
peggy		Nancy! Come here.
nancy		What are you doing?
peggy		I'm just happy to see you.
nancy		Come on! Mom said you were sick. You're never happy to see me.
peggy		I'm sorry about that. I really want us to be closer. I have enough unresolved relationships in my... life.
nancy		Teenagers are weird. And you're the weirdest.
peggy		Let's do something together.. Do you want to play Monopoly? Or Careers... Clue... Snakes and Ladders?
nancy		 Okay, what do you want? What dumb favor do you want me to do?
peggy		It's unbelievable. The man never ages.
nancy		Look at Kenny Rossi. Isn't he dreamy? I wish he'd break up with Arlene. She thinks she's so great.
peggy		Don't eat the red ones.
nancy		Why not? They're my favorite.
peggy		They're bad for you. They cause...red lips. 
peggy		Can't hurt. I'm already dead.
nancy		What's for dinner?
nancy		Yeech, not again.
nancy		Like wow! Wait till I tell Diane. She's always bragging about her father's Cadillac.
peggy		Oh, Daddy. You were always doing things like that.  That's funny! That's really funny.
peggy		 Just a little. I've had a tough day.
peggy		 Grounded? Ha! The story of my life. I don't wanna go to my room. I wanna import Japanese cars. I wanna go to Liverpool and discover the Beatles.
peggy		Dad, I never knew you had a sense of humor.
peggy		Oh Mom, I forgot you were ever so young.
peggy		Let's get physical!... Let's get metaphysical!
peggy		Good morning.
nancy		Can I borrow this sweater?
peggy		Oh. I forgot.
peggy		I'm still here, aren't I? I may as well enjoy myself. I'm going to go to school today.  Dad, I want to apologize for yesterday. The car is a classic. Use it in the best of health.
peggy		That would be impossible.
peggy		Mom, is there any coffee left?
peggy		Oh.    Ah...recently. All the kids drink it.
peggy		I think I'm way ahead of them.
nancy		Pass the toast, please.
nancy		And the butter.
peggy		You know, you two are wonderful parents. I'm really going to try to behave myself.
nancy		 DADDYo.
peggy		Mom, sit down for a minute. This is so nice, all of us being together again like this.
nancy		Can I tell Diane that Peggy Sue got drunk or is that a deep family secret?  Well?
peggy		Oh yeah. Charlie. How am I going to handle him?
peggy		Sort of.
peggy		The house payments.
charlie		How do you feel?
peggy		Pretty strange.
charlie		Come on. Get in. I can take care of that.
peggy		Not now, Charlie. I've got a headache. Get used to the word. Roll it around your tongue for a years.
charlie		Hey, I can take a hint. You look great today.
peggy		You drive like a maniac!
charlie		I call this the staccato. 
charlie		 Not that I'm glad you were sick, but I had a chance to do some thinking last night.
peggy		Oh yeah?
charlie		You know. About what we said on Tuesday. It makes a lot of sense.
peggy		Refresh my memory.
charlie		How could you forget? We talk about seeing other people and you forget?
peggy		Maybe I blocked it out.
charlie		I can understand that.. But please don't start crying again.
charlie		It's not going to be forever. I figure three years is long enough. I can see it the music pans out.  And right after graduation we should start seeing other people. Kind of comparison shop before we settle down and get married. Know what I mean?
peggy		Why wait?
charlie		 Well, we got the prom coming up, all these parties. We shouldn't upset our parents?
peggy		They'll learn to live with it.
charlie		You're more shook up than you want to admit. You'll get used to it, we'll still see each other 2, 3 times a week.
charlie		Want me to drive you home later?
peggy		Would you?
charlie		 Would I?!! Why I oughta...
peggy		Where's Rosalie Testa?
carol		Probably at the diving meet.
dolores		Did you study for the test?
peggy		 Test?
snelgrove		All right, class. Time's up.
snelgrove		What's the meaning of this, Peggy Sue?
peggy		 Mr. Snelgrove, I happen to know that in the future, I will never have the slightest use for algebra. And I speak from experience.
michael		Santiago comes back, with nothing there's no meat on the bone. It's Hemingway's ego defending itself again; he's trying to prove he can still perform.
gilfond		...What Hemingway's saying, Michael, is that we are alone that when we go out too far we're vulnerable. The irony, that Santiago is beaten by the sharks, doesn't make him less of a hero.
gilfond		Over the weekend read the first four chapters of The Great Gatsbv. I hope you enjoy it.
peggy		Mr. Gilfond, can I talk to you?
gilfond		Sure, Peggy Sue. What's on your mind?
peggy		I just wanted to tell you how much I enjoy your class. You taught me a lot and... you're a very fine teacher.
gilfond		That's very kind of you. Thank you.
peggy		Thank you. Um, I also think you're underpaid.
walter		Why does your father take inventory on Sunday night? That's poker night. You always got out of it before.
charlie		I've got to string him along for a while. It's for his own good.
arthur		But you're not going into his business. When're you going to tell him?
charlie		Soon. I can't tall everybody everything all at once.
walter		Strange rumors are sweeping the school about you.
peggy		 What do you mean?
walter		Prom what I hear, you really gave it to old Smellgrove.
maddy		I was there. She told the creep off right to his face.
arthur		Atta girl, Peg.
peggy		Arthur, please don't call me Peg.
arthur		Why I oughta...
peggy		I don't get it.
carol		That's because you' re not a total moron like they are.
maddy		It's some stupid old movie thing they just started.
walter		That's enough out of you, little lady.
charlie		I'll throw the book at you!
arthur		Why I oughta...
peggy		I'll be right back.
walter		She's not wasting any time. Peggy Sue and Mr. Square Root?
charlie		He's a nice guy. You know he's writing a book?
walter		Oh, a book... Excuse me for a second. 
peggy		Congratulations on the math contest, Richard.
richard		It really wasn't that difficult.
doug		What're you doing, Peggy Sue? Fishing for foureyed worms?
peggy		Get lost you macho shmuck.
peggy		I have to talk to you. It's very important.
richard		I'm not doing any tutoring this year. I'm too busy.
peggy		It's not that. Can we meet after school? Please?
richard		All right. I'll be in the physics lab. Make it fourthirty. I have a rocket club meeting.
maddy		Therefore, the key to a successful children's party can be summed up in one word  planning.. With proper planning, a successful, inexpensive happy birthday party can be had by all. Including the mother.
miss otto		That was very comprehensive, Madeline. Thank you.. Now...  Peggy Sue, your topic was 'How To Choose A Nursery School.' Are you prepared?
peggy		All.... Okay. Sure.
peggy		Choosing a good nursery school can be one of the most important decisions you can make. It will often determine your child's attitude towards education and schooling.  And they're so cute when they're little. They bring you back their Little masterpieces every day and you put 'em on the refrigerator door. They're so proud, and their names are all misspelled. Scott would always print his S backwards, and Beth would make her sweet little flowers...
dolores		 What a girl. What a twirl. You know, PegLeggy, you're gonna get demoted to hall monitor -
head majorette		Come on, Peggy Sue.. Try it again. You haven't been practicing.
charlie		Looking good out there.
peggy		Thanks.
charlie		I noticed you were giving me the silent treatment at lunch. I guess I deserved it. I've been thinking about my three year plan and I think it's unworkable. I must have been delirious.
peggy		I thought it had a lot of merit.
charlie		In the abstract maybe. Get a grip on yourself! But when I imagine you going out with other guys, I feel... ah...
peggy		Rejected, worthless, miserable.
charlie		Yeah. Like that.
peggy		Good.
peggy		What a great kite.
richard		I'm writing a book on kite construction. What did you want to talk about?
peggy		I want to ask you a question.  Do you think...time travel is possible?
richard		Are you doing some kind of science project?
peggy		Sort of.
richard		Well... in a Newtonian framework, the possibilities were limited, but with the advent of relativity theory, the idea of absolute time can no longer be reasonably affirmed.
richard		And then, there's Richard's Burrito.
peggy		What's that?
richard		That's my own theory based on a Mexican food called the burrito. I had it once when my parents took me to Disneyland.
peggy		I    know what a burrito is.
richard		Well, I think time is like a burrito. Sometimes it just folds over on itself and one part touches the other.
peggy		What's inside?
richard		You can till it with whatever you want. From illusions to memory, from experience to innocence, from happiness to the entire universes
peggy		So you think time travel is possible? For people?
richard		Absolutely. People, dogs, elephants.
peggy		Listen, you've gotta keep this a secret. You can't tell a soul. Promise?
richard		Okay. I promise.
peggy		This is serious. Nobody can know. Ah, I've returned from the future. I traveled back here 25 years.
richard		You probably are crazy. Wait a minute. Is this some kind of joke? I know what you all, think of me.
richard		Oh yeah?
peggy		You have a blind grandfather. One day you're going to invent a machine that reads books for blind people. I read about it. You're going to be famous. You're going to invent a lot of things.
richard		How, did you know about my grandfather?
peggy		Because I'm telling you the truth. I know what's going to happen. There's going to be test tube babies and heart transplants. And an American named Neil Armstrong is going to walk on the moon. On July
richard		Holy Toledo! That's six years ahead of schedule!
richard		But when did you leave? Are you here until then? Were you there until now? What direction are you going in? Are you a moving point on an infinite line extending into the past? Can anyone do it?
peggy		I don't know.
richard		I'd be very careful if I were you. You don' t want to fall into the clutches of some madman with plans to manipulate your brain.
peggy		That's why I was getting a divorce..  What I really think is that I had a heart attack at the reunion and died.
richard		You look pretty good for a corpse.
peggy		Come on, Richard, I'm serious.
richard		You're giving me the creeps.
peggy		Am I dead or not?
richard		There's one way to find out.
peggy		What're you doing?
richard		Confucious says, The way out is through the door. There's a truck. There's your door.
richard		Step in front of the truck! If you're dead, it won't matter. The truck'll go right through you. Go ahead! You're dead!
peggy		No! I don't want to die!
richard		Okay, you're not dead, but according to every law of science what you say happened to you is impossible.
peggy		What if it's beyond science? What it it's God?
ri chard		Einstein said "God doesn't play dice with the universe." I'm a scientist. I believe that there's an order to things. Why would God bring you back as a high school girl?
peggy		I don't know.
richard		You're a molecule in chaos, a discontinuent aberration. Maybe you've just got powers of precognition. Well, maybe you're just out of whack.
peggy		I told you, I've already lived my life. I don't know how or why I'm here, but you have to help me get back. I want to get back to my real life!
richard		All right, I'll work on it, I'll, do some research. But in the meantime, don't get crazy.
peggy		I'm trying. I'll see you tomorrow. 
richard		What if you're not here tomorrow?
peggy		Who was that man?
peggy		It was great to see everybody again. But it's so boring and regimented. Most of what they teach is useless. The worst thing was lunch.
peggy		Sure, Mom.  Hello.
peggy		 I'm sorry, Grandma.
peggy		I had a dream that Grandma died.
peggy		She did? I love her so much, and I haven't seen her in such a long time. And Grandpa Barney. Is he all, right?
peggy		I'm sorry, Mom. I'll call Grandma back and apologize.
peggy		I'm confused about a lot of things right now. Charlie's only one of them.
peggy		What do you mean?
charlie		Hello, sir. How are things at the hat store?
nancy		She's distorted.
charlie		Yes, sir.
nancy		She's almost a juvenile delinquent.
charlie		Yes, sir. But that's what I like about her. She's not like all the other girls at school.
charlie		Yes, sir. Trust is a twoway street. In the past two years I've been pleased to note that you and Mrs. Kelcher have, uh, fulfilled your sacred trust of being good parents to the, uh, woman I plan to take off your hands.
peggy		 Oh, Beth.
peggy		For what?
peggy		I don't feel very festive.
charlie		What would that be, sir?
charlie		 Of course.
peggy		Where did you get that sweater?
charlie		Great, isn't it?
peggy		It's really Fifties. You sort of clash with the world.
charlie		Hey! What's the fun of being a teenager if you can't dress weird? And we're going to have fun tonight, right?
peggy		Right. I promised my mother.
charlie		Is this slow enough for you?
peggy		 Charlie, how are you?
charlie		I'm fine Peggy Sue. And how are you? Are we talking on the phone? Are we pen pals?
peggy		Seriously. What's it like to be eighteen?
charlie		It's great. I cleaned the car, do you like it? Oh, I got tickets for Fabian on your birthday, you like him, right? He's cool. Eighteen is half of thirty six. It's "Gentlemen start your engines", vroom, like I'm gassed up ready for the race. I've got the girl, I've got the car, I've got the talent, but I don't know. Do I date, get married, join the army, cut a record, go to college? I got a million choices, but nobody teaches you how to choose. But it's different for a girl. You're Lucky. You just have to wait for me.
doug		Gol'darnit, dag nab it, dad burn it, dad blame it.
charlie		Here comes the life of the party.
leon		Goes down, smooth. Hey, look what the cat dragged in.
charlie		Have no fear. Charlie's here.
walter		Oh, it's you is it.
terry		Jumping Jehosophat!
doug		It's a miracle!
peggy		Hi, guys.
arthur		Now that's a purty little heifer.
charlie		Why Pete's the best darn cook on the Panhandle!
peggy		Why I oughta!
charlie		Ready. Set. Go -
arthur		 HiYo Silver! A cloud of dust, a galloping horse with the speed of light, a hearty Hi-Yo Silver! The Lone Ranger! With his faithful Indian companion Tonto, the daring and resourceful Masked Rider of the Plains came to Earth with powers- and abilities far beyond those of mortal men. Return with us now to those thrilling days of yesteryear - from out of the...
leon		You doorknob! You threw in Superman!
charlie		Too bad. Close to a record.
arthur		 I hate it when the beer comes out my nose.
maddy		Can you believe I want to marry that dork.
carol		Why do guys do such stupid things?
peggy		You know, I never could figure that one out.
maddy		I was thinking of four ushers and four bridesmaids.
walter		The Yanks got the hitting but the Sox got the defense.
carol		What are your colors, going to be?
arthur		I'l1 take Kubek and Richardson over Fox and Aparicio.
maddy		I'm thinking of pink and green.
charlie		Pitching wins pennants. The Tigers got four potential twenty game winners.
carol		You'd be surprised at how many girls in school aren't virgins.
charlie		Don Mossi, Frank Lary, Jim Sunning and Paul Foytack.
arthur		And now, direct from three weeks of rehearsal in Walter's garage, four guys who have dedicated their lives to becoming the greatest singing group in the world...  Charlie, Walter, Leon and Terry. The Definitions.
charlie		One, two, three-...
carol		Charlie really has a great voice.
maddy		Maybe they'll be the next Dion and the Belmonts.
peggy		Don't get your hopes up.
maddy		Come on, where's your enthusiasm?
peggy		He is kind of cute, isn't he?
carol		Yeah. You're so lucky. He really loves you, too. He's always telling Walter how wonderful you are.
peggy		He does?
dolores		Carol and I saw you with that creep, Richard, today.
peggy		First of all, Richard is not a creep. He happens to be an exceptional person. If any of you gave him half a chance, you'd find that out.
dolores		God, Peggy, you're so unformed you're practically fetal. You're just taking pity on him 'cause he has no friends.
peggy		Dolores, can't you be a little kinder to people? You don't even know the boy. If you weren't so neurotic and insecure, maybe you'd shut up for a while and show some compassion.
dolores		Are you for real?
peggy		Touchy, touchy!
maddy		 I don't know what you said to her, but I wish I'd said it.
peggy		Charlie, what do you think of Richard Norvik?
charlie		Is he gonna help you with that physics stuff?
peggy		He's trying.
charlie		Hey! Who needs physics when we've got chemistry?
peggy		 Come on, let's dance.
walter		Put on some makeout music, and kill the lights.
charlie		There isn't a girl in school that can hold a candle to you..
peggy		You're pretty charming when you want to be.
charlie		Yeah I know.  But I don't have to flatter you.  It just feels right. You're the perfect girl for me.  As in is, was and always will be.  I'm glad dancing was invented.  You know the first dances were rituals. Like fertility rites.
dolores		Hey Terry, what is that?  Did Peggy make it up?  I've never seen that on Bandstand.
terry		What if we're witnessing the end of touch dancing?
peggy		Mmm. This is nice.  I always loved the way you kiss.  I missed you.
charlie		Your eyes look like silver pools of moonlight.  And the tide rushes in.
peggy		You really love me, don't you?
charlie		You know I do.  I even wrote you into my will.
peggy		 Charlie, let's make love.
charlie		What?! You mean sex?! Intercourse?  You want to have intercourse! Last weekend you said... What time is it?
peggy		A lot's happened since last weekend.
charlie		But you're the one who wanted to wait till we got married. And you were right. We should wait.
peggy		 Doesn't Lucky Chuckie want to come out?
charlie		Who?
peggy		You know. Your love machine... the throbbing thrill hammer... your thing!
charlie		You mean my wang? Listen, it's running real late.
charlie		What is this? What the hell is going on? One week you say, "If you love me you won't", now you say "If you love me you will".  Excuse me. That's a guy's line!
peggy		This is a mistake. We better forget it.
charlie		You're damn right! Jesus! Peggy! You sure know how to spoil a mood.
peggy		I'm sorry Charlie.
charlie		Save it.
monica		What would you like?
peggy		Monica? Aren't you Monica Hines?
monica		Yes. Who are you?
peggy		Ah... never mind. Can I have a coffee, please? And a cinnamon cruller.  How's Bobo?
monica		Twenty cents, please.
peggy		You're kidding?
peggy		I was impressed with what you said in English class today.
michael		Gilfond's okay, except he thinks Hemingway's great Literature.
peggy		You don't?
michael		 He's a fisherman! The most overrated writer of the century. I mean, he's the perfect American author  fat, violent, drunk...
peggy		Maybe you're confusing his life with his work.
michael		A writer's life is his work. Jack Kerouac doesn't have to kill a bull to have something to write about. He's out there feeling, burning... grooving on life!
peggy		The young man leaned back in his chair. No bulls would die today.
michael		What're you doing here anyway?
peggy		Coffee and a donut.
michael		I thought chicks like you traveled in packs.
peggy		Hey, man, I'm a hip chick.
dolores		Terry, slow down.
terry		Okay.
dolores		Terry! Slow down.
terry		What, why?
dolores		There's Peggy with Michael Fitzsimmons.
terry		That commie beatnik? What's she doing with him? Wait'll I tell Charlie.
dolores		First a nerd and then a weirdo. What a bunch of nose pickers. I'll tell Charlie.
michael		This is great reefer.
peggy		Yeah. I'm surprised. It's really old...  You know, the world looks a lot better from up here.
michael		The world is fantastic. It's the ultimate absurd circus. I am shot from a cannon into the energy.
peggy		What are you shooting for?
michael		Maximum intensity. Yeah. I can't wait to get out of here. I'm gonna write. I'm gonna check out of this bourgeois motel. Push myself away from the dinner table and say 'No more JellO for me, Mom.'
peggy		Don't you get along with your parents?
michael		The only thing my father digs is cold, green money. All my mother cares about is her standing at the country club.
peggy		They care about you. They're just a different generation.
michael		Hey what's with you? I thought you were cool. You rode my bike. You blew some pot.  What's your scene Miss Majorette? You gonna marry Mr. Blue Impala and graze around with all the other sheep for the rest of your life?
peggy		I already did that. I want to be a dancer, I want to dance.
michael		You know, I had you pegged all wrong.
michael		A ray of oneness piercing the solitude. Falling bodies in the ecstasy of flesh. You'll be a chapter in my memoirs of desire.
peggy		Is that one of your poems?
michael		No, I just made that up. Do you want to hear one?
peggy		I'd love to.
peggy		Michael... you're as good as you looked.
michael		I'll respect you for eternity.  I didn't write that. That's Yeats.
peggy		I envy you. You have your whole life ahead of you and you know exactly what you want to do.  But forget the rat puke; write something beautiful.
peggy		You know, this isn't really happening.
milkman		Your parents are waiting up. You know, I see a lot of this in the spring. Good luck.
peggy		Thanks, Ralph.
peggy		I went for a drive. Up in the hills.
peggy		It's not Charlie. It's me.
peggy		At my age? Don't be silly.
peggy		Dad.. it's not a big deal. Didn't you ever stay out all night when you were young?
peggy		Calm down. Just listen for a minute.. Please.
peggy		I want to help with the family finances. I want you to buy some stocks. And gold. By 1980 gold is going to be worth eight hundred dollars an ounce. Then you sell.
peggy		I think they're going to deregulate it.
peggy		Oh boy, that's another thing that's going to change. Who's going to think for us? Our husbands? You know, you treat Mom like a maid. It's not entirely your fault. Those were the attitudes in the fifties, and that's the way you raised me. But give Nancy a break, encourage her to go to art school.
peggy		Listen Dad, please. Buy IBM, buy Polaroid, buy Apple Computer. No, no. Not yet. Buy Xerox!
peggy		Way to go, Mom!
richard		The way I see it, you have an unparalleled opportunity to become the richest woman in the world.
peggy		I'm just not the type. Besides, I want to get out of here.
richard		But you have a vision. Don't you want to help your parents?
peggy		I tried to tell them, but they wouldn't listen to me.
richard		I'm talking about invention, no investment. I know what people think of me. Mr. Spasmatician. Dick the Square Root. I'll show them. You said I was going to be a millionaire. And you're gonna help!
peggy		Richard, take it easy.
richard		No offense, but for a person who says she's lived an extra lifetime, you certainly are thick. Money is power.. Money makes people respect you...
peggy		How come you never ask me any important questions? Don't you wonder if there's going to be a nuclear war? Or a cure for cancer? What about your family? What about people?
richard		I'm curious, but I don't want to know. Jeez, I hope you haven't been telling people what's going to happen to them.
peggy		Give me some credit, will you?
richard		Good. You're discreet. I like that in a partner.
peggy		Wbat're you talking about?
richard		Look it's very simple. You tell me everything that hasn't been invented yet, and I'll invent it. We'll be partners. Fiftyfifty.
peggy		Sixtyforty.
ri chard		That's not fair.
peggy		Okay, find yourself another vision.
richard		You're taking advantage of a minor.
peggy		When do we start?
waitress		Do you know what you want?
richard		A Ton on a Bun, with fries.
waitress		And you?
peggy		Quiche Lorraine, spinach salad and a Perrier.
peggy		Dry cleaners. No real change. Just higher prices.
peggy		Ah. This is a biggie. Forget sneakers. Running shoes, jogging shoes, tennis shoes. Fifty to two hundred dollars a pair.
richard		Come on. You can't be serious.
peggy		There are major fortunes to be made here. Leisure time and lifestyles.
richard		Are you talking ~about exercise? Like gym?
peggy		Not for you. Okay, there's lots more.
peggy		Look at that stuff. It's like the dark ages. This is more your speed. And boy, do I know this business.
richard		Let's see...  icrowavemays, ocketpay alculatorcays...
peggy		You don't have to use pig Latin! Nobody could possibly know what we're talking about.
richard		All right. These are the choices: microwave ovens, pocket calculators, Walkmans, digital watches and miniature TV's.
peggy		Oh.    And huge portable radios. Everything else gets small, but for some reason, portable radios get enormous.
peggy		I'll be right back.
peggy		Richard! They don't have any! They never heard of them! Isn't that wonderful?
richard		What are you talking about?
peggy		The wave of the future! I've decided on our first fortune! I'll see you later. You just think high tech.
richard		High tech. I like the sound of that.
peggy		Woody! How ya doing?
peggy		Nice to see you.
gentleman		I'll just take the Ravel.
charlie		Take the Shostakovich home and listen to it. Let it grow on you. Everyone that's bought it has come back and said, "This is definitive Shostakovich. Thank you for encouraging me to investigate it."
gentleman		Well, I did enjoy the Dvorak you suggested. Young man, you talked me into it.
charlie		You'll like it. I kid you not.
peggy		What do you know about classical music?
charlie		Nothing.. Selling is selling.
peggy		Charlie. About last nights..
charlie		Forget it. I've been thinking. Girls must go through that stuff too. Sometimes when I look at you I feel like an animal. Maybe my dad's right. Teenagers are nuts.
peggy		But I'm not. I'm a grown woman with a lifetime of emotional experiences you couldn't possibly understand.
charlie		Yeah, I know. Girls mature faster than guys. But last night, I was the one who put on the brakes. And you know why?
peggy		Why?
charlie		Because nothing else matters. That's the great thing about love. Every time we argue, every time something goes wrong, and I know that I'm not perfect either, things just work out better in the end. Cause you're my baby and I love you.
peggy		What am I going to do with you?
charlie		Don't be cruel to a heart that's true.
peggy		Hi, Dad.
peggy		Open it.
peggy		I closed my Christmas club.
peggy		I wanted to apologize for this morning.
peggy		Quiet today?
peggy		The hat business is in trouble.
peggy		Yes.
peggy		But when John F. Kennedy's elected President, men'1l stop wearing hats.
peggy		 He'll win.
nancy		You think this'll cheer Dad up?
peggy		Of course, he'll love it. You're a terrific artist.
nancy		Does this mean we're going to be poor?
carol		All right. What's the scoop?
peggy		On what?
maddy		How come we're your best friends and we had to find out about you and Michael Fitzsimmons from Dolores?
peggy		She's unbelievable. Who needs satellites when we've got Dolores's mouth?
carol		I hear she does more than talk with her mouth.
maddy		That's disgusting!
carol		 Oh, Maddy, grow up. It says in LOVE WITHOUT FEAR that "the tongue kiss as a means of genital stimulation is widely practiced and has much to commend it". Page eightysix.
peggy		Did you memorize the whole book or only the good parts?
carol		Just what you underlined.
peggy		You're kidding...? Carol, you have beautiful hair.
carol		Come on. What's with you and Michael?
maddy		Yeah. He's so cool and mysterious.
peggy		He's very interesting. For all his pretending to be a tough guy, he's really got the soul of a poet.
carol		I bet Dolores told Charlie.
peggy		That loudmouthed little bitch~
maddy		Peggy Sue!
carol		You better watch out for her. She's after Charlie.
peggy		Cool it kids. He's free to see other girls, if he wants.
maddy		But I always thought that you would marry Charlie, Carol would marry Walter, and I would marry Arthur. We'd all live on the same street and take our kids to the park together and have barbecues every Sunday. It'll spoil everything if you and Charlie break up. That Michael doesn't look like the barbecue type.
peggy		I'm not going to marry him. I just went out with him once.  I know! Why don't we go to the movies tonight. Just us girls. It'll be fun.
carol		Don't be silly. It's Saturday. Date night!
maddy		Yeah. I've gotta go. Arthur's picking me up soon.
peggy		Okay. But let's have a girls night soon. Maybe a pajama party.
carol		Aren't we a little old for that?
maddy		Sometimes you're so immature.
peggy		Ta da! Pantyhose! The death of the garter belt! Of course, once they're manufactured they'll look better than this. What do you think?
peggy		Instead of a girdle. And light as a feather.
peggy		And we won't just sell them in department stores. We'll market them in drug stores and supermarkets.
peggy		You need a partner. There's a friend of mine at school whose father makes seat covers for cars, Mr. Fitzsimmons. I've invited him and his family over for dinner tomorrow night.
peggy		We've got to move fast. This is an idea whose time has come.
peggy		Wrong, Dad. Your idea.
peggy		Charlie. I just had the strangest dream.
charlie		 I have to talk to you..
peggy		What are you doing here?
charlie		 Let's go down to the basement.
charlie		I want to know what's going on. Dolores told me that you and that scuzzball Michael Fitzsimmons...
peggy		I bumped into him after you dropped me off Last night. I didn't feel like going home, so we went for a ride.
charlie		 Then it's true, dammit! I had a miserable time tonight 'cause of you. When the Monotones did "Book of Love  Chapter Four you break up, won't you give it just one more chance..." I'm thinking Did we break up? 'Cause if we did, I don't even know about it!. I thought we cleared all that up yesterday. Did that Maynard G. Beatnik give you what you wanted?
peggy		You know I never could stand your sarcasm.
charlie		You're going to blow it, Peggy Sue. Nobody treats Charlie Bodell like this.
peggy		And why do you always refer to yourself in the third person, like Napoleon? How come it always turns into an argument with you?
charlie		Look, I've got the hair, got the eyes, got the teeth, I got the car. I'm the lead singer, I'm the man.
peggy		Charlie,. I've been trying to postpone this. But what's the point? It's over.  I don't want to hurt you. This is very hard for me. I'm doing this for both of us. I really want you to be happy.
charlie		I will be happy if I have you. I love you.
peggy		That won't make any difference. We just can't live together. And you had the nerve to drive up with that bimbo Janet.
charlie		What are you talking about? Who's Janet?
peggy		I just can't trust you anymore.
charlie		What about everything I said to you this afternoon...
peggy		That's just it. You can always get to me. There's this window in my heart and every time I leave it open, you climb in. Unless I close it now, nothing's ever going to be different!
charlie		But what has to be different?
peggy		Everything. I have a good head for business, I should be franchising the bakery. And I want you to give me your word that whatever happens, you'll go to college. And finish.
charlie		What! What about the group and my singing career? What about me?
peggy		I'm trying to save you years of frustration... waiting for a big break... no. Waiting for that big disappointment so you could blame it all on me.
charlie		You don't know zip! You think I'm going to end up selling appliances like my father? Chasing women around the store. I've got to give it a shot. Why are you trying to kill the two things that mean the most to me? Until yesterday you loved me and you loved us.  What the hell has changed? For two years I've done nothing but love you. I'll show you, I'm going to be just like Fabian!
peggy		 Hello, Grandma. It's Peggy Sue. Much better. How are you? I'm very sorry about the other day.
peggy		 Hi, Richard.
richard		What are you doing?
peggy		Jogging. I was running, now I'm jogging.
richard		That's what you were talking about yesterday? Everybody does that in the future?
peggy		Yep. It's going to be a law.  I broke up with Charlie last night.
richard		That's terrific. You did it. You really changed the course of your destiny.
peggy		It was an unfair fight. He didn't have a chance. I'm taking a real gamble. I loved him for a long, long time.
richard		Cheer up. Now you can give some other guy a shot. Make it up to him later and buy him a yacht.
peggy		For God's sake, forget the money! I'm going crazy! I'm a walking anachronism. I'm a puddle of deja I'm worried about my kids, Scott must be scared to death, I think my daughter's doing drugs again. I can't have any fun here, I don't have that innocence any more. I can't keep all this in anymore. I feel Like I'm going to explode.
richard		Look, the best scientific mind in this country is working on your case. May I make a suggestion?
peggy		Like what?
richard		 Suggestion! Hypnotic suggestion! Why didn't I think o~ that before?
peggy		What do you know about hypnosis?
richard		Everything. This is perfect. The subconscious mind remembers all. You can give me more information on microchips and then pinpoint what happened at the reunion. Maybe that'll give us a clue on how to get you back.
peggy		Look, I'm desperate. I'll try anything. But what if you can't snap me out of it?
richard		No offense, but you're pretty out of it now.
richard		You are completely relaxed. When I count to three, you will open your eyes. One... two... three.  We'll start with something easy. What is your name?
peggy		 I'm not sure.
richard		Oh boy. Peggy, what are microchips?
peggy		Ah..... they're very tiny... they look like a fingernail made out of an erector set...
richard		What will they be made of?
peggy		I think it's called silicon. Charlie told me that.
richard		Silicon is from sand.
peggy		We were lying in the sand. It was my eighteenth birthday... We were so awkward... I would have married him anyway...
richard		In the future, will you have to marry a girl before you have sex with her?
peggy		No. The Pill will change all that. Then he wouldn't have blamed me. We were just too young.
richard		You mean you'll give a girl a pill and she'll want to have sex?
peggy		No. The Pill will be for birth control. But girls do like sex. Maybe not the first time.
richard		Will you take of f your blouse?
peggy		Yes, every day.  Maybe I shouldn't have worn that dress? I told Beth it was a bad idea. That's why they made me Queen.
richard		 Oh shit! Peggy, I'm going to snap you out of it.
peggy		I couldn't help it  I loved him.
richard		One... two... three.  You are now awake.
peggy		Richard! You should be ashamed of yourself.
richard		Me? You went crazy! You started taking your clothes off. I was putting them back on for you.
peggy		That's just perfect isn't it? Did it work? Did you find out why I came back?
richard		I think it has something to do with your birthday. You were rambling. I didn't understand the rest.
peggy		God dammit! How'm I gonna got out of here?
richard		Hey! Do you have any idea how much those beakers cost? I usually charge for hypnosis.
peggy		Oh, go feel up your hamsters! I hear rodents put out.
peggy		Mom, how about a machine that's like your blender, only it slices vegetables, kneads dough, chops meat and even make fresh pasta?
mrs kelcher		What's pasta?
peggy		No, just a friend of mine. I don't think he Likes JellO.
peggy		You know Mom, it's okay to have male friends. Besides, it's over with me and Charlie.
peggy		Yeah, I know Peggy Sue gets married. Case closed. Period. Mom, if you could live your life over again, would you do the same thing? Get married and settle down after high school?
peggy		Why?
nancy		But Mom helped.
peggy		It's incredibly difficult to make money in the restaurant business. You have to get up at five in the morning to go to the market, you have problems with spoilage, employee pilferage, and just try and collect from the credit card companies. They take months to pay.
peggy		Oh, I just picked it up from my dad. He's a wonderful businessman.
michael		That was quite an evening. Bourgeois, phony, decadent, stupid.
peggy		I shouldn't have put you through that. It must have been agony. Let's do something.
peggy		No. Something else. I'm too full. Besides, it's a school night.
michael		Five more weeks of school. And ten minutes past graduation I'm gone.  To freedom.
peggy		 For everyone.
michael		Now listen, this is the plan. As soon as school is finished we go to Utah and...
peggy		Utah? I thought you'd be going to New York or Paris. What's in Utah?
michael		Rita. I met her last summer. She's cool. You'll really dig her. She's got this great little cabin in the hills, just outside of Provo where she raises chickens. I'll write and the two of you can take care of the chickens to support us.
peggy		 I can't do that.
michael		Why not? Polygamy's legal in Utah.
peggy		I hate chickens.
singer		Thank you. Now we're happy to introduce, a friend of ours. He's one damn fine singer, Mr. Charlie Dell!
michael		But what about the other night? We were like two stars in the same constellation.
peggy		Michael, you and I are light years apart. You should go, but not with me.
michael		But we had heat baby. Passion! Fire! We owe it to ourselves to fuse together.  At least one more time.
peggy		That's a terrific line. You're going to be a wonderful writer.
michael		You think so?
peggy		Yes. We had a glorious night together. One day you'll remember and write about it.
michael		I can dig that. Bittersweet perfection. Dogs of lust on leashes of memory... yeah.
michael		Now I get it.
peggy		Ssh. He's great.
michael		Peggy Sue's still stuck on treble without a cause.
peggy		I thought I knew everything about him.
michael		Can we split now?
michael		I can dig you being uptight about Rita and Utah. That's cool. But I've got to warn you about something.
peggy		What?
michael		My father. He's not just the ultimate square. He's a total crook.
peggy		How did it go with the pantyhose?
peggy		Oh no!
peggy		He's a liar! He has no such thing! It's my own fault. I should have had it patented first. He's a crook, damnit.
peggy		Oh, you're both so naive.
charlie		What're you doing here?
peggy		I wanted to talk to you, and I have one last thing to take care of at school. Then I'm going to...  Good dog, Rusty. Good dog.
charlie		Rusty's dead. That's Ajax
peggy		Oh. I guess I always liked Rusty better.  Could you give me a ride to school?
charlie		Sorry, the Blue Thunder's out of commission for a while.
peggy		Well, how about a walk, Charlie Bell..
charlie		How'd you know about that?
peggy		I was at Lena's last night. You were terrific.
charlie		Not terrific enough. What were you doing in that part of town? Who were you with?
peggy		What were You doing there? You never told me you were singing with an R and B group.
charlie		Hey. I guess there's a lot of things we don't know about each other.
peggy		I'd forgotten how much music meant to you.
charlie		That's real big of you.
peggy		Stop being defensive. I want to help you. I wrote a song for you.
charlie		You're kidding. You wrote a song? Is it about a guilty girl and a trusting guy... she wants to hurt him, and he wonders why?
peggy		Not exactly, but with your great voice, it'll be a huge hit. Honest.
charlie		Fat chance. You know, Lee Wilkins came to hear me last night. He told me to forget it. You told me to forget it. My parents tell me to forget it.
peggy		Just take a look at it. 
charlie		If you took the trouble to write it, then sure, I'll take a look at it. But I'm beginning to think that maybe there's more to life than music. I wonder if people would still like me if I stopped being Mr. Excitement?
charlie		Does this mean you like me again?
peggy		It means I care about you and what happens to you.
charlie		That's all I wanted to hear. 'Cause I'm never going to give up on us. It's easy to fall apart in a crisis. It's easy to be selfish and say goodbye and good luck. But this is more than love. This is a mental decision. Just wait till tomorrow, when you see your birthday present. Then you'll understand.
carol		Peggy, I have to talk to you.
peggy		What's the matter?
carol		It's that jerk Walter.
peggy		What happened?
carol		After Charlie told Walter that he broke up with you because he wanted to play the field, Walter decided he should do the same thing.
peggy		Welcome to the singles' scene.
carol		What a I going to do for the rest of my life? I don't have a boyfriend anymore.
peggy		Look, Carol, maybe Walter's done you a big favor. You always said you wanted to get out of town. Go for it. And be happy, goddamnit, I'm rooting for you.
walter		Hey Charlie, what do you think of this?
charlie		Walter, maybe you should be a dentist.
dolores		What's the matter, princess? Lost your prince?
peggy		You know Dolores, there's a lot of things I could say to you, but you're not worth the effort.
peggy		Sorry. These fountain pens are so tricky.
dolores		 Oh! You did that on purpose! I hate you. Go gargle with razor blades!
peggy		I beg your pardon?
dolores		Take a long walk on a short pier.
peggy		Have a nice day.
peggy		Rosalie! Wait!
rosalie		What's up?
peggy		I think you should give up diving. It's dangerous.
rosalie		Don't be silly, I'm the best in the county.
peggy		I know you are, but you have to stop. I couldn't tell you before, I didn't know if I should. But you have to stop before you hurt yourself.
rosalie		I spend three hours a day practicing. I have trainers, I know what I'm doing.
peggy		But accidents can happen.
rosalie		Not to me they don't. I'm going to win the State, then the. Nationals, and then I'm going to the Olympics.
peggy		Rosalie, please, listen to me! You have to stop.
rosalie		You're sick. You should go to the nurse. I'm going to tell Miss Dennis.
richard		What's the matter?
peggy		It's all, gone wrong, nothing's working out.
richard		Not true.  I think I'm making real progress on the microchip.
peggy		You were meant to. You're one of those fortunate people that good things happen to. I have to get out of here.
richard		Peggy, I believe you. I believe everything you told me. It's wonderful. You're the exception that proves the rule.
peggy		I love you too, Richard. Thanks for trying.
charlie		Hey, Peggy. Wait a minute.
charlie		I cut shop and did some work on your song. You know, it's not half bad for your first try. Of course, I changed all the "yeahs" to "oohs". Listen to this.
peggy		Forget it, it'll never work.
charlie		Okay. Listen, I cancelled the tickets for Fabian. I thought it would be better for your birthday to eat at a nice restaurant, Chez Tres.
bus driver		Everybody gettin' off at Dumont. Here we are.
peggy		Thank you.
man		No trouble at all.
barney		Hello, Lilla!
elizabeth		Peggy Sue!
barney		Quite a bit more rain than usual this year. I hope it doesn't spoil the rhubarb.
elizabeth		I've already got some in. I was thinking of making a pie for dinner tonight.  How would you like that?
peggy		 Grandma, would you teach me how to make strudel?
elizabeth		That's a day's work. But if that's what you want, maybe we can do it tomorrow for your birthday.
barney		What's the matter, Lilla? Somebody jump on your grave?
elizabeth		You know, Peggy Sue, your mother said you had a dream that I died.
peggy		I wish she hadn't.
elizabeth		I'm not afraid. I know exactly when I'm going to die.
barney		What's it going to be, Elizabeth? Seventyfive? Eighty?
elizabeth		I'm not telling.
barney		I've been trying to drag it out of her for years.  You know, dreams are fascinating business. 'Specially where you see the future.
peggy		Do you believe in all of that?
barney		Well, I like to speculate. This book I'm reading right now, a woman in Colorado says she lived in Ireland a hundred and fifty years ago. Her name was Bridey Murphy- and she gives names and dates and where she lived. She was hypnotized. Big bestseller.
peggy		I remember that book!  Grandpa, Grandma, I want to tell you something.
elizabeth		If you believe it, darling, then I believe. Being young can be just as confusing as being old. The things that happened to me fifty years ago are more on my mind than what happened yesterday.
peggy		But I'm remembering the future.
elizabeth		Right now you're just browsing through time. Choose the things you'll be proud of. The things that Last.
peggy		My children make me happy. I miss them so much.  I'm going to name my daughter after you.
barney		It's gonna rain again. Every time I wash the car, it rains.
peggy		That never changes.  You know, when you and Grandma are gone, the family's gone. I never see the cousins anymore.
barney		It's your grandma's strudel that's kept this family together.
peggy		Grandpa, if you had a chance to do it all again, what would you do?
barney		 I'd take better care of my teeth.
elizabeth		What's Peggy Sue going to do at your lodge meeting?
barney		It's her 18th birthday, I want to show her off.
peggy		It was my idea, Grandma. I always wondered what went on at those lodge meetings.
elizabeth		He won't tell me, but I've got my suspicions. And I don't want any of that. Don't keep her out late.
barney		Let's go.
peggy		 Goodbye, Grandma.
elizabeth		Have a good time.
peggy		What does Grandma think you do at your meetings?
barney		Stag movies. Smokers.
barney		I may be an old fool, but I think we can help you.
peggy		I hope so. At least I got to see you and Grandma.  Has it ever worked before?
barney		The last one was six hundred years ago. It's about time for another one.
george		Welcome, Peggy Sue. It's nice to have you with us.
peggy		Thank you.
henry		You know, you're a lucky girl. You could lay a bear trap in the aisle of the cathedral and never catch a better man than your grandfather.
peggy		Ah... thank you.
barney		Let me take your jacket, Lilla. I've got, to get my robe.
al		You know, this is very exciting for all of us.
george		We've been waiting a long time for someone like you.
peggy		 Do you have to wear that hat?
barney		It wouldn't be a lodge without hats.
barney		Don't you worry. I'll be watching after you.
henry		Hey, George. Get the lights.
leo		 Are you ready, dear?
peggy		Yes, sir.
peggy		Fasten your seat belts. Here we go.
leo		Lord of the Universe, Vast and Mighty One. Ruler of Light, King of~ the sun. Creator of earth, air, fire and water.  We adore thee and invoke thee! Grant thine aid. Look with favor upon us as we witness the regeneration of man. We behold the innocent endeavors of singleminded men and women. For we are the company of unbodied souls and immortal angels. We ask thy intervention, that this girl may return to thee on the wings of your Love.
peggy		 This is never going to work.
men		Fount of life, Chariot of the Spirit, Womb of the Mother, reclaim thy child of light.
george		 Well, the girl's gone. Let's play some poker.
peggy		What the hell did you do that for? What are you doing here?
charlie		I was trying to save you. They were going to vaporize you.
peggy		Don't be ridiculous! They're just a bunch of harmless old men. My grandfather was in there.
charlie		You're going to listen to me.
peggy		I'm not getting in that blue monstrosity.
peggy		Let me got! Where are you taking me?
charlie		Right here. Now sit down.
charlie		Look. I wanna tell you. I forgive you for everything. I know what you've been going through. You're just scared. I was scared, too, but I'm not anymore.
peggy		How could you possibly know what I've been going through?
charlie		Because I love you, damnit! I had a long talk with your father yesterday and we decided that the best thing for us to do is get married and settle down. Right away.
peggy		What do you mean you and my father decided? Who the hell are you to plan my life? Let's get married and live happily ever after. Bullshit. I got knocked up. I had to marry you. I never had a choice.
charlie		What?
peggy		You betrayed me, Charlie. You were never there for me or the children. And now you come and tell me, "Peggy, you're scared." Of course I'm scared. If you knew what I knew you'd be scared shitless.
charlie		You're crazy! You're really out of your mind!
peggy		I might be crazy, but I'm not crazy enough to marry you twice. There's a lot of things I can't change. I can't even think about them. I tried. But I couldn't even help Rosalie.  I don't want to be bitter. I'm a naturally optimistic person. But you took advantage of that.
charlie		Oh, Peggy. My poor Peggy. It's all my fault. I'm so sorry. I won't bother you anymore. I promise. Please stop crying. Please.
peggy		Will you take me back to my grandparents?
charlie		Of course.
charlie		It's almost your birthday. I wasn't sure when you were coming back, so I brought your present up here.
peggy		 Oh, Charlie.
charlie		It opens, too. Look inside.
peggy		Scott and Beth. Where did you get these?
peggy		So are Scott and Beth.
charlie		 I love you.
peggy		I know.
charlie		I think we should get out of here. It's going to rain.
peggy		 Do you think anybody in the Fifties ever made love on a bed?
charlie		What the hell is that?
charlie		Peggy! Where're you going? Come back!
peggy		I've got to go now.
charlie		But I love you. I'll love you forever.
peggy		I'll love you, too, Charlie. I'll love you for twenty years.
charlie		Come back to me.
peggy		I'm trying.
charlie		Richard, do something!
richard		I can't! It's out of control!
charlie		Peggy!
charlie		. Peggy Sue, I love you, and I need you Peggy Sue...
peggy		Charlie? Was I dead?
charlie		I thought you were...for a while.
peggy		 You look awful, like you haven't slept in days. And so old.
charlie		But happy. Very happy, Peggy Sue.
peggy		Charlie, I thought I knew everything about you.
charlie		I wanted to apologize. I can't live without you.
peggy		What about Janet?
charlie		That's over. I got tired of translating everything. She thought the Big Hopper was a hamburger.
peggy		Who are all the flowers from?
charlie		Everyone.  Maddie and Arthur, Carol and Walter. Richard Norvick.  And here's a book, by that guy from high school, Michael Fitzsimmons. He dedicated it to you.
peggy		It couldn't be me.  I hardly knew him.
charlie		I'll just set it right here.
peggy		Charlie, I had a strange experience.  I went back to high school. And I spent a lot of time with you.  And you and Walter and Leon were singing "I Wonder Why".
charlie		Oh, God, Dion.
peggy		You were terrific.  And I kept trying to push you away but you wouldn't give up.
charlie		I'll never give up.
peggy		Then hold me.
charlie		I loved you since the day I met you, and I haven't stopped.
peggy		Don't try to charm me, Charlie Bodell.
charlie		Listen, I don't expect all the troubles between us can just vanish away. But I would do what I can...
piggy		Charlie, please, I need some time.
charlie		Well, I'll let you get some rest...so long.
peggy		Charlie, I would like to invite you to dinner at home, on Sunday, with your kids. I will make a strudel.
richard		You know, Peggy, there's so many things to look forward to in the future.
peggy		I came to say goodbye.
richard		Goodbye? Where're you going? What about our partnership? I'm making real progress with the microchip.
peggy		You were meant to  You're one of those fortunate people that good things happen to.
richard		So are you. You've got a vision.
peggy		 Vision? I'm a walking anachronism! I've upset my parents. I miss my kids. I could be trapped here forever! And poor Charlie...I got pregnant on my 18th birthday and we had to get married. Tomorrow's my birthday! I've got to get out of here now.
richard		Did you break up with Charlie?
peggy		Yeah, yeah. I'm taking a big gamble. I've loved him for a long, long time.
richard		Okay. Why don't we do something visionary. Change your destiny, Peggy Sue. Change your destiny and marry me.
peggy		 No! No! No! Peggy Sue got married! Case closed. I don't want to marry anybody. Goodbye Richard.
richard		Wait! I'll go with you!
peggy		You can't. You're going to be Valedictorian.
****Dialogues from script :Perfect_Creature.txt****

shooting script		 14 May 2004
lilly		For three hundred years the great plagues have swept the earth. Diseases created from the experiments of the Alchemists.
genetic doctor		 See here. This is what you need to look for.
genetic doctor		 A genetic mutation, we all carry it. But we now know a virus activates it. 3
genetic doctor		 This Virus plays some unknown role in the birth the Brothers. Of course the mutation occurs very rarely these days. And only in males.
genetic doctor		 Strange isn't?
genetic doctor		That God would choose such humble vehicle for a miracle. The mothers invariably come from the slums, we don't know why.  This is your 7th isn't it? 4
genetic doctor		 You'll have to try harder this time.
genetic doctor		What is it?
genetic doctor		Don't be stupid woman!
augustus		This is your brother Silus. You will teach him.
augustus		No, not any more.
augustus		 Welcome to the world little Brother.
dissolve to:		6
augustus		The girl?
augustus		This is good.
silus		Augustus. We failed this girl. We asked her to help us catch him, and then we failed her.
augustus		Yes. But her death served a greater good. Every trap needs bait.
augustus		 Are you sure you won't join me?
silus		Perhaps this is beyond us. Perhaps we should inform the authorities. The human beings.
augustus		For now the Brothers feel we should deal with this ourselves. 10
silus		If they find out we are covering up these deaths...
augustus		Which is why you must find him. Silus.
augustus		 For centuries we Brothers have served mankind and them us. The great union. But remember your history. 300 years ago when our kind were first born into this world they burnt our children as monsters. They had no notion of evolution. In another world we might all have been slaughtered, only to be remembered in myth, monsters to frighten the young or a puzzle for anthropologists. We must refuse to let one aberrant individual destroy the balance between the two races. The old prejudices are still there. Human beings are paranoid creatures by nature.
silus		Perhaps they have good reason.
augustus		Silus. Simply concern yourself with finding Edgar. Find your Brother so that we can help him. Before he kills again.
jones		Everyone's ready Lilly.
lilly		About time.
lilly		 On three gents. One, two...
jones		 Don't you move!
lilly		 Don't you dare.
lilly		 Jones! 12
jones		God help us. What an appalling sight.
slum landlord		I don't know nothing about it. I give 'em out. Make sure everyone gets 'em.
jones		That's a lie! We know you've been trading influenza vaccine in the workhouses!
frank		Lil'. I think you should see this.
frank		I'd use the mask if I were you.
jones		You're a fucking liar!
slum landlord		No, no, I swear it, I gave 'em their boosters, both of 'em. I'm a responsible landlord, I swear to god. There must've been something wrong with them vaccines.
jones		This is a civil health violation! You're going to the hell house for this. You can forget lovely Doris here where you're going.
slum landlord		I don't know what you're on about. I've done nothing, I swear to god, I've done nothing.
lilly		It is my pleasure to inform you that you are under arrest for trafficking influenza vaccine.
slum landlord		I want my lawyer.
lilly		This is a violation of the 12/10 health act, whereby you have withheld borough sponsored vaccines from your tenants.
slum landlord		I want a lawyer!
lilly		Anything you say will be held against you as evidence and, by endangering the public good, you are not entitled to a lawyer.
slum landlord		Fuck you then.
lilly		There's only one other thing.
prostitute		Oi! How about me? He promised me some of that. I earned it.
frank		 Come one!
jones		Lil', you want some?
lilly		Smells terrible.
jones		I'm not letting that scum put me off my food. That'd be like a moral victory.
lilly		I'll get out here.
frank		You sure? 16
frank		 What's up with her?
frank		 Jones? Is she alright?
jones		Yeah. Lilly's kid. It died of the influenza, didn't it.
frank		She's never said anything about a kid.
jones		No. She never says anything.
kid		Hey?! Hey! 18
kid		Don't, I didn't do nothing. It was a Brother. It was a Brother did it.
augustus		300 years ago, with these simple instruments, the alchemist Guiseppi De Angelo discovered what we today call genetic science. 19
augustus		 He deciphered that the Brothers were a new race of beings, sent by god, to serve and protect you.
augustus		 De Angelo formed the church of the Brotherhood. He was a great great man, but there were others, bad men, who took what De Angelo had discovered and experimented without concern for the results. The science of genetics and all its power has been banned ever since. Who can tell me what came from these bad experiments?
augustus		 Yes.
child		All the bad things. Like bad germs and flu.
augustus		Yes. That's right.
augustus		 All the bad things.
jones		Someone should flatten this cesspool and start again.
street reporter		Marm? The Tribune. Do you have any comments on the death?
lilly		No.
street reporter		They're saying it was a Brother, is that true?
lilly		Arrest her.
lilly		 Find any witnesses and shut them up.
lilly		Can I step in?
forensic guy		With the traffic. What's it matter. 21
dominic		Lil'.
lilly		Hello Dominic.
dominic		Have you seen it?
dominic		 It's a bite. If you know what I mean?
lilly		Any identification?
lilly		 Tanya Garfield.
jones		 Where do you get a cup of tea around here?
jones		 There's a kid who saw it, down there. 22
jones		 Says it was a Brother. And they've got another fellow, that's all who saw it.
lilly		Alright, we'll close this down gents. None of you are to say a word, not even to your old mother.
lilly		 Jones. Make sure.
lilly		 He saw what happened?
policeman 1		Now he wont talk. Didn't see anything.
lilly		What's your name?
lilly		 Stop that.
lilly		 What's your name then? 23
kid		 Albert.
lilly		You live around here?
lilly		 I grew up 3 streets from here. Matheson Lane. The Skrummers Workhouse.
kid		 You did?
lilly		Or should I say, I crawled out of here.
lilly		 No one else will do anything about this, you know? They just think this is a slum. No one really cares what happens to the people here. Except for you. And me.
lilly		 What did you see?
kid		A man.
lilly		What kind of man?
kid		A Brother.
lilly		You're sure it was a Brother?
kid		He had teeth and everything. 24
lilly		Where did he go?
kid		He went straight up there.
lilly		Alright, you go with these men, they'll look after you. I promise.
lilly		 Get him to describe it all. And keep him away from everyone.
lilly		 And get him some food.
jones		Now they'll all want feeding.
lilly		 I've quarantined the neighborhood.
lilly		 As far as anyone knows we have a new influenza outbreak.
anderson		What about the telephonic companies?
lilly		They're cooperating, closing all phone lines in and out except directly to us.
anderson		Sit, sit.
anderson		 You've done well Lilly. The reporter is more of a problem. We have 2 days by law before we have to release her. Then it's out.
anderson		 I hate these things. I'm like a pin cushion.
lilly		It's better than the alternative, sir. 26
anderson		I need you to stay with this, Lilly. You know Jamestown better than anyone, how to handle the people.
anderson		 The Brothers have requested to be involved with the investigation.
lilly		That's nice for them.
anderson		You have a problem with it?
lilly		Not particularly.
anderson		Good. I think they can help. And I don't want someone working on this whose got something against the Church.
lilly		How do you know I don't?
anderson		Lilly, you're the least prejudiced person I know. In fact, you're the only one I know. That's important. The church is powerful, but more than that, people's faith in the Brotherhood is about all they've got these days. And the government knows it. Even the Queen herself is involved. This is political.
jones		Lil'. He's here. 27
steph		Do you know who he is? That's Brother Silus. They say one day he will lead the Brotherhood. He's a great man.
jones		I think I hear choir music.
steph		Do you respect anything?
jones		Hey. My old mum goes to church four times a week and gives blood. She's happy as a lark. Just don't expect me to kiss him, that's all I'm telling you.
lilly		Senior Brother Edgar... How long have you known about this?
silus		A matter of weeks.
silus		 Is there something wrong?
lilly		Yes. Withholding evidence. Covering up two murders. And no one's worried. If me or one of the people in Jamestown did that they'd be in the hell house with the key thrown away. It seems the church is able to do whatever it wants.
silus		You're right to not like it. It is political.
silus		 We thought we could find Brother Edgar ourselves. We were wrong. But now any debate is pointless.
silus		 The greatest danger is if this were to become public knowledge.
lilly		Wouldn't want anyone criticizing the church I suppose.
silus		It's more than that Captain. This is about prejudice, or rather the nature of it. As a female surely you would understand. 29
lilly		Really.
silus		How many other Captains in this borough are female?
lilly		None?
silus		How are your actions judged, the same or differently from the men.
lilly		Differently.
silus		Exactly. If a white man kills, then he is just a killer. If a black man kills, then all black men are suspect. That is the nature of prejudice. Those who are different are grouped together. If only one Brother does a bad thing then all Brothers are suspect, because we are different. And then what would this world be like, if there was no hope?
lilly		Alright then. So what do you suggest?
silus		First, there is something you should hear.
lilly		Ok, ok, quiet down.
lilly		 Gentlemen, there's no other way to put it. We have only 2 days to find the suspect.
jones		There's no chance. Not a hope in hell.
frank		He's right. We don't even know where to begin.
lilly		Quiet!
lilly		 What you are about to hear will not leave this room. Everyone understand? Jones?
lilly		 I would suggest anyone with a weak stomach leave now.
lilly		 This is Brother Silus.
silus		Thank you Captain. Could we have the plate? 31
silus		 Senior Brother Edgar. Until 3 weeks ago, he was a trusted and talented theologian and scientist.
dominic		What'd he do?
silus		He was personally responsible for developing the most recent influenza antivirals. It is because of him that most of you are alive today. His behavior appeared normal. Next.
silus		 The victims. John Anderson. Julie Danes. Tanya Garfield. All in their early 20's, but beyond that no obvious connection. Next.
silus		 There is no precedent for Brother Edgar's behavior. No Brother has ever taken a human life, not in the 300 years since we began. Not one. Our role has been to preserve and maintain the human life. Not take it.
jones		Next he'll be wanting an fucking medal.
silus		What I am saying to you is that Brother Edgar's behavior is aberrant. We 32
silus		 don't understand it. And therefore it's difficult to predict. The only thing we know is where he will strike next.
dominic		How do you know?
edgar		 Quiet.
edgar		 I said shut up!
jones		Fuck!
lilly		Jones, sit down.
jones		Why are we listening to this?!
lilly		Quiet!
edgar		 Good. Now you're quiet.
edgar		 Did you hear that Silus? I hope so.
edgar		 The next one will be tomorrow. There is a square, Bridge Square it's called. I will take the next one from there. You should try harder this time. Please try harder...
frank		He sent this to you. Specifically.
silus		We share the same mother. There is a bond.
lilly		There will be two teams. Frank, I want you and Abernathy up in the buildings around Bridge Square.
lilly		 I'll lead the other team with Dominic, Jones and Queen's Imperial Guard in support. No guns, batons only.
jones		What?
lilly		You heard me. He's to be taken alive.
silus		Yes.
lilly		Anything?
silus		No.
lilly		It's getting late.
silus		He will come.
lilly		Ok. We'll sit tight.
jones		This is a dud.
lilly		Frank?
frank		Yeah Lil'.
lilly		 Anything?
frank		Not a thing.
lilly		 Check each floor again.
frank		You heard her. Once more for the empire.  Low Angle from the floor of the two men beginning to climb the stairs, their guns out.  The shot stays where it is. We can see the stairs and the wall. We pause. The soundtrack is almost dead quiet, apart from the buzzing flouro above us. And then the CAMERA begins to advance, like a POV, heading for the wall ahead. It reaches the corner and then advances along cables running up to the roof. As it climbs we can see a ventilation shaft in the corner with no grill. The camera approaches it and moves into the shaft, continuous.
edgar		Shoo.
frank		Lil'! Lil'!
lilly		Frank.
frank		 He's on the sixth floor! He's on the sixth floor!
lilly		Let's go.
lilly		 Police. Get back inside. Get back.
jones		Lil'. 40
jones		 Fuck!
edgar		You're so strong.
jones		Lilly!
jones		 Oh shit shit.
dominic		Lilly's hurt. She's hurt!
dominic		 He's in the ventilation shaft! 41
jones		She's dying! She's fucking dying!
jones		 Get away from her!
jones		 Get away or I'll stick you!
silus		Do you want me to save her?
silus		 She is dying.
silus		 Lilly. Stop fighting now. Fall back, fall back...
dominic		He's getting away!!
silus		Quiet. 43
silus		 He's going up.
jones		Get out of my way.
silus		No.
jones		He killed Lilly.
jones		 Bang. 46
lilly		Antibiotics. They say it's like an animal bite.
lilly		 I want to thank you.
silus		We all caught Edgar.
lilly		I don't mean that. The blood, they say it saved my life. Is it true that people who go to church are given your blood?
silus		Sometimes the rituals call for it. Some say they have visions from it. That it restores their health. 47
lilly		So smooth.
lilly		 Healed already.
silus		In some ways my body is like a human embryo. The cells regenerate quickly. It is why we live so long. Will someone come for you? Your family?
lilly		I don't have one. Not any more.
silus		I see.
lilly		Influenza. My husband was quick. But my daughter, Mary, her little body fought it for a long time. So I just waited. Hoped. But then you realize how cruel hope is. And you just want it to end. Not to stop her suffering, but to stop my own.
silus		I am sorry.
lilly		Do we seem pathetic to you?
silus		No. Fragile. Worn down by nature. But you fight back. 48
lilly		Yes. We're good at that.
silus		I think yours will be a good life to watch, Lilly. Goodbye.
jones		Nicely done. You're more human than I thought.
augustus		Silus. You know Professor Liepsky.
silus		How is he?
professor liepsky		See for yourself.
silus		Is the brace necessary?
augustus		He decapitated a guard as they brought him in. Even though he was sedated. He said he will drink us all dry.
silus		Insane then. 50
professor liepsky		Not quite.
professor liepsky		 He's become infected.
silus		With what?
augustus		Go on, Brother Silus will soon be part of the inner circle of the Brotherhood. He should know this.
professor liepsky		If she wasn't restrained she would try to kill you. Don't worry, it's only transmissible through their blood. We designed it that way.
silus		Designed? 51
professor liepsky		Genetically designed. Edgar was experimenting with the virus that created you. It was sanctioned by the government.
silus		Since when do they sanction such things?
professor liepsky		Since not one Brother has been born in 70 years. And never a female of your kind from which we could breed. And we need to breed more Brothers. You give the world hope. To the people you're like gods walking the earth.
augustus		This is what Edgar was doing Silus. Trying to genetically control the birth of Brothers.
professor liepsky		And Edgar was successful. Each of these women carried a Brother, for a time. But, the virus... changed. Most of them have died and these will die soon.
professor liepsky		 And Edgar may be the first Brother to ever die. 52
professor liepsky		 Before that, his brain will wither like these women. Containment will be the issue.  Cut to
silus		 The police officer. Lilly. Did he infect her with this?
professor liepsky		 No. She was lucky. But it is in Edgar's blood. It always will be.
silus		Hello my Brother.
edgar		Do you like what they've done for me Silus?
silus		You are sick. We will help you if we can.
edgar		Help me? I am being what I was meant to be. How can you help me from that? Or do you want to tame me? Brainwash me? Animal or vegetable, are those the two choices, Silus?
edgar		 I want to share the feeling with you. To feel their blood flow until every last drop is yours, until that weak, pointless little pump finally stops.
edgar		 The one I had, the police woman. She was so strong. I found it hard to leave her.
edgar		 Is she dead?
silus		She survived.
edgar		Good. I will have her again.
silus		You won't touch her. 54
edgar		You've chosen to watch over her. You want her don't you? I can see it in your eyes. You are like me.
silus		I will pray for your cure, Brother.
edgar		I wont be able to forgive you for this you know? Not ever. In fact, when I get out of here...
edgar		 I will make you see. I will show you the way. I will see you drink your little police woman right through.
lilly		Take them away from here.
jones		You don't feel like a drink?
jones		 Now my girls, anyone hungry?
console operator		 If you don't stop that we'll use the gas. You hear me?
jones		 I knocked.
lilly		You nearly gave me a heart attack.
jones		What's this then?
steph		My apartment was condemned, keep your hair on, what's left of it.
tv presenter		...the ascension through the ranks of the Church has been fast for Brother Silus. He will now be the highest ranking cardinal outside the ruling council of the Brotherhood. This is largely seen as a reward for his handling of the last influenza pandemic.
steph		Isn't he amazing?
jones		A saint.
lilly		Quiet.
tv presenter		You have been an opponent of those who want an easing in the ban on genetic research.
silus		Yes.
tv presenter		They would say you're denying legitimate research into a science that would change the world.
silus		The church does not deny the potential. Only the motivations of those who want to exploit it. And the fact that we understand so little of its power.
tv presenter		With the elimination of influenza, are we approaching a new era where disease might be a thing of the past?
silus		Disease is part of nature, it will always be a part of our lives.
edgar		How true.
tv presenter		 Brother Silus' confirmation ceremony will be held today in the sacred Chapel of St. Augustine where all the Brotherhood will gather.
console operator		I turned off the lights to try and calm him...
console operator		 We gassed him as usual. We waited 10 minutes. He must have held his breath.
augustus		The blood flows, through them, to us and we preserve them, preserve the blood we are bound to protect.
silus		Let the blood be one and the two races join, as the Perfect Creature.
edgar		Today my brother enters the history books, Professor.
professor liepsky		 Move back!
edgar		Tonight all the Brothers will be with him. A perfect day for me to celebrate.
edgar		You won't be taking any more calls today.
augustus		Now he carries this thing out into the world. Can you imagine what will happen if he infects others? Or if the experiments were known.
silus		The question becomes what will he do next? He said he would kill us all. But especially the police officer. Lilly.
prostitute		Come on governor, you going to pay me or not?
freddy		Soon enough my cherub. I've not finished with you yet.
freddy		You've been ripping me off! I should blow your dirty little brains out!
steph		 Police! Put the gun down now!
freddy		It's ok. I'm complying officer, see.
steph		Put the gun on the ground and step away! 66
freddy		I'm doing it.
prostitute		He's crazy! Fucking crazy!
steph		 Down! Right now, down on the ground!
freddy		I'm getting wet now.
steph		Shut up!
steph		 Put your hands behind your back.
freddy		Sure. Anything you say.
edgar		Nice to meet you again.
freddy		What's wrong?
edgar		You brought me the wrong one.
freddy		Does it matter, one's as good as the next?
freddy		 You promised me some of that.
edgar		What do you see Freddy. Visions? Can you see your future?
freddy		Hey!
edgar		Don't be a greedy little pig Freddy. You have to earn more.
edgar		 We have more to do.
lilly		Police. Put your hands where I can see them!
parishoner		Holy brother, please...
lilly		Let him go.
lilly		 He's harmless. Let him go.
parishoner		Forgive me. I've offended you...
silus		No. You are divine. It is the world that offends me.
lilly		Brother Silus. What's going on?
jones		 A shopkeeper heard yelling. Went to see, found this. One witness. A prostitute.
jones		 She identified this lovely citizen. We thought maybe he had a grudge or was crazy. I guess we were wrong.
silus		It is Edgar.
lilly		And now he's got Steph. Why does he want her?
silus		She is not what he was after.
lilly		Steph was staying with me. She was wearing my coat. It was me he was after. Wasn't it?
silus		Yes. He will come for you Lilly.
jones		Right, then we put you somewhere safe and set up this place. Shooters on the roofs. And when he comes we blow his fucking brains out.
silus		He will know. He will see and hear it. 72
lilly		It has to be me. That's what he wants. It's the only chance Steph's got.
jones		What are you talking about, she's probably dead already...
lilly		Jones! And we can't make it too hard. He has to be able to get in. He can't suspect anything.
lilly		 That's the way it will be. I'm the bait.
steph		Help me. Please, I'm sick. Help me.
freddy		Don't fucking touch me.
freddy		Hey!
freddy		 Where've you gone now?
jones		What are you doing?
lilly		What is it? Jones?
silus		Stay here.
jones		Get back here, Lilly!  But Lilly shoves him off, opens the door and moves into the hall and waits. 77
lilly		Cover me.
edgar		You saved me...
edgar		 When will you admit it. You're just like me.
edgar		 Maybe you need some encouragement.
lilly		 Get him down.
jones		Lilly, wait! Damn you. Lilly!
lilly		If he escapes then Steph is dead. Just follow me when you can, hurry!
edgar		The little policewoman.
lilly		Don't move!
lilly		 I said don't move. Where is she, where's the girl?
edgar		Oh, I've killed her already. Essentially.
edgar		 Has he tasted you yet, little policewoman?
edgar		 He's just the same as me, you know it, you can feel it too.
lilly		He's nothing like you.
edgar		We will see. You will be my tool.
jump cut:		80
jones		You happy now?
freddy		You scared the shit out of me. Hey, the police woman. She's real sick. To tell the truth I don't feel so hot myself.
edgar		I want you to take her and put her where they'll find her.
freddy		But I'm sick. She's given me something...
edgar		What have I said to you?
edgar		 I hate arguments.
jones		Stephanie Richards, you just brought her in.
nurse		Thank god you're here.
jones		Will she recover?
doctor		No. Containment is the issue now. She is... insane. And we've had more cases, 10 in the last hour.
jones		What is this? What is it?
silus		It comes from Edgar. He has shared his blood with them.
jones		You're telling me that he's out there spreading this around?
jones		 He'll give it to Lilly!
dominic		Jones! Back off.
dominic		 This is spreading.
dominic		 Brother Silus?
jones		That's it, Lilly's dead.
silus		No. He will keep her alive.
dominic		Why?
silus		So that I will come for him. That's what he wants.
dominic		It says, "Everything flows from me. My blood will change the world." What does that mean?
edgar		It almost sounds like children playing, don't you think?
lilly		No.
edgar		I looked at your body. You have borne a child.
edgar		 Did you abandon it? Your kind are good at that.
lilly		Why don't you just kill me?
lilly		 Kill me!
edgar		I can see why he likes you. But I have a better use for you. To save you, Silus will take my blood. Join me.
lilly		You're insane.
edgar		The world is insane. I am better than you. But they force me to serve you. Does that happen in a sane world? Forced to watch you waste the most precious thing you have. Life.
edgar		 Do you know what they do to us when we are born? They take us from our mothers. Force us into a life of loneliness, and denial. Can you imagine a life like that?
lilly		You don't have to do this. You can change things.
edgar		You have reminded me of something.
edgar		 I must search out my mother, if she still lives. And kill her for what she did. 86
reporter		 Some say this plague is the result of genetic experimentation, by the Brothers. Do you have a comment?
health official		 We're asking everyone to stay in their homes in the sections of Jamestown now under quarantine.
reporter		 There are reports of residents being shot trying to escape the quarantine zone. Is that true? They say the Queen has left the city... Is this martial law?
soldier		We've blocked off this section, and here, containing the Jamestown slums.  We see the soldier outlining the Quarantine zone, marked in red.
edgar		 Do you like the world I am making for us, Silus? I haven't had your little policewoman yet. But I will soon. You'll just have to find me. You know where I am. Everything flows from me. Remember that...
augustus		The infection is spreading. Each day he shares his blood with more of them. Even though they are locked in their homes. 89
silus		He is somewhere in the quarantine zone. I will find him.
augustus		Clear. So very clear your eyes. The way they were when you were born. There will be no search.
silus		No search?
augustus		The Queen has instructed the government to evacuate the city around the quarantine zone. In another day they will take action.
silus		What kind of action?
augustus		Eradication. Of everything within the area. They will burn it all. Including Edgar.
silus		And the innocents there, who are not infected?
augustus		It is a necessary step. We cannot let this escape.
silus		No!
augustus		Is it the policewoman? Is this affecting your thinking? There is no love for our kind Silus. Only service.
silus		We have done this. Released this thing into the world. We have betrayed their trust in us, more than once. I won't do it again.
augustus		There is no debate. They will be sacrificed, so the rest will be pure.
augustus		 This policeman, Jones. He talked to the press. Told them this came from Edgar.
augustus		 There are members of the inner circle who question the way you have handled this. Blame you for this man's actions. I have made it clear that you will fix this. That you will silence him.
augustus		 These are hard things we do. But you must think of the greater good. And of your own future.
jones		Great.
jones		 Come on then...
jones		What do you want?
silus		I want to help you. They know you talked to the press.
jones		They can fuck off. For that matter, so can you.
jones		 You'd be the last person I'd trust.
silus		Why?
jones		I saw you. Remember. Watching Lilly, when she was asleep.
jones		 Maybe you're just like your Brother. Maybe you're helping him. Now there's a thought.
jones		 Do you know where she is?
jones		 You've changed. Not the outside. But inside. I know you. You know what, I can see myself?
jones		 Coffee's ready.
edgar		 You know where I am. Everything flows from me...
silus		Do you have a map?
jones		There's the quarantine zone. It's a pit. Slums.
silus		The water supply. Where is it?
jones		There, all the old suburbs are supplied by their own artesian wells. Mineral springs. That's why it hasn't broken out of Jamestown, it's the water. Jamestown's water.
silus		He is there, with Lilly.
jones		You'll never get in, they've circled the whole borough.
silus		I will get in. You must go to the press. Tell them about the water. Tell them what the government will do.
jones		You're dead after this. You know that? Whatever happens.
silus		Watch for me, Officer Jones. 95
priest 2		Who has done this, Brother?
silus		We have. To our shame. 96
priest 2		I have something to show you.
priest 2		It is a miracle my Brother. She is a female, the first of our kind.
silus		She must be protected.
silus		 I would ask for your help Brother. The Church can no longer be trusted...
edgar		He's coming little one. He's coming for you.
lilly		No.
lilly		 Hello! I'm down here. Silus...
silus		Lilly?
edgar		It is a maze down here. But given time, that thing will find her. Do things to her. I'll show you where she is, if you take some.
edgar		 You're almost there anyway.
lilly		Silus... 101
edgar		If I burn the skin from your face, I wonder how that would be. If you looked like a monster...
lilly		What is it?
silus		In there.
lilly		Is there something wrong?
silus		No.
silus		 There is something very precious. You must take it, keep it secret. Don't let them touch it.
lilly		I don't understand.
silus		You will. 105
silus		 Hurry.
priest 2		The first female of her kind. The first daughter given to us.
priest 2		 Come. Before they find her.
priest 2		We must go.
lilly		 For me, everything has changed now. Because of Silus I see the world through new eyes.
lilly		 Now I see hope, and I see a child, the first female of her kind.
lilly		 Perhaps Edgar got what he wanted after all, because it time this child will truly change our world. 107
****Dialogues from script :Perfect_World.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY
2.		4   CONTINUED:                                                    4 Gladys sets a casserole on the table and goes to the frig for a container of milk. The children WHISPER to one another... NAOMI Judy Baumer is going as a twirler. RUTH But she's so fat.     I'd go as Cinderella... or Peter Pan. NAOMI Peter Pan's a boy. Tinker Bell's a girl. Phillip could go as Peter Pan... 'cept you gotta' fly.
3.		5   CONTINUED:                                                  5 MR. HUGHES Excuse me? Phillip arrives at his mother's apron. He stares at the kids with relish. In the near window, Ruth and Naomi steal a look through the window. GLADYS We're Jehovah's Witness. Superman locks eyes with Phillip. SUPERMAN Hey, Phillip Perry.
phillip		Hey, Billy Reeves. SUPERMAN How'd ya' know it was me? GLADYS Go eat your supper, Phillip. MR. HUGHES Come on, kids. Let's go to the next house. Sorry for the bother. Gladys closes the door firmly and locks it. 6   EXT. HUNTSVILLE STATE PRISON - NIGHT                        6 A green Impala pulls up to the main entrance and stops. A GUARD steps from his office to greet the driver, LARRY, a pudgy 55-year-old prison employee wearing a loud plaid jacket.
guard		Evenin', Larry.   Forget somethin'? LARRY Goin' to Austin tomorrow.      Gonna' take some work with me. GUARD Work, work, work. When you and me gonna' go out and grab a cold one? LARRY Sooner the better. The gate opens and the Impala passes.
4.		7   INT. CELL - NIGHT                                         7 BUTCH HAYNES, a 38-year-old inmate who reeks with knowledge procured from the wrong side of the tracks, but whose sad, tired eyes bemoan a maximum of regret, stands on the top of a cell bunk chipping at the ceiling. JERRY PUGH, 29, rail thin, a punk who constantly licks his lips, keeps watch at the door. An OLD TIMER sits on his bunk and watches both with a cautious eye. Butch chips through to something. BUTCH Damn if the old man ain't right. Jerry smiles, turns and grabs the old man by the shirt.
jerry		And this goes to the roof? OLD TIMER Used to... afore they walled it over. JERRY If it don't I'm gonna' rip your tongue out. OLD TIMER Get yer' damn hands off me! Jerry laughs and joins Butch, who is already well on his way to bending open a slot in a corrugated metal air shaft hidden behind the wall. 8   EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT                                      8 Superman and Dancing Skeleton, no longer with adult super- vision, fill water balloons at an outdoor water spigot.
superman		Make 'em small so you can heave 'em. 9   INT. PERRY HOUSE - NIGHT                                       9 An assembly line at the kitchen sink as the twins wash and Phillip dries the evening dishes. Gladys sits at the kitchen table, reading religious pamphlets and keeping a watchful eye over the process. Several THUDS resound through the house. PHYLLIS What in the world? Phillip jumps down off his stool and races into the living room.
5.		10    EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT                                          10 Superman lofts a BALLOON and grabs another as the first hits the door of the Perry house and SPLATTERS. SUPERMAN Bombs away! Dancing Skeleton does his best Warren Spahn and tosses a wet fastball at the door. SKELETON Here's your trick! At the window, Phillip, his nose pressed to the pane, stares expressionless at the onslaught. He barely flinches as a BALLOON SPLATS only inches away. Gladys arrives and pulls the curtains shut once more. 11A   EXT. PRISON - NIGHT                                         11A Butch kicks the top off a ventilator shaft and rolls onto the roof. Jerry follows as Butch shimmies to the wall. At the edge, Butch and Jerry survey the yard as a searchlight routinely bathes the walls in a circle of light. 11B   THEIR POV - GREEN IMPALA                                    11B parked almost directly below them, next to the Administration office of the prison. JERRY You'n'me must be livin' right, Butchie boy! BUTCH Let's get something straight. I don't like you. As soon as we're on our way, that's it. JERRY Who said I liked you? Butch slides down and hangs from the ledge before dropping on the roof of the building below. 12    INT. ADMIN OFFICE - NIGHT                                   12 A SOFT THUD causes a Guard to look up, but only momentarily as he spots Larry departing, files in hand, waving goodbye. GUARD Have a safe trip now, Larry.
6.		13    EXT. YARD - NIGHT                                          13 Just as Larry reaches the Impala, Butch and Jerry leap down and land on him. The spotlight showers them in a flash of light as it passes by. Butch cups his hand over Larry's mouth while Jerry reaches into his jacket -- Bingo -- a shiny .38. BUTCH  Gawd I'd love to blow yer' head off.
7.		16A   CONTINUED:                                                     16A MAE Same pie as yesterday. Not much call for rhubarb. Sell one slice a day. In the background we hear a SIREN. Red turns and watches a police patrol car whiz past, lights on. MAE Yer off duty. Tell me, if I stopped bakin' 'em would you still come by every night? Red, preoccupied, takes another rubbery bite. RED I don't know.
8.		16C   CONTINUED:                                                    16C They walk. Red arrives at a truck with a 10 gallon coffee urn roped to the tailgate. He grabs a paper cup and pours. SERGEANT Guy holdin' his family hostage. She kicked him out, served him divorce papers, he came back drunk and pulled a .38. Fired two shots but we don't think anybody's hit. Actually you might know the guy from your sheriff days. Hayden Webb. Been on suspension for awhile. Ring any bells? RED Yeah.   Lemme talk to him.
sergeant		No can do.   Police jurisdiction. Red tastes the coffee -- cold. He spits it out, pours the contents of the cup on the ground and walks toward the front yard. Sergeant follows. RED And how are you guys doin'? SERGEANT We got specific rules to follow in these kinda situations, Red.  He won't talk. Jus' keeps yellin', crying and waving his gun around. Red moves forward into the yard. SERGEANT At least use the megaphone, you stubborn jackass! But Red ignores and arrives at the front door.   He knocks. RED Hayden, this is Red Garnett. We worked together a few years back. Mind if I come in? The YELLING inside STOPS and the door opens a crack.   HAYDEN, 35, distraught, peers out. HAYDEN 'Evenin', Chief. RED Leave it to the P.D. They got a three- ring circus out there and not one cup of hot coffee. You mind? Hayden mulls it over, then opens the door.
9.		16D   INT. WEBB HOUSE - NIGHT                                        16D On the couch sits Hayden's wife, JULIE, cradling her two kids, an infant and an 8-year-old boy. Julie sobs. Her eye and temple are bruised purple. Red slowly enters, nods to Julie, takes off his hat and sets it on a lampstand. Hayden has moved away from Red against the wall. He holds the gun out at no one in particular. HAYDEN Julie, put a pot of coffee on. She slowly gets up and moves to the kitchen, still weeping. RED Appreciate it.   Jus' what is it you want, Hayden? HAYDEN I dunno... I want my job.    I want my family. RED What'd they suspend you for? HAYDEN I answer a call in South Austin. Girl gettin' raped, that's the word. I bust in the door, this lowlife is beatin' the shit outta her with a tire iron. 'Help me, help me,' she says. I take the guy down. He bites me. I break his arm. Case closed, right? No. She was his wife and they both sue me and the department. The guy's about to kill her and she sues me 'cause now he can't pump gas. They have chump change in the bank but they got the best lawyer in town. Three months I'm goin' crazy. No pay. Then my wife leaves me and I get served divorce papers by John Reese -- a sheriff's man. You know how embarrassin' that is? What's happenin', Chief? I mean, everybody's got a fuckin' lawyer! Julie emerges from the kitchen and retakes her seat. RED You love her?    Love the kids? HAYDEN Yeah. JULIE Then why do you hit me! Hayden grips the quivering revolver tight and points it at her. Red calms the situation... 
10.		16D   CONTINUED:                                                        16D RED You don't wanna shoot her. HAYDEN I swear to God I think I do. RED Naw, Hayden, I don't     think so. I think you love her. You know      what else I think? That you'd like a way out     of this whole mess... That's where I come     in. 16E   EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT                                                16E Sergeant and other cops stand around and watch the house.
sergeant		Well, I'll be damned. NEW ANGLE The front door opens and Julie emerges with her two kids. She takes a few cautious steps, then runs to the police. 16F   INT. HOUSE - NIGHT                                                16F Red sits on the coffee table, unloading Hayden's gun.       He opens the cylinder and drops the shells to the floor. A calmer Hayden exits the kitchen with Red's coffee.       Red accepts it, takes a sip. RED Hits the spot. Hayden starts to sob a bit.      Red hands over a handkerchief which Hayden accepts. HAYDEN No cuffs, huh, Chief? RED Okay.   You ready? Hayden nods, they stand. Red picks up his hat, sticks it on his head, opens the door and holds it for... Hayden, transfixed by the multitude of lights outside.      He gulps. RED We'll walk out together, okay? Hayden steps back, looks at Red, then reaches behind his back, underneath his shirt and pulls out a .22 pistol. 
11.		16F   CONTINUED:                                                      16F HAYDEN Any good officer has a back-up. Red holds his palms out and takes a step toward Hayden. RED Lemme have it, Hayden. Hayden points the gun at Red, freezing him. HAYDEN Was I a good officer, Chief? Red nods.
hayden		Was I a good deputy? The kinda man you could depend on to do what's right? RED Yeah. Hayden smiles. HAYDEN Thank you. Then he turns the GUN on himself, swallows the barrel and BLOWS his brains out. DISSOLVE TO: 16G   EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT                                 16G Hayden's dead, covered body is carried out the door.    Julie screams and sobs, still holding her crying children.
12.		17   CONTINUED:                                                     17 Jerry skims through a girly magazine, turning the pages with the gun. Butch, wearing Larry's plaid jacket, jimmies open the cash register. He looks to the floor then to... Jerry, who catches Butch's gaze, holds it, looks down at the floor, then, smiling, looks back to Butch. He returns to the skin mag. Butch holds his stare at Jerry then, in one move, grabs a wad of cash and hops over the counter and out of the store. Jerry notices Butch leaving, grabs a handful of assorted Brach's candies and hurries after.
jerry		Hey, wait up! Jerry's feet scurry through a pool of blood and past a quivering hand. 18   INT. D.P.S. - TEXAS RANGERS HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT               18 It's very late, after midnight, and only a handful of people, half of whom are cleanup crews, shuffle through the offices. A light from an office at the end of the hall catches our eye. A MUFFLED  VOICE over the phone... RED                     20 The CLANGING wind up alarm CLOCK reads 5:30 and Gladys opens her eyes and gently quiets it with a touch. She groans and rises, not happy but used to the daily ritual required of her.
13.		21   INT. PERRY LIVING ROOM - NIGHT                                 21 As the kitchen light comes on we see that the couch has been opened up to a bed in which all three children sleep. The twins sleep soundly but Phillip tosses and turns away from the light. 22   EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT                                      22 The Impala creeps through the previously seen neighborhood without its lights. 23   INT. IMPALA - NIGHT                                            23 Butch drives while Jerry scours the block. JERRY There's a Buick. BUTCH Don't want a Buick. Want a Ford. JERRY Ford's leak oil.     A car's a car. Butch puts on the brakes and brings the car to a stop. BUTCH Then take the Buick. JERRY Soon as we cross state line I'll do just that.  I'm tired of riding around. I'll check down the block... for a Ford! Jerry gets out, slams the door, lights a cigarette and walks away. Butch waits a few seconds, quietly turns the key one notch and checks the gas ggauge. It reads almost empty. He taps it with his finger but it doesn't budge. He sighs, looks up and sees... JERRY as he checks one locked car, then feeling eyes on his back, turns, looks at Butch, grins and disappears around a corner. BUTCH discreetly exits the car himself, carefully closing the door without a sound. 24   INT. PERRY KITCHEN - NIGHT                               24 Gladys steps into a slip and snaps her bra while cracking eggs into a skillet. By rote she salts, stirs, and pops bread into the toaster.
14.		25    EXT. PERRY BACKYARD - SOMEONE'S POV - NIGHT                  25 FROM BEHIND a fence, THROUGH the opened, screened windows we see Gladys at work. Phillip enters, dressed in cotton briefs and a T-shirt, drags a chair from the kitchen table by the window and assists his mother by buttering the toast. POV MOVES CLOSER. GLADYS Thank you, Phillip. Go wake up your sisters. Phillip dutifully steps down and returns to the living room. Gladys works to adjust her slip, then grabs plates and silverware and takes them to the table.
jerry		I take mine fried. 26    INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT                                         26 Gladys gasps at Jerry's face pressed against the screen, but controls herself when he brandishes the pistol. He motions for her to open the back door. She does. He slides into the room and sits down at the table. 27    EXT. ON STREET - NIGHT                                       27 A Ford sits in a driveway. In the far b.g. a back porch light glares. Butch ENTERS FRAME, looks at the light, turns to the Ford and starts to jimmie the lock. No luck. He rises and looks to the light. 28    INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT                                         28 Jerry stuffs a piece of toast in his mouth, grins at Gladys and makes a motion to the counter. JERRY A lil' on the bland side.   Gimme' that ketchup. She picks up a bottle of Heinz and inches toward him. When she gets close, he grabs her and forces her onto his lap. He holds the gun to her throat and whispers in her ear. JERRY Don't got a man around here, do ya'? 29A   INT. NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                29A MR. CUMMINGS, 70, puts on his glasses and peers through the window.
15.		29B   HIS POV - PERRY KITCHEN                                        29B Gladys sits on Jerry's lap, thanks to .38 caliber coercion. The convict's hands move freely over the frightened woman's body. 30    INT. PERRY KITCHEN - NIGHT                               30 JERRY Feed me, sweet thing. Her shaking hands raise a forkful of eggs to his lips.    He licks them once then gobbles with gusto. Phillip enters the room and stops dead in his tracks. JERRY Well lookie here, you do got a man! Jerry smiles at Phillip while he kisses and licks Glady's neck. At once, Phillip darts across the room at Jerry, who backhands the boy with his gunhand, sending Phillip sprawling. Butch blasts through the door in an instant. With a swift kick to the head, Jerry is knocked senseless onto the floor against the cabinets. The gun slides across the floor and lands at Phillip's feet. JERRY  I'm bleedin'! You happy? Butch gives Jerry an icy stare and kneels down to eye level with Phillip. Butch looks at the gun and then at Phillip. BUTCH What's your name, boy?
16.		30   CONTINUED:                                                    30 Phillip reaches down and slowly picks up the gun by the handle. He takes one step toward Butch, then another. Gladys, petrified, sobs. Phillip arrives armslength from Butch. CLOSEUPS - PHILLIP AND BUTCH BUTCH Now say 'stick 'em up.' PHILLIP  Stick 'em up...
17.		30   CONTINUED:     I vote we bring her with us. BUTCH No. JERRY How we gonna' get outta' here without a hostage, tell me that? The whole goddam neighborhood's awake. BUTCH We'll take the boy. Silence.   Gladys can't believe her ears.   Then... GLADYS Nooooo!!! Jerry tosses Gladys aside. She collapses onto the floor. The TWINS instantly start to CRY. Phillip winds up and hits Butch as hard as he can. Butch picks him up, directs Cummings into the kitchen with the gun and nods for Jerry to lead. BUTCH You'll get him back. I swear it.
18.		32   INT. CAR - DAWN                                                 32 Jerry FIRES a SHOT over their heads, sending them to the deck or scurrying for safety. JERRY Ain't you folks ever heard of sleepin' in?!! 33   EXT. PERRY YARD - DAWN                                          33 Cummings races from behind the house with the SHOTGUN, levels it and FIRES a BLAST... A nearby station wagon WINDOW SHATTERS. Rising from their cover position, its owners look at Cummings with disgust.
owner		Nice shootin', Fred. 34   INT. RED'S OFFICE - DAY                                         34 Garnett, still in the same clothes, rests the phone receiver in his ear while he shuffles through the files before him. Red's deputy and boy friday, TOM ADLER, 40, lank, thinning hair, with a face as soft as Red's is hard, warms up Red's coffee with a jolt from the Chief's favorite plaid Thermos. RED 
19.		34   CONTINUED:                                                        34 RED keeps staring at the photo, oblivious to the phone conversa- tion he's "not having". PHONE VOICE  Huh?
20.		34   CONTINUED:    Penny Munroe. SALLY I believe you have me confused. I'm here from Huntsville. Assigned by Governor Connally. Red is confused.     He turns a blank expression to Adler.
red		Adler...    what is this? Adler searches the messy desk for something. ADLER Rings a bell, Red. Believ' they sent us something about her this mornin'... RED Who sent?... ADLER ... Guvner', Red. Adler finds the telex message sheet he's looking for and hands it to Red. 
21.		34   CONTINUED:    Uh, I'm Sally Gerber. Criminologist with the State Prison System. Sally offers her hand. Red, perusing the telex, ignores but Adler shakes somewhat reluctantly, not sure if he's supposed to like her or not. ADLER Tom Adler.   Deputy. State Police... System.
sally		It's a relatively new procedure but I was assigned by Governor Connally... RED  On our way, Marge.
22.		34   CONTINUED:   
23.		35   CONTINUED:                                                     35 REPORTER #2 What's the rap sheet on these guys like? RED Long as Christmas eve to a kid. Haynes was doin' 40 for armed robbery and Pugh was ridin' 20 hisself for manslaughter and assorted parole vios. REPORTER #3 Is there any indication of... RED ... Lemme' finish, Billy. This mornin' another hostage was taken... from a private home in Madisonville. A boy, age 8. Grabbed him out of bed. REPORTER #1 Any sex offenses on Haynes or Pugh? RED Yer' askin' if they're preverts.   Well, one is. REPORTER #4 You got inter-agency cooperation on this? RED Texas Rangers as the criminal investigation arm of the D.P.S. share responsibility with the F.B.I. due to the kid being taken. But I doubt they're out of bed yet. A few chuckles.
24.		35   CONTINUED:                                                   35 Every hand in the place shoots up and Ad Lib questions fly like bullets. RED That's all I've got but I'd like to introduce ya' to Miss Sally Gerber. She's straight from the Governor's office. Knows all about psychological profiles and the like. You probably have some questions for her. Red steps back and to one side. Sally is taken aback but then warms to the idea and steps to the podium for her first press conference, ready to take on the tough questions, to show off a bit, but....
reporter		Yes I do. Sally smiles a bit then puts on her serious face awaiting... REPORTER You doin' anything tonight? Sally, steamed, glares at the guy and stomps out of the room. REPORTER I'm serious! 36   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                         36 Butch is driving with Phillip in the front seat beside him, still in his underwear. Jerry, in the backseat, leers at Butch, aims out the window and FIRES ONCE.
25.		37   EXT. FIELD NEAR ROAD - DAY                               37 An aluminum water tank spews a violent leak. 38   INT./EXT. CAR - DAY                                            38 BUTCH We got a handful of caps and yer' shootin' water tanks. He's a smart guy, huh, Phillip? Phillip doesn't move or change expression. Jerry smiles, almost to himself, and FIRES TWICE more for the hell of it. The ROOF of the Impala EXPLODES with two holes as the car speeds off down the highway.
26.		40   CONTINUED:                                                     40 RED So I hear. SAUNDERS Latest technology, oversized engine, complete kitchen and sleeping quarters, gun racks, frig, stove, the works. Even got a hot line phone straight to the Governor's office. Red stops circling and nods to Adler, who scurries away. RED Fine piece of machinery.
saunders		What's more, as soon as it gets back from Dallas it will be at your requisitioned disposal. Perfect for lots of situations -- a headquarters on wheels. Red smiles, walks up to one of the Lone Star decals and rips it off. RED We'll take it. SAUNDERS Uh, Chief?.... Red rips off another decal. Adler and a few others start to load equipment, guns and files into the motor home. In addition they cart out unecessary items: mattresses, etc. and stack them in a pile outside the motor home. The Photographer continues to snap photos.
27.		40   CONTINUED:   
28.		40   CONTINUED:                                                  40 SAUNDERS Please Red, I'm beggin'. I mean, what am I suppose to tell the Governor? Sally arrives but before she can spit out a word... RED Tell John that Miss Gerber here checked me out on it. Red whistles and the ENGINE REVS. Red closes the door as the motor home pulls away. Saunders runs beside the passenger side window and yells in to Suttle, who stares out the window. SAUNDERS Not a scratch, you hear me, Suttle? Not a scratch! Saunders stops, breathing hard, next to Sally.   She's pissed and overloaded with files. AIRSTREAM about 20 yards down the way, comes to a stop.    A second later the door opens and the steps pop out. Sally walks toward the bus but when she arrives at the door... ... LAUGHTER filters out of the Airstream.   The Airstream moves another 20 feet then stops. Sally waits a full five seconds, then she blows the hair out of her eyes and, against her better judgment, moves cautiously forward, the file boxes getting heavier by the minute. Again, when she gets close...
29.		41   OMITTED                                                          41 42   INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                             42 Sally enters, balancing the   boxes, and glares at the faces surrounding her. A smiling    Red, a grinning Adler messily gorging on a cinnamon roll,   a nervous KAISER, the radio man, and, in the corner, a nasty   smirk from Bobby Lee. When the Airstream takes off again, she loses her balance and drops one of the boxes. Adler and Suttle jump forward to help but she gives them the evil eye. SALLY I've got it. She kneels down to pick it up and feels eyes on her.     She looks up to the men staring at... Her skirt, raised a bit, exposing a thigh. She calmly stands and looks to Adler, a piece of cinnamon roll dangling on his chin. SALLY You've got shit on your face. Red can't help but smile as Adler wipes at his face. 43   EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY                                            43 The IMPALA BLASTS along, kicking up dust and dispersing crows as it heads into a one light township. It slows, however, before the main part of town and slides to a stop near a pay phone booth. 44   INT./EXT. IMPALA - DAY                                           44 JERRY Why the hell we stoppin'? BUTCH You said you had a cousin near here. JERRY So? BUTCH So give him a call. See if we can shack there til' things cool down. Jerry thinks it over, leans forward and, in one quick swipe, grabs the keys from the ignition. Then he laughs and crawls out on his way to the phone booth. 
30.		44   CONTINUED:                                                   44 In the b.g. we see Jerry strut to the phone booth and pore through a thin directory. Phillip steals a glance at Butch, who watches his rear view mirror and grits his teeth. PHILLIP Why'd he take the keys? BUTCH So I won't leave him. PHILLIP 
31.		44   CONTINUED:                                                44 Before Jerry has time to snicker Butch hits him full in the face and grabs the gun. Blood spurts from Jerry's nose and the injured man cups his hands over the wound. Butch spins and retakes the wheel from a frightened Phillip. BUTCH ... And that's a fact. Instead of expressing outrage, Jerry slinks back down in the seat wearing a look of pure hatred. JERRY I'm gonna' kill you for that.
butch		And that's a threat. Beginnin' to understand the difference? Somethin' catches Butch's eye and he turns and slows down and turns into... 45   EXT. RURAL STORE - DAY                                       45 The Impala brakes to a dusty stop near the front of the store, which is bordered by a giant hay field. 46   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                      46 BUTCH Okay, Phillip, listen up. I'm gonna' run in here and get some smokes. JERRY Get beer.
32.		46   CONTINUED:                                                   46 BUTCH And that's a fact. I believe yer gettin' the hang of this. Butch steps out of the car and heads for the market. 47   INT. STORE - DAY                                             47 Butch enters.   A short fat man with a fishing cap is sweeping up. BUTCH How-do.    Where's yer' sodees? MAN Hot in the first aisle.       Cold in the back, in the cooler. 48   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                      48 Phillip's slightly shaking hands hold the pistol pointed directly at Jerry's head. JERRY You ever shot a gun before, boy? No answer. Phillip steals a glance at the store, anxious for Butch to return. JERRY Powww!!!...    It'll knock you on your ass. PHILLIP Be quiet, mister. JERRY Naw. You ain't never shot no gun before. Livin' in a house with three split tails... no Daddy around. You'll prolly' grow up queer, you know that? A bead of sweat rolls down Phillip's cheek. JERRY Now I'm gonna' lean up here real slow, okay? So we can talk. Jerry raises his hands, palms up and slowly leans forward in the back seat. Phillip's hand quivers but he doesn't pull the trigger. JERRY There we go. Now we can have a 'man to man.' You are a man, ain't ya'?
33.		49   INT. STORE - DAY                                               49 Butch dumps a six pack of RC Colas, a handful of Moon Pies, a handful of beef jerky and some gum on the counter. 50   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                        50 Jerry's chin is on the front seat now and his arms are draped over it. JERRY Those are cute little underwears you got there, boy. Say does your mama sew yer' name in 'em, initials or anything? Jerry's hand slowly reaches down to the white briefs. He places one finger in the front elastic waistband and slowly pulls it open. JERRY Whatcha' got in there? Jerry sneaks a peek. JERRY Kinda' puny, ain't it? Phillip, diverted, looks down.    In a flash Jerry grabs the gun. JERRY The hand is quicker than the eye. Jerry flicks open the revolver, spins it -- empty slots. JERRY 
34.		51   CONTINUED:                                                         51 OLD MAN With deposit comes to four dollars eighty. Butch reaches in his pocket and extracts the wad stolen from the convenience store. The Old Man takes note. Butch selects a five and places it on the counter. OLD MAN Land's sake.   What line of work you in? The Old Man bags the goods, but Butch takes the shells and puts them in his coat pocket. BUTCH Used cars. Buy 'em, fix 'em up. Sold a Cadillac down in Madisonville this mornin'. OLD MAN Don't say. 52   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                            52 Jerry puts his gun hand around Phillip's neck and pulls the sobbing boy closer. Jerry rests his face on Phillip's neck. JERRY Come over a little closer. As Jerry    groans, Phillip seizes the moment and bites Jerry hard on    the ear. Jerry screams and drops the gun, which Phillip    picks up and carries with him as he scurries out of the car    and into the hay field. Jerry, in pain, now with both ears bleeding, crawls out of the back seat and gives chase.
35.		54   EXT. STORE - DAY                                              54 Butch exits with a grocery sack. When he sees the car doors open he dumps the groceries in the front seat and looks to the field. HIS POV The hay rustles as Jerry moves through the field. 55   EXT. FIELD - DAY                                              55 Jerry, crouching, moves through the field -- eyes peeled for any sign of Phillip. Phillip lies still. He hears the hay rustling near him and he looks up, squares his body and points the revolver at...
36.		56   EXT. PARKED IMPALA - DAY                                      56 Phillip runs to the car and hides behind the tire opposite the store and field. In the b.g. we see Butch emerge from the field and walk toward the car. The Old Man, who also heard the shot, emerges from the store with a baseball bat.   Butch arrives at the car, spots the Old Man and levels the revolver at him. Phillip is relieved when he hears Butch's voice instead of Jerry's. BUTCH  You got a phone? OLD MAN Naw.
butch		Then go inside and lie down til' we're gone. The Old Man meekly does so. Butch goes to the car door, opens it and motions to a frozen stiff Phillip. BUTCH Well... Get in. 57   EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY                                            57 The truck and Airstream barrel down the highway. 58   INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                          58 The place is a functioning mobile headquarters now. Adler on the short wave and tacking up a map, Bobby Lee still in his corner, Red and Sally sitting across from one another at the "kitchen table".
37.		58   CONTINUED:                                                       58 ADLER Ya' figger' they're that far along? RED Hell, I dunno'and neither do they. They're jus' happy to be out. It's a high speed Sunday drive to them. ADLER Sunday drive. I like that. Never heard you use that one before, Red. Sally is watching Red and listening to all of this with a troubled look on her face. Red notices...
red		Somethin' eatin' at you? SALLY It's... perhaps premature, but do you have an auxiliary roadblock plan for when they split up? Everyone stares.    No one ever questions Red. ADLER What makes you so sure they won't stay together? Sally hesitates.    Red notices... RED You got somethin' to say, spit it out. SALLY Their situation is one of accommodation. They won't be together long. Silence.   Sally continues. SALLY Haynes and Pugh are opposites. Haynes is a criminal's criminal -- armed robbery, mano y mano confrontation. Pugh, on the other hand, has a rap sheet littered with molestation and petty crime. They'll split sheets soon. ADLER 
38.		58   CONTINUED:    That's why we should address it now. She looks to Red.   He refuses to return her gaze. RED We don't have a dilemma. And neither do they. They'll keep one hostage... and get rid of one, if they haven't already. SALLY Okay... which one?
red		If there's a SNAFU, who's John Q. Public more likely to give a rat's ass about -- an innocent boy or a goddam bureaucrat. Red wipes the water off the spoon on his shirt and walks to his office in the back. Adler, Bobby Lee and Kaiser chuckle lightly at their boss's snubbing of the female upstart in their midst. Sally's face glows a bright red. 59   INT. MOTOR HOME - BACK OFFICE                                59 Red sits in his office chair, pulls out the spoon and pours Geritol from a bottle into his coffee. He doesn't even look up when Sally enters, a stern look on her face. SALLY We need to talk, Chief Garnett. RED Call me Red. SALLY Red. 
39.		59   CONTINUED:                                                     59 Red sips from the mug calmly then groans, his face contorted. RED Awful. Arthur Godfrey says it keeps ya' young, but I'm not sure it's worth it. SALLY I'd like an answer. RED This yer' first time out of an office? She refuses to answer. RED Thought so.   What'd ya' expect ya' signed on for? Adler, Bobby Lee and Kaiser all watch the discussion, smiles on their faces. Sally abruptly closes the door. SALLY You think I'm what? Some dumb schoolgirl who wandered into the boy's locker room? Well you're wrong. I don't mean to boast, but I happen to be one of the two most intelligent people involved in this fiasco. RED Didn't ask that.    Asked what you expected. SALLY I expected to be allowed to do the job assigned to me by the Governor. RED I happen to like the Governor, hunt quail together every year. But deep down he and I know that win, lose or draw this is my ship, not his. SALLY The Governor as chief executive officer of this state bears ultimate responsibility for... RED ... Bullshit. Responsibility lies with the one that loses sleep; the one with the most ulcers. This mess turns bloody -- and it might -- all it's gonna cost the Governor is a few votes! Me, I'm the one that's... 
40.		59   CONTINUED:   
41.		60   CONTINUED:                                                      60 Butch realizes that in Phillip's eyes he and Jerry were probably friends. BUTCH If I was choosin' a runnin' buddy, I'd take you over him any day of the week. 61   EXT. RURAL STORE - DAY                                          61 The RV slides to a stop in the gravel parking lot which is full of state and local police. Red exits first, followed by the others. A LOCAL SHERIFF walks up to greet. RED We got a positive I.D.?
local sheriff		Yessir, with only the boy as hostage. But not five minutes ago we found something else. 62   EXT. HAY FIELD - DAY                                            62 PAN FROM a fingertip UP an arm and TO the face of Jerry Pugh. A clean bullethole has left him with a third eye, a bloody back and an entourage of late summer flies. We hear the CLICK of a photographer's CAMERA. BOOM UP TO Red, Local Sheriff and other bystanders. RED Least now we know who's in charge. 63   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                         63 Butch notices that Phillip is pretty somber as he tugs on another RC.
butch		Whattaya' thinkin' about? PHILLIP Nuthin'. BUTCH If I guess you tell me? Phillip nods. BUTCH You thinkin' about yer mama? Phillip sits still.    That was it. Butch brings the car to a stop.    He points to the horizon. Desolate. 
42.		63   CONTINUED:                                                       63 BUTCH I hear ya', Phillip, but look around. I can't very well leave you here, can I? 64   EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY                                            64 The Impala rests in the fork of a dirt road. 65   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                          65 BUTCH Lemme' ask you somethin'.    You right or left handed? Phillip meekly holds up his right hand.    The car races forward. BUTCH Then that's the way we'll go. You ever ridden in a time machine before? Phillip shakes his head. BUTCH Sure you have.    Whattaya' think this is? PHILLIP A car. BUTCH Yer' lookin' at this thing bassackwards. This is a 20th Century time machine. I'm the captain and you're the navigator. Butch points forward through the dash.
butch		Out there... that's the future. Butch taps on the rearview mirror. BUTCH Back there... that's the past. If life's moving too slow and you wanna' project yerself into the future you step here on the gas. See? He does so and the Impala surges forward. BUTCH And if yer' enjoyin' the moment yer' in, well hell, just step on the brake here and you can slow it down. 
43.		65   CONTINUED:                                                    65 Butch brings the car to a complete and dusty stop. BUTCH This is the present, Phillip.   Enjoy it while it lasts. Then he laughs uproariously and steps on the gas. 66   EXT. ROAD - DAY                                               66 The Impala spins out, kicking dirt in all directions. BUTCH 
44.		67   CONTINUED:                                                     67 INT. TRUCK - DAY BRADLEY  Shouldn't these be roadblocked as well? She points to several other unmarked roads. RED Sooner or later he'll get on a main road. We don't got the manpower to roadblock every farm to market. ADLER In a perfect world, Miss Gerber, we'd lock arms and thrash the bush til' he turned up... SALLY In a perfect world things like this wouldn't happen in the first place. Adler hears something on his headset, turns to Red. ADLER Locals are heading out.   Wanna' follow? RED Let's sit tight.    He'll turn up. 68   EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY                                          68 The Impala travels slowly along the road until it edges to a stop by the entrance to a small farmhouse with a truck and car parked in a long dirt driveway. A farmer on a combine works a small field.
45.		69   INT. PLYMOUTH - DAY                                             69 BUTCH Ok, Phillip, we're gonna do some  car shoppin'. You ever play cowboys   n' Injuns? See that Ford sedan? Now I want   you to sneak on over there like an Injun  and take a peek and see if the keys is in  it. Phillip hesitates. BUTCH Don't have to if you don't wanna... but I'd appreciate it... You bein' the new navigator and all. Phillip thinks it over then opens the door and slips out.
butch		Hey, Phillip, check for a radio, too. 70   EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAY                                            70 Phillip, still in his skivvies, legs cut up and muddied from his escape from Jerry, sneaks up to the car and quietly peers into the open window. The keys dangle when his small hand touches them. Phillip closes the door, looks around and then runs pell-mell to the passenger window of the Impala. PHILLIP It's got keys and a radio.   I checked. BUTCH Good man.
46.		70   CONTINUED:                                                    70 The FARMER stops his tractor and notices Butch and Phillip. Phillip, despite his prior urgency, is having trouble coaxing relief. Butch slides into the Ford, pumps the gas pedal and turns the key. The ENGINE GRUMBLES and DIES. The Farmer is walking now, slowly and then at a trot as he realizes what's happening. Phillip finally starts to pee. Butch cranks again and again but the Ford is flooded.
butch		Start, you sonofabitch! The Farmer runs faster, comes closer... FARMER Hey, that's my car! Hey!!! Butch floors the gas to clear the flood and the ENGINE finally STARTS. He throws it into reverse and peels out backwards into the road beside the ditch where Phillip continues to relieve himself. BUTCH Get in the car, Phillip! The Farmer, only 30 yards or so away, is racing toward them madder than a wet hen. Phillip tries to hurry but the RC continues to run through him.
butch		Phillip!   Get in the car! Phillip pulls his underwear up and races to the car. He leaps into the open passenger door at the same moment Butch steps on the gas and the Farmer arrives and grabs onto the door as it closes. 71   INT. FORD - DAY                                               71 The CAR is SCREECHING down the road but the Farmer holds on for dear life and auto. He claws at Phillip, who does his best to fend off flailing hands and fingers. Butch reaches under the seat for and grasps the pistol. Phillip sees what's about to happen and bites the Farmer's hand as hard as he can. 
47.		71   CONTINUED:                                                     71 FARMER Aaaaaayyyyyy!!!! The Farmer releases his grip on the door and falls backward, summersaulting into the adjacent ditch. Butch places the gun back under the seat. BUTCH Goddam, boy, how many RC's did you drink anyway? PHILLIP Four.
48.		72   CONTINUED:                                                     72 ADLER What's that? SALLY The Ford he stole. ADLER Owner told the locals they only drove it to church, but it does have a bad emergency brake.  How'd ya' know it was a Ford? SALLY He likes Fords.
red		No. Adler looks quizzically at Red and pulls off the headphones... RADIO VOICE 
49.		72   CONTINUED:                                                   72 ADLER No, er, yes. No means negative.     Same thing. Over. Red sees Sally peering at him over the top of her file.      He glances around at the other sets of eyes. RED I don't want some half-ass Sergeant York taking pot shots with a deer rifle. Adler puts the headphones back on. Bobby Lee smirks a bit.
sally		It's the only thing to do.    He's got the child with him. Red gives her a look that says, "Don't defend me". BOBBY LEE 
50.		72   CONTINUED:   
51.		73   CONTINUED:                                                         73 PHILLIP  My Mama says he'll prolly' come back. Prolly' when I'm ten or so. BUTCH Well... she's lyin' to ya' pure and simple. He ain't never comin' back. Disappointment registers on the boy's face. BUTCH Guys like us, Phillip, we gotta' be on our own. Seek foolish destiny, that sorta' thing.
butch		See there! All you gotta' do is say your name and people are waiting on you hand and foot. Like a goddam king or somethin'. Phillip can't help but smile at the notion. 75   EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAY                                               75 Bradley and Suttle lean against the parked RV, chatting. BRADLEY You responsible for engine maintenance on this thing? SUTTLE Uh, yeah.     I'm the full time driver. 
52.		75    CONTINUED:                                                     75 Bradley shakes his head.   "Too bad". SUTTLE What?   Why? BRADLEY You notice how it keeps    wanting to slip a bit goin' into second.     Feels to me like somebody's been a little    heavy-footed with the clutch.  I'd take care of that if   I was you. PAN TO: an ambulance door opens and the Farmer, strapped in, is rolled toward it as his wife, sobbing, attends to him.
sally		No thank you. 76A   INT. TRUNK - DAY                                               76A But it's black as night. A   CROWBAR CRANKS at the lock until the trunk blasts open like a  bottletop. A blast of light gives way to the silhouetted  faces of Red, Adler and Sally, who turns and walks away in  nauseous disgust. RED Well.... THEIR POV - OPEN TRUNK In it lies the crumpled, bent, bloody remains of Larry, the prison employee, the original hostage. RED ... there's our bureaucrat.
53.		76B   RED                                                            76B spits a chaw, turns and walks to the RV.    Near the entrance Sally is heaving. RED  It's sure nice to know the boy's in good hands. Sally straightens herself, ready to bite back, but Red's face is soft. He offers a handkerchief. She takes it. RED Gallows humor, Sally.    Without it we'd all be heavin'.
54.		80   CONTINUED:                                                       80 A long counter at the front of the store is backed by a small office with a large glass window that gives the Manager, MR. WILLITS, 45, bespectacled, anal-retentive, a clear view of the store. A nuclear family with two kids exits the store just as Butch and Phillip enter. Butch holds the door open and smiles at them. They say "thanks" but can't help but notice Phillip, cowering behind Butch, still clad in his underwear. He hides behind a nearby display which reads: Cast Your Vote For Friendly's Friendliest Clerk! A clerk, LUCY, 30, holding a handful of shoeboxes notices their entrance. She's schoolmarmish with a smile that looks like it's painted on. LUCY Well, hello there and welcome to Friendly's. Looks like the little fella' needs some pants. BUTCH As a matter of fact. Shoes and new skivvies, too. He'll tell you his size. Go with the lady, Buzz. Phillip, still in somewhat of a daze, doesn't recognize his own "name". BUTCH Buzz! Phillip snaps to, cracks a smile at Butch and follows the lady to the children's section of the store. LUCY Buzz, what a cute name.   Like a bee. BUTCH
55.		80   CONTINUED:                                                       80 HALLOWEEN COSTUME DISPLAY on a circular rack with shelves. Hanging prominantly is a Casper the Friendly Ghost costume. Above it a sign reads: "MARKED DOWN - Get the Jump on Next Year!" CLOSEUP - PHILLIP mesmerized by the display. BUTCH takes a roll of electrician's tape. He tears off a strip, attaches it to the back or his hand and tugs. It holds tight. LUCY
56.		83   CONTINUED:                                                      83 He's greeted there by PAULA, to whom he earlier winked. She's 25, country cute, and wears a fake smile that rivals Lucy's. Butch reaches for and tries on a pair of sunglasses. BUTCH Whattaya' think? PAULA Look good. He adds them to the pile of stuff. PAULA Will that be all for you today?
57.		83   CONTINUED:     We'll get it next time.   Go get in the car, son.
58.		86    CONTINUED:                                                   86 PHILLIP walks toward the front door but stops short when he sees, once again, the Halloween display. BUTCH pays Paula, then stuffs a $20 in her blouse. BUTCH You are truly the friendliest clerk I ever met. She blushes a "thank you" as Butch makes a hasty retreat to the door. PAULA  Thank you for shopping Friendly's! 87    EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY                                       87 Butch exits the store, spots the blackandwhites, and slides into the middle of a group of old-timers moving down the sidewalk at a leisurely pace. 88    INT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY                                        88 Phillip stands at the costume display, looks around, then grabs a Casper costume carton, stuffs it under his T-shirt and walks quickly to the door. 89    EXT. SIDE ALLEY - DAY                                        89 Butch slides away from the Old Timers and into the Ford. 90A   INT. FORD - DAY                                              90A
59.		91   CONTINUED:                                                     91 TRUCK OWNER Dammit, Pete!!! 92   EXT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY                                          92 Phillip steps out the door.    He spots the crash and watches as... The Ford blasts back into the alley in a hail of dust. 93   INT. FORD - DAY                                                93 Butch, driving like a maniac, turns into the back alley and steps on it. All at once he mashes on the BRAKES and comes to a SQUEALING stop. HIS POV
60.		96   CONTINUED:                                                     96 TERRANCE can't believe his eyes... HIS POV - FORD is COMING STRAIGHT FOR him, hell bent on destruction and picking up speed. BACK TO SCENE Terrance sticks his black and white in rapid reverse and backs down the street at 40 mph. PETE  Buzz! You little shit.   Shoplifting is a crime! BUTCH
61.		96    CONTINUED:    Pete?... Pete?   You okay?... 99    INT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY                                        99 Paula emerges from behind the counter and stares at Lucy, on the ground amidst glass and mayhem. PAULA Say what you want. I'm keepin' the twenty. 100   EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY                                        100 Two young, country boys stand by the side of the road. One, FRANK, tosses an egg from hand to hand while he watches the horizon. The other, BILLY, approaches, crawling through a barb wire fence dragging something behind him.
frank		Hurry up.   Someone's comin'. ON HORIZON Sure enough, a hail of dust signals the approach of a vehicle a mile or so away. Billy crawls into the ditch next to Frank. We see what he's dragged from the field -- a scarecrow with a floppy hat and red bandana. FRANK Stick it in the road. Hurry up. Billy does so, propping the scarecrow into a sitting position with a forked stick. Then he races back to the ditch and slides in next to Frank to divide the eggs. 
62.		100   CONTINUED:                                                      100 FRANK We got seven eggs. I get four to throw and you get three... since it was my idea. Billy nods. FRANK Here they come.   Aim for windows and get ready to run. The car crests the hill, followed by another, and another and a final one, all Highway Patrol, all with their lights on and SIRENS WAILING. FRANK Oh shit!
phillip		A ghost suit. BUTCH From the store?   You kyped it? Phillip nods, expecting the worst. BUTCH Well, hell, Phillip, put it on. PHILLIP You ain't mad? BUTCH Let's unnerstan' each other here. 
63.		101   CONTINUED:                                                     101 BUTCH  Stealin's wrong, ok? But if there's somethin' you need bad and you ain't got the money, then it's okay to take a loaner on the item. It's what ya' call an exception to the rule. Phillip tears into the box, rips out the costume, looks at it, starts to take off his underwear then balks. Butch notices. BUTCH What's wrong? PHILLIP Nuthin'.
butch		Well hell, lemme' see. Phillip still hesitates. BUTCH Go on.   I'll shoot ya' straight. Phillip gingerly pulls off his underwear. Butch smiles a broad grin. BUTCH Hell no, Phillip, it's good size for a boy yer' age! Phillip, remasculated, smiles and starts to put on the costume. BUTCH Here they come.
64.		102   EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY                                            102 The four Highway Patrol VEHICLES from before BLAST past at 90+, sending stray dogs and roadrunners scurrying for cover. CRANE    DOWN to reveal the Ford off the same roadside, but behind    a burm in a field. As soon as the patrol cars pass, Butch    STARTS up the ENGINE and humps it to the road and off in the    opposite direction. 103   INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                             103 Sally, deep in her files.      She looks up from the file to... ANOTHER ANGLE Bobby Lee who sits by himself, whittling away at a stick and leering at her. Adler is at the map, holding the shortwave mike and wearing the earphones. Behind him, Red stares out the window. ADLER Haynes bought tape, rope, and some clothes for the boy. Red comes to and turns to Adler. Sally smiles almost to her- self. She was right -- Haynes is looking after the boy. Everyone knows it, but no one says anything. ADLER One puzzler though. They say the boy could have gotten away but didn't. SALLY Probably scared to death. ADLER That's not all. The kid stole a Halloween outfit.
red		Holy Jeezus, they're a team. ADLER With the pit stop in Noodle looks like he's headed for the Panhandle. Red sighs and groans. Unpleasant news but somehow he knew it. He moves to the back room for another shot of Geritol. SALLY 
65.		103   CONTINUED:                                                     103 SALLY How's that happen? KAISER  Poor counties. They tend to half finish roads then start on another one. ADLER But if anybody knows them backroads it's Red. Sally lifts her head, watches Red reenter the room, then stares out the window.
sally		Okay, so... I'm Robert Haynes. Called Butch by everyone. I was born in Amarillo, but grew up in the French Quarter of New Orleans. ADLER 
66.		103   CONTINUED:   
67.		103   CONTINUED:    Shit. 'Caus' I'm runnin' and they're chasin' and I'd jus' as soon go north as south as east as west. It's a fun lil' parlor game, lady, but right now Butch Haynes don't have the slightest idea where he's headed! 104A INT. FORD - DAY                                                104A Phillip, now fully-attired in his Casper outfit and mask, is looking at a folded map while Butch drives. BUTCH An inch is 24 miles. Hold yer' pointin' finger along the line of the road. You got three lines on your finger, don'tcha'? Each one's an inch. So how many inches to Childress? Phillip holds one finger to the map, then another. PHILLIP One, two... six. BUTCH Yer' a helluva' navigator, Phillip. A lot smarter than Jerry. But I guess that's not sayin' a lot. Something catches Phillip's eye. PHILLIP Lookie there! 104B HIS POV - TRUCK AND AIRSTREAM                                  104B coming TOWARD them on the highway. 105   INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                          105 Bradley, driving, tinkers with a broken windowshade. Suttle yawns, comes to, notices the broken windowshade and gives Bradley a look. Bradley, caught, just smiles.
68.		106   INT. FORD - DAY                                                   106 BUTCH  Seen one of them in a magazine. It's called a motor home. They're new. Kinda' like a house on wheels. Butch HONKS the HORN TWICE and waits for a retort. 107   INT. TRUCK - DAY                                                  107 Bradley smiles, looks to Suttle, who nods an "okay."    Johnson sits on the HORN for TWO solid BLASTS. 108   INT. FORD - DAY                                                   108 Phillip laughs and waves.
69.		110   CONTINUED:                                                     110 SUTTLE  We'll never make it. Stop! It's a close fit but the Airstream just survives a brush with a burm. The TRUCK PEELS away with Airstream in tow. 111   OMITTED                                                        111 111A INT. FORD - DAY                                                 111A Butch checks his rear-view mirror and gets a puzzled look on his face. IN REAR-VIEW MIRROR
70.		111D CONTINUED:                                                      111D PHILLIP Why? BUTCH Hell, I don't know. 'Caus' I said so! 111E INT. TRUCK - DAY                                                111E Suttle is scared to death while Bradley is loving every minute. The ENGINE starts to STEAM. SUTTLE Yer burnin' up the engine! But Bradley pays no heed.
71.		111J CONTINUED:                                                      111J The trailer hitch snaps as does the safety chain. The truck lands hard and continues pell-mell through the field. The AIRSTREAM, sans truck, BLASTS forward along the road at 50+ m.p.h. 111K INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                            111K Bouncing like hell. Sally holds on for dear life, then glances out the window and almost jumps out of her seat when she sees... HER POV
72.		111P EXT. FIELD - DAY                                                111P The Airstream, now losing a bit of steam, hits a burm, almost topples and comes to a precarious stop in a dried-up watering hole. 111Q INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                            111Q Adler, still wearing the headphones, rises first and goes to the radio to answer an incoming call. Red groans. Sally crawls to her feet and offers Red a helping hand, which he accepts. ADLER Uh... Red?
red		What? ADLER They wanna know if the boy looked okay? SALLY He was laughing and waving. RED Don't tell 'em that. 112   INT. GOVERNOR'S OFFICE 
73.		112   CONTINUED:                                                      112 GOVERNOR I want you to know that I personally okayed the use of a brand-new high-tech mobile home from which to conduct the manhunt. It's an amazingly futuristic piece of law enforcement equipment. Another FLASH. 113 OMITTED                                                           113 thru                                                                  thru 115                                                                   115 115A EXT. FIELD - DAY                                                 115A
74.		116   CONTINUED:                                                      116 BUTCH Started this road 20 years ago and it still ain't finished.  Appears to me we got a decision to make. Phillip, aka Casper, exits the car and, imitating Butch, leans against the car. BUTCH It's up to you, Phillip. We can backtrack to the highway or we can try it on foot. PHILLIP Where we goin'?
phillip		You been there? BUTCH Naw. Just got the one postcard. But anyhoo, back to our present dilemma. You feel like a hike? PHILLIP How far? BUTCH Can't be more'n, oh, say, fifteen hundred miles. Phillip seems a tad apprehensive about the prospect. 
75.		116   CONTINUED:                                                   116 BUTCH Yer' prolly' right. Go give our supplies a check. Phillip returns to the car and emerges with the paper bag once full of soda, candy and jerky. Butch surveys the countryside. HIS POV - PAN COUNTRYSIDE Typical midwest Texas; flat, dusty, barren.     A mile or so away sits a home -- a small ranchhouse. BACK TO SCENE Phillip returns with the bag and pores through it.
butch		How's it look? PHILLIP A soda... some gum... half a Moon Pie. BUTCH Rations for one at best.    Come on. Butch strides straight into the rocky field. Phillip lingers a moment, then sticks the half eaten moon pie in his mouth and follows, hurrying to catch up. 117 OMITTED                                                           117 thru                                                                  thru 122                                                                   122 122A EXT. FIELD - AIRSTREAM - DAY                                     122A Suttle limps around the broken-down silver junker, his hands covering what his eyes can't bear to see. BRADLEY Now yer sure that gooseneck had a safety chain? Suttle turns and glares. SUTTLE Yes!!! NEW ANGLE Red walks slowly toward the slumping Airstream. A PHONE RINGS from inside, then STOPS. Adler sticks his head out of the door and calls to Red... 
76.		122A CONTINUED:                                                         122A ADLER Governor's hot line, Red. Governor insists that he have the mobile home back for the parade tomorrow. Red just stares at Adler, then sighs, removes his hat and scratches his head. RED 
77.		123   CONTINUED:                                                    123 BUTCH Now, I'm askin' you, Phillip. I ain't askin' yer' mother and I ain't askin' Jehovah. Do you wanna' go trick r' treatin' or not? 124   EXT. YARD OF FARMHOUSE                                        124 Butch and Phillip cross the dirt yard and make their way to the door. BUTCH Ok, Phillip, all ya' gotta' do is knock on the door and when they open it you say 'trick or treat.' Got it?
phillip		Trick r' treat, ma'am. WOMAN Well, seein' that Halloween was yesterday, I guess you'll have to trick me. You missed the caramel popcorn balls I made up special. Butch smiles, pulls up his shirt and exposes the revolver stuck in his pants. WOMAN 
78.		124   CONTINUED:                                                     124 HIS POV - TELEPHONE WIRE which enters the house near the door. We PAN WITH the telephone line FROM the house TO a nearby pole. BACK TO SCENE The Woman returns with an armload of anything she could find in the kitchen. Phillip gratefully opens his sack and watches as the Woman drops in a loaf of bread, a jar of mustard, candies, jams, butter and anything else she could find. Empty-handed she reaches inside the door, opens her purse and dumps her money -- a couple of dollars and lots of change into the bag.
79.		127   INT. FORD - LATER - DAY                                        127 Butch drives while Phillip digs through the sack and comes up with a jar of mustard. BUTCH You sure there's no meat in there? Spam maybe, Vienna sausages, anything like that? PHILLIP Nawsir. BUTCH Well, I bet you can make us some mustard sandwiches, can't ya'? PHILLIP Yeahsir. BUTCH Well go to it. Phillip breaks out the loaf of bread and lays out four slices on the dashboard. PHILLIP How many? BUTCH Many as you want. Phillip   lays out six more slices. The dashboard is now covered   with bread. Phillip pulls out the mustard but has no knife.    Butch pulls out a stick of gum and hands it to Phillip   to spread with. As they drive  along they pass a large, happy family 
80.		128   CONTINUED:                                                      128 BUTCH Be right back. Don't be stingy with that mustard now. Phillip nods and continues piling the yellow goop on each of the slices of bread. BUTCH walks ahead to the crest of the hill, the tallest hill in the county. He takes in the 360 degree view. His eyes settle on... LINE OF CARS
81.		128   CONTINUED:    Everybody, run!    Quick! BOB
82.		128   CONTINUED:                                                     128 BOB Bob Fielder. BUTCH Edgar Poe. PHILLIP breathes a sigh of relief as the Ford loses momentum and comes to a stop. But then, of course, ... FORD like any car on a roller coaster, starts to move downhill, slowly at first, but then picking up speed.
83.		128   CONTINUED:                                                  128 PHILLIP totally freaked, jumps down on the floorboard and pushes with both hands on the brake. SQUEALING TIRES bring... FORD to a SKIDDING halt inches from Butch's kneecaps. CLOSEUP - BUTCH smiles at Phillip. BUTCH Helluva job, Phillip! Never had a doubt.
84.		132   EXT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                             132 Bradley examines the gooseneck hitch. Bobby Lee sits on a nearby rock, still whittling at his stick. It's starting to resemble something. 133   INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                             133 As in the old Westerns, it's quiet, too quiet. The      inside of the RV is pretty much trashed now -- the product of     men working in close contact. Sally stares at a file.       The silence is broken as Red spits tobacco juice into an     empty Coke bottle. Sally peruses a file. INSERT - FILE
85.		135   CONTINUED:                                                       135 Adler surveys the map and sticks in a few more thumbtacks. ADLER He knows he's hemmed in. I predict we'll have him singing a different tune by nightfall. 136   EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY                                               136 The red station wagon creeps along the highway to the whistled strains of "Old MacDonald had a Farm." 137   INT. STATION WAGON - DAY                                         137 Butch, truly "singing a different tune," whistles "Old MacDonald." Bob joins in and soon the whole damn Family Bob is whistling the tune. Bob's daughter PATSY, 5, red hair, freckles, starts jumping up and down on the back seat, singing and spilling her drink. BOB'S SON You're spilling!     You're spilling! Bob and his Wife immediately turn around. WIFE Patsy!    Look at what you're doing?! BOB Ahhh noooo! Bob's wife grabs Patsy by the arm and shakes her. Butch con- tinues to whistle softly, almost eerily, but he's watching closely. BOB'S WIFE Look at what you did! It's all over the seat of your father's new car! The little girl    starts to cry while Bob grabs at tissues feverishly and    hands them to his Wife who, leaning over the seat is wiping    hard at the stain. She grabs her daughter's arm and shakes    her, staring into her face. Butch, directly behind the little girl, watches closely. BOB'S WIFE What is wrong with you?! I told you twice not to jump up and down! Didn't I!! Patsy bawls harder than ever. Bob's Wife finishes wiping and reseats herself in the front seat. 
86.		137   CONTINUED:                                                     137 BOB'S WIFE  Damn that kid! The little girl is crying harder than ever now. Bob reaches back over the seat and tries to touch his daughter. BOB It's okay, sweetie. Daddy's not mad. BOB'S WIFE So much for the new car smell. The little girl muffles her tears.
bob		Please, it's new. Hold it under 45... at least for the next 500 miles. BUTCH You know I will, Bob. Butch gives a snappy salute and is off to the wagon. 139   INT. STATION WAGON - DAY                                       139 Butch STARTS the CAR and he and Phillip slowly pull away. BUTCH Wave, Phillip. Phillip does so.   Bob's kids wave back.   Phillip starts to giggle. 
87.		139   CONTINUED:                                                     139 PHILLIP They look funny. BUTCH Maybe, but Bob did the right thing. What if he'd put up a fight? I mighta' had to shoot him, and where would that family be then? Naw, Bob's a fine family man and that's about the best thing a fella' can hope to be. Butch floors the wagon and the CAR SCREECHES rubber on the highway. BOB
bradley		What? ADLER Coerced a motorist. Red sighs. RED Well goddam, shout at Amarillo. Tell 'em we got a notion he's headed their way. Adler gets right to it. 
88.		141   CONTINUED:                                                       141 RED  Truth is I wish he'd cross the border so we could turn this over to the feds. Nobody in the room expected to hear this. RED I got work to do back home. Red rises and stretches, walks to the open door and stares out at the late afternoon light. RED I'm hungry.   This thing got any food?
suttle		Well, uh... Adler jumps up and goes to the frig. ADLER Got T-bones in the frig, Red! SUTTLE Uh, uh, those were stocked for the Governor. I don't think that he would approve of... Adler finds a plastic bag in the freezer and inspects it. ADLER -- And look, Red!     Tater Tots!   Those kind you like! Red turns and looks.
red		That so? 142   INT. STATION WAGON - DAY                                         142 Butch fiddles with the RADIO. He settles on a Spanish station playing a BALLAD and ADJUSTS the VOLUME. BUTCH Can't find a Coonass Waltz to save my ass. 
89.		142   CONTINUED:                                                     142 BUTCH What else ain't you suppose' to do? PHILLIP We don't get Christmas. BUTCH Yer' shittin' me? PHILLIP Nawsir.   No birthdays, nor parties, neither. BUTCH You ain't never been to a carnival neither, have ya'?
phillip		Nawsir. BUTCH Not even one? PHILLIP Not even one. BUTCH Cotton candy? PHILLIP Seen that once.     It's red. BUTCH Pink. PHILLIP Never ate none though.
butch		Roller coasters? BUTCH Seen pictures. BUTCH You know, Phillip, you have a goddammed red, white and blue American right to eat cotton candy and ride roller coasters. PHILLIP I do?
90.		143   EXT. STATION WAGON - EXTREME CLOSEUP - PHILLIP'S OPEN          143 MOUTH - DAY screaming.   PULL BACK to reveal... CLOSEUP - PHILLIP still screaming in glee, the wind blowing his crew-cut straight up into the air. PULL BACK FARTHER to reveal that Phillip is firmly tied to the luggage rack of the station wagon, which is rocketing across the winding plains of West Texas. BOOM DOWN to reveal Butch, having almost as much fun as Phillip, hooping and hollering as he steps on the gas and weaves to and fro trying his damndest to hit every bump.
91.		145   CONTINUED:                                                     145 She leans down to the table and flirts with her overdone eyes. BUTCH You Dottie? WAITRESS Eileen. Dottie died. Her son runs the place but... he ain't never here. BUTCH Never? EILEEN  He leaves at four. Not much traffic after lunch.
92.		146   CONTINUED:                                                      146 BOBBY LEE sitting outside, rises and slides into the Airstream while BACK TO SCENE Red continues to cook with Adler and Bradley looking on. 147   INT. AIRSTREAM - BACKROOM - DUSK                                147 Sally turns on a nightlight and looks at herself in the mirror. She splashes a little water on her face and is startled when ... Bobby Lee slides in behind her.
bobby lee		Think yer' pretty smart now don'tcha'? She doesn't back down, instead looking him straight in the eye. SALLY Excuse me? BOBBY LEE Well yer' not smart but you are pretty. Sally stares right at Bobby Lee then moves for the door.    He shifts his position and blocks her. SALLY Excuse me. Bobby Lee smiles a crooked-tooth grin, refusing to move. BOBBY LEE Work and pleasure should naturally go together don't you think? Take me, I enjoy my work. SALLY I could give a shit. BOBBY LEE You got a mouth, don't ya? RED 
93.		147   CONTINUED:                                                   147 SALLY 
94.		148   CONTINUED:                                                    148 AT COUNTER Butch leans over and whispers something sexy into Eileen's ear. She giggles and licks her lips. Butch feels eyes on his back and looks at Phillip, who immediately turns away from them. When Butch returns his attention to Eileen she's moved a few feet away and is refilling ketchup bottles. BUTCH Buzz, go ahead and chew on mine if you want. PHILLIP No thankyew.
95.		148   CONTINUED:                                                   148 EILEEN I'm so sorry. But she's not.     In fact it seems to have turned her on even more. She puts her hand behind Butch's neck and slowly pulls him close for gentle kiss. 149   EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT                                        149 Phillip tosses a rock then turns to the diner. They're gone. Phillip drops his handful of rocks and walks to the front window of the diner.
96.		151D PHILLIP'S POV - BUTCH AND EILEEN                               151D Kissing, writhing, but FROM this ANGLE  all he can really see is a mane of hair swinging to and fro.   Butch is out of sight but it's obvious that his lips continue  to caress Eileen's backside. She cranes her neck, arching   it like a swan, moaning like a wildebeast and then... She stops and stares STRAIGHT AHEAD. Butch continues to kiss but only for a beat, sensing the locomotive he's on has stopped at an unscheduled station. He slides his face from around her rear, a la Kilroy, and he stares, too. Except for their continuing heavy breathing they could be modern art statues staring STRAIGHT AHEAD AT... 152A INT. OFFICE - REVERSE - NIGHT                                  152A
97.		153   CONTINUED:                                                   153 BACK TO SCENE In the b.g., over his shoulder, the cafe door opens, CLANGING a string of BELLS as Butch hastily exits and walks past Phillip. BUTCH Get in the car. 154   INT. STATION WAGON - NIGHT                             154 Silence. Butch drives away libidinous desires, Phillip sits quietly, staring straight ahead, now and again stealing a peek at Butch. PHILLIP You mad at me? BUTCH  Jus' barely. PHILLIP Why? BUTCH Caus' it feels good. Ain't you ever seen your mama kiss a man?
phillip		No. 
98.		154   CONTINUED:                                                      154 PHILLIP Do you love her? BUTCH Who? PHILLIP The lady that cooked the hamburgers? Butch ponders this, then a grin slides across his face. BUTCH Yeah, Phillip, I love her.  Kissed her butt didn't I?
99.		156   CONTINUED:                                                     156 PHILLIP Caus'. BUTCH Caus' why? PHILLIP 'Caus' I stole. They'd put me in jail. Prolly' go to hell. Butch chuckles at the notion. BUTCH Same difference.    We'll get you home soon. I swear, okay?
phillip		Butch? BUTCH Yeah, Phillip? PHILLIP I can drive. BUTCH Done proved that ain'tcha'? There's lots and lots of stuff you can do, Phillip.  Reach in that glovebox there. See if Bob's got a notepad or something. Phillip extracts a small ringed memo pad. BUTCH Good old Bob. Can you write?
phillip		I can print. BUTCH Good enough. Now I want you to make a list of everything you ever wanted to do but wasn't allowed to. Okay? PHILLIP Like what? BUTCH Like... cotton candy. PHILLIP Cotton candy? 
100.		156   CONTINUED:                                                   156 BUTCH Hell I don't know. It's yer' list. Butch settles in for a catnap.      Just as his eyes close... PHILLIP Butch?... BUTCH Yeah?... 157   EXT. FIELD - NIGHT                                              157 Only the dome light and the LOW MUSIC bring attention to the car sitting lonely in the middle of the massive field.
101.		159   CONTINUED:                                                   159 SALLY It's the 60's, Red. They've got a file on everybody. RED Just caus' it's written down don't make it true. SALLY You worked as County Sheriff in Amarillo and Austin before you became a Ranger. Right so far?  Oh, and it says your name's Cecil.
red		Yeah, well, that's definitely the worst of it. Red uncorks his thermos and refills Sally's mug.    She takes a sip and almost chokes on it. SALLY Strong... but good. So Cecil... Red gives her a strong look. SALLY Red. What do you do when you're not at work. RED The file don't tell ya' that, too? SALLY Nope.
red		I got a ranch I never visit, nieces I hardly know, a tackle box full of dry lures and a dog that figures he's the owner and I'm the pet.  Could have a point, he's there more. SALLY A confirmed bachelor. Any regrets? RED Liked to have wet those lures. Maybe a new dog. 
102.		159   CONTINUED:                                                159 SALLY My father's defense lawyer. RED That explains your mouth. Sally smiles. SALLY Instead of Home Ec, I studied Criminology. When I graduated, my father, with the Governor's help, they, he and my dad... I created a position for myself with the prison system.
red		What's yer' husband think about all this? SALLY Don't own one. RED Yer' not careful you'll wind up jus' like me. Old, tired, with nobody around to love ya'. SALLY Maybe. RED It's crazy ain't it? SALLY What's that?
red		Goin' without sleep chasin' after a three time loser and Casper the Friendly Ghost? SALLY Sleep?    That's what retirement's for. RED Bite your tongue. SALLY You wanna' know what's really crazy? Hayne's juvenile court record lists you as Amicus Curiae. Silence save the CRICKETS. 
103.		159   CONTINUED:   
104.		159   CONTINUED:    What are you trying to say?
105.		161   CONTINUED:                                                     161 B)   A Haynes family photo -- a grizzled father standing behind a mother seated holding a baby. They stand in front of a small, white framed house. C)   Extreme closeup -- The baby in the snapshot - Butch. D)   Snapshot of a young Butch, age 6, with his father and another adult male, who are both holding deer rifles with one hand and with the other the antlers and head of a dead deer. E)   Extreme closeup -- Butch's father from the same photo. F)   Snapshot of Butch, 8, with his mother but no father.
106.		161   CONTINUED:        Snapshot of crime scene in the bar. A man lies      on the floor in a pool of blood. Onlookers, including      some of the dime dancers and Butch's mom, express their     shock at the incident while police photographers and     newsmen look on.
107.		162   CONTINUED:                                                     162 A BLACK MAN - 50 or so, KILLS the ENGINE  Didn't mean to scare ya'. I work at night. It's cooler. Ya'lls car break down? BUTCH Me n' the boy was just catchin' some shut-eye in yer' field. MACK Oh, it ain't mine. I just works it for Mr. Andrews. Where ya'll from? BUTCH Drove from Texarkana yesterday. MACK Quite a haul. BUTCH Said a mouthful there.
mack		Well, ain't no sense in ya'll sleepin' in the car. Not when I got a fold out couch sittin' empty. BUTCH Wouldn't want to put you out.     'Sides we need to get back on the road. MACK No trouble t'all. Wake you up first light, fill yer' belly and send you on yer' way. 163   EXT. RURAL ROAD - FIRST LIGHT - DAY                            163 A Highway Patrol car, followed by a tow truck, breeze along the highway. 164   OMITTED                                                        164
108.		165   INT. HIGHWAY PATROL CAR - DAY                                  165 Two officers, MONTGOMERY and HALL, scan the horizon.    They look like they've driven all night. Saunders wakes up in the back seat and leans forward. SAUNDERS We didn't pass it did we? Saunders spots the RV on the horizon. MONTGOMERY There it is. 166   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                            166
109.		168   CONTINUED:                                                       168 SAUNDERS What?! SUTTLE Well, uh, Chief Garnett wanted me to tell you that the vehicle gets his seal of approval.... Saunders' face begins to turn red. SUTTLE And that he wants his chair back. If he was red before, now Saunders is crimson.   A ther- mometer dropped into boiling water.
110.		173   CONTINUED:                                                   173 A small head pops up on the side of the bed nearest Phillip. The six-year-old eyes of CLEVELAND peer close to Phillip and watch, only inches away, as Phillip sleeps. Phillip's eyes blink a bit and then they open... PHILLIP  Now I told ya not to do that. BUTCH AND PHILLIP, breathing hard, can't help but laugh. BUTCH No harm, Ma'am. LOTTIE I'm Lottie. Mack's wife.     This here's my grandbaby, Cleveland.
cleve		Name's Cleve.   I'm six. PHILLIP I'm eight.   Mine's Buzz. 174   INT. MACK'S KITCHEN - DAY                                    174 Butch, Cleve and Phillip finish breakfast while Lottie pours coffee. Cleve and Phillip, hitting it off well, are engaged in fervent storytelling. CLEVE We got us a creek down the way. Wanna go later? 
111.		174   CONTINUED:                                                     174 PHILLIP Sure thing. Mack enters after a hard night's work. BUTCH Mornin' to ya. MACK Mornin'.   Rest done ya'll some good. LOTTIE You wanna plate? MACK Not jus' yet. 
112.		176   CONTINUED:                                                   176 LOTTIE  Where's the boy's mother? BUTCH We left her at home this time.   Boy's night out kinda thing. Butch spots an old phonograph. BUTCH Say, lookie here. He gives it a spin with his finger and searches through a stack of 78s.
lottie		Mr. Andrews give 'em to us when he got hisself a newfangled one. Butch finds a particular favorite. BUTCH Jeezus. Now this is music. You know how long it's been since I heard this. LOTTIE That's an oldie all right. Mrs. Andrews' maiden name was Bougeois -- half-Creole herself she is, but Mr. Andrews he don't like nobody to know. 'Suppose that's why he give 'em to us. 177   INT. BATHROOM - DAY                                          177 Mack drops his pants and sits on the throne. He reaches over and turns ON the RADIO resting on the wash basin. A FARM REPORT comes on just as... 178   INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY                                       178 A NEEDLE DROPS on a 78, filling the room with the SCRATCHY sounds of a Coonass waltz. Butch's eyes come to life. BUTCH You dance, Lottie? LOTTIE Lawd goodness no. 
113.		178   CONTINUED:                                                       178 BUTCH Here, jus' follow me. He takes her in his arms and slowly but surely adjusts her movement to his. After a few rough turns they're not too bad. Phillip can't help but smile as he and Cleve watch and giggle. Butch and Lottie dance, swirling around the room. LOTTIE Mr. Poe, you sure can move.
butch		Oughta be able to. Was raised in a dime a dance whorehouse. LOTTIE Yer' foolin' me? BUTCH No, ma'am. My mama would dance their asses out of the fryin' pan and into the back room fire. Butch spots Phillip and Cleve, watching, giggling. BUTCH Get on yer' feet, Buzz.     You'n Cleve shake a leg. LOTTIE  Well go on!
114.		179   CONTINUED:                                                    179 ANNOUNCER  Update on the manhunt for the escaped convict. Haynes is armed and extremely dangerous. He is believed to have a hostage with him, an eight-year-old boy. A finger turns OFF the RADIO. We FOLLOW the finger UP an arm TO Butch's concerned face. He sits down on the edge of the tub across from Mack and takes the knife away from him. BUTCH We'll be leavin' soon enough. I'll kill all of you if you try anything stupid. Mack swallows hard.
115.		180   CONTINUED:                                                      180 Butch smiles and starts to oblige the boy, but Mack inter- venes and smacks Cleve hard, sending him sprawling to the floor bawling. Butch, instantly enraged, back-hands Mack, grabs him by the collar and tosses him onto the floor. Phillip -- frozen, sitting, watching as things go from bad to worse. Cleve -- confused, bawling, afraid. Butch pulls    the gun from his pants, bends down, picks up Mack by his    throat, presses the gun in his mouth and lifts him into a    chair beside Lottie. He bends close to Mack -- their noses    are inches apart. BUTCH Why'd ya'   wanna' go and hit Cleve for? He didn't   move fast enough for ya', is that it?    Or maybe he gets excited sometimes   and don't hear everything ya' say? You    make me sick to my stomach. Butch spits in Mack's face, then rises and walks over to Phillip and hands him the revolver. BUTCH Point it at 'em. PHILLIP I don't wanna'... BUTCH Point it!
116.		180   CONTINUED:     Put yer' hands 'tween yer' legs, son. Cleve,    still sobbing, does so. Butch reaches down and flips    him, all the while staring at Mack. Each time he flips    the boy, Butch reaches down, grabs Cleve's hands and flips    him again. Finally he allows the frightened child to go to Mack and Lottie.
117.		182   CONTINUED:                                                     182 MACK  I love you. Butch cocks the revolver and slides forward.     His nose is almost touching Mack's. BUTCH No, old man.    Say it like you mean it. MACK This boy know I loves him, mistah'. BUTCH Then say it.
lottie		Please, mistah'. I gotta' sense about you. I know you a good man. BUTCH Nome', I ain't a good man. Ain't the worst neither, jus' a different breed. 183   EXT. HOUSE - DAY                                               183 Phillip is at the screen door looking in.     He holds the bag in his hand. HIS POV Butch sits on the coffee table, which is pushed right up to Mack, Lottie and Cleve, who sit on chairs. 184   INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY                                         184
118.		184   CONTINUED:                                                    184 Phillip stands, stares, aware that something bad is happening. Butch finishes tying, sticks the knife in his pocket and walks over to the PHONOGRAPH. He turns it back ON. The SCRATCHY RECORD plays. He turns UP the VOLUME. BUTCH  You can go wait in the car or you can watch. Yer' old enough to think for yer'self. Phillip, unsure what to do, stands his ground.
119.		184   CONTINUED:    Say it wif' me.... Butch looks to Phillip in a strange way, sets the gun on the floor between them, and crawls amongst the candy, gum and wrappers until he finds the electrician's tape. Phillip watches, not knowing what to do. The revolver -- cocked, resting on the floor.
120.		184   CONTINUED:                                                184 Phillip, momentarily dazed, stares at the gun in his hand, at Butch, the blood pouring from Butch's side, and the shocked faces of Mack and his family. Then, in a flash, he runs, pell-mell, out of the house. 185   EXT. HOUSE - DAY                                             185 Phillip blasts out the screen door and runs straight to the well. He drops the gun into the well, catches his breath and heads for the road. After a few yards he has a thought, runs back to the station wagon, grabs the keys and throws them as far into the adjacent field as he can. Then he resumes his race for the road. 186   INT. HOUSE - DAY                                             186 Butch gropes to his feet, still in shock. He stumbles toward the door, then stops, reaches in his pocket, extracts Mack's Barlow knife, holds it up and walks toward them, staring hard. Mack, Cleve, Lottie -- Afraid they'll be killed after all. Butch, surprisingly, meekly sets the knife down on the coffee table... BUTCH Thanks for yer' hospitality. And walks away. 187   EXT. HOUSE - DAY                                             187
121.		187   CONTINUED:                                                    187 BUTCH makes his way onto the private dirt and starts walking back toward the main road. BUTCH  Phillip?!! I won't hurt ya', I swear! PHILLIP is running out of steam on the road ahead.   He stops for a blow and looks back. HIS POV
122.		189   INT. HOUSE - DAY                                                189 Arch enters the kitchen, sees no one and starts toward the living room. The MAMBO continues to SCRATCH. ARCH Mack?... Lottie?... Arch enters the living room and stops when he sees Mack and family, still gagged and tied to the chairs. 190   EXT. ROAD - DAY                                                 190 Butch, holding his side, the pain is worse as he stumbles along. He stops when he spots something -- a piece of white costume on the fence. He crosses the ditch, steps through the fence and walks in the same direction Phillip did. BUTCH That was a helluva' thing to do, Phillip. You're a hero. Prolly' be in all the papers tomorrow, how you saved those folks. Truth is, I don't think I woulda' killed 'em. I only killed two people in my whole life. One hurt my mama and one hurt you. 191   INT. LEAD PATROL CAR - DAY                                191 Adler listens in on the shortwave. KAISER 
123.		191   CONTINUED:                                                   191 RED Jeezus, who did that? ADLER Guvner, I assume. SALLY Not a bad idea. RED Go ahead and chopper her in. After a moment of silence, Sally turns to Red. SALLY I didn't mean to pry last night. RED Yes, ya did. SALLY Look, Red, it was 20 years ago. RED Funny thing. When the judge sent him away the kid stared at me. Like he knew. Not hard or mad like you'd expect. It was... It was like he was forgiving me. SALLY Forgiving you for what?! For looking at the facts and doing what you thought was right? RED Naw.   For what's gonna happen today.
124.		193   INT./EXT. LOCAL BLACK AND WHITE - DAY                         193 A country cop answering the report, drives slowly down the road, his pistol drawn and held upright in one hand. He pulls into Mack's driveway and parks. Arch walks out of the house to greet him. ARCH That's his car. Took off on foot. He's got a pistol. Mack says it looks like a .38. 194   EXT. FIELD - DAY                                              194 Butch stops to rest.   Something catches his eye. HIS POV
125.		194   CONTINUED:                                                   194 BUTCH 
126.		196   CONTINUED:                                                    196 PHILLIP I'm sorry. BUTCH I know ya' are. Truth is, if it had to happen, I'm glad it was you. As opposed to someone I don't know, I mean. All things considered, I feel pretty good, though. Could use a beer, though. PHILLIP What's beer taste like? BUTCH Oh, it's about the best thing there is. You'd better put that on the list. Phillip's eye catches something.     He stands up fearfully... HIS POV - TWO MORE PATROL CARS lights spinning, rushing down the road, kicking up dust. 197   INT./EXT. RED'S PATROL CAR - DAY                              197 Sally watches Red. When the car comes to a stop, she reaches out and touches his arm. SALLY I think our chances of this thing ending peacefully are good. He smiles a lonesome smile, opens the door and exits. 198   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                          198
127.		199   CONTINUED:                                                    199 RED Yeah.   You got the area quadroned off? HENDRICKS Water tight. Like a frog's pussy. 
128.		200   CONTINUED:                                                 200 RED  Lyin' to 'em, of course. 201   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                        201
129.		203   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                          203 ADLER Ya' think he means it? Red mulls it over, replaces his old chaw with a fresh one and looks to Sally. RED What do you think? SALLY Based on what's happened the past two days I don't think he would. RED One thing's for sure. If he gets outta' here with the boy, we're right back to where we started. BRADLEY If he kills the boy he'll get the chair. ADLER Shit, he'll get the chair anyway.   He's killed two in two days. SALLY We don't know that he pulled the trigger on either of the innocent victims. ADLER Well he wasn't at home in his Strat-O- Lounger. 'Sides, who killed Pugh? Casper? RED All right, both of you, that's enough! From the trail of blood I got a feelin' it ain't gonna' make any difference. Let's jus' concentrate on gettin' the boy out for now. Bobby Lee approaches with a leather case, bypasses Red and goes straight to Hendricks. BOBBY LEE Where ya' want me, sir? RED Can you shoot off a hood? Bobby Lee nods. In the b.g., a HELICOPTER circles, preparing to land. 
130.		203   CONTINUED:                                                   203 ADLER That'd be the boy's mother. RED Bring her on over. 204   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                         204 Butch and Phillip watch the helicopter land. BUTCH See, Phillip, dreams do come true. There's yer' rocketship. PHILLIP Think I'll get to ride it? BUTCH Today's the day. RED  Butch, we got the boy's Mama here. She wants to say something. Phillip is visibly stunned by the news. He crawls up to the crest of the creekside and squints, looking for his mom. BUTCH What's wrong, Phillip? PHILLIP It's my mama. Phillip still cranes his neck to see.
butch		Now that ya' got yerself a ghost suit, do ya' think she'll let ya' trick r' treat? PHILLIP 
131.		205   CONTINUED:                                                    205 Inside is... a high-powered military rifle in three parts. Hands unzip a velvetine bag and pull out a high-powered scope. Bobby Lee holds the lens of the scope to his mouth, blows a breath on it and wipes it clean with a piece of clean cloth. He feels eyes and turns to see... Sally, watching him at work. Bobby Lee smiles at her, cocksure.   His dark role in this manhunt is now perfectly clear. Sally turns her head, disgusted.
132.		206   CONTINUED:                                                    206 PHILLIP  This one's shot.
red		Well, find another one! Red sighs and cups his hands around his mouth. RED 
133.		207   CONTINUED:                                                     207 RED You all set? BOBBY LEE You say when, I'll say dead. Red glares at Bobby Lee for an extended moment. RED 
134.		208   CONTINUED:                                                   208 PHILLIP I don't need beer!... BUTCH  Know jus' how ya' feel, Phillip.
135.		211   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                         211 GLADYS  Make her say it!
136.		212   CONTINUED:                                                     212 PHILLIP What are you gonna' do? BUTCH Somethin'll come to mind. Butch sticks out his hand.    Phillip shakes it, afraid. BUTCH 'Bye, Phillip.    It's been one helluva' ride. Butch nods and smiles. BUTCH  All right, Cap'n. Make way for Casper the friendly ghost. The friendliest ghost I know. Butch nudges Phillip and the boy starts toward the field. 213   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                            213 Adler, looking through binoculars, can't help but smile. RED Gimme' them things. Adler hands over the binoculars.    Red takes a look. HIS POV - PHILLIP nee Casper, walking in his full whitehood, arms reaching for the sky.
137.		215   CONTINUED:                                                   215 BACK TO SCENE Red lowers his binocs. RED  216   EXT. FIELD - DAY                                             216 Phillip turns back and sees ... Butch -- He tries to get up in an attempt to make a run for it, but his strength is gone. He collapses. Phillip, standing still, with his mother's shrieks filling the air behind him, watches Butch for a second then runs back toward him. 217   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                          217 Red sighs and lowers the binocs. 218   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                         218 Phillip stands before a struggling Butch.
butch		Personally I think we negotiated a pretty fair deal, but if there's somethin' else you want... PHILLIP 
138.		219   CONTINUED:                                                     219 HENDRICKS He thought better of releasin' the hostage. SALLY It doesn't necessarily mean that. RED  Stay on ready. 220   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                           220 Phillip holds his hand out and helps Butch get up. Butch stands, dusts himself off, grabs the boy's hand and to- gether they walk toward the field.
sally		He's giving himself up. HENDRICKS Keep in mind -- he still has the gun. RED 
139.		224   EXT. FIELD - DAY                                               224 With all the yelling, it's hard to make out what's being said. Butch and Phillip continue to walk and talk. BUTCH So I guess that's it for Alaska, Phillip. 225   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                            225 RED Stop and put your hands on your head! GLADYS Run, Phillip!   Come here, Phillip! SALLY  You clean? BOBBY LEE As a whistle. RED Keep him locked down.    Don't squeeze til' I say 'when.' Red holds Bobby Lee's eyes until the young Fed nods.    Then Red unstraps his holster and moves between the cars.
hendricks		Where the hell you going? But Red's not listening, just walking, long and tall, into the field. EXT. FIELD - DAY Butch and Phillip continue to walk, Butch holding Phillip's hand. When Butch spots Red approaching he slows and then stops. Red shows his palms and keeps walking toward them.     When he gets within 25 feet he stops. RED I'm unarmed.    Toss your gun on the ground. 
140.		225   CONTINUED:                                                   225 Butch smiles. BUTCH If I had a pistola I'd be headed the other direction. My partner here got rid of the evidence.  Do I know you, friend? RED No... not really. BUTCH Hmm. Well, look I wanna' talk to the boy and then we'll take care of bidness. How's that? Only take a second. Red nods then looks over his shoulder at the patrol cars lined up like a wagon train, guns aimed, Bobby Lee peering through the scope of his rifle. 226   NEW ANGLE                                                    226 Butch and Phillip. BUTCH I wanna' give ya' somethin'. 227   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                          227 HENDRICKS He's stopped. ADLER He's gonna make a run for it.
sally		Give it a second! HENDRICKS  If he makes a move...
141.		228   EXT. FIELD - DAY                                             228 Butch kneels down beside Phillip.    He reaches slowly, pain- fully for his back pocket. BUTCH Mebe' someday you'll get to go... 229   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                          229 Hendricks looks through the binocs. HENDRICKS He's goin' for his weapon! THROUGH BINOCULARS
142.		229   CONTINUED:                                                      229 BUTCH Damn, Buzz, shot twice in the same day. He collapses and falls into Phillip's arms. Phillip backs away two steps and falls to his knees. Butch wavers for a second then topples on his back. Phillip moans, sobs, as he watches Butch, the GUNSHOT still ECHOING. AT ROADSIDE Gladys runs from behind the car, followed by a host of officers.
hendricks		Keep everybody back! Bobby Lee stands, lowers his rifle disengages and smiles at Hendricks. BOBBY LEE No need to worry.     He can't hurt nobody now. IN FIELD Red stands frozen, staring, in another world. An OFFICER trots up to Butch and does a careful ground frisk. OFFICER  No weapon, Chief! Red "comes to," turns and walks toward the...
roadside		Red walks   up to Bobby Lee, stops and stares at the grinning marksman.    After a beat, Red turns then nearly jumps out of shoes with   a sudden right cross that floors the younger man. Red starts   to jump in for more but Hendricks, stunned, jumps in, grabs   Red and, joined by four other Officers, holds the older man   back. Shouting, i.e. "Hey, hey, Red, whoa, whoa!" Red settles a bit. Hendricks turns to Bobby Lee who rises to one knee and wipes at a bloody lip, and then to Red who is still breathing hard. HENDRICKS What the hell was that all about?! RED I didn't say 'when.' 
143.		229   CONTINUED:    Goddammit!! Adler catches up to Red.   He stares at his old friend and boss as they walk along. ADLER I thought he had a gun, too, Red.   There was just no way of knowin'. Red doesn't even look at Adler, just keeps walking.    Adler stops, his eyes following Red. Sally, nearby, watches Red walk away. PHILLIP is helped to his feet by his mother. She holds him dearly to her chest. He hugs back just as hard, his blood-stained Casper outfit staining her blouse. She unzips the costume and dollar bills fly all around. She starts to lead Phillip off but he won't leave until... He pulls the postcard from Butch's hand. CLOSEUP - PHILLIP Staring down at Butch. CLOSEUP - BUTCH His eyes flutter a bit with recognition.
144.		229   CONTINUED:                                                 229 Red reaches into his pocket, pulls out his tobacco and stuffs a chunk into his mouth. IN FIELD - CLOSEUP - BUTCH He licks his lips as the MUFFLED VOICES CONTINUE around him. He squints hard and sees: HELICOPTER as it lifts off and speeds away.    As it wipes the sun... CLOSEUP - BUTCH A slight smile crosses his dying face as he squints to see Phillip's flight. CLOSEUP - PHILLIP Nose pressed against the glass bubble. BUTCH His eyes don't close, still squinted but frozen. CLOSEUP - EYES We realize now, are lifeless. BUZZARD continues its flight past the sun. SUN flares, SENDING the SCREEN TO:
****Dialogues from script :Perks_of_Being_a_Wallflower.txt****

senior bully		Hop, freshman toads. Hop!    Move it, boys!
linebacker		Man, you got big.
nose tackle		Worked out all summer.   Rock hard, dude.
brad hays		Would you guys get a room?
candace		Seniors only.  What are you doing with a plastic spork?
derek		I don't want to bring back silverware--
candace		Derek, you're Earth Club Treasurer.
patrick		Boys, the prick punch is not a toy. I learned that in 'Nam back in '68. "Callahan," the sergeant said, "put down that prick punch and go kill some gooks."
patrick		My name is Patrick. You call me Patrick or you call me nothing.
patrick		Chapter 1. Surviving your fascist shop teacher, who needs to put kids down to feel big.  Oh, wow. This is useful guys. We should read on.
bill		Shhh. I'm Mr. Anderson. And thanks to Teach for America, I'm going to be your teacher for freshman English. This semester, we're going to be learning Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird. Genius book. Now, who wants to get out of the first pop quiz?
freshman girl		Shakespeare.
bill		That's a great guess, but no, Shakespeare didn't write novels. Anybody else?  The author was...
bill		I'll give you a free "A" on anything but the final term paper if you get it right.
bill		You should learn to participate.
charlie		Thank you, sir, but if my English teacher is the only friend I make today, that would be sort of depressing.
bill		Yeah.   I could see that.
charlie		Don't worry, Mr. Anderson.     I'm okay.
patrick		 I would happily not take shop...
senior bully		Hey, Freshman Toad.
derek		Mmmm. This chicken paprikash is delicious, Mrs. Kelmeckis.
mother		Thank you, Derek. It's Charlie's favorite. He was a little nervous about starting high school, so I made it.
father		You feel a little silly being nervous now, huh, champ?
charlie		Yes, sir.    I sure do.
father		I told you. Just give 'em a smile and be yourself. That's how you--
candace		"--make friends in the real world."
father		You're cruisin' for a bruisin'.
derek		Freshman year is tough, but you really find yourself.
father		 Thanks, Derek.
mother		I think you could be a little nicer to Derek.
father		I'm sorry.     The kid's a pussy.   I can't stand him.
derek		 I hope you love the mix I made.     The cover is hand-painted.
candace		Charlie, do you want this?
charlie		Are you sure?
candace		He gives me one every week.
patrick		Come on Devils! Woooooo!
patrick		Suck it, virginity pledges!
charlie		Hey... Patrick.
patrick		Hey! You're in my shop class, right? How's your clock coming?
charlie		My dad's building it.
patrick		Yeah. Mine looks like a boat.  You want to sit over here, or are you waiting for your friends?
charlie		No.   I'll sit if that's okay.
patrick		Thanks for not calling me "Nothing" by the way. It's an endless nightmare. And these assholes actually think they're being original.
charlie		So, uh... you like football?
patrick		Love it.
charlie		Then, maybe you know my broth--
patrick		Hey, Sam.
sam		Question. Could the bathrooms here be more disgusting?
patrick		Yes, they call it the men's room.
sam		Well, I finally got hold of Bob.
patrick		Party tonight?
sam		No. He's still trying to shag that waitress from the Olive Garden.
patrick		He's never tossing that salad.
sam		 Patrick... who's this?
patrick		This is...
charlie		Uh... Charlie... Kelmeckis.
patrick		Kelmeckis! No shit! Your sister dates Pony Tail Derek, doesn't she?
charlie		Is that what they call him?
sam		Awww. Leave Pony Tail Derek alone.    You put the "ass" in "class," Patrick.
patrick		I try, Sam. I try.
sam		It's nice to meet you, Charlie.    I'm Sam.
patrick		So, what's the plan, Sam? You want to go to Mary Elizabeth's house?
sam		Can't. She got caught watering down her parent's brandy with iced tea. Let's just go to Kings.
patrick		 Hey... we're going to Kings after the game if you want to come.
sam		Do you have a favorite band?
charlie		I think The Smiths are my favorite.
sam		Are you kidding!? I love The Smiths! The best breakup band ever. What's your favorite song?
charlie		Asleep. It's from Louder Than Bombs. I heard it on Pony Tail Derek's mix tape.
patrick		That works on so many levels.
charlie		I could make a copy for you.
sam		Thanks. What about Eide's?     You love Eide's, right?
charlie		 Yeah. They're great.
patrick		Not a band, Charlie.
sam		It's an old record store downtown.
patrick		I used to be popular before Sam got me some good music. So, watch out, Charlie. She'll ruin your life forever.
charlie		That's okay.
patrick		Let it go!     Jesus!   It's an old joke! It's over!
sam		So, Charlie... what are you going to do when you get out of here?
charlie		My Aunt Helen said I should be a writer, but I don't know what I'd write about.
sam		You could write about us.
patrick		Yeah. Call it Slut and The Falcon.      Make us solve crimes.
charlie		You guys look happy together. How long have you been boyfriend and girlfriend?  What?
sam		He's my step-brother. My mom finally left my worthless dad and married his nice dad 3 years ago.
patrick		But Sam's not bitter.     Make no mistake.
sam		Absolutely. I'm not a bulimic.      I'm a bulim-ist.
charlie		I'm sorry.     I don't know what that means.
patrick		She just really believes in bulimia.
sam		 I love bulimia.
patrick		Thanks for paying, Charlie.
charlie		 No problem. Thanks for the ride. Hey... maybe I'll see you around in school?
sam		 God, would you turn that down? You're going to make us deaf. Bye, Charlie.
patrick		Bye, Charlie.
charlie		Okay.   Bye.
derek		There's nothing I can do--
candace		Do you always want to be a mama's boy?
derek		I am not a mama's boy--
candace		Yes! You are! Every time I go to your house--
derek		Shhh.   Shut u--
candace		-- your mom says, "Don't go to Columbia with Candace. Go to Pitt, Derek. Mommy needs you to stay at home because she
derek		SHUT UP, CANDACE!
candace		And you just stand there like a little bitch dog.
little candace		Welcome home, Aunt Helen!
aunt helen		Oh.   Look at you all, dressed so nice.
charlie		What are you doing?
candace		Look, I egged him on. You saw it. He's never hit me before. I promise he'll never hit me again.
charlie		Like Aunt Helen's boyfriends?
candace		Charlie... this is Pony Tail Derek.   I can handle him. Will you trust me? Please, don't tell mom and dad.
sam		Oh, my God. They're playing good music.
patrick		Holy shit. They are!   They're playing good music!
sam		 Living room routine?
patrick		Living room routine!
sam		God, it's freezing.
patrick		But you wore that toasty costume. It's not like you're trying too hard to be original.
sam		Piss off, Tennessee Tuxedo.
charlie		Are you sure it's okay that I come?
sam		Of course. Just remember, Charlie... Bob's not paranoid.
patrick		"He's sensitive."
bob		Sam... that waitress from the Olive Garden is a tease. Will you marry me?
sam		Only if I have Patrick's blessing.
bob		Patrick?
patrick		You're a hopeless stoner who attends the culinary institute. So, I'm going to have to say "no" on that one, but nice try. Charlie?
bob		Touch.
patrick		Charlie... this is a party.
mary elizabeth		Patrick, you're such a dick.
patrick		Where the hell did you go?
mary elizabeth		The dance was a little boring, don't you think?
patrick		You're so selfish. We looked everywhere for you. You could have told someone.
mary elizabeth		Cry me a river.
patrick		How is it that you got meaner since
mary elizabeth		Just lucky I guess.
patrick		I think you're doing something wrong.
mary elizabeth		Or something very right.
charlie		Is that Brad Hays?
alice		Yeah.    He comes here sometimes.
charlie		But he's a popular kid.
mary elizabeth		 Then, what are we?
bob		Charlie, you look like you could use a brownie.
charlie		Thank you. I was so hungry at the dance. I was going to go to King's, but I didn't really have any time. Thanks.
charlie		Have you guys felt this carpet?     This carpet feels so darn good.
mary elizabeth		 Charlie, what do you think about high school?
charlie		High school? Bullshit. The cafeteria is called the Nutrition Center. And people wear their letter jackets even when it's 98 degrees out. And why do they give out letters for marching band? That's not a sport, and we all know it.
mary elizabeth		This kid is crazy.
charlie		And Mary Elizabeth, I think you're really going to regret that haircut when you look back at old photographs.  I'm really sorry. That sounded like a compliment in my head.
mary elizabeth		Oh, my God!
alice		Well, it's kind of true.
mary elizabeth		Shut up!
sam		Bob, did you get him stoned?
bob		Come on, Sam. He likes it.     Just look at him.
sam		How do you feel, Charlie?
charlie		I just really want a milkshake.
charlie		Sam, you have such pretty brown eyes, the kind of pretty that deserves to make a big deal about itself. You know what I mean?
sam		Okay, Charlie.     Let me make the milkshake.
charlie		What a great word. Milkshake. It's like when you say your name over and over again in the mirror, and after awhile, it sounds crazy.
sam		I'm guessing you've never been high before?
charlie		Me? No. My best friend Michael. His dad was a big drinker. So, he hated all that stuff. Parties, too.
sam		Well, where is Michael tonight?
charlie		Oh, he shot himself last May.
sam		It's up the stairs.
charlie		Charlie.     Charlie.   Weird.
patrick		Charlie?
brad hays		 Who is that kid?
patrick		Relax. Relax. He's a friend of mine. Stay here.
charlie		I didn't see anything.
patrick		I know you saw something, but it's okay.
charlie		"Like a cake." That's what Bob said. And how you can't have 3 on a match because they would find us. And everyone laughed, but I don't know what's funny.
patrick		Okay, Charlie, listen. I need you to promise that you're not going to say anything to anyone about me and Brad. This has to be our little secret.
charlie		Our little secret.     Agreed.
patrick		Thank you.     We'll talk later.
charlie		I look forward to that big talk.
charlie		Isn't this the best milkshake, Alice? It's even better than the first one.
sam		 I need to talk to you. Charlie just told me that his best friend shot himself. I don't think he has any friends.
patrick		Everyone.     Raise your glasses to Charlie.
charlie		What did I do?
patrick		You didn't do anything. We just want to toast our new friend.  You see things. And you understand. You're a wallflower.
patrick		Well, we didn't think there were any cool people left to meet. So, everyone...
sam		Welcome to the island of misfit toys.
sam		My God.    What is this song!?
patrick		Right?    I have no idea.
sam		 Have you heard it before?
charlie		Never.
sam		 Wait! Let's go through the tunnel!
patrick		Sam, it's freezing.
sam		Patrick, it's the perfect song!
patrick		No.     Mama Patrick says no.
sam		Patrick, it's Sam. It's Sam talking to you, I'm begging you to drive me--
patrick		 Alright! I concede!
charlie		What is she doing?
patrick		Don't worry. She does it all the time.
sam		Turn it up!
patrick		You got it, your highness.
charlie		I feel infinite.
air supply		I'm lying alone with my head on the phone, thinking of you 'til it hurts.
charlie		When he was a junior, Patrick started seeing Brad on the weekends in secret. I guess it was hard, too, because Brad had to get drunk every time they fooled around.
patrick		Whatever happened to Fae Wray? That delicate, satin draped frame? As it clung to her thigh, how I started to cry 'cause I wanted to be dressed just the same.
alice		It's gorgeous, Craig.    What did you use?
craig		Color film, but black and white paper for the printing. My professor gave me an "A," but for the wrong reasons. Most of them are idiots. You'll see what I mean when you get to college. How were your SAT's by the way?
craig		Yeah, I hope so.
charlie		Hey.    Are you okay?
sam		Yeah.   Yeah. But I got my SAT results back.   Oops.
charlie		You can take them again.
sam		Yeah, it's just if I'm going to Penn State main campus, I have to do much better. I wish I would have studied freshman year. I was a bit of a mess.
charlie		I'll help you study for the next one.
sam		Will you?
charlie		Yeah, of course.
sam		Thanks, Charlie.
charlie		Just a mix tape. No big deal. My parents have a pretty good stereo. It's all about that night in the tunnel. I couldn't find that song we were listening to, but I'm still searching for it, so--
sam		It's okay. These are great.   You have really good taste, Charlie.
charlie		Really?
sam		Yeah. Way better than me as a freshman.
charlie		No.
sam		Yeah, I did. But then I heard this old song. Pearly Dew Drops Drop. And I thought someday I would be at a party in college or something. And I'd look up and see this person across the room. And from that moment, I'd know everything was going to be okay. You know what I mean?
charlie		 Yeah.
alice		So, what do you think?
patrick		I don't know.
alice		I hope it works out. Craig would be a big step up from her last boyfriend.
mary elizabeth		No, shit.     Who could forget Mr. Car Wash Loser?
patrick		I just hope she stops playing dumb with these guys. I keep telling her... don't make yourself small. You can't save anybody.
craig		Man, your mix is morbidly sad, kid. How about something a little more upbeat?
charlie		Yeah.
alice		Don't you write poetry, Craig?
craig		No.     Poetry writes me.   You know?
bill		Wow.    That was fast.   You want another one?
charlie		Mr. Anderson... can I ask you something?
bill		Yeah.
charlie		Why do nice people choose the wrong people to date?
bill		Are we talking about anyone specific?
charlie		Can we make them know they deserve more?
bill		We can try.
sam		Hey, Charlie.
charlie		Hey, Sam. I didn't see you come in.     You want to work on probabilities and statistics?
charlie		Hey, dad.    Can I have 30 dollars?
father		 20 dollars? What do you want 10 dollars for?
charlie		Sam is doing secret santa. It's her favorite thing in the world. Please.
father		Have fun.
charlie		Thanks.
bill		Charlie... this was my favorite book growing up. This is my copy, but I want you to have it.
charlie		Thanks.
bill		Have a great Christmas break.
charlie		You too, Mr. Anderson.
patrick		If you fail me, you get me next semester.
patrick		Woo! C Minus! It's over! It's over! Ladies and gentlemen, I am below average!
sam		Below average!
sam		No more applications!   No more SAT's! Thank you, Charlie!
mary elizabeth		Multiple pairs of blue jeans. Wow. This is a really tough one, but I'm going to have to guess... Alice.
patrick		Impossible!
mary elizabeth		I'm so touched.
charlie		Where's Craig?
sam		He went home to Connecticut.    He'll be back for New Year's Eve.
charlie		I'm sorry we won't be seeing him tonight.
sam		Alright, big brother by 3 weeks.    Who's your secret santa?
patrick		I'll tell you, Sam. This one's tough. I have received a harmonica, a magnetic poetry set, a book about Harvey Milk, and a mix with the song "Asleep" on it... twice.
sam		Alright, Charlie... it's your turn.
charlie		Okay. Uh, I have received socks, pants, a shirt, and a belt. I was ordered to wear them all tonight. So, I'm guessing my secret santa is Mary Elizabeth.
patrick		Huh.   Now, why do you say that?
charlie		I don't know. She bosses people around sometimes.
mary elizabeth		What the hell is wrong with you?
charlie		Sorry.
patrick		Well, you'll be surprised to know that your secret santa is actually... me.
charlie		You got me clothes?     Why?
patrick		Because all the great writers used to wear great suits. Your last present is on a towel rack in the bathroom. Delve into our facilities. Emerge a star.
charlie		Can you hand these out while I'm gone?
mary elizabeth		Wait a second. There's only secret santa presents. There are rules, Charlie.
patrick		Mary Elizabeth, why are you trying to eat Christmas? Hand them out, Sam.
alice		"Alice, I know you'll get into NYU."
mary elizabeth		40 dollars.  "To print Punk Rocky in color next time."
bob		He knows me. He really knows me.
sam		Come on out, Charlie.
patrick		Yeah!   What a display of man I have ever seen!
charlie		Where are we going?
sam		It's a surprise.
charlie		Is this your room?    It's so cool.
sam		Thanks.
charlie		You got me a present?
sam		With all that help on my Penn State application? Of course I did. Open it.
charlie		I don't know what to say.
sam		You don't have to say anything.
charlie		That's okay. I'm just sorry you have to go back and visit your dad.
sam		I'm in such a great mood, I don't think even he could ruin it. I feel like I'm finally doing good.
charlie		You are.
sam		Me? What about you? When I met you, you were this scared freshman. And look at you in that suit. You're like a sexy English school boy. I saw Mary Elizabeth checking you out.
charlie		 No.
sam		Innocent. Worst kind of guys. Never see you coming. And parents love you. That's like... extra danger.
charlie		Well, it hasn't worked so far.
sam		Come on. You've never had a girlfriend? Not even a 2nd grade valentine?
charlie		No.   What about you?
sam		Have I ever kissed a girl?
charlie		 No! Your first kiss...
sam		My first kiss? I was 11. His name was Robert. He would come over to the house all the time.
charlie		Was he your first boyfriend?
sam		He was my dad's boss.
charlie		It's true.     You can do it.
charlie		My Aunt... she had that same thing done to her, too. And she turned her life around.
sam		She must have been great.
charlie		She was my favorite person in the world... until now.
sam		Charlie, I know that you know I like Craig. But I want to forget that for a minute. Okay? I just want to make sure that the first person who kisses you loves you. Okay?
charlie		I love you, too.
gang		"Merry Christmas!" "Good luck at your dad's!" "See you at New Year's!"
charlie		Have a good time at your mom's.
patrick		Thanks. And Charlie... since you were born on Christmas Eve, I figure you don't get a lot of birthday presents. So, I thought you should have my clock. From the heart.
charlie		Thank you, Patrick.
patrick		I love you guys!
father		Hey!   Look who's here!
chris		Come here, little sister.
candace		Hey, Chris.
chris		Ma, you look so thin!
mother		10 pounds... Weight Watchers.
chris		Charlie...
mother		Make a wish, honey.
aunt helen		Can you see it, Charlie? The luminaria is a landing strip for Santa Claus.
charlie		Hey.
chris		Hey. God, I missed mom's cooking.        You have no idea how good you have it.       I'm actually beginning to hate pizza.
charlie		How are you liking school?
chris		Not bad.    I'm no brainiac like you or Candace.    But I'm doing okay.
charlie		Okay?    You're playing in a Bowl Game.
chris		How are you feeling, Charlie?
charlie		Good.
chris		You know what I mean.      Is it bad tonight?
charlie		No.
chris		No?
charlie		I'm not picturing things anymore. And when I do, I can just shut it off.
chris		 now. And maybe if it does get bad again, you can just talk to them, yeah?
charlie		Yeah. Especially Sam. I'm going to ask her out at New Years. I think the time is right now.
charlie		How long does this take to work?
sam		Shoveling snow, huh?
charlie		I have to get this driveway clean. Then, I have to congratulate you for being happy because you deserve it.
sam		You said that an hour ago.
charlie		Was that tonight? God. I was looking at this tree, but it was a dragon, and then
sam		Okay, Charlie. Don't freak out. Just give me the shovel. Calm down. Look up.
charlie		Sam, you ever think that if people knew how crazy you really were, no one would ever talk to you?
sam		All the time. So, you want to put on these glasses? They'll protect you.
aunt helen		It'll be our little secret, all right?
patrick		7-6-5-4-3-2-1. Happy New Year!
policeman		Did your older friends pressure you?
charlie		No one pressured me into anything. I would never do drugs, officer. Never.
policeman		Then, how did you happen to be passed out on the ground at 6 in the morning?
charlie		Well, um... I was really tired, and uh... I was feeling feverish. So, I went outside for a walk, just to get some cold air. And I started seeing things. So, I passed out.
mother		 You're seeing things again, Charlie?
charlie		 Not, uh... Not really.
charlie		It was a Christmas present.
charlie		Did you have fun on your break?
bill		More fun than you're going to have today, Sinatra.
mary elizabeth		Well what are we supposed to do?     We're going on in 10 minutes!
charlie		But they said in health class--
brad hays		They say that about LSD to scare you.
charlie		Are you sure?
brad hays		Charlie, you're fine, man.
mary elizabeth		Guys, we have an emergency. Craig flaked out on us again. I need a Rocky. Brad?
brad hays		 No way. There are people out here.
mary elizabeth		Charlie... take off your clothes.
sam		 So if anything grows while you pose. I'll oil you up and drop you down. And that's just one small fraction of the main attraction. You need a friendly hand. And I need action!
charlie		Maybe I could join the cast as an alternate or something?
mary elizabeth		We're filled up now, but they'll need people after we leave for college. I could put in a good word for you.
charlie		That'd be great. Thanks.
mary elizabeth		Charlie... have you heard of the Sadie Hawkins dance?
charlie		The one where the girl asks the guy.
mary elizabeth		Yeah. Well, obviously, it's completely stupid and sexist. It's like, "Hey, thanks for the crumb." And normally, I'd just blow it off because school dances suck torture. But, you know, it's my last year, and... would you maybe want to go with me?
charlie		You want to go with me?
mary elizabeth		I'm sick of macho guys. And you looked really cute in your costume. So, what do you say?
mother		You must be Mary Elizabeth.    It's so good to meet you.
mary elizabeth		You, too, Mrs. Kelmeckis.
father		 Charlie tells me you're a Buddhist.
father		OK, a little closer together. That looks nice. Buddhist, I need you to smile a little bit more. There you go. Nice.
charlie		Are you having a good time?
sam		Not really. How about you?
charlie		I don't know. This is my first date, so I don't know what to compare it to.
sam		Don't worry. You're doing fine.
charlie		I'm sorry Craig didn't come.
sam		Yeah. He said he didn't want to go to some stupid high school dance. Can't say I blame him.
charlie		I don't know. If you like it, he should come.
sam		Thanks, Charlie. Have a beautiful first date. You deserve it.
charlie		I'll try not to make you too jealous.
mary elizabeth		Mmmm.   Now, let it breathe.
charlie		This is sure a nice house.
mary elizabeth		Thanks.
charlie		This merlot is really fancy.
mary elizabeth		Yeah. My dad collects wine, but he doesn't drink. That's weird, isn't it?
charlie		I guess.    Where are your parents?
mary elizabeth		Their club is hosting a cotillion or something racist. They'll be gone all night.
charlie		That's sure a nice fire.
mary elizabeth		Yeah. After I'm done being a lobbyist, I want to move to a house like this in Cape Cod. That sounds nice, doesn't it?
charlie		Yeah.
mary elizabeth		Your heart is beating really fast.
charlie		Is it?
mary elizabeth		Here, feel.
charlie		Uh-huh?
mary elizabeth		Do you like me?
charlie		Uh-huh.
mary elizabeth		You know what I mean.
charlie		I think so.
mary elizabeth		Don't be nervous.
mary elizabeth		Charlie...
charlie		Yeah.
mary elizabeth		I can't believe it. You of all people. I just can't believe you're my boyfriend.
mary elizabeth		See you Monday.
mary elizabeth		We're literally making out, and I'm in my bra. Hello! And the front door opens. It's my parents! I'm scrambling to get my dress on. It was crazy. Right, babe?
mary elizabeth		Can you believe it's almost our two week anniversary?
charlie		I know.
mary elizabeth		 Your first foreign film.
mary elizabeth		Vegans don't eat butter.
mary elizabeth		Walden? I read it in 7th grade.    I would have called it "On Boring Pond."
mother		She's on the phone right now? Charlie, you have to break up with her.
charlie		I can do that?
father		For Christ's sake... I need to use the phone!
patrick		Who are you talking to?
bob		I dare you to kiss Alice.
patrick		 Get ready, breeder.
craig		Mary Elizabeth? Samantha told me that you got into Harvard. Congratulations.
mary elizabeth		Thank you.  But I forgive you.
craig		 Don't worry about Penn State.   You're just wait-listed.
patrick		Excuse me, everyone, but you're missing some hot "fag on goth" action.
charlie		Truth.
patrick		How is your first relationship going?
charlie		It's so bad that I keep fantasizing that one of us is dying of cancer, so I don't have to break up with her.
patrick		Charlie?   Truth or dare?
charlie		Dare.
patrick		I dare you to kiss the prettiest girl in the room on the lips. Notice I charitably said girl and not person because let's face it... I'd smoke all you bitches.
charlie		Mary Elizabeth, I'm sorry.     I'm--
sam		What the hell is wrong with you?
patrick		Trust me.    You don't want to go back there.
charlie		But, I... I'm sorry... I didn't mean to do anything.
patrick		I know you didn't, but look... I hate to be the one to break this, but there's history with Mary Elizabeth and Sam. Other guys. Things that have nothing to do with you. But... it's best if you stay away for awhile.
charlie		 Oh. Okay. How long do you think?
mother		We're going to be late for Easter Mass.
charlie		I'll... I'll be there in a minute.
priest		Our Father who art in Heaven. Hallowed be Thy name. Thy kingdom come--
priest		Thy will be done on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread.
priest		And forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us--
priest		And lead us not into temptation.   But deliver us from--
charlie		I know. I just feel really bad about what I did. I just get so messed up inside like I'm - not there or something.
charlie		I know. I'm sorry. I just.     We've all become such good friends--
charlie		Oh. Yeah. I mean I don't want to do anything to ruin our--
charlie		Okay.   I will. Goodbye, Mar--
charlie		Something's wrong with me--
bob		Don't worry about it.   Hey... you hear from Patrick?
charlie		No.   He told me to stay away.
bob		Oh... you don't know?
charlie		 Why? Why? What happened?
bob		Brad's father caught them together.
charlie		Are you okay?
patrick		Not now, Charlie. I'm sorry.
nose tackle		Oops.   Sorry, Nothing.
patrick		You going to do something?
brad hays		What are you talking about?
patrick		Your pet ape just tripped me.    Are you going to say something?
brad hays		Why would I?
patrick		You know why.
brad hays		This is pathetic, man.    Your fixation on me.
patrick		Do you want your friends to know how you got those bruises? Really?
brad hays		I got jumped in a parking lot.
patrick		Where? In Schenley Park? Do they know about Schenley Park?  Do you guys know about Schenley Park?
brad hays		I don't know what kind of sick shit you're trying to pull.  But you better walk away now... Nothing.
patrick		Fine.   Say hi to your dad for me.
brad hays		Whatever... faggot.
patrick		What did you call me?
brad hays		I called you a faggo--
patrick		Say that shit again!    Say that shit again!
mary elizabeth		It's Patrick!
sam		No!   No!
charlie		 If you touch my friends again, I'll blind you.
brad hays		Charlie?
charlie		Yeah?
brad hays		Thanks for stopping them.
charlie		Sure, Brad.
sam		How you doing, Charlie?
charlie		I don't know. I keep trying, but... I can't really remember what I did.
sam		Do you want me to tell you?
charlie		 Yeah.
sam		You saved my brother.     That's what you did.
charlie		So, you're not scared of me?
sam		No.
charlie		And can we be friends again?
sam		Of course.
mary elizabeth		I'm dating Peter now.
charlie		I'm just glad you're happy.
mary elizabeth		Okay.
patrick		Hey Craig, Sam will be down soon.
mary elizabeth		We're going to miss the movie.
craig		Yeah, I'll go put some pep in her step.
patrick		Hey... you wanna get out of here?
charlie		Sure, Patrick.
patrick		Oh, my God. My life is officially an after school special. Son of a bitch!
charlie		 It kind of is. It so is.
patrick		So, you ever hear the one about Lily Miller?
charlie		I don't know.
patrick		Really? I thought your brother would have told you. It's a classic.
charlie		Maybe.
patrick		So, Lily comes here with this guy Parker. And this was going to be the night they were going to lose their virginity. So, she did it really proper. She packed a picnic. Stole a bottle of wine. Everything was perfect, and they're just about to 'do it' when they realize they forgot the condoms. So, what do you think happened?
charlie		I don't know.
patrick		They did it with one of the sandwich bags.
charlie		Ew!   That's disgusting!
patrick		Yes! It is! Let's keep the train rolling. Suburban legends. Charlie!
charlie		Uh. Well... there was this girl named Second Base Stace. She had boobs in the 4th grade--
patrick		Mosquito bites. Promising.     Go.
charlie		And she let some of the boys feel them.
patrick		That's your suburban legend?     Did you at least cop a feel?
charlie		No.
patrick		Of course not. You went home, listened to "Asleep," wrote a poem about her self- esteem--
charlie		Fine!    Okay. Your turn.
patrick		Yeah, I've got one. Well, there was this one guy. Queer as a 3 dollar bill. Guy's father didn't know about his son. So, he comes down into the basement one night when he's supposed to be out of town. Catches his son with another boy. So, he starts beating him. But not like the slap kind. Like the real kind. And the boyfriend says, "Stop. You're killing him." And the son just yells "Get out." And eventually the boyfriend just did.
charlie		I don't know.
patrick		Forget it. I'm free now, right? I could meet the love of my life any second now. Things will be different now, and that's good. I just need to meet a good guy.
charlie		Yeah.
patrick		I'm sorry.
charlie		It's alright.
patrick		 She got in, Charlie.
charlie		Especially because ever since I blacked out in the cafeteria, it's been getting worse. And I can't turn it off this time.
bill		Guys, you want to pass your copies of Gatsby up to the front please? And I know it's the last day, but if we could just keep it to a dull roar, I'd appreciate it.
bill		Last day.
charlie		Yeah. So, uh, I know it's none of my business, but have you decided... are you going to New York?
bill		Well, my wife and I like it here, and I think I might be better at teaching than writing.
charlie		Yeah.   Yeah.
bill		I think you could write one of them one day.
charlie		 Really?
bill		I do.
charlie		You're the best teacher I ever had.
bill		Thank you.
all		1!
patrick		Oh, Charlie's here! Guys, group photo! We should all take a group photo. Get against the railing and try to look suave!
sam		Are these all your books, Charlie?
sam		Thanks for staying up with me.
charlie		Sure. My brother said Penn State has a restaurant called Ye Olde College Diner. You have to get a grilled stickie on your first night. It's a tradition.
sam		That sounds like fun.
charlie		Yeah. Pretty soon, you'll have a whole new group of friends, and you won't even think about this place anymore.
sam		Yes, I will.
charlie		Yeah?
sam		He said he was sorry, and that I was right to break up with him. But I'm driving away, and I just felt so small. Just asking myself why do I and everyone I love pick people who treat us like we're nothing?
charlie		We accept the love we think we deserve.
sam		Then, why didn't you ever ask me out?
charlie		I, uh, I just didn't think you wanted that.
sam		Well, what did you want?
charlie		I just want you to be happy.
sam		Don't you get it, Charlie? I can't feel that. It's really sweet and everything, but you can't just sit there and put everybody's lives ahead of yours and think that counts as love. I don't want to be somebody's crush. I want people to like the real me.
charlie		I know who you are, Sam.
sam		What's wrong, Charlie?
charlie		Oh, ah... nothing.
sam		I'll call all the time.
mary elizabeth		Promise.
sam		And we'll all see each other in New York.
sam's mom		Come on, Sam.
sam		What's wrong, Charlie?
aunt helen		Don't wake your sister.
aunt helen		It'll be our little secret, okay?
aunt helen		Look, Charlie. She's fast asleep.
aunt helen		Don't wake your sister.
charlie		Stop crying.
charlie		Stop crying.
candace's friend		Candace... your brother's on the phone.
candace		Hello.
candace		Charlie?
charlie		Sam and Patrick left, and um, I just can't stop thinking something.
candace		What?
charlie		Candace, I killed Aunt Helen, didn't I? She died getting my birthday present, so I guess I killed her, right? I've tried to stop thinking that, but I can't. She keeps driving away and dying over and over.
candace		Call the police and send them to my house.
charlie		And I can't stop her.   I'm crazy again.
candace		No, Charlie, listen to me. Mom and dad are going to be home with Chris any second.
charlie		I was just thinking... what if I wanted her to die, Candace?
candace		What?    Charlie... Charlie!
charlie		Where am I?
charlie		You have to let me go.    My dad can't afford it.
charlie		No. I saw them when I was little. And I don't want to be a Mayview kid. Just tell me how to stop it.
charlie		Seeing it. All their lives. All the time. Just... how do you stop seeing it?
charlie		There is so much pain.    And I don't know how to not notice it.
charlie		No! Not me. It's them. It's everyone. It never stops. Do you understand?
charlie		What about her?
charlie		Yes, she had a terrible life.   But... I mean, what am I...
charlie		I don't care.
charlie		She was... insane.
charlie		Okay.
charlie		I, uh... I remember leaving Sam's house, and walking home...
mother		Honey?
father		God bless this food that we are about to receive. We thank You for this bounty in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
charlie		How do you think the Penguins are going to do this year, dad?
father		God damn Penguins. I think they're allergic to God damn defense.
charlie		What do the players call a puck again?
father		A biscuit.
candace		Are you sure it's not a "God damn biscuit?"
father		You're cruisin' for a bruisin'.
patrick		Can Charlie come out and play?
sam		That first night, I had grilled stickies. It was so good. You have to visit in the Fall. We'll have some. Okay?
charlie		Definitely.
patrick		Sorry, Sam. Charlie has a breakdown scheduled for October.
sam		Well, can I tell you something? I've been away for two months. It's another world. And it gets better.  And my roommate Katie has the best taste in music.
****Dialogues from script :Pet_Sematary.txt****

louis		So...what do you think?
rachel		It's gorgeous!
ellie		Am I really gonna have my own room?
louis		Yes.
ellie		Yaay!
rachel		Yes, but the rope might be--
ellie		Yaay!
louis		Let her go. It's cool.
rachel		Louis, the house is beautiful.
rachel		The Master of Disaster awakes.
louis		And Buckaroo Banzai.
rachel		Come on--let's parole 'em.
rachel		Decided to wake up and see what home looks like, huh?
louis		Ellie, you heard your m---
ellie		Wh--
ellie		Hurrts! It hurrrrts!
louis		Anyone who can scream that loud isn't ready for intensive care just yet-- looks like she just skinned her knee.
gage		Hi-Durch!
church		Waow!
gage		Druck!
rachel		Gage's gone!
louis		Jesus, the road!
gage		Drucks!
rachel		Gage!
rachel		Thank you. Thank you so much.
louis		Yes--thanks. I'm Louis Creed.
jud		Jud Crandall. I live just across the road.
rachel		I'm Rachel. Thanks again for saving the wandering minstrel boy, here.
jud		No harm, no foul. But you want to watch out for that road. Those damn trucks go back and forth all day and most of the night.
jud		Who might you be, little Miss?
ellie		I'm Ellen Creed and I live at 642 Alden Lane, Dearborn, Michigan.  At least, I used to.
jud		And now you live on Route 9 in Ludlow, and your dad's gonna be the new doctor up to the college, I hear, and I think you're going to be just as happy as a clam here, Ellen Creed.
rachel		Excuse me, Mr. Crandall--I've got to change this kid. It's nice to meet you.
jud		Same here. Come over and visit when you get the chance.
louis		No-I guess not.
ellie		Yayyy!
jud		House has stood empty for too long. It's damn good to see people in it again.
louis		Hey--they actually found the place!
jud		Movin' in's mighty thirsty work. I usually sit out on my porch of an evening and pour a couple of beers over m'dinner. Come on over and join me, if you want.
louis		Well, maybe I----
first mover		You Mr. Creed?
louis		Yes. Just a second.
louis		The movers--
rachel		Yes--I know. This path, Louis? Where does it go?
louis		I don't have the slightest idea. When I saw the house, this field was under four feet of snow.
jud		Oh, ayuh! I know. It's a good story, and a good walk, too. I'll take you up there sometime, and tell you the story, too-- after you get settled in.
louis		Great.
rachel		You're not really going over to have a beer with that old guy, are you?
louis		Well, I've got a million questions about the area, and---
rachel		---and you'll end up doing a free consultation on his arthritis or urinary problems and---
louis		Did you see his shirt?
louis		I really do have a million questions about the area...but the thing I'm really curious about is how come this octogenarian Yankee is decorating the slumped remains of his pecs with the Boss.
louis		It's me.
jud		Well, come on up and have a beer.
jud		You need a glass?
louis		Not at all.
jud		Good for you.
louis		God, that's fine.
jud		Ain't it just? The man who invented beer, Louis, that man was having a prime day for himself.
louis		What were you listening to?
jud		Allman Brothers.
louis		What?
jud		The Eat A Peach album. God, they were good before drugs and bad luck caught up with them. Listen to this, Louis.
jud		I'm sorry. Wait.
jud		Try that.
louis		Nice.
jud		I like rock and roll. No...I guess that's too mild. I love it. Since my ears started to die out on me, it's the only music I can really hear. And since my wife died...I dunno, some- times a little rock and roll fills up night. Not always, but sometimes.  One more time--welcome to Ludlow. Hope your time here will be a happy one.
louis		The one that goes into the woods--sure.
jud		That road--and those Orinco trucks-- are the two main reasons it's there.
louis		What's at the end of it?
louis		And yours.
louis		Church! God, you scared the life out of me!
church		Waow!
jud		Take a look behind you.
louis		My God!
rachel		It's beautiful!
jud		You folks ready to go on?
louis		Sure.
ellie		But where are we going, Mr. Crandall?
jud		You'll see soon enough, hon.
louis		Who owns the woods up ahead? Paper companies?
jud		Nope. The Micmac Indians. What's up ahead is all that's left of their tribal lands.
louis		Not yet...how much further is it?
jud		Aw, you'll be okay. Less than a mile.
ellie		What's it say, mommy?
rachel		It says Pet Cemetery, hon. It's misspelled, but...that's what it says.
rachel		Ellen--!
jud		I told you it was a bad road, Louis--it's killed a lot of pets and made a lot of kids unhappy. But at least something good come of it. This place.
rachel		How can you call it a good thing? A graveyard for pets killed in the road! Built and maintained by broken- hearted children!
jud		Well, but Missus Creed! It ain't quite that way, deah!
louis		I think it's rather extraordinary.
rachel		Extraordinarily morbid, maybe.
jud		Well...they have to learn about death somehow, now don't they, Missus Creed? The little ones?
jud		Well...well, because--
ellie		It's okay, Mr. Crandall--
louis		Have you got a death-wish, Ellen?
ellie		Well, I thought it was safe--
jud		Best never to go climbing on old blowdowns like this, Ellie--sometimes they bite.
ellie		Bite?
jud		Ayuh.
ellie		I want to look around, daddy-- may I?
louis		For a little while.
louis		I can hardly read these.
jud		Ayuh--they get older as you go toward the middle.  Missy Ellen! Come over here just a minute!
jud		I see you're quite a reader for such a little girl. Can you read that?
ellen		"Spot a good fellow we love you boy."  "Owned by Judson...Judson..." Gee, I can't read the rest.
jud		Last name's Crandall, little missy.
jud		That's where I buried my dog Spot when he died of old age in 19 and 14. Dug it good and deep. By the time I finished, I had blisters all over my hands and a hell of a crick in my back. Soil's stony up here.
jud		Do you know what this place is, Ellie? Oh, I know you know it's a boneyard, but a bone ain't nothing and even a whole pile of 'em don't amount to much. Do you know what a graveyard really is?
ellie		Well...I guess not.
jud		It's a place where the dead speak, Missy.
jud		No--not right out loud. Their stones speak...or their markers. Even if the marker ain't nothing but a tin can someone wrote on with a Magic Marker, it speaks. Ain't that so, Louis?
louis		I think it is so, Ellie.
ellie		What if you can't read what's written on there anymore?
jud		Well, it still says some animal got laid down here after, don't it?
ellie		Yes--
louis		And that someone cared enough about that animal to mark the spot.
ellie		To remember.
ellie		Mommy! This is a place where dead animals talk! Mr. Crandall said so!
louis		My wife is not crazy about cemeteries of any kind. As you may have noticed.
jud		Me neither. But I believe in knowing your enemy.
ellie		Daddy, that Pet Sematary is there because of the road, isn't it?
ellie		That's what I think. I heard Missy Dandridge tell Mom when Church was fixed he wouldn't cross the road so much.
louis		Well, it's always better to take precautions--but I'm sure Church will be all right, honey...
ellie		In the end he's gonna croak, isn't he?
louis		Lovey...Church might be still alive when you're in a high school...and that's a very long time.
ellie		It doesn't seem long to me. It seems short. I think the whole thing about pets dying s-s-sucks!
louis		If it was up to me I'd let Church live to be a hundred...but I don't make up the rules.
rachel		She's finally asleep.
louis		She was a little over-excited, that's all. Poor kid.
rachel		It was that place. That creepy cemetery up in the woods. Whatever disease the kids in this town have got, I don't want Ellie to catch it.
louis		Jesus, Rachel, what's got into you?
rachel		Do you think I didn't hear her tonight, crying as if her heart would break? Here she is thinking Church is going to die.
louis		Rachel...someday Church is going to die.
louis		Rachel--!
ellie		Yee-uck! Gross!
louis		He can't help it, babe. Emily Post is going to be beyond him for a few years.
ellie		I don't want him to get his nuts cut, daddy! What if he dies?
louis		Good God! Where'd you hear that?
ellie		Missy Dandridge. And she says it's a operation!
rachel		Honey, Church will be fine.
ellie		But what if he dies and has to go to the Pet Sematary?
rachel		Don't be silly. Church is not going to die.
louis		According to what Mr. Crandall says, the road's a lot more dangerous than the operation. Church will be just the same. Well--almost the same--and we won't have to worry about him getting turned into catburgers by one of those damn Orinco trucks.
rachel		That's enough of that kind of talk!
louis		I just said--
rachel		I know what you just said. Ellie, clear your place.
rachel		You'll be fine, Ellie. Now you can be excused. Go and wash your face.
louis		And Church will be fine.
louis		Well, honey...you know that...
rachel		Don't shilly-shally, Louis. Give the little girl her promise.
ellie		Yayyyy!
rachel		Thank you, Louis.
louis		Oh, you're welcome. Only if some- thing should go wrong while he's under the gas--it's a one-in-a-thousand shot, but it happens--you explain to her.
rachel		Have a great day!
gage		Bye-bye!
missy		Gonna get his--
louis		--nuts cut, yes. Thank you, Missy, for introducing that colorful phrase into my daughter's vocabulary.
missy		Don't mention it.
louis		You ought to see a doctor about it.
missy		It'll pass. They always do.
rachel		Thank God. I was a little worried there. Have a great first day at school, doc. No broken bones.
charlton		Holy Jesus.  Steve! Steve! Dr. Creed! Dr. Creed, we've got a mess here! Stat!
girl		Vic! Vic! Oh Christ! Vic!
louis		Steve, get the ambulance over here right now. He's got to go to EMMC.
steve		The ambulance is at Sonny's Sunoco downtown, getting--
louis		--a new muffler, oh shit--
candystriper		I can't look at it...I can't stand it...
louis		Help me hold him.
steve		It wouldn't matter if we did have the ambulance.
louis		It wouldn't matter if we had the SST.
louis		He's going. Steve, go call the motor- pool. Marcy, roll out the crash wagon.
charlton		It won't--
louis		I know it won't! But let's for God's sake do it by the rules!
lois		There wasn't even supposed to be a sprain today, my friend--that's what I told her.
pascow		...Pet Sematary...
pascow		It's not the real cemetery...  The soil of a man's heart is stonier, Louis...a man grows what he can...and tends it.
louis		How do you know my name?
steve		Louis, they're sending a--
louis		Steve, will you get a sheet to cover him with?
louis		He said my name. I heard it. He said my name.
pascow		Come on, doc. We got places to go.
pascow		Come on, doc--don't make me tell you twice.
pascow		Let's go, doc.
pascow		Who said you were dreaming?
pascow		This is the place where the dead speak.
louis		I want to wake up. I want to wake up, that's all. I--
pascow		The door must not be opened. The barrier must not be crossed. Don't go on, doc. No matter how much you feel you have to. There's more power here than you know.
louis		Please, I want to wake up. Leave me alone. It's not my fault you died; you were as good as dead when they brought you in--
pascow		The power of this place is old and always restless. Sometimes the dead do more than speak. Remember, doc.
louis		Leave me alone!
pascow		Remember.
louis		Getting there.
rachel		I got eggs down here!
louis		Good d--
jud		Did you tell me Rachel took the kids back to Chicago for a few days?
louis		For Ellie's birthday, yes. I didn't go because her old man thinks I'm a shit and the feeling is heartily re- ciprocated...they'll be back tomorrow night. Jud, what's this about?
jud		Well, there's a dead cat over here on the edge of my lawn, Louis. I think it might be your daughter's.
louis		Church? Oh. Oh, Jesus.
louis		It's Church.
jud		I'm sorry. At least it don't look like he suffered.
louis		Ellie will, though. She'll suffer plenty.
jud		Loved that cat pretty well, didn't she?
louis		Yes.
louis		Bagged cat. What a mess.
jud		You going to bury him in the Pet Sematary?
jud		Going to tell Ellie?
louis		I don't know.
jud		Seems like you told me about a promise you made--
jud		Cat's just as dead, Louis.
jud		No need to apologize.
louis		Maybe when they call I'll just tell Ellie I haven't seen the damn cat around. You know?
louis		Jud, this is crazy. It's going to be almost dark before we get back.
jud		It's going to be dark before we even get where we're going, Louis. But we can do it...and we're going to.
louis		But--
jud		Does she love the cat?
louis		Yes, but--
jud		Then come on.
louis		Well, folks, here we are, in Louis Creed Dreamland.
jud		What say, Louis?
louis		Nothing.  Do we plant him on the outer circle or start a new one?
jud		We're still not where we're going.
louis		What do you mean?
jud		The place we're going is on the other side of that.
louis		We can't climb over that. We'll break our necks!
jud		No. We won't. I have climbed it a time or two before, and I know all the places to step. Just follow me...move easy...don't look down...and don't stop. If you stop, you'll crash through for sure.
louis		I'm not climbing that.
jud		Give me the cat. I'll take care of it myself.
louis		Let's go.
louis		God, this is amazing!
jud		Just don't stop and--
louis		And don't look down. Right.
jud		Louis! You all right?
jud		No, you shouldn't have stopped. But you got away with it. Important thing is are you sure you're all right?
louis		Yes.  Where are we going, Jud?
jud		You'll see before long. Let's go.
jud		This next bit's like the deadfall, Louis-- you got to walk steady and easy. Just follow me and don't look down.
jud		Micmacs used to call it Little God Swamp.
louis		Is there quicksand?
jud		Ayuh.
jud		Ayuh.
jud		There's a lot of funny things down this way, Louis.
louis		You're telling me.
louis		It's funny, all right.
jud		Just don't stop, Louis. You don't ever want to stop down here in Little God.  And you don't ever want to look behind you, whatever you hear.
jud		Almost there, Louis.
louis		You keep saying that.
jud		This time I mean it.
jud		This was their burying ground, Louis.
louis		Whose burying ground?
jud		The Micmac Indians. I brought you here to bury Ellen's cat.
louis		Why? For God's sake, why?
jud		I had my reasons, Louis. We'll talk later. All right?
louis		I guess so...but...
jud		You want to rest a bit before you start?
louis		No, I'm okay. Will I really be able to dig him a grave? The soil looks thin.
jud		Soil's thin, all right. But you'll manage.
jud		I'm going to sit over yonder and have a smoke. I'd help you, but you've got to do it yourself. Each buries his own. That's how it was done then.
louis		You think so?
louis		What are those for?
jud		Your cairn.
louis		Doesn't look like they last long.
jud		Don't worry about that.
louis		Jud, why am I doing all this?
jud		Because it's right.
louis		Pax vobiscum, Church old buddy. You were a hell of a god cat. I doubt if you were worth all this aggravation, but you were a hell of a good cat.
jud		That's fine. You did real good.
louis		Oh, shit! Rachel!
jud		When you talk to 'em, not one word about what we done tonight. 'S'far's you know, the cat's still fine.
jud		You'll understand. In the meantime, keep your peace. What we did, Louis, was a secret thing. Women are supposed to be the ones who are good at keeping secrets, but any woman who knows anything at all would tell you she's never seen into a man's heart. The soil of a man's heart is stonier, Louis--like the soil up there in the old Micmac burying ground. A man grows what he can...and tends it.
louis		But--
jud		No buts! Accept what's done, Louis. What we done was right. Another time it might not be, but tonight it was... at least I hope to Christ it was. Now you make your call...but not a word about tonight.
louis		Hi, Dory...it's Louis--
louis		That'd be real fine.
louis		Yeah, I know...how are things out there in Chicagoland?
ellie		Fine...except when Mom was airing Gage's diaper rash, he walked away and got into Grampa's study and pooped in Grampa's favorite chair.
louis		I said that's too bad. What did you get for presents from Gramma and Grampa?
ellie		...and a Garfield radio! How's Church, dad? Does he miss me?
louis		Well...I guess he's just fine, Ellie. I haven't seen him this evening, but--
ellie		Well, make sure you put him down cellar before you go to bed so he can't run out in the road and get greased. And kiss him goodnight for me.
ellie		Want to talk to Gage?
louis		Food, Church...food!
louis		Come on, Church! Chow down!
louis		In a second.
louis		Chewed his way out. Jesus Baldheaded Christ, he ch--
louis		Ow!
louis		What did we do?
jud		I most generally don't start before noon, but this looks like an exception.
louis		What did we do, Jud?
jud		Why, saved a little girl from being unhappy...that's all. Drink up, Louis!
louis		I tried to tell myself I buried him alive. You know--Edgar Allan Poe meets Felix the Cat. But...
jud		Wouldn't wash?
louis		No. I'm a doctor. I know death when I see it, and Church was dead. He smells horrible and he uses his claws, but he's alive...and I feel like I'm going crazy. It was that place, wasn't it?
jud		Ayuh. It was the rag-man told me about the place--Stanley Bouchard. Us kids just called him Stanny B. He was half Micmac himself.
louis		Can I have another one?
jud		I guess it wouldn't hurt.
jud		The Micmacs used to bury their dead up there long before the whites came.
jud		They buried their dead and for a long time their dead stayed buried. Then something happened. Half the tribe died in a season. The rest moved on. They said a Wendigo had soured the ground.
louis		Wendigo?
jud		Spirit of the north country. Not a good spirit. Wendigos are great liars and tricksters, according to the stories. And if one touches you...
jud		Maybe it really was a Wendigo-- I ain't the one to say it wasn't-- or maybe it was just some disease. Whatever the reason, those that were left moved on. But they left that place...the way it is now.
louis		You and this old Indian rag-man--
jud		Stanny B. did for me what I did for you last night, Louis. Only I wasn't alone when Spot came back.
louis		How did your mother take it, Jud? How did she take it when your dog came back from the dead?
jud		Well, she was a little upset at first, and that's why I thought you ought to hold your peace when you talked to your people last night...you did, didn't you, Louis?
louis		Yes.
jud		Why, then, things should be fine.
louis		A little upset is all she was? Because I'll tell you, Jud, my brains feel a little like a nuclear reactor on the edge of a meltdown.
jud		She got used to the idea. Spot lived another four years. He died peacefully in the night that second time, and I buried him in the Pet Sematary...where his bones still lie.
jud		A man doesn't always know why he does things, Louis. I think I did it because your daughter ain't ready for her favorite pet to die.
louis		What?
jud		Ellie's a little scared of death. And the main reason Ellie's that way is because your wife is a lot scared of death. Now you just go ahead and tell me I'm wrong.
rachel		Don't shilly-shally, Louis. Give the little girl her promise.
pascow		The door must not be opened. The barrier must not be crossed.
louis		You don't understand--
pascow		Sometimes the dead do more than speak. Remember, doc.
louis		Promise...
louis		How the hell did you get in?
ellie		Daddy!
louis		Hi, sugar!
ellie		Daddy, is Church all right?
louis		Yes...I guess so. He was sleeping on the front porch when I left.
ellie		Cause I had a bad dream about him. I dreamed he got hit by a car and you and Mr. Crandall buried him in the Pet Sematary.
ellie		Is he really all right?
louis		Yes.
ellie		Because you promised.
louis		I know.
rachel		Want to take your son, doc?
rachel		Yes--you have to take them to someone who grooms animals, though. I think it's pretty expensive.
louis		I've noticed it, too. I'll cough up the money, Ellen.
ellie		I hate that smell.
louis		Yes--I hate it, too.
ellie		They're all turning on their lights! Daddy, why are they all turning on their lights in the middle of the day?
jud		They do it to honor the dead, Ellen.
ellie		Is that right, dad?
louis		Yes. To honor the dead.
jud		Rachel not feeling well?
louis		Well...a touch of the flu...
ellie		She's in bed. She was throwing up. Ever since Mrs. Rogers called and said Missy--
louis		That's enough, Ellen.
jud		Out of the mouths of babes, Louis.
louis		This babe has said enough.
louis		Hop in, Ellie.
jud		Poor Missy. God, I was sorry to hear. I remember when she was no older'n Ellen there, walking down to the store with her Raggedy Anne doll draggin' behind her in the dust. I don't know why God takes someone like her, who should have a bunch of years still in front of them, and lets an old shit like me just go on and on.
louis		My father used to have a saying, Jud-- "God sees the truth, but waits."
jud		Ayuh...how is your cat, Louis?
louis		It's Ellie's cat.
jud		Nope. He's your cat now.
louis		Ellie? What's wrong?
ellie		No more chocolate chip cookies.
louis		Huh?
ellie		Missy made the best chocolate chip cookies in the world--even Mom said so. Now there won't be any more because she's gonna be dead forever!
newscaster		Bizarre as it may seem, it now seems almost beyond doubt: the dead are returning to eat the living.
louis		What's up, sugar?
ellie		Daddy, do you think Missy Dandridge went to heaven?
ellie		At school Michael McDowell said she was gonna fry in hell. Michael McDowell says all sewersides fry in hell.
louis		Well, I think Michael McDowell is so full of shit he probably squeaks when he walks, my dear.
louis		But don't you dare say that.
ellie		I won't...is Missy in heaven, do you think?
louis		I don't know, honey. Different people believe all sorts of different things happen to us when we die. Some believe in heaven or hell. Some think we're born again as little children--
ellie		Sure, carnation. Like in that movie you rented, Audrey Rose.
louis		Well, it's actually reincarnation, but you get the idea. And some people think we just wink out...like a candle flame when the wind blows hard.
ellie		Do you believe that?
louis		I think we go on. I'm not sure what happens after we die, but yeah-- I have faith in that.
ellie		You believe in it.
louis		Oh, faith's a little more than just believing.
ellie		I don't get it.
louis		Well, here we are, sitting in my chair. Do you think my chair will be here tomorrow?
ellie		Yeah, sure.
louis		Then you have faith in that. But we don't know it will be; after all, some crazed chair-burglar might break in while we're away and steal it, right?
louis		But we plan on that chair. We believe in that chair. And I plan on going on somehow as Louis Creed, after I die. I believe I will.
louis		Yes ma'am. Just like I have faith that it is now time for Ellen Creed to get ready for bed. So buzz.
ellie		I'm not tired!
louis		I'm sure you're not.
ellie		Then why do I have to go to bed?
louis		Because your mother and I need the rest, sugar. Now buzz.
rachel		I heard you tonight.
louis		I thought maybe you did. I know you don't approve of the subject being raised--
rachel		That's not true. The subject scares me. Because of Zelda.
louis		Your sister, I know.
rachel		Sometimes you're so good with her, Louis--so straight with her--that you make me ashamed of myself.
rachel		I'm sorry I couldn't go with you to Missy's funeral. And that I blew up when we went to that silly animal graveyard.
louis		That's forgotten.
rachel		Not by me, it isn't. I know how badly I acted, how unfair I was. It's just that I..you know.
louis		Yes, I guess I do.
rachel		I'm going to try to do better.
louis		You're doing fine.
gage		Go, dayee!
louis		Hey, Gage!
gage		Dat?
louis		String! You're flying it, Gage--you got the hammer, my man!
gage		Gage fline it?
louis		Bet your boots. Look--
louis		See?
gage		Gage fline it!!
irwin		You--
rachel		Louis! Daddy! Stop it! STOP IT!
irwin		How do you like that, you son of a bitch? I should have done it sooner!
irwin		How do you like that? How do--
marcy		Stop them. Right now.
irwin		Come on! I'm ready for ya! I'll take y'apart!
steve		Stop it!
steve		Stop it! Jesus, what's wrong with you, Louis? It's your son's funeral, not a boxing match!
pascow		A man grows what he can...and tends it.
ellie		I want to fly it! Can I fly it now, mommy!
rachel		In a minute, hon. Let Gage finish his turn.
irwin		I don't know what happened to me. Louis, please--
ellie		It got away from him! That numb shit!
gage		Kite fline too fast!
jud		Don't let him go in the road, Louis!
jud		Your father-in-law packs a wallop, for an old guy. He and his wife gone back to Chicago?
louis		No...squatting out there at the Holiday Inn like a couple of vultures. He really thinks Rachel's going to go back with them. Her and Ellie.
jud		Louis--
jud		What you got there, Ellie?
ellie		I'm going to carry this picture, Mr. Crandall, until God lets Gage come back.
jud		Ellie...God doesn't do things like that. I know you loved y'brother, but--
ellie		He can if He wants to. He can do anything, just like Inspector Gadget on TV. But I have to keep things ready for him, that's what I think. I've got his picture and I'm going to sit in his chair--
louis		Ellie--
ellie		And I'm going to eat his breakfast cereal, too, even though it tastes like boogers. And...and...
jud		Louis, take care of your little girl...she needs you.
ellie		G'night daddy.
ellie		God could take it back if He wanted to, couldn't He? If He really, really wanted to? Can I have faith in that?
louis		Yes--I suppose you can. Good night, Ellie.
jud		I got you a fresh beer out of the fridge, Louis.
louis		Jud, I buried my son today and I'm very tired. I wonder if we could just--
jud		You're thinking of things best not thought of, Louis.
louis		I'm thinking about going to bed.
jud		You never asked me if anyone had buried a person up there in the Micmac burying ground--
jud		--but I think the thought has crossed your mind.
louis		Shit! Look at this mess!
jud		Ayuh--it's a mess, all right.
jud		I know the Micmacs thought it was a holy place...and then they thought it was a cursed place. That's why they moved on.
louis		Because something called a wendigo soured the ground.
jud		And because the dead walked.
jud		Oh, ayuh. It's been done. What you've been thinking of has been done.
louis		I'll bite--what's the bottom of the truth, Jud?
jud		Why...that sometimes dead is better. That's all. Sometimes dead is better.
jud		It ain't your wife and little girl that's got me worried, Louis.
jud		Come on.
alan		Oh holy Jesus lookit that.
bill		You men get out of here!
jud		I heard your boy was killed down Georgia.
hannibal		Was it?
bill		You see him standing there, don't you? Now get out! Get the Christ off my land!
bill		He ain't dead! Give him a day or two and he'll be fine! Don't you say that!
jud		Bill, this ain't right--you can see that yourself--
jud		God help you, Bill.
louis		What happened?
jud		Get out, Billy--the place is going up.
bill		I seen you! I seen you, Jud Crandall!
alan		You think Bill's gonna get out, Jud?
timmy		LOVE DEAD! HATE LIVING!
louis		You better get going, hon.
rachel		Oh Louis, I just don't know about this--
louis		I told you last night--this can be the start of patching things up with your folks. If something good doesn't come of Gage's death, I think I'll go crazy.
rachel		Louis, are you sure?
louis		I'm sure.
ellie		I don't want to go to Chicago, Gramma Dory.
dory		Why not, darling?
ellie		I had a bad dream last night. A nightmare.
ellie		About Daddy.  And Gage.
ellie		And someone named Paxcow.
louis		Come on, you guys--before you miss the boat.
irwin		Louis, I am sorry. What can I say? That I lost my mind? It's the truth, but no good excuse.
louis		Be good to your mother, darlin'. She needs you.
ellie		Come with us, daddy. Please come with us!
louis		I'll be there in three days--four at the most. I've got to get the electricity shut off and square things with your school so the truant officer ain't after you, and--
louis		Of what?
ellie		Do you swear?
louis		I swear.
clerk		Anything else for you today?
clerk		Looks like heavy work.
louis		It could be.
ellie		Paxcow says it's almost too late!
rachel		Ellie...Ellie...what...
ellie		Paxcow says it's almost too late! We have to go back! Paxcow says it's almost too late!
louis		It's wrong.  What happened to you is wrong.
pascow		The barrier was not meant to be crossed. The ground is sour.
louis		I'll tell you where the ground is sour--the ground in my heart is sour. Let me tell you something else, Vic-baby: Wrong is wrong.
pascow		Timmy Baterman. That was wrong.
louis		Don't talk like an asshole even if you are just a bit of underdone potato or a blot of mustard.
louis		If it doesn't work--if he comes back like Timmy Baterman--I'll put him to sleep. But I'm going to try.  And if it doesn't work...they don't ever need to know.
ellie		Paxcow says Daddy's going to do something really bad. He--
rachel		Who is this Paxcow? Is he like the boogeyman?
ellie		He's a ghost. But he's a good ghost.
rachel		There are no ghosts, Ellie. I want you to go to sleep and forget all this nonsense.
ellie		Will you at least call and make sure daddy's okay?
rachel		Of course I will.
rachel		Now will you try to go to sleep?
pascow		Pascow.
rachel		Pascow? Was she saying Pascow?
rachel		He's not home.
dory		Why, he probably went out for a hamburger or a chicken dinner, dear. You know how men are when they're alone.
rachel		It's Rachel Creed, Jud. I'm calling from Chicago.
rachel		No...we're going to be here awhile, and he wanted a few days to wind up our affairs there. I just wondered if he was with you.
jud		No--but if he drops by, I'll tell him to call you.
rachel		Jud, do you remember the name of the student that died on Louis's first day at work? The one that was hit by a car?
rachel		Was it Pascow?
jud		Ayuh, I think 'twas. If I see Louis come home before I go to bed, I'll tell him to--
rachel		Don't bother. I'm coming home.
rachel		Thank you, Jud. Goodbye.
jud		No! Rachel! Don't do that! Rachel--!
dory		Rachel...darling...you're upset... a night's sleep...
rachel		I have to go. The connections are tight, and I have to be at O'Hare in forty minutes. Will you drive me, daddy?
irwin		You know something's wrong, don't you? You know. And Ellie does, too.
rachel		Yes.
irwin		I'll drive you.
ellie		Please hurry.
rachel		I will. Come and kiss me.
irwin		I'll come with you if you want, honey.
jud		You done it, you stupid old man... now you got to undo it.
seatmate		Think you'll make your connection in Boston?
rachel		I have to.
louis		Oh, Gage--oh, honey.
louis		It's going to be all right...I swear it's going to be all right...
cop		I ain't afraid of no ghost.
pascow		There's just time. If you run.
pascow		Don't do that, babe.
rachel		Make it come back!
pascow		You're doing just fine.
louis		Please God--let this work.
louis		Ain't gonna stop, Gage. Ain't gonna look down.
hertz clerk		I'm sorry...it's been very busy tonight. I really don't have anything.
pascow		What about the Aries K with the scratch on the side?
clerk		I do have an Aries K, but it came in sort of beat up--there's a long scrape up one side--
rachel		I'll take it.
louis		See? Just imagination. Just--
louis		Nothing...there.
louis		It was the Wendigo. Dear God, I think the Wendigo just passed within sixty feet of me.
louis		It doesn't matter. Come on, Gage.
rachel		Now what?
pascow		It's trying to stop you. Do you hear me? It's trying to stop you.
rachel		Is anyone there?
louis		Come back to me, Gage. Come back to us.
driver		Hop in, baby.
rachel		Thank you.
rachel		Can't you go any faster?
trucker		Lady, I got nine points on my license right now.
rachel		I understand. It's just that--
rachel		Thank you. If you only understood how important this is--
trucker		That's all right, babe. Only if we get stopped, next time I'll be the one hitchin' and you can give me a ride.
jud		Come on, stop playing games!
jud		Gage?  Are you the one playing games?
jud		Gage? Come on out.
jud		I want to show you something.
rachel		Thank you so much.
trucker		I didn't get a ticket, so you're welcome, lady.  Whatever your problems are, I hope they work out.
pascow		It's the end of the line for me, too--I'm not allowed any further.
pascow		I'm not.
rachel		Who--
church		Miaow!
rachel		Church!
rachel		Gage? Gage?
louis		Jesus!
louis		Gage--?
louis		Oh my God.  Gage!
louis		Gage!
louis		Hello!
louis		Yes, she's fine.
louis		She...Rachel's asleep.
louis		I'll call you right back.
louis		Irwin, you'll just have to--
louis		What did you do? What did you--
louis		What you buy is what you own, and sooner or later what you own comes home to you. Wasn't that what you said, Jud? Wasn't that pretty much it?
louis		Hi, Church. Want some grub?
louis		Don't mind me. Eat it while you can. Eat all you want.
louis		Eat all you can...all you want... that's right...today's Thanksgiving day for cats, but only if they came back from the dead...
louis		No, you don't!
louis		Go on. Lie down. Play dead. Be dead.
louis		Rachel?  Gage?
louis		Gage?
louis		All right, Gage...let's.
louis		I'm sorry, Jud. I'm so sorry. I'm--
louis		I'm going to set things back in order. I...I know just what to do.
louis		Gage?
gage		No fair! NO FAIR!
louis		And what you own always comes home to you.
****Dialogues from script :Pet_Sematary_II.txt****

third draft		 Revised 1/6/91
genvieve		I'm sorry...
puppeteer		I can't see shit down there! I'm working blind!
renee		This is great, I could've spent four months on a romantic comedy with Warren Beatty, and instead, I've got a horny zombie trying to cop a feel!
renee		Uhgh, there's water everywhere...  Can I get a cigarette?
renee		 Anybody see my boy?
renee		How long have you been here?
geoff		Couple minutes. I saw the last shot. That was pretty cool.
renee		 How did it go with your father last night?
geoff		Good. He said he'd be over for dinner at eight...  I mean... he misses you, Mom...
renee		I miss him too...
renee		 I just don't want you to get your hopes up, okay? We're trying to work things out, but...
geoff		I know, Mom.
renee		 You know everything, don't you?
geoff		Guess it's showtime.
renee		Yep.
director		Alright, Renee. Last time. I promise. We nail this and you won't have to do this ever again.
renee		That's what you said the first time...
operator		Rolling. Speed...
slate boy		"Castle of Terror." Scene 69A. Take thirteen.
director		Action!
electrician		Jesus! We've crossed over into 220! Shut down the generator!
geoff		Mom!!!!
chase		I think this is probably for the best. He's a very old dog. He has arthritis. He has cataracts in his eyes...
chase		He's had a good life...  ...haven't you, boy?
intercom		Doctor Matthews, your son is on line one. He says it's an emergency...
geoff		No...
geoff		You have to bring her back...
chase		Oh Jesus...
geoff		 Dad...
gus		 Let's keep it back, folks. Try to show her a little respect...
gus		Hey! What did I just say?
reporter		Ass-hole...
gus		Did she always have reporters following her around like this?
chase		Pretty much so.
gus		I hear you moved into town.
chase		I wanted to get Geoff out of L.A. Just start things over, you know?
gus		I remember when Renee left. She couldn't wait to get out of Ludlow. She used to say that life moved too slow here...
chase		That's Renee alright.
gus		I suppose so.
chase		...Geoff, what if we just give the clothes to Goodwill? We'll keep the rest. Just the clothes.
geoff		You're the one who wanted to move. Nobody would've touched them if you didn't want to move here...
chase		All the 'Renee' boxes go in the attic. Sorry.
marjorie		Hi. I'm Marjorie Hargrove. Your new housekeeper.
marjorie		 Is something wrong?
chase		Uh... no. You just... look different than you sounded on the phone. Please, come in.
marjorie		I'm real excited about working for you Mr. Matthews...
chase		Well we're glad to have you, Marjorie. You can call me Chase, by the way.
marjorie		I've always admired Ms. Hallow. That scene she did in Blue Midnight, where her lover meets her at the train station...  I must've watched that movie four times.
marjorie		Oh. I'll get that...
marjorie		This is gorgeous. She wore this at the Emmys, didn't she?
geoff		Hey, don't touch her stuff. It made her crazy when people touched her stuff.
chase		This doesn't look so bad...
geoff		How long ago did this guy retire?
chase		It's been a few years.
geoff		 A few?
chase		What's wrong?!
geoff		 Nothing. I just got spooked by a bunch of furballs.
chase		Great, now I've opened an orphanage too.
geoff		Well, I'll take one. If it's okay...
geoff		She looks like a tiger.
chase		Tell you what, you do some sweeping up here, and she's yours.
drew		Sorry. He gets kinda hyper...
gus		Hell, he thought it was lunch. How ya doin', Chase?  Drew, where the hell are your manners.
geoff		He's a cool lookin' dog.
geoff		What's his name?
drew		Zowie.
gus		Damn dog stuck his nose in on my rabbits and they ganged up on him. I swear that dog's an idiot.
drew		Is he gonna be okay?
chase		Let's have him hop up here.
gus		When I was young I thought cats were the girls and dogs were the boys.
chase		There are three more girls where that one came from looking for homes.
gus		Not our home.
chase		Thee facial lacerations should heal up pretty quickly. I'll give you som antibiotic cream--
gus		--Drew, he's your dog. Are you listening to this?
chase		His left eye is scratched, corneal abrasion. Eyedrops will help, but it's going to take som time. Try to keep him away from those rabbits, huh?
gus		 I hear you've got Marjorie Hargrove working for you now.
chase		How'd you know that?
gus		It's a small town, Chase.
gus		Hey Geoff, did you know your mother and I used to be high- school sweethearts?
geoff		Really?
gus		 Course that was a lifetime ago.
chase		What's a lunch cost these days? You want ten?
geoff		 Sure.
chase		You nervous? New town, new school. I know it must be pretty hard for you...
geoff		 I'll be fine, Dad.
chase		 Geoff... you have to help me out here a little...
chase		Are you sure you don't want me to pick you up. It's a long ride.
geoff		That's what my bike's for...
priceless kittens		FREE TO A GOOD HOME
clyde		Check it out. That's the new kid. The son of that movie star.
doug		Hey, what's Hollywood like? Do you know Eddie Murphy?
geoff		 No.
susan		What about Julia Roberts?
clyde		What's the hurry, Junior? Where you off to?
clyde		 Too bad about your Mom. Papers said it was pretty gross, getting fried like that. Guess you saw it, huh?
clyde		So, what are you hiding there?
stevie		When you bring a friend to school you're supposed to introduce him.
geoff		Her name's Tiger.
clyde		Tiger? Don't you think that's kind of a pussy name?  Can I hold her? I promise I'll be real careful.
clyde		Hey, Geoff. You ever seen a kitten run?
geoff		I've seen her run around the house.
clyde		No, I mean really run...  Like this!
geoff		Shit...
clyde		Having fun yet?
geoff		Just give me the cat, all right?
clyde		I would but... there was a little accident...  ...but I happen to be out of them at the moment.
drew		Come on, Clyde, just tell him where the cat is...
clyde		 ...I TOLD HIM where the cat is! Now shut up, fuck-face!
clyde		 You heard about the Creed murders yet? And the place where the dead come back to life?
clyde		 It's just back there. Just down that path...
drew		 Clyde... it's not funny anymore.
clyde		Oh? So you got a problem? What're you gonna do, fat-ass? You gonna sic big, bad, old Gus after me?
clyde		What do you think, Geoff? Maybe you could dig up your Mom and take her back there. Maybe if you pray real hard, she'll come back.
geoff		 Just give me the cat, ass-hole.
clyde		Excuse me, maybe I'm a little hard of hearing... but did you just call me an ass-hole?
clyde		You mad, Geoff? Cause if you are, you should take a shot at me...
clyde		Come on, you pussy! What's the matter with you?
clyde		Fuckin' ass-hole.
clyde		This way, fat-boy.
drew		I've never seen anybody punch Clyde before.
geoff		 He pissed me off.
drew		 I couldn't handle not having my mom around. Just having Gus...
geoff		My dad's not so bad.
drew		I swear, sometimes I wish Gus was dead...
geoff		 You shouldn't ever say that about your parents, not even your Dad.
drew		Stepdad. Gus is my stepdad.
geoff		What was all that stuff about dead people coming back to life?
drew		Nothing. It's just an old ghost story. Let's get out of here...
chase		 Hey! How was your first day at school?
geoff		 It sucked.
marjorie		Now is that any way to talk to your father?
geoff		You're not my mother.
chase		Sorry.
gus		Way to go, Romeo...
gus		Drew, I don't remember inviting Zowie in for dinner.
drew		Just until he heals up?
amanda		Gus, please...
gus		God damn, you're good.
gus		You're breaking the law here, Drew.
amanda		Really, Gus. It won't bother me.
gus		Your mom's spent the last hour cooking. Stop being a little jerk and show her some appreciation.
gus		Not that much appreciation. I thought we were gonna tone down that flabby ass.
drew		Hey, I'm so sorry I'm not the stud that you are.
amanda		Knock it off, guys...
gus		 You watch that mouth of yours, Drew buddy.
gus		Damn it, Drew. That dog is history!
drew		Don't shoot him!
gus		What, Drew? What did you say?!
amanda		Jesus, Gus, what have you done?
gus		Ah, come on, Amanda, stop looking at me like that. He's had ample warning about that dog.
geoff		I was just going by your house. Where's your bike?
drew		Zowie's dead.
drew		I have to bury him. I don't want to go out there alone.
geoff		Is this a good spot?
drew		I'm not burying him here...
geoff		Why not?
drew		There's a better place...
drew		It's back here somewhere, through the Indian woods. I know we can find it...
geoff		Hey, wait up!
geoff		 Drew, where are we going?
drew		This is it... I wasn't sure if it even really existed.
geoff		What did?
drew		The old Indian burial ground.
geoff		Come on, that's just a bullshit story. You said so yourself...
drew		What if it's not bullshit? If I bury Zowie there, and it works...  ...he'll come back alive.
geoff		Drew, I know your dog died, but... get a grip, man, you're freaking me out.
drew		Look, if there was even one chance in a million it'd work, wouldn't you want to try?
geoff		Look, let's just get this over with.
drew		If this doesn't work... don't ever tell anyone I did this, okay? You gotta promise...
geoff		You want me to help?
drew		You have to bury your own. That's the way the Indians did it. It's like a rule...
drew		What if he really does come back?
drew		I've never had anyone die before...  ...but I guess you get over it. I mean, eventually...
geoff		 You never get over it.
geoff		It's getting pretty late. We better go.
drew		 Yeah...
drew		So long, Zowie...
gus		Get in.
gus		Your momma's worried sick over you. You take off in the middle of the night, you don't show up for school. What're you trying to prove?
drew		I'm not trying to prove anything.  I was burying my dog.
gus		Life is full of lessons. No one's above it. Not you. Not me... Now get in the car.
amanda		Zowie?
drew		What did I do now?
amanda		Open the door, Drew.
gus		Where do you come off lying like that? "I'm burying my dog." You think a lie like that's never gonna catch up to you?
drew		 Zowie...
gus		Say your goodbyes. Zowie's going outside. You're grounded, buddy. That's the new law.
amanda		I never knew an open wound could smell so bad...  Honey, he should have been looked at this morning. I don't know what you were thinking. It's a wonder he's still alive.
chase		 Geoff...
chase		Geoff!
geoff		What?
chase		You alright?
geoff		Dad... do you think...  ...you think you and Mom would've gotten back together?
chase		I think so.
chase		 Your Mom and I loved each other, Geoff. Don't ever think that we didn't.
geoff		I still can't believe she's dead...
chase		Remember Zowie, Drew's dog? He got hurt again. I'm going over to take a look at him.
geoff		I'm going with you.
chase		How'd it happen?
drew		 Some psycho hunter probably got trigger happy...
chase		I'm going to give Zowie a local anaesthetic so I can clean up the wound. I'd like to take him home tonight for observation.
amanda		Fine.
drew		Can you keep him at your place until he gets better?
chase		Sure...
geoff		Maybe he wasn't dead when we buried him.
drew		He was dead. You know he was.
drew		You can't tell anyone, Geoff. Ever.
geoff		Mom!!!
drew		What's the deal?
chase		I don't know. He's had three days. His immune system should've responded by now...
chase		I can't seem to find a pulse... it must be so weak, it's not registering...
geoff		We'll take him back to the kennels, Dad.
geoff		You think my Dad'll figure out why he's not getting better?
drew		You think he'd believe it if he did?
geoff		How can he not have a heartbeat?
drew		 Maybe it takes a while...
marjorie		So who're you going as, Wayne Gretzky?
geoff		I'm going as Jason.
marjorie		Jason? Who's he play for?
geoff		He doesn't. He hacks people up.
geoff		I'm late.
chase		Hey! Where're you off to?
geoff		I'm going out, Dad!
chase		Out?
marjorie		He's probably going up to the Pet Sematary. Kids've been going out there on Halloween night for years.
chase		What do they do up there?
marjorie		Oh, you know... drink beer, tell ghost stories. They try and spook each other out, talking about zombies and things...  It's no big deal, Chase. I did it when I was young.
amanda		Hold still. Hold still.
amanda		You make sure you're home by ten. If Gus finds out I let you go...
drew		 I'll be home, Mom. Don't worry. I won't let Gus blow up again...
amanda		Drew, I know Gus isn't your father, but you never even knew your real father. He walked out on the both of us, and you remember that.  Gus isn't that way. He has it in him to love us both. You just have to give him a chance...
clyde		Look at this, Junior here practically shit his pants.
clyde		Maybe you're too chicken to hang out with the rest of the boys. You gonna run home to Daddy now?
geoff		Fuck off.
amanda		You're home early.
gus		Nope. Just ran out of smokes.
gus		Where's the boy?
amanda		Uh... in his room...
gus		God damn it, Amanda! You want me to be a father to the boy, and as soon as I lay down the law, you let him break it!
gus		Where is he?
gus		WHERE IS YOUR SON!?
amanda		The Pet Sematary.
clyde		...yeah, that old Louis was one sick fuck... digging up little Gage like so, maggots pouring out of that kid's eyes...
clyde		Ellie was the only Creed that lived. Then one night a few months later, Ellie freaks out, and she hacks up her grandparents with an axe!  Police found her licking their brains off the blade... They locked her up in a psycho ward and all she said were two words: 'Pet Sematary. Pet Sematary.'
clyde		Oh yeah! Almost forgot! Here's the best part. Two nights ago she escapes. Word is, she was heading for Maine. Man I hope she doesn't show up out here.  Shit, we wouldn't even notice her, not if she's wearing a costume. She could be one of us...
clyde		Oh my Goddd!!!
clyde		It's... It's...
clyde		Shit! It's Drew's Dad. It's fuckin' Gus!
gus		You boys better not be drinking!
drew		Oh man, he's gonna kick my ass...
clyde		Thanks for fucking up our Halloween, dumbshit!
gus		Drew, you get your ass out here! Front and center!
gus		Get out here, Joker.
gus		You out here making a fool of me?
gus		I'm warning you, buddy! You don't play by the rules, I'm gonna shadow your ass for eternity!
gus		You little shit!
gus		You get out of here, Geoff Matthews! This is between me and my boy!
gus		Call off your dog, Drew.
gus		 Drew, call him off!
drew		Zowie...
gus		DREW!
drew		Oh, God. Oh, God...
geoff		 Is he dead?
geoff		Is he breathing? Can you hear him breathing?
drew		Oh man, Geoff... we killed him... we killed him...  What're we gonna do?
geoff		We could bring him back.
amanda		Jesus, Drew, do you know what time it is? Did Gus ever find you?
amanda		 Drew? Drew, what happened?
drew		 Nothing happened, Mom. We just ditched Gus, that's all...
chase		Were you drinking?
chase		Drew's Mom called hours ago, the rest of the kids were back by ten. Where the hell were you boys?
geoff		Just out.
chase		"Out." Well that's great, Geoff.  Look, I've been letting you get away with a lot these past few weeks, but I'm not going to stand for crap like this. I don't care if it's Halloween... it's a school night, and if you do this again...
geoff		 I'm really tired, Dad... can I just go to sleep?
chase		 Go on... we'll talk about this in the morning.
drew		 Gus?
drew		H-how'd you get in?
gus		Found 'em.
gus		I'm makin' a mess of your mother's kitchen floor...  I need a shower...
amanda		Gus, hon. I'm sorry about tonight. You coming to bed?
amanda		God, you're ice cold...  ...and you smell! Lord, what did you get yourself into?
amanda		My God, Gus, what happened?
amanda		Gus... stop it! What's wrong with you?!
amanda		Gus!!!
geoff		Well?
drew		Picture this... Gus comes down to breakfast and he doesn't say a word. He even kind of smiles, like he forgot he hates me. And then you know what he does? He serves me an extra helping of pancakes...  I asked him if I was still grounded... "no." I asked him if you could spend the night, and he nods. It's like we're a family. A real family.
drew		It's weird...
geoff		What do you mean?
drew		It's like he's not Gus anymore. He's different. You know, like Zowie...
message machine		...Doctor Matthews, this is Elliot Rudman at the university. I've looked over the blood specimen you sent us on canine Zowie...
mother		 We saw your sign. Are there any kitties left?
chase		Take your pick. They're in the boarding area. You can go on back.
chase		Elliot, it's Chase...
chase		I didn't get that...
rudman		...I said next time it might help if you took the blood sample while the animal was still alive...
chase		What?
rudman		I don't know what you expected to find, Matthews. There's nothing wrong with the antigens, nothing to indicate an unusual death...
chase		Wait, there must be some mix-up. He was... the dog is alive.
rudman		Not this dog. There wasn't enough oxygen in those red cells to pump life into a flea.
rudman		You took over for Doctor Yolander?
chase		Yes... why?
rudman		Because the last person that sent me blood from a dead animal was Yolander...
toddler		Where are the kitties?
chase		 Look, this is ridiculous...
chase		Jesus...
clyde		Hey!
drew		Saved by the bell...
geoff		Can I sleep over at Drew's tonight?
chase		Yeah... that's fine...  Listen, Drew, I got the tests back on Zowie. He's not well. Don't ask me how, but he got out this afternoon...
chase		If he finds his way home, call me, no matter what the hour, okay? And don't try to approach him. Whatever he's got might be infectious. Understand?
chase		Can I have the address for Quentin Yolander?
yolander		You'd be so much more interesting with blue eyes...
yolander		I'm immortalizing a poodle. State your business!
yolander		 Why are you bothering me about this? Can't you leave it be?
chase		I... um...
chase		 ...the pathologist... he said that you had reported a similar incident... with a cat...
yolander		The Creed cat, that's right. Bastard's name was "Church".  Let me guess. Your dog's tissue isn't healing, pupils aren't dilating... maybe you can't find a heartbeat?
chase		Exactly! I thought it might be some sort of blood condition... immune deficiency or...
yolander		There's no "blood condition." The dog isn't sick, it's dead.  And so was Creed's cat. And so was his wife the night she was killed for the second time...
yolander		 You want some advice, friend? You get in your car, you pick up your family... and you get the hell out of that town.
chase		Well... uh... thanks...
drew		I guess we're having rabbit for dinner.
amanda		God damnit, Gus! This isn't funny!
geoff		What was that all about? You think he's trying to scare us?
drew		I don't know but I'm not taking any chances...
renee		Chase. I miss you so much...
chase		 Renee...
chase		Oh God...
renee		 I can come back, Chase...
chase		No... Too heavy.
chase		...can't breathe... I can't...
marjorie		I didn't mean to... I was going to empty the hamper...
chase		It's okay.
marjorie		What happened to you?
chase		I had a little run-in with Zowie.
marjorie		You sure did...
marjorie		Here, let me do that...
marjorie		I hope he doesn't have rabies.
chase		He doesn't. I don't know what he has, but I'm hoping to God it's not infectious...
chase		Marjorie... what do you know about the Creed murders?
marjorie		Did you ever play that game where you pass a story down a row of people and see how screwed up it gets by the time it's done? People say Louis Creed's son came back from the dead and it drove him crazy...  He killed his wife and himself, and that's the end of story. Anything else belongs in the National Enquirer.
marjorie		Sorry. Now tell me what that has to do with Zowie?
chase		I wish I knew.
librarian		What are you looking for, Hon.
chase		Do you have anything on the Creed murders? I can't find the microfilm from that period...
librarian		We don't keep anything on file from that far back.
chase		But you've got files from the previous years...
librarian		We have nothing on the Creed murders, sir. Can I get you something else?
geoff		Do you think everyone that came back would be like Gus?
drew		I don't know...  ...maybe it depends on what you were like before you...
geoff		 Dies?
drew		I gotta go back and do my chores...
geoff		Go later...
drew		I can't. Gus'd kill me if I showed up late.
drew		See you at school Monday?
drew		You ever think about running away?
geoff		All the time.
drew		 See ya!
clyde		Well look who's here!
clyde		Oops!
clyde		Guess your Dad's not here to save you now, is he?
clyde		You ever seen a tire take off a nose?
clyde		Neither have I.
clyde		Might even kill ya. Wheel might chew right into your brains. You could visit your mom.
clyde		 Jesus Christ, Gus!
gus		Go home.
gus		I said... GO HOME!!
clyde		Come on, Gus, I was just fucking with him...  What're you gonna do? Give me a ticket? I mean, shit, Gus...
clyde		You can't lay a finger on me...
clyde		Gus... what are you doing?
gus		I'm just fucking with you...
clyde		 Stop it, man! Stop it!!!
gus		 Whoops.
drew		Oh man...
drew		 No, Zowie! It's me!
drew		Stay back!
gus		Forget something, Drew buddy?
gus		 You have the right to remain silent...
gus		 ...while I bash your fucking head in!
gus		You have the right to a lawyer, but you won't need one...
gus		...cause you'll be dead!
drew		Gus killed Clyde, Mom! He's trying to kill me!
gus		Drew, buddy! Daddy's not done yet!
drew		Go Mom! Go!!!
drew		Mom!!!
newscaster		... Friends and neighbors came to pay respects for Drew and Amanda Gilbert, who died in a head-on collision Saturday...
marjorie		Those poor people. I saw Gus this morning... he looked terrible.
chase		Geoff, dinner's ready!  Geoff?!
newscaster		...in other news, the disappearance of a Ludlow youth remains a mystery. Clyde Parker was last seen on Saturday afternoon. His motorcycle was
chase		Geoff... what are you doing?
geoff		I'm getting things ready for Mom.
chase		 Mom is dead, Geoff. You know that...
geoff		She doesn't have to be.
chase		What are you talking about?
geoff		I can bring her back. The same way Drew and me brought Zowie back...
chase		Geoff, this is crazy. Zowie didn't die.
geoff		He did. We buried him.  There's a place out in the woods... if you bury something there, it comes back alive.
geoff		We tried it on Zowie first. And then we did it again, when Zowie killed Gus. Drew didn't want Gus to be dead, so we brought him back, too...
chase		Look, Geoff. Just... just relax, okay. I'm going to take this call and I'll be right back. Okay?
chase		What?! Christ, I'll be right there...
chase		 Marjorie, I need you to stay late. Geoff is really upset and I have to take care of this. Don't let him leave the house, alright?
renee		 I need you, Geoff...
caretaker		...sorry to disturb you, Doctor Matthews, but I thought you'd want to come have a look for yourself. It's the damndest thing...
chase		Jesus...  Gus did this?!
caretaker		 He put your wife in his truck and drove off right through Amanda and Drew's headstones...
caretaker		I swear, nothing this weird has happened since Louis Creed dug up his boy...  You want me to notify the authorities?
chase		Doctor Yolander, this is Chase Matthews, we spoke the other day...
yolander's voice		 You didn't leave town, did you.
yolander		You sorry bastard. You stayed. I have nothing more to say to you, Matthews...
chase's voice		 Look, just tell me one thing. Did I treat an animal that had been brought back to life? Did I?!
yolander		What do you think?
chase		My God...  ...how is that possible? You have to help me, Doctor Yolander. I don't know what I'm dealing with here! They've dug up my wife...
yolander's voice		 God help you...
chase		 Wait! Don't hang up!
chase		Shit!
gus		You bury your own, Geoff.
marjorie		Geoff?
marjorie		Geoff? You okay up there?
chase		Jesus...
chase		Gus, what are you doing?!
gus		 I was building a doggy door.
chase		God damn it Gus, you dug up my wife! What the fuck is going on around here?!
gus		 A little drilling. A little killing.
chase		Holy shit!
gus		God I hate when that happens...
gus		You got a permit for that?
gus		Didn't think so.
gus		 No brain, no pain, Chase. Think about it...
gus		 Just remember, Chase... I had Renee first... and now I'm gonna have her last...
chase		Geoff!
marjorie		Jesus, Geoff! Don't sneak up on me like that!
renee		 Did you really think you could be like me?
renee		Such a young face... but you've got potential...
renee		We'll do the eyes first. You always start with the eyes...
geoff		Marjorie? You know you're not supposed to be in the attic.
geoff		Mom...
renee		I came back for you, Geoff. We're going to be together again.
chase		Marjorie?
renee		Hello, Chase.
chase		Oh my God...
renee		We can try again, Chase. We can make it work this time.
chase		 No...
renee		Don't you love me anymore, Chase?
chase		You're not Renee... Renee's dead...  Geoff! Get over here now!
renee		 Geoff, honey, why don't you go downstairs. Your father and I need a moment alone. Do it for me?
renee		Geoff...
renee		I love you.
clyde		 Hey, Junior. Wanna play?
chase		Geoff!
clyde		Oops! Looks like Daddy got a boo- boo...
clyde		Now, where were we?
clyde		Here it comes, buddy! HERE IT FUCKING COMES!!!
clyde		Eat it, ass-hole...
geoff		EAT THIS!!!
renee		Don't leave me alone!
renee		NO, GEOFF! NO!!!
geoff		All set?
chase		All set.
geoff		Anywhere but here.
****Dialogues from script :Petulia.txt****

night		The story begins in this grubby alley, where two extra large ambulances screech to a stop beside a loading platform. Onlookers gather in the alley entrance to see how many people died; nobody died, the backdoors of the ambulances are opened by attendants, and six perfectly fine victims of perfectly terrible automobile accidents are lifted into wheelchairs. The cripples are beautifully dressed, the men in tuxedos, the women in splendid evening dresses. One of the women wears a neck brace which forces her always to look skyward, so she cantt see the beautiful orchid corsage pinned to her bosom. Quickly, attendants roll the wheelchairs past all the stacks of fruit and vegetables on the loading platform, past great bales of laundry, past whatever horrors one finds behind the warm, smiling face of a hotel. Watch- men, pastry cooks, valets are watching the rush of the wheelchairs without much interest. Then doors swing open, and we are in the tram It of the grand ballroom.
petulia		You're an official host. She nods to the ribbon and cardboard which along with 'Official Host' says Dr. A. Bollen. Archie takes the ribbon off, as though to pin it on Petulia.
petulia		Careful. Can you tell I'm not wearing a brassiere?
archie		No.
petulia		Don't think about it. It will only excite you. Archie finally finds the ticket for his coat, which the attendant now tries to find. On through this Petulia continues.
petulia		That's my husband over there,
archie		Ahh ...
petulia		I've been married six months and I've never had an affair,
archie		It can happen
petulia		Don't take it so bloody well. I've just turned you down. He's looking at us. My husband,
petulia's voice		Isn't he gorgeous? He's a naval architect. It really zings when you say it. "My husband David is a naval architect." Actually, we're starving. You wouldn't want to buy a sixty foot sloop? David's "Momma"` and "Poppa' keep us. Look how disgusted Poppa is. He hates this sort of thing.
archieis voice		Poppa is too sensitive.
petulia's voice		Sensitive, my ass. He's bored. Highway safety's so blah. Also, he hates amateurs. Give him something he can sink his teeth into - "Rheumatoid Arthritis"  "Muscular Dystrophy"' -m and he's the best there is. A real pro. A little lame girl with a ribbon in her hair and a crutch under her arm, and Poppa can set the world on fire. He's really slumming tonight.
barney's voice		Hello, Archie.
wilma		Everybody came late.
archie		I came early. G'bye Wilma. G'bye Barney.
debutante attendant		Could you describe the coat?
archie		A. coat. A raincoat. Sleeves. Barney has begun to snap his fingers and move his shoulders, becoming part of "The Scene", about which Wilma couldn't care less.
wilma		You can't go, Archie. I'd be very
wi lma		Alright, then. I won't tell you who I bumped into last week
archie		buying a well larded rib roast.
wilma		Smarty. Have you seen what she's done to her hair?
archie		Wild, huh?
wilma		I said, "Polo, for heaven's sake, you look like a teenager." Archie doesn't seem too interested and, besides, all this is said while Wilma continues to look at Petulia.
wilma		Your Mike's getting so fat. Is that much weight good for a boy his age?
wilma		Smarty. Barney suddenly forgets the music to rescue his Vicuna coat which the debutante is smothering under other coats as she finally finds Archie's.
w ilma		 I don't believe we've met.
petulia		Screw you, Wilma.
archie		Now you've met.
petulia		My name is Petulia,
archie		Itm not surprised,
petulia		Polo's your wife,
archie		Ex-wife, G' night. Petulia turns to face her husband David, who has taken a few steps toward her. She whirls around to face the departing Archie.
petulia		Archie! He turns, almost at the door.
petulia		Say something warm.
archie		Like what?
petulia		I mean it There is something goofily desperate in her voice that stops him. He looks at her for awhile.
archie		Your hair, It gleams.
archie		Left arm or right? How do you brush it?
petulia		Left.
archie		An hour a day.
archie		You' 11 have a problem. The bursa sheath. Very sensitive, Bursitis. It'll hurt.
petulia		I'll come to you.
archie		I wouldn't be able to help much. Just aspirin.
petulia		And sympathy?
archie		Sure.
archie		My divorce doesn't become final till next
petulia		I'll get my purse. But in turning to do so she sees David, then the spinning car, the door prize.
archie		What?
petulia		I've been told that I'll be the one to draw the winning ticket. I'm always picked for things like that. I radiate incorruptibility. Money can't buy me. She shakes her head, thoughtfully. During all this the door- man has been busily opening and closing the door for them as they keep changing their mind.
petulia		It feels so super. Suddenly, all that love.
archie's voice		Well, stay then.
petulia		Archie, why do you play this dumb game? This crappy pretense at resisting the beautiful lady? You're bloody lucky I'm even talking to you. How many kids do you have besides fat Mike?
archie		Six.
petulia		G'night.
archie		Actually, only one besides Mike.
petulia		Meet you outside.
petulia		 Lucky we don't have luggage.
archie		Does this trouble you?
petulia		A little.
archie		I suggested my place.          I'd always imagined a tourist cabin, with paper thin walls, the sounds of a man from Tennessee in the cabin next door, sobbing endlessly, "M4ude, Maude, Maude 8 8"'
continued		Archie sees a car moving through the processes of E registration. Grabbing Petulia's hand, he starts to what is presumably the entrance -- at least it is the bottom of the ramp. They arrive at the booth and Archie steps on the. place marked 'Stand Here.' A T.V. screen lights up.
petu lia		Lost in a hailstorm this side of Pocatello, Idaho. Those hailstones really came down, didn't they, Zeke?
archie		No auto.
archie		Only if we make it one.
petulia		Do you have any slides or swings for children?
petulia		No, no. I was told to be suspicious of motels which cater to the family trade.
well		There is a small sound and a gadget reaches out which normally would fasten to the side of the car. On it is an electronic register, an electronic pen and a key with a great metal tag . As Archie registers, and puts the ten dollar bill where it belongs, Petulia looks at the T.V. set.
petulia		You've got a very nice T,V, face.
petulia		You have to use pancake make-up, things like that?
petulia		,..gray . terribly distraught headlights of passing cars lighting up our room .,. Archie tugs at her, and gasps.
petulia		You have 624 women in this room and I'm still counting. Archie moves behind her and begins unbuttoning the top buttons on the back of her dress.
petulia		My great-grandmother is ninety-one and still has a granite chin. Archie pushes a gadget beside the bed and it begins to vibrate. Petulia sees endless Archies vibrating on endless beds.
petulia		What a lecherous lot
archie		She's ninety-ones eh?
petulia		But no fun.
archie		Not at ninety-one, hell
petulia		She stopped having fun at twenty-eight when her husband was killed in the first war, in a trench looking just like Cary Grant with a waxed moustache. She can't remember him but she does remember Cary Grant because he is from Bristol, too, and often in the news. If his picture is in the paper he gets a waxed moustache whether he likes it or not. She turns to face Archie. She is afraid and she is angry and she doesn-t know quite what to do from one moment to the next. But she knows he shouldn't be in an overcoat jiggling on a jiggling bed,
petulia		Stop being so damn casual. Archie sits up but is still casual,
petulia		We're about td become lovers, Did you bring an instrument, Archie?
archie		Eh?
petulia		Ring for room service. Ask the robot for something splendid and musical,,
archie		Saxophone? Electric Organ? Tuba?
petulia		A tuba. Absolutely; Bless you, Ar--hie; A tuba; Something large and twirly and pom to pom .pomX Archie, this is an event. We 0 are about to become lovers.
archie		You said that.
petulia		It can't be said often enough.
archie		Are we?
petulia		Are we what?
archie		About to become lovers?
petulia		No.
archie		Ah, you swinging young marrieds. He leaves.
petulia		Where do you have to rush? If we were making love you would be exploring my navel about now. Time would be the last thing on your mind. An old man in a bathrobe, sadly out of contrast with the electronic motel, looks up from the open trunk of his car. The elevator doors open. Petulia and Archie enter,
petulia		You. look like a gargoyle. Poor, dumb Archie. I'm all mixed up sexually. Old Mum's a prostitute. The oldest professional lady in 0 all Bristol. Mavis, too, my sister. But I mean she's not a landmark yet.
archie		Real honest-to-God tears, Petulia?
petulia		Tears, Archie.
archie		Petulia, you're a kook. He exits the elevator and whistles at a cruising cab.
archie		If he gets you there in time, you can still pick the winning ticket and make somebody happy.
petulia		 Archie, I'm going to marry you. The cab pulls away and Archie sees Petulia looking at him through the rear window. Archie allows himself the drollest of smiles.
archie		It's the Pepsi generation 0 He walks into the night alone.
archie		 I'm up, thanks. Then his dizzy brain realizes the ringing is continuing and is constant. He sees the alarm clock, 6:1 He stumbles and staggers to the front door.
archie		Yeah... yeah 000 yeah 000 He opens the door to come face to face with the large and twirly front end of a tuba. The tuba is stark white for no particular reason.
arc hie		I'll make some coffee. Petulia blows with all her strength, emitting a sad little peep, then collapses to the floor, tuba and all.
petulia		Aren't I a kook? If you think you're
archie		 No, I've been up for hours, waiting for the doorbell to ring,
petulia		, 0 think how surprised the-man who owns the pawnshop is going to be when he sees all that broken glass.
petulia's voice		Archie, how come the burglar alarm didn't go off?
petulia		Wherets it all going to end if the burglar alarms won't go off? Take me to bed, Archie,
archie		Get the hell out of here . please. He reaches to help Petulia to her feet but as he touches her waist to lift her, she screams and faints,
petulia		I've got a broken rib, I think, I can feel it broken, Archie.
archie		Don't you know you can puncture a lunge
petulia		Hopping around with tubas and stuff -- isntt it kooky, though? Archie has begun to remove her dress.
petulia		When are we going to stop trying to undress me?
archie		Shut up.
petulia		Leave me alone, Archie. Archie sees she really means it,          It's just a rib to me,
petulia		That's why. Call a proper doctor,
archie		What do you think I am?
petulia		A hairy legged old lecher running around in pajama bottoms,
archie		Get your clothes off,
petulia		As a woman, not as a rib. Archie is harassed. The phone begins ringing. He grabs it angrily.
archie		 I'm awake! I'm awake; How many times are you gonna call?I He hangs up, then realizes this was the first wake up call.
e archie		 You know what a- you'll drive me cuckoo. He sighs. and begins dialing a number. Petulia is in real pain. Like a,little child she crawls under the covers of his bed, pulling the quilt up around her as though Archie's left over warmth will make the pain go away.
archie		 Barney? Archie. Fine fine , , fine , I want you to look at a patient for me. Now. At my place. My apartment, Barney, it's very complicated and I haven't had my morning coffee yet. Her name is Petulia. I don't know her last name, Barney. Yes, Petulia. Barney, shut up. I have to get to the hospital.
petulia		You've got a super build for a man your age. Archie says nothing. He crosses to the bathroom and hastily begins dressing.
petulia		Where are all the family pictures? Archie is busy brushing his teeth,
petulia		Polo and the boys.
petulia		I'll bet you named her Polo. Don't ever start mucking about with "Petulia". Archie exits from the bathroom, all the time continuing to dress,
petulia		Whats her real name?
archie		Prudence.
petulia		And you named her Polo. That's kind of sickening, Archie. Archie stops his dressing long enough to gaze at this girl in his bed, beyond which is an overturned tuba. Archie sighs somewhat philosophically, not nearly as amused as you'd think.
archie		I want him here every day. For therapy.
woman		Si, Yes, doctor. I do, Oliver speaks only a few words of English, mostly the necessary scatological and sexual phrases that would be necessary in his line of business.
archie		Every day. Tell him that. The woman says it to Oliver in Spanish. Oliver says something obviously obscene.
archie		What'd he say?
archie		 Say that. The woman tells Oliver in Spanish as Archie continues examining the leg.
archie		Sorry, pal. Oliver says something in Spanish.
archie		Every day. Same time. Two o'clock, right on the dot.  Sorry , , Oliver swears in Spanish and the woman clacks her tongue.
nurse		Cut that out, you little spit,
woman		About the bill, Doctor. Barney is passing by.
archie		Is she okay?
archie		His leg will be fine. Don't worry too much about the bill. Just enough to pay it.
woman		I have money to pay it, A pipe smoking public relations man leads a casually dressed group past Archie and the woman.
announcer		 Springtime in Paree. Our elegante dinner pajamas. In airy aquamarine chiffon and Mediterranean blue peau de soie. Delightfully carefree, yet formal enough for an ambassadorial reception at the Palace of Versailles.
barney		"Screw you, Wilma." Why didn't you tell me?
archie		How is she?
barney		You tell me.
archie		Oh, great, terrific, you wouldn't believe it. Terrific. And her rib?
barney		I taped it. Gave her some seconal. Should have a vertical just to be safe. A waitress hovers
archie		Why do we have to eat topless?
barney		The best Irish stew in town. He is eating a corned beef sandwich. Archie is ordering the same.
barney		She said you beat her up. Kidding, of course. Archie bites into his sandwich with small enthusiasm. Breasts with their pasties always intrude.
barney		You must have been a little rough on her, daddy.
announcer		Opening Night at the Opera. Though the curtain has risen on the first act of Aida, all eyes are on the Royal Box, Mi Lady in dazzling velvet: Cardinal Richelieu Rouge. The utter simplicity of her full-length gown is subtly accented by the merest suggestion of gay abandon. Archie eats his sandwich. An off-duty topless waitress sits in the corner having lunch, holding a napkin over her bosom with one hand, while eating with the other.
barney		Archie ?
archie		Barney ?
archie		Forever?
barney		That's how long. And Polo and the kids. That's exactly how long. Another silence. Archie is watching the brass pole. Every other girl sliding down looks like Petulia. Archie accepts his hallucination with mild pleasure. Barney will not be stopped.
barney's voice		So I have a right to my opinion; It's breaking Wilma's heart; That's all we talk about. You think you're different than anybody else? Every time I leave my house it's the last time, I'm never coming back. You're not listening to me, Archie.
archie's voice		Barney, for Chrissake, I'm listening to you,
barney's voice		You're thinking about that hot cat in your bed, you bastard.
barney's voice		My record is far from spotless, if you don't know that, who does? But baby, it's just not the answer, not at our age.
archie's voice		So what's the answer, baby?
barney's voice		Someplace you can belch without saying excuse me!
archie's voice		I can do that in the steam room at the YMCA.
barney's voice		 And if a little monkey business comes along, whose gonna throw rocks? You and Polo were a marvellous looking couple.
archie's voice		Barney, what would you say if I told you that one day I just got very tired of being married?
barney's voice		 It's still better than being out there in the dark, all by your goddam lonesome! Nobody has a life anymore. Quicksand, It scares me. What do you want, Archie?
barney		Archie, what am I going to do about Wilma?
petulia		I'm drunk.
archie		It's the stuff Barney gave you.
petulia		I'm drunk.
archie		I'll drive you home.
petulia		Thank you, I'll take the bus.
archie		Don't be silly.
petulia		Don't pry, Archie.
archie		How'm I prying?
petulia		I'll go home by bus.
archie		If I were prying, I would ask you how you broke your rib. Right?
pe tulia		You fall on a tuba and you break your rib. Right.
archie		Wrong. The rib was broken hours before your fall. L' During this the bus comes to a stop. Petulia rises shakily to board it but she can't go through the entrance with the tuba.
bus driver		Anytime you're ready, Lady.
archie		I'll keep it for you.
petulia		It has to be returned. "Friends of the Evergreen," Archie looks blank.
petulia		It's a lodge. In Chinatown. On Grant. Ask for Mr. Howard. The bus driver really leans on his horn to make everything charming.
archie		 Petulia, take a cab!
petulia		Will you remember that? "Friends of the Evergreen."
archie		Petulia, where are you going?
petulia		Mr. Howard. Tell him I'm sorry I goofed. Archie, you know something? The tuba makes you look ten years younger, and . you'know ... Thingy 0 The bus starts with a jolt and Petulia winces in pain.
david		Petulia?
petulia		Hi.
david		You okay?
petulia		Uh huh.
david		Sure?
petulia		Of course.
david		Just before ---
petulia		I'm fine.
david		... for a split second there
petulia		Ism okay.
david		I thought maybe you
petulia		David. Somehow or other we begin to sense that madness has entered what is really a commonplace scene. Something has gone wrong and we can't for the life of us under- stand what and before we can even guess, we are:
petulia		 I came by to make sure there was enough milk and things. He finds the situation amusing, reaching in past Petulia to grab an orange. There should be a feeling of a possible relationship between Petulia and this man. In the next room a screen door opens and closes. Petulia closes the ice box door and we and she see Oliver and the Woman standing in the doorway.
archie		 Hi, Polo.
polo		It's very nice. Archie looks at her questioningly.
polo		I've never been here before. It's very nice.
archie		Thanks.
polo		It's strange, coming into your husband's bachelor apartment for the first time. Feels slightly illegal. Is that a tuba?
archie		That's a tuba.
polo		Make a marvelous lamp.
archie		You just had to say it.
polo		Predictable Polo.
archie		"Predictable Polo." Has a certain zing. How're the kids?
polo		Looking forward to the weekend. Lest I forget She opens her large handbag, takes out a cellophane bag of cookies.
polo		As usual, I baked enough for an army.
archie		Okay.
polo		This is very strange. I didntt think I'd feel like this. Mostly sad. Archie's sad, too, therefore he is more brusque than necessary. Also he is bugged by the cookies.
archie		You need anything, Polo?
polo		No. Well, yes. Well, yes and no.
polo		It's such a puzzle. We really got on so marvelously. Never fought. Never screamed at each other. Not once. Something in his silence, plus that damned unmade bed, is beginning to make her angry.
polo		Everybody we knew envied us.
archie		We were a handsome couple. This makes her so angry she can now say what she came to say.
polo		I think I've fallen in love. The man is Warren Smith. He's an engineer and very good with the children, but he wants to go back to school and get his masters in hydraulics.  Well, say something.
archie		Hello?  Hello?
polo		Were going to'be married.
archie		Great.  Hello?
petulia		She stops. She waits for a moment, wondering if the scene she imagined on the bus is now going to occur. Will David now say, "Just for a second there .?"
david		Come on, let's eat. Morrie finally got a shipment of Dungeness crab.
petulia		About time.
david		Well, poor guy. They had all that trouble. David crosses to the dining area. And that's that.
polo		Not right away. He's also divorced. There's alimony ... child support It looks absolutely obscene.
polo		Adore him.
archie		How about that?
polo		Don't you have maid service?
archie		What's so great about not fighting?
polo		I came to tell you about Warren,
archie		You told me about Warren. He sits beside her, well not really beside her, actually as far away from her as the bed will permit. She decides she will instantly get up off the bed, but she does not.
polo		Well, I'm afraid well still need all the money you pay me. And I'll be seeing him, Archie
archie		If he's a bright guy, he'll make out okay.
polo		Needless to say there are certain problems. By now, Archie is on top of Polo, and out of habit she is adjusting her body for him.
polo		He lives in such a depressing, rented room. It gives me claustrophobia.
archie		Poor Polo.
polo		It's such an icky little room. Archie is, perhaps, two seconds away from entering Polo, when he suddenly sits up, wondering what the hell he's been doing. He walks to the far side of the room, sticks his shirt in, wipes the sleeve of his shirt across his face. Polo feels no particular rancor, the entire thing was totally unplanned, and she has no more desire to "make it" with Archie than he has with her. She pulls down her skirt and adjusts her garters.
archie		Tell the kids I'll come for them 0 Sunday at eight.
polo		They'll be ready. I thought the decent thing was to come here and talk in a civilized manner. About the change in my situation.
archie		I appreciate it, Polo.
polo		Good night, Archie.
archie		You've got a run in your stocking. Polo exits, Archie can't figure out why in the world he even thought of making love to Polo after all this time. He sits down on the unmade bed, finds one of Polo's cookies on the sheets, and pops it into his mouth.
large guard		 Now you folks keep moving along that bridge. You keep moving along and give other folks a chance. There's lots of pretty things to do. You keep moving right along. You won't want to forget our Niponese souvenir pagoda where every item is the real McCoy. That's right. Keep moving, that's the ticket. Sergeant, you've been standing there some time now. During this, MAY and Archie talk. '.s 32 and pretty. Its a nice day but Archie is not happy. Polo, Warren, maybe Petulia mostly it's kind of a lousy day to be a bachelor, . and May have been sitting on the grass. Gracefully she rises to her feet, doing everything just right, even this. 0 She puts away her portable martini kit.
archie		Nobody in the world can sit on the grass and not wrinkle. She looks.
archie		No, perfect. Not even a blade of grass. Why don't I marry you, May?
may		Why don't you, Ar^hie? They walk along holding hands. Archie should feel better than he does.
archie		Tell me about Bobby Kennedy. She looks at him, smiling.
archie		Choose a subject. Ice cubes. Any damn thing. Take either side. Talk for thirty seconds against ice cubes.
archie		That dress shop of yours. "Boutique." I've never seen one of those ... your rubber mannequins .. I've never once seen the pipe sticking out of their bottoms. Not once, not one damn time. That bothers me, May. May stops. She doesn1t know whether to be annoyed or amused. Shets a little of both.
archie		I'm not hostile, it's frustration. In all that perfection, how could a clumsy clot like me possibly be fitted in? I mean, without spoiling the whole effect. They have now reached the area of the stunted trees. Nuns are passing through empty benches; kids are improvising on the stage and shouting.
may		Don't worry about it. You'll be going back to Polo.
archie		No, she's found a fellah.
may		Oh. She watches the kids for a moment.
may		I'd just about given up on you,
archie		What I should do is marry you. For May this has been said once too often. She is now
kay		Archie, if it would please you, I'll submit a list of my faults, some of which might shake you up a bit.
archie		It would be a fake list.
may		Probably, It wouldn't be a fake list. Actually, I wear arch supports, my depilatory causes a nasty little rash, and I've lost 10% of my hearing in less than a year .. Okay?
archie		Well of all people.
petulia		All that crap about the humanitarian- ism of the medical profession. She darts alongside the building and begins frantically calling to a little old man in white duck pants and an "aloha" hat, May looks at Archie questioningly.
archie		Don't ask. Petulia and the old man are back joining Archie and May on the steps.
petulia		Mr. Howard is the'watchman for the "Friends of the Evergreen." Or was.
archie		The tuba.
petulia		No wonder people are becoming cynical about doctors.
archie		I tried to return it. The place was locked.
petulia		I didn't expect this of you, Archie'.
archie		I tried to return the tuba Friday
petulia		(accusingly to
petulia		Stay out of this, Mr. Howard. She sees May watching all this with wry amusement.
petulia		I'm Petulia Danner. I'm sorry about this.
archie		 All that broken glass
archie		Goodbye, Mr. Howard. Goodbye, Petulia. Petulia crosses to Mr. Howard and presses a dollar bill into his shirt pocket.
petulia		Take a taxi. You can at least say you're sorry, Archie.
archie		I'm sorry, Mr, Howard. Goodbye, Petulia. But Petulia just sits on the edge of a chair tapping her fingers in annoyance. Mr. Howard leaves. The door remains open for Petulia to leave. May watches Petulia in amused tolerance.
archie		What's the next move, Petulia?
petulia		I'd like to discuss your irresponsibility. People are passing in the hallway, peering in.
archie		Goodbye, Petulia. He advances on her, somewhat threateningly.
petulia		My rib. Archie slams the door shut ets a bottle and a couple g of glasses, pointedly, exclu ding Petulia.
archie		I should explain about Petuliaa She is a kook. We are going to be married.
petulia		Archie, when you try to sound cool and "with it," you're really pathetic. We're trying to have an intelligent conversation...
archie		About what?
petulia		Well, about Polo, among other things.
archie		Polo is none of your damned business.
petulia		That's dumb. Dumb. She's my business and she's this lady's business. I happen to hate Polo.
archie		 Needless to say she's never even met Polo.
petulia		I look at you and I know Polo.  Explain that to him. May looks at Archie in bewilderment, she is not quite sure how to react; but when she makes up her mind it will be the exactly right reaction. Also, in all truth, Petulia is frightened by May.
petulia		How many years were you married., Archie? Eight? Ten? Anyhow, the best, Wasted. Gone down the drain.
archie		Oh, come on ..o
petulia		Archie, we are from two different worlds. We've got nothing to agree on. Except one thing. You're a lonely screwed up mess. 0 Archie, I'm trying to save you. You're a very special man.
archie		Oh, God.
petulia		Tell him, May. Petulia doesn't like May's amused reaction.
petulia		You don't think so?
may		I won't put Archie on a pedestal. He'll do.
may		 It's a joke, you're both putting me on.
arc hie		Petulia. I mean it. Tubas. All this E "I Love Lucy" jazz. It's only cute for awhile.
petulia		It's not meant to be cute. I'm fighting for your life.
archie		Who's trying to kill me?
may		The two million, five hundred thousand subscribers to the "Ladies Home Journal" ... right, dear?
archie		Petulia, go home and save what's his name. I really don't want to see you anymore. Archie's voice is cold. Petulia is suddenly defeated, mostly by May. She gets up and leaves.
petulia's voice		Hi. Archie turns. Petulia is in the medical library with books scattered all about her.
archie		You're kidding.
petulia		I think I've discovered a cure for cancer.
archie		Well, if you're on the brink of something. How did they let you in.
petulia		You look exhausted.
archie		Do you know it's almost three? Doesn't Mr. Danner worry at all about things like that? Petulia looks at him reverently.
arc hie		Shall I drop you off?  It's too late for the bus. She gets in.
archie		Petulia, you've got to stop following me around like this. Petulia is absolutely silent but her eyes are devouring him with infinite tenderness which Archie is finding very touching. It is a facet of Petulia he has never seen before.
archie		Where to? I could use a steak sandwich. There's a jazz joint that stays open all night. He reaches to start the car just as she grabs at him, awkwardly, aggressively.
archie		No.
petulia		Yes.
arc hie		Not here.
archie		It m not really hungry.
petulia		I'm starving.
archie		Am I being punished?
petulia		Loganberry jam ... we'll have a case.
archie		I'd rather have a new plastic raincoat.
petulia		You don't save anything on plastic raincoats.
archie		Shall I get another cart? Polo can fill three or four when she really puts her mind to it. Petulia gets the point and instantly takes her place
woman shopper		 You know what time it is? It's after fivB.
petulia		Ilia sorry.
woman shopper		I want to go to bed.
petulia		So do we.
archie		 To satisfy myself, that's who. Okay. He hangs up the phone and sees Petulia looking at him.
archie		Well, we knocked off another one. Another notch in the old stethoscope.
petulia		You're a wonderful doctor, Archie.
archie		I keep a little black bow tie in my desk. In 0 case the services are in the morning and 1 have no time to go home. The neekband's all stained with sweat.
petulia		Why are you dressed?
archie		Have to pick up the, kids, I'm already late.
petulia		You're not abandoning me? I mean, I wasn't all that bad, was I?
arch ie		Amateur night, He leans over and kisses her mouth.
petulia		Before I've brushed my teeth? Are you a communist, Archie?
archie		I guess so
petulia		Tell Mike to watch that weight.
archie		Will you be here when I get back?
petulia		Yes?
petulia		I'm divorcing David, if that's what you mean,
petulia		Phone me.
archie		Where?
petulia		Here.
archie		Listen, this worries me. Really.
petulia		Write the Number down so you won't forget. Archie grins, sighs, and starts out. Petulia will do anything to hold him one second more.
petulia		Hey,, you. Archie turns at the door.
petulia		Don't have any illusions about all those groceries. I can't cook.
archie		And you hate loganberry Jam.
petulia		No, as a matter of fact, I rather like it. He smiles, continues out.
petulia		If somebody calls and wants medical advice on something really obscure, is it okay if I wing it on my own? He makes an amused "you nuts" gesture and leaves, but not before Petulia says:
petulia		Phone. He is gone.
archie		 Shut up, you guys,
petulia's voice		Hi. What's all the noise?
archie		Mike.
petulia		Fat Mike?
archie		He's not all that fat. During this series of dumb, ordinary telephone conversa-
pause		PETULIA: I had a tall glass of pineapple juice. ARCHIE: Make some toast, too. And milk. Breakfast is a very important meal. PETULIA: I wish you'd remember that. ARCHIE: Well, goodbye. 0 PETULIA: Archie? ARCHIE: Yes? PETULIA: You won't forget to phone.
archie		They used to think that escape from that prison was impossible.
warren		They used to think that escape from that prison was impossible.
si		52B Continued
mike		Yes, Dad. Warren told us that last week.
archie		Warren. Well, we could have gone somewhere else. I didn't know you had been.
stevie		 We thought maybe you had never been, Dad.
archie		No - well, thanks, actually I haven't been before, Stevie.
mike		In fact, we don't call him Stevie anymore.
archie		Who doesn't?
mike		Mom thinks he's getting a little old for being called Stevie, in fact.
archie		I called you Stevie two weeks ago -e we were all calling you Stevie two weeks ago -- I was.
stevie		Before that.
mike		Warren says that Alcatraz taught the world you can get out of anything if you want to bad enough.
archie		That's what Warren said, eh?
mike		Yes, Dad.
archie		How about clams on the wharf when we get back?
mike		Clams make Steve vomit.
archie		Oh.
mike		You forgot that.
archie		No, it just slipped my mind. Archie really does like his kids but his thoughts are somewhere else.
archie		Hello there.
archie		Warren take you here?
mike		No.
archie		He would see the sign, eh? See
stevie		Hey, this is great. Archie chases them through the floors. Archie sees a telephone above which is a sign which says that this phone is for the military and is to be used only in emergency. Archie approaches it warily, then loses his nerve and turns back to his kids. Archie wants to get back to Petulia.
archie		Alright? The boys look at him uncertainly.
stevie		I been sneezing.
archie		So I noticed.
mike		He's always sneezing.
arc hie		Hey, next week I want you guys over for the entire weekend. None of this three or four hour stuff.
stevie		All weekend?
archie		Why not?
mike		To do what?
archie		You 'gust wait! Stevie is instantly excited,
stevie		Something really interesting?
archie		Bet your life'.
mike		What?
archie		Just leave it to melt
mike		Warren said something about the Roller Derby.
archie		Oh.
stevie		Friday night till late Sunday?
archie		Unless you guys don't want to.
mike		The Roller Derby's pretty darn interesting.
archie		Yeah.
mike		We'd have to sleep over. I mean if we were going to spend the whole weekend.
archie		I want you to.
stevie		Me toot Boy l
archie		Okay, it's a dealt Mike turns away.
stevie		He's going to cry I guess -- he does that.
archie		A nice, neat kid. After all the exuberance he feels so empty. Everywhere things are scattered about.
dog's owner		Don't you hit Lennie! Archie is too distressed about Petulia to even respond. At every door there is a tenant. A jumble of voices all spoken together.
petulia		Say hello to "Petulia"s Folly." David says nothing.
david		Oh?
pet ulia		 If, in the past, you thought me a bit odd, feast your eyes on this little goodie.
david		Whats the problem?
petulia		 Why the hell don't they teach them English? This little hustler picked me up in Tijuana --
david		 What's your name?
petulia		I've got a name for him! Oliver doesn't understand what is being said, but he is getting uneasy.
o liver		Lady say "hey come on us go San Francisco ten bucks."
petulia		What I said to this malicious little fink was that maybe one day if we went back to Tijuana --
oliver		San Francisco. Each says it in his own accent, and so begins a word game.
david		Okay. "San Francisco." 0 He pronounces it like Oliver.
david		David doesn't answer her.
david		 What are you called?
oliver		 Oliver.
david		 Oliver.
oliver		 Oliver. They begin laughing again. Petulia is becoming t. completely unnerved.
petulia		David. The San Diego bus is due at twelve fifteen. I've already bought him a ticket.
david		We've got to get this on tape. He's really something else'. I get a real kick out of him!  "San Francisco." Unless he's a midget. Hey, sure! Oliver is a sixty-three-year-old midgets Oliver grins, not understanding but feeling he has an ally.
david		 Get in. It's still a long drive. We'll never get home.
petulia		Okay. He can wait inside. The cashier's a sweet old dear. I'll have him keep an eye on the ckeeky little bugger! 0 She opens the car door to take Oliver out, tense, wanting to get past this moment but fearful that she won't.
david		You promised "Oliver" "San Francisco."
petulia		I did not.
david		Like hell you didn't'. David abruptly hops over the seat and sits behind the wheel. He signals for Petulia to get in beside Oliver. Petulia hesitates.
david		I dig, bitch, I dig! She's stunned. His hand reaches out and brutally jerks her into the car.
david		I dig. CAMERA HOLDS on Petulia's frightened face. Now suddenly 0 the face has a tube in the nose; there's another tube in her throat; and she's unconscious.
barney's voice		Hey you. Barney is looking over the shower door at Archie with a mixture of concern and anger.
barney		 0 Did you know there's a policeman outside wanting to talk to you? Archie nods dully.
barney		What the hell is going on? Archie nods dully.
barney		Can you have dinner with us tonight? Archie nods dully.
archie		Mrnmmmm?
barney		I don't want to know,
wilma		Ask.me, Cottage cheese,
barney		Actually I'm relieved,
wilma		 I'm afraid she's madly in love with your Stevie,
wilma		Wasn't that a gorgeous week! I just adore Big Sur!
barney		It rained every day. You kept insisting you were pregnant,
wilma		 You must take Polo and the boys -- She stops embarrassed,
barney		Wilma-The-Magic-Talking-Machine. Put a dime in and she talks all night.
archie		Forget it.
wilma		 I just can't think of you without thinking of Polo. Archie nods.
wilma		I'll bet he's sorry.
barney		There's nothing wrong with a little old-fashioned nostalgia.
wi lma		Do you remember that crazy Labour Day weekend we drove to Tahoe?
barney		 I've got them right her Archie frowns at Wilma and Barney. But they are clumsy and obvious, and he is somewhat touched.
barney		I keep everything. They just happen to be here. What do you think this is, a conspiracy?
archie		Yes, Really they are all good friends, and they laugh good- naturedly,
wilma		Let's see them Archie. Barney starts showing different slides of the Tahoe vacation. Archie watches scratching his ear, and eating peanuts. Wilma looks like the tears are about to start, C.S. A child cries "Mommy!"
wilma		 You go this time. Barney goes, leaving the slide still showing on the wall. Wilma looks at Archie for a long moment.
wilma		Archie what's happening to you?
archie		Nothing.
wilma		Dontt say nothing -- the policeman even called here!
archie		Itm sorry.
wilma		I've had a splitting earache all day. Friends have certain rights, even the right to be obnoxious. Do you love this woman? Archie shrugs.
wilma		i Well you must feel something.
archie		Yeah I guess so. Pity.
wi lma		Shall I tell you something? I wish I had your guts.
nun		Who would do such a thing to a girl like this? She's a child. Is there an orthopaedic problem, Dr. Bollen?
nun		A. doctor should get his sleep.
archie		You left the needle in. The nun would like to scream at Archie about the impropriety of his presence here but she can't. She is proud of the bottle of blood.
nun		From the Archbishop's Fund.
archie		Take the needle out.
archie		I suppose they've tried.
nun		It would be such a nice surprise to have his picture here when she finally awakens. Wouldn't that be nice?
archie		Yes,
nun		It would give her some small comfort,
archie		I would put a bit more tape around the needle,
nun		I mentioned her this morning in the chapel. I mention all my criticals.
archie		In the future be more careful of the needle.
nun		She hardly makes a bump under the sheets. She leaves. Archie moves closer to Petulia examining her throat and eyes for vital signs. He pushes open an eyelid and Petulia's dead eye stares glassily into his living face.
oliver's attendant		Come on, come on, get on with it.
david		Hey, "San Francisco"! He pronounces it like Oliver does. He comes down the steps, three at a time. He stops before the kid.
david		It isn't a question of hospitality, I want you to understand that. I feel terrible. Dragging you all the way up to San Francisco and then not even showing you Fisherman's Wharf. Comprehend.? Petulia goes into the living room to find the keys to the car.
da vid		0 Hold it a minute!
david		 What's the rushy Whereas the fire! He stoops down beside the boy and shows him a wrist watch.
david		You've go to have some little memento. Right?
petul ia		David, for God's sakes The wrist watch is much too big for Oliver's skinny wrist so David starts to fasten it around Oliver's biceps. Even this is too skinny so David starts fastening it around Oliver's lower leg. Oliver has no idea what is happening, but his hustler's heart tells him he is being given something very valuable. Petulia is repelled.
david		 You see the basic problem is we just don't have the room for all the folks my old lady invites for a visit. Were kinda short of room. I'd give you the shirt off my back. I'm West-Texas and proud of it. But start loading up the house with make-believe kids, plus every Tom, Dick and Harry whose one and only claim to fame is that he knows how to do "it" --
david		Hands off! The watch won't fasten to the leg either. David tries to fit it around the boy's neck. David begins to cry.
david		 I don't want any hard feelings' It was nothing personals Hey, we'll look you up sometime; When we're down that way., Have a real old-fashioned fiesta; We'll have a ball; "Oliver?" During the preceding speech we CUT to Petulia and Oliver, Oliver, infuriated at Petulia, defiantly shows her that he has David's watch in his fist.
archie		How's your patient?
nun		Oh, Mrs. Danner.
archie		Mrs. Danner. How's Mrs. Danner?
nun		She woke up awhile ago.
archie		She woke up?
nun		Should .I have called you`d
nun		Blue Cornflowers. They exchange a smile.
nun		I'm'also to go all the way across town and deliver a message to the Mendoza family, I'm to tell them everything is okay. And give them this.
archie		Let me.
archie		Mr. Mendoza? Mendoza yawns sleepily.
archie		I'm Dr. Bollen. Do you know Mrs. Danner? Petulia Danner?
archie		Petulia Danner. She gave me this address, The Mexican shakes his head in complete indifference, is already thinking about going back to sleep, and starts closing the door,
archie		She was beaten. Almost to death. Are you Mr. Mendoza?
mexican		"Mendoza," si,
archie		 This is for you,
mexican		Gracia. He starts to open the envelope. It contains a twenty dollar bill,
archie		Can I talk to you for a minute? Mendoza, with no idea what Archie is saying, starts closing the door and pocketing the money.
heyp		He pounds on the door. The door opens. The Mexican says in
mexican		 I work all night. Go away. He closes the door. Archie pounds on the door again. He hurts his hand. He sucks on the slight wound. He kicks at the door. He crosses around to the front of the house, A negro and a white teenager are passing.
archie		Do either of you fellows speak Spanish? a NEGRO TEENAGER I speak a lot of Polish, if it would be any help, sir.
archie		I've got to talk with this man in here. A woman was almost beaten to death.
teenager		Here?
archie		Not here.
teenager		You said here,
negro		Almost, but not quite to death, sir?
archie		Yes.
teenager		Here but not quite here?
archie		Listen, just find a cop, huh;
negro teenager		He'd better speak Polish, sir. I'm on a fantastic Polish kick. The two chase each other down the street yelling "Da:" and "Paderewskii" and even "Yawohl;", etc, Archie looks at the house and then at his car and then at his bruised hand. He's furious A police car passes'. Archie looks, but somehow can't bring himself to hail it. He wonders why he let the police car pass. He goes back to his car,
petulia		Why weren't you there when I woke up? You better not say you were when the bill comes, Dr. Bollen.
archie		Who is this guy, Mendoza? Why am I always finding you in a different bed? What are you?
petulia		Avery sick girl.
archie		Who beat you up?
petulia		What happened to your hand?
archie		Nothing happened to my hand.
petulia		I love your hands. I want plaster of paris molds for bookcases. Bookends.
archie		Did David beat you up? Was it Mendoza? Why did you send him money?
petulia		I'm still very sick.
archie		I don't care.
other patient		This man is a doctor?
petulia		The world's best, madame The patient turns her back on the two of them.
archie		Petulia,you're turning me into a nut. Why hasn't David been here?
petulia		Ask me questions.
archie		Petulia, is it possible for you to tell the truth about anything?
archie		There was no Mrs o Mendoza Z
petulia		' drowsily) I had to have some place for him to stay,, David would never have let e bring him home
archie		Bring who home?
pett lia		Iqm beginning to hurt.
archie		Petuliag I don't understand the kind of world you live ina Come on. For Ghri.st$s sake, a pretty young gi.rl9 what the hell is going on, who would lay a hand on you, how could you get so screwed up? Through this Petulia simply lies there, just looking a Archie.
archie		I cans t stand it.
petulia		Irm asleep. They gave me a pill.and I' asleep,, Really0 I am really very sleepy,, Can we talk later, Archie? When ivm asleep kiss my forehead. She closes her eyes and sleeps. Archie gives her fore- head a kiss and she giggles. He leaves.
archie		Good idea. Police the area.
mike		This is keen, Dad. Water canteens and everything.
stevie		I'm out of water.
archie		Always make sure you've got water. You'll find some in the kitchen. What's on T.V.?
stevie		I''m hot. In fact.
archie		Switch the fire off then. Stevie goes to switch the electric fireplace off.
mike		It's really keen, Dad. The bell rings and Polo is standing there, She looks around, smiling.
polo		I' don't believe it.
stevie		Even canteens, Mom. 0 Polo really only has eyes for Archie. She is troubled by how haggard and worn he looks.
polo		Roller Derby starts at eight.
stevie		We have to police the area.
mike		It's really been keen, Mom. Nobody ever heard of a. camp-in. The two boys now busy themselves with straightening out the place as Polo crosses to-Archie,
archie		It's been really keen, Mom.
polo		Poor Archie.
archie		Not "dumb" Archie?
polo		Never. The brightest. I used to have such terrible anxiety that I would die suddenly. Before I could say thank you, Archie is very touched.
stevie		I have to go to. the latrine. Stevie goes.
mike		Is Dad allowed to come to the Roller Derby? I mean since Uncle Warren couldn't? He is so bad at matchmaking that Polo and Archie can hardly keep a straight face.
polo		 Will you please tell.your son --
stevie		I want to go home.
m ike		They don't mean it.
stevie		I want some popcorn.
archie		I'll get it. He rises quickly and moves to the refreshment counter behind the grandstand. Archie finds a telephone booth. Polo watches him at the phone booth. Her eyes lose their warmth. The women's team races around the track. Archie returns with a box of Cracker Jacks.
stevie		I said popcorn.
archie		You don't even know her.
archie		She's not going to die.
polo		What a shame.
archie		She has her first visitor. Mr. Danner. Polo couldn't care less. Five skaters smash into each other on the rink but Polo doesn't flinch. She wouldn't think of turning to Archie for comfort.
archie		"His Mastahs in'Hydraul:ics." They sit coldly wit4 their children, a million miles apart.
nun		I'm sorry Sir, but it's time for the lady's medication.
petulia		Tell David, it's alright. He can come out of the cupboard. The old man almost sobs. Instead he exclaims in a jolly voice.
old man		I'm not sick! Don't waste time on me! Archie turns to face the nun in attendance.
archie		Where is she?
nun		Mrs. Danner? They picked her up. Dr. Worthington said it was alright so long as she had proper nursing.
archie		Who picked her up.
nun		Her husband I suppose. DANNER
nun		They had a long talk with Dr. Worthington. He seemed entirely satisfied.
archie		They kidnapped hero He hurries down the hall. The'nun is startled.
old man		Take care of the sick people! I'm in tip-top shape!
is		special hospital bed. There are flowers everywhere. She has her own colour T.V. set which is silently showing scenes of violence. An efficient nurse is in attendance.
petulia		Hi Archie. Dazedly Archie crosses to the night stand where there is a pitcher of tomato juice. Because he has nothing else to do he sniffs the tomato juice,
petulia		 This is Agnes Lillywhite.
nurse		Our young lady is doing nicely. We have a few problems, but nothing serious.
petulia		I get hiccups.` I go along merrily hiccupping for hours on end.
archie		Why did you leave the hospital?
petulia		I was feeling ever so much better, Archie. Mrs. Danner looks in. She is wearing an apron and stirring a batch of something.
petulia		You two haven't met.  This is Dr. Bollen.
archie		 I want you to go back to the hospital.
david		Dr. Worthington says she's doing fine. He's going to make daily house calls.
petulia		He's very good about that.
archie		Petulia _m ! During this Mr. Danner has entered. He is really the only one not good at the charade.
david		Dad, you old fuddy-duddy, things happen. Archie suspects he is having a nightmare. With the exception of Mr. Danner, he has never seen so many cheerful people in one place.
archie		 You told the policeman you had a dizzy spell.
petulia		Right. I fell on my bottom.
archie		Your son nearly killed this girl.
petulia		We've decided we're quite happy with the one we have.
david		When Dad phoned me I was having dinner with a cousin of ours. Real mouth- watering Creole cooking. He and Petulia chuckle at each other as though this were some kind of private joke. Archie crosses to Petulia and just stands there looking at her. He doesn't know what to do.
petulia's voice		Going back to the house was the only thing I could do. scenes 87A B D .,and E occur only in Petulia's mind.
petulia		I'm Petulia Danner . save me like you saved Oliver ... save me from David! Don't lust scramble up the hill like a b oody fool o
archie		I'm looking for the ticket for my raincoat.
petulia's voice		Coming for me in that pokey little car.
archie's voice		I didn't know what to do. I was going from one moment to the next.
petulia's voice		Spectacular entrance, lousy exit. Sounds familiar, Archie. Suddenly all the anger goes out of Petulia.
petulia		I went back to the house because I owed it to David. I have a brown thumb when it comes to men. I put them on the Cross and call them Jesus. And there they hang. I don't know why I do it. Not because of any high opinion of myself... oh, Archie, if you only knew...
petulia		Look at him. Isn't he super. A six foot three Coca Cola bottle. Empty. I did that. I'd ruin you, Archie.
petulia's voice		David was the gentlest man I ever knew.
petulia's voice		I'd ruin you. In five weeks, I'd be running around with a black eye. By now, Archie has reached the top of the cliff and is a complete mess. He turns for one last look at the Danner house and the yacht beyond. He shakes his fist maniacally.
warren		It's never too soon to think of the boys' education. Warren winks at him knowingly.
archie		Have you thought of doing something about that?
warren		What ?
archie		; ; ^ ^ ,, That twi Lch v v d.
warren		What twitch? I don't have a twitch.
archie		You do. Come and see me. Don't touch it, it'll give you a phobia. I'll fix it for free.
warren		Thanks, I will. You know, I like you more t han I ever thought I would.
archie		Warren, you're a beautiful human being. They turn to watch the boys at play. Nearby, the guide is explaining something to the Indians.
indian child		What happens next?
guide		Spring. Archie smiles hoeefully.
petulia		Feel marvelous. Michael and Stevie? Archie nods,
archie		We?-re going to see the penguins. Everything okay with your
petulia		Oh yes, fine. The cars start down their separate ways.
first gentleman		Oh, oho We were supposed to be out of here before you came home, Dr. Bollen. So you'd think it came from Santa Claus, The two elderly gentlemen chuckle at Archie's puzzled look.
first gentleman		Wonderful. i.sn g t - t ? They sell like hot cakes. Gives you something alive in all this stone.
archie		There must be some mistake. He sags down on a chair, draped in his research books. The two old gentlemen couldn't be more pleased.
first gentleman		Mac and I get a, big kick out of people's first reaction. Its not a toy. It's a working greenhouse. You control heat and humidity with these.  You've got a little bit of everything. Ornamental plants,, Zinnias, Asters. Even a little vegetable garden. The most important thing to remember is to keep the sun out. These new kind of lights work so much better, there's no comparison.
archie		You've got the wrong apartment l
archie		What screwball ...?I Then he stops, He knows what screwball.
archie		No gift card?
first gentleman		It might come by mail. Archie starts chuckling. He crosses to the green- house, still chuckling.
archie		This one heat, and this one humidity, right?
first gentleman		Exactly. We've left a manual of operations, and wetll check everything out in a month. Okay, Dr. Bollen?
archie		 Okay, okay! Goodbye,' He enters the greenhouse, having to stoop almost double, as the two old gentlemen exit from the apartment.
david		Hi.
petulia		Did you get mama on the plane all right?
david		Sure. But what a dinky plane. Poor mamats stomach problems are far from over. He enters the cabin. Petulia sits up after a moment, looks about, sees no one else, then then in alarm peers into one of the windows that looks down into the cabin.
petulia		You didn't leave papa alone in that horrible little town?
david		It's not such a horrible little town.  Hearts of artichokes'
david		Papa went with her at the last minute. Petulia REACTS, shocked.
david		Open.
petulia		How could he have gone? Just like that?
david		Where mama is concerned, papa is a very loving man. Open. Instead, Petulia jumps frightened to her feet, She seems about to leave the yacht.
david		Please don't.
petulia		He Dromised;
david		Honey. It'll be okay, Cross my heart.
w oman		Hello there you gorgeous people. Everyone's invited for Margueritas and cha-cha-cha.
woman		 Oooh la la; Lucky you; The group goes off, toward their yacht. Petulia doesn't know what to do. David skims off his jeans and jackknifes into the water. The sun glints on his exquisite body. Confusedly, Petulia pops a segment of an orange into her mouth. David surfaces from the water laughing up at her. He looks great.
petulia		We didn't have to come back this early..
david		You're still not one hundred per cent well. They've reached the cabin. He enters. She waits outside. Suddenly his hand is around her wrist, somewhat too hard, and in a gesture he hopes is playful, he pulls her down the steps into the cabin.
david		Icy hands.
petulia		Warm heart.
david		So they say, Petulia says nothing. She begins undressing,
petulia		All right, David.
david		"All right, David," through chattering teeth. Petulia crawls under the sheet of a bunk.
david		Only a crazy man hits a woman. Or a coward. T won't ever again. I'd stick my hand into a garbage disposal. I would, Petulia. I'd grind it up, Petulia lies under the sheet, silent, rigid, David abruptly crosses to a cabinet and takes out a signal flare pistol. He snaps in a flare and tosses it at Petulia. She sits up in panic.
david		Hang on to it. If I come for you let me have a flare. Between the eyes. I'll melt in ten seconds. Petulia is touched.
david		 Girls are beautiful,
petulia		Cavalry officers, aging poets, men of science,,. They are enjoying the nonsense. Then on "Men of Science':
petulia		The first time I saw you, you were being charming to- somebody who didn't buy a boat after all, You were wearing a light blue turtleneck sweater. Your sunglasses wre'pushed up into your hair. You had sandals, but'-no socks. Trying. to sell a forty foot yacht without socks. I had never seen anything so perfect. "He's not real. He's one of those plastic gadgets Americans do so well. Ah, but I want one."
polo		No! exact i phy. -o
arght		3so Z tt: i i i " r e z niked.yt z 1:tdden-=: yrE: QU, Warres I s bein :el oat. Big will r_ot .sae w63y -nocs u ses in Wyly o Warr e jo ' in t-o .iect ng
petulia		They can't keep any secrets around here.
archie		When did you get back?
petulia		A year ago. You didn't forget me,
arch ie		How could I? All those laughs. He dabs a Kleenex on her sweat-beaded face.
archie		So, Things go better with Mr. and Mrs. Danner,
petulia		Obviously, They look at each other tenderly.
petulia		Why did you let me get away?
archie		Bad timing. Dumb Archie.
petulia		Girls like me are very rare, Archie Archie cannot endure this,
archie		We'd never be apart again0
petulia		You don't mean it.
archie		I do. Petulia twists in pain. The nurse looks over.
nurse		That wasn't four minutes. The nurse makes a note then turns her attention to another lady who must be wheeled to the Delivery Room,
petulia		I hurt. Touch it Archie. Make it hurt less. His hand touches her belly very gently.
petulia		0 It doesn't help.
archie		You see?
petulia		But your hands were magic with Oliver.
archie		Who? Her pain has subsided, and she looks up at Archie.
petulia		Would you really?
archie		Yes.
petulia		You'd call an ambulance? At this late stage?
archie		Say the word.
petulia		No. I'm different now. Damn it Archie, why did I go to that Motel with you?
archie		You turned me into a nut.
petulia		Is that good?
archie		Yes, I think so, Who knows? I hope
petulia		Archie, call the ambulance. Archie crosses to the phone, picks up the receiver, then almost at once he puts it down again.
petulia		When I lay dying -- twenty years from now -- a middle-aged old lady -- wondering what my life was all about, you won't even cross my mind. Archie winces. He starts out. He cantt even say goodbye.
petulia		Hey, wait I lied.
archie		About what?
petulia		I'll never forget you, Arnold.
archie		Arnold? He starts laughing, then she starts laughing. He crosses to her and holds her hand in his very tightly. Then he leaves.
petulia		 Archie .?
****Dialogues from script :Philadelphia.txt****

judge tate		One at a time. Mr. Miller?
joe		Your Honor, since Rockwell Corp. began construction, the surrounding residential neighborhood has been enshrouded in a cloud of foul-smelling, germ-carrying, pestilent dust. My client is being forced to breathe known carcinogens daily! Other residents are coming forth on a daily basis to add their voices of outrage!
andrew		Your Honor, I submit there were no complaints until Counselor began knocking on doors, drumming up business. And the dust, which Counselor refers to, has appeared on only three occasions. Each time it has been examined and the results...
joe		Innocuous?
andrew		Defined by Webster's as harmless.
joe		I know what it means. Your Honor, imagine how the children in this neighborhood have been made to feel. The pounding of construction ringing in their ears as this skyscraper, a tribute to mankind's greed, grows daily, casting an ominous shadow over their lives, filling them with dread even as they are surrounded in a black, toxic fog, blocking out the sun while poisoning their lungs! And Counselor calls it harmless?!
andrew		Your Honor, Counselor is attempting to portray my client as a hideous manifestation of evil and corruption. But nothing could be further from the truth. Rockwell has generously contributed ten thousand dollars to this neighborhood's schools, clinics and youth centers! Granting a restraining order on the construction site will throw hundreds of Philadelphians out of work, and will lend validation to this contemptible and groundless nuisance suit, which speaks directly to the kind of greed and treachery that today is threatening the very fabric of our society.
judge tate		Let's not go off the deep end, gentlemen. I thought we were talking about some dust.
andrew		You.
joe		Right.  Miller.
andrew		Client of yours?
joe		Funny.
tyrone		 Gonna have to start looking for veins in your feet, sweetheart.
andrew		Sure.
anthea		... up to Tax, on fourteen, and get right back, I need you.
andrew		Just the dazzling paralegal I wanted to see.
anthea		 I know what that means, and the answer is no. I have a class tonight. Exploit someone else. And since you've asked ...
killcoyne		Solid work on the Rockwell situation, Andy. Top-notch.
andrew		Thanks, Kenneth.  Your exam!
andrew		Ninety-eight?! Ninety-eight!
shelby		Conference call's up. They just started the roll call. Here's the settlement agreement, the red-lined copy's on your desk. Need me in there?
andrew		No. Great. Thanks, Shelby.  It's 6:30, go home.
rachel		I'm late, I have to pick up Amy from her afterschool but I want to talk to you about that Hansen thing.
andrew		Catch me later, I'll be here. And tell Amy, I love her painting, it's on my wall.
operator		... Karen Hargreave, representing Lloyd Management Corporation?
hargreave		Present.
operator		Andrew Beckett, representing Saunders International?
andrew		Present.
sarah		Hello?
andrew		Hi, Mom. It's me.
sarah		Andy! This is a nice surprise. How are you, hon?
andrew		I'm fine.
sarah		What's Dr. Gillman say?
andrew		Hold on, Mom.  There's no way my client will go along with that.
hargreave		Who's this?
andrew		Andrew Beckett. Hi, Karen. I'm sorry I interrupted...
sarah		Are you on one of those conference calls? I hate when you put me on hold.
andrew		Ah hah! Yes!  Rentworth v. Pennsylvania... court of appeals affirms jury award of punitive damages for wrongful interference with prospective economic relations...
kenton		Look at this fucking guy. He's an animal.
andrew		Walter.
seidman		Are we interrupting, Andy?
andrew		In a word, Bob...
seidman		Charles is right behind me.
andrew		I was just about to take a break. Good evening, Charles.
wheeler		Andy? Could you step into my office for a sec?  I feel like firing someone tonight.
andrew		We're gonna miss you around here, Bob...
seidman		Andy's expressed a keen interest in the Kronos Inc. situation, Charles. Is that correct, Andy?
andrew		The fate of the participants interests me, yes sir.
kenton		It's good to be King, hey Charles?
wheeler		Kings are out of fashion. I'd rather be thought of as a benevolent tyrant.  It's an anti-trust action.
andrew		It is, and it isn't, Charles. Macrosystem's new software copies all the best-known elements of Kronos' spreadsheet program. If they're allowed to sell it, Kronos will get undersold right out of business. For me, the legal principle, involved is copyright infringement.
wheeler		Bearing in mind that Bill Wright, the chairman of MacroSystems, is a close, personal friend of mine... which side of this mess would you desire to be on, Andy? And don't allow my very tight, personal relationship with Bill to influence your answer in any way.
andrew		Sorry, Charles, but...
kenton		Why, Beckett?
andrew		Because they deserve to, Walter.
seidman		Andy, do you know who reps Kronos Inc.?
andrew		Bailey, Brackman.
wheeler		Get with the program, Andy. As of this evening, about 8:05 this evening, right after the soup course... Kronos Incorporated is represented by Wyant Wheeler Hellerman Tetlow and Brown. Or, more specifically, senior associate Andrew Beckett.
andrew		Yes!
seidman		You'll have to get right on it, Andy, we're up against the statute of limitations.
associate lawyer		Tokyo on four, Bob.
seidman		Great. Excuse me, fellas.  Connichiwa. Itsumo osewa ni nari mashita. Arigato gozaimasu.
andrew		Thanks, Walter.
kenton		What's that on your forehead, pal?
andrew		Whacked with a racquetball.  I appreciate your faith in my abilities.
wheeler		Faith, Andy, is the belief in something for which we have no evidence. It doesn't apply to this situation.  Go home. I mean, get back to work.
andrew		 Thanks, Charles.
wheeler		 No sweat, buddy.
andrew		 It's good to be King.
chandra		Okay. You try.
andrew		Chandra? Don't you think this color's a little... orange for me?
chandra		Tahitian Bronze works best on lesions.
alan		Think of it as the "I just back from Aruba" look.
bruno		I got it.
andrew		 Okay. Check this out.
chandra		You know who you look like, Andy? That actor, in that movie. Not the one where he was autistic, the one where he dressed up like a lady on a soap opera...
alan		Dustin Hoffman.
andrew		 Tootsie!
bruno		Right.
chandra		You want to try Light Egyptian?
andrew		 Excuse me a sec...
chandra		Just like my cousin Fredo.
bruno		You okay, Andy?
andrew		I think I need to go to the hospital.
andrew		Thanks, you guys.
miguel		Yeah. Thanks, guys.
andrew		Gillman's out of her office today. I told her to take a day off, and she did, can you believe it? Did you get someone to cover your class?
miguel		Don't worry about it. They took blood? A specimen?
andrew		Aren't you giving an exam?
miguel		I said, don't worry about it.
andrew		I almost didn't make it to the bathroom, Miguel. I almost lost control right in front of everybody.
miguel		 So what? It's nothing to be ashamed of. You have nothing to be ashamed of, okay?
andrew		Wait, here's my guy... Hey!
intern		Mr. Beckett, I'm sorry...
andrew		About my blood work?
intern		We're waiting...
intern		... meanwhile, I'd like to prepare you for a colonoscopy, so we can take a look inside.
andrew		Sounds delightful.
miguel		Why do you need to do this?
intern		Who are you?
miguel		Who are you? Doctor... ?
andrew		This is my partner. We keep records of hospital visits. Nothing personal.
intern		Dr. Klenstein.  It's not a pleasant procedure, but if the KS is causing the diarrhea, we ought to know right away.
miguel		It could be parasites, an infection...
andrew		A reaction to AZT...
klenstein		That's possible, but.
miguel		He's not going through some painful procedure until we've cancelled out everything else.
intern		I'm trying to help your "partner." You're not a member of his immediate family, I could have you removed from the ER.
andrew		 He's upset, he's sorry.
miguel		Don't apologize for me.
andrew		He's not sorry, okay, fine.  Why don't we see what we find out from the blood work? I'll work on getting a specimen, I'm sure hospital food could help in that direction. Maybe, by then, we'll hear from my doctor, and we'll go from there. Okay? Everybody happy?
intern		Allright. I'll get on the lab about the blood work.
miguel		 I'm sorry.
andrew		That's the third time. I better call the office.  Would you relax, please?
miguel		I am relaxed.
andrew		Shelby? It's me. Jamey's been beeping me, I... Okay, okay, calm down. Put Jamey on.
jamey		 Andy?! This is a disaster! We can't find your revisions on the Kronos complaint!
andrew		Slow down, Jamey, for Christ's sake!
jamey		I went down to Word Processing to pick up the corrected copy, but they said you haven't delivered the corrections. I told them you've been working on it at home, and...
andrew		I brought it in last night, around midnight. It's in my computer.
jamey		What did you file it under?
andrew		K-R-O-one.
jamey		It's not here, Andy.
andrew		You go down to Word Processing and tell those motherfuckers they better come up with that complaint, now! Or they are fucking dead! You tell them that comes from me!
miguel		Why are you getting dressed?
andrew		You're not going to like this. Please try to smile...
miguel		You're going to the office?!
andrew		You're not smiling.
miguel		You're leaving the hospital? You're going into the office looking like that? Are you insane?
andrew		One hour!
miguel		Drew!
andrew		I promise!
anthea		Didn't expect to see you... ?
shelby		I'm looking through the files but...
andrew		Call the messenger service, have someone standing by...  Your phone.
shelby		Sure.
andrew		Think. You brought the discs in, you transferred...
rachel		I thought I was supposed to be covering for you.  God, Andy, you look awful.
andrew		Fucking Word Processing lost my Kronos complaint. Which must be filed by fucking five o'clock! If it's late, there's no case...  Every problem has a solution.
rachel		What can I do?
andrew		Get down to Word Processing. Help Jamey look.
seidman		C'mon, Andy, you didn't lose anything...
andrew		I don't know what to do, Bob.
seidman		You'll never find it in the dark.
andrew		Bob...
seidman		What's wrong with your face?
andrew		What's wrong with my face? You want to know what's wrong with my face? I've got a skin condition. Next question, Bob? No more questions? Fine. Now can you help me find the complaint?
seidman		Allright. Calm down.
andrew		Sorry...
seidman		What was the file name?
andrew		K-R-O-one.
seidman		Maybe you mistyped the name when you were saving it. We'll try combinations of those letters...
andrew		You're right, I probably just misfiled...
andrew		Yeah, Walter. Yeah. Some sort of major problem.
doctor		There she is, okay. You can relax now, Lisa.
joe		Oh my god... a girl... oh my god... Lisa... oh my god...
lisa		Give me the camera, Joe.
joe		Thanks, hon. Oh my god...
joe		Go to Famous Fourth Street and buy a pound of Nova. No! She likes Scotch salmon better. Ah heck, get a pound of both! Get a dozen onion rolls. Get some bagels. Get a dozen. Get a bottle of champagne. Dom Peringon... A hundred bucks a bottle?! Better get a good California...
joe		Why didn't you cross at the crosswalk?
iris		Mr. Beckett?
andrew		Thank you.
joe		 Explain this to me like I'm a six year old, okay? The entire street is clear except for one small area under construction, with a huge hole that is clearly marked and blocked off, and you decide you must cross the street at this spot. You fall into the hole and you want to sue the city for negligence? ...
joe		Of course you have a case! Now, I want you to go with my assistant, Iris, and fill out some forms. She'll tell you about our fee arrangement.  Mrs. Finley? Any back pain since the accident? Dizziness? Nightmares?
joe		Tell Iris all about it.  Beckett, come in.
andrew		I have AIDS.
joe		Whoa-oh!  Sorry, I...
andrew		It's okay. Can I sit down?
joe		Uh, yeah.
andrew		 New baby?
joe		One week old.
andrew		Congratulations.
joe		Little baby girl.
andrew		Kids are great.
joe		Thanks, Beckett. I'm real excited about it.  What can I do for you?
andrew		I was fired by Wyant Wheeler. I plan to bring a wrongful termination suit against Charles Wheeler and his partners.
joe		You want to sue Wyant Wheeler Hellerman Tetlow and Brown?
andrew		Correct. I'm seeking representation.
joe		Continue.
andrew		I misplaced an important complaint. That's their story. Want to hear mine?
joe		How many lawyers did you go to, before you called me?
andrew		Nine.
joe		Continue.
andrew		I was diagnosed with AIDS eight months ago. During a bout of pneumonia. I recovered quickly and was back at work in ten days. Since I was doing so well on the AZT, we decided against telling anyone about it.
joe		We?
andrew		My lover and I.
joe		Your... lover?
andrew		Miguel Alvarez. We've lived together for nine years.
joe		Continue.
andrew		I dove back into work, everything was fine. Until the lesions started...
joe		Hell, they are staring. What's that shit on your face?
andrew		Makeup.
wheeler		Sit down, Andy.
andrew		Of course.
wheeler		Andy. Before we begin, I'd just like to say: everyone in this room is your friend.
joe		You're in trouble.
andrew		I know that, Charles.
wheeler		More than your friend. Family.
joe		Big trouble.
andrew		Charles, I must apologize again, for the Kronos mishap.  It was a scary few minutes around here. Wow. But thank God, the complaint was found. And no damage was done.
kenton		This time. What about next time?
andrew		There won't be a next time, I guarantee it.
wheeler		Andy. It seems that something has come over you, lately: A kind of... stupor, a fogginess, a lack of focus... Earth to Andy. Anybody home?
kenton		Helloooo...
killcoyne		That's right, Andy. The last four, five months you've seemed really out of it...
seidman		At least... different, somehow.
andrew		 Perhaps... you're right. I've certainly been busy. With the Kronos complaint, a preliminary injunction hearing and the Saunders trial all falling at the same time...
kenton		Some people think you have an attitude problem, Beckett.
andrew		Really? Who thinks that, sir?
wheeler		I do.
andrew		I had no idea there was a concern in that area. Hey:  I'll get to work on it right away.
wheeler		We've been talking it over, Andy. Your future that is... We feel that, because we respect you so much, we have to be honest with you.
andrew		Honesty is always best.
seidman		Do you really think so, Andy?
andrew		Yes, Bob, I do.  Excuse me? Am I being fired?
wheeler		Let's put it this way, Andy: your place in the future of this firm is no longer secure.
joe		In a word, yes.
wheeler		We don't think it's fair to keep you here, where your future is limited. But we wish you luck, Andy, all the luck in the world.
joe		But he's got lots of other people's lives to ruin...
wheeler		... we've got a committee meeting.
andrew		Excuse me, Charles. With all due respect... this is... preposterous! It doesn't make any sense, it sounds as if we're talking about someone else. Pardon the lack of humility, but I've had the distinct impression I was kind of... one of the rising stars around here. And I feel that wasn't just my imagination. And I also think I deserve to know what's really going on here, Charles.
kenton		Oh, you're right, Beckett, you don't have an attitude problem.
wheeler		Take it easy, Walter.
andrew		If you'd lost confidence in me, why did you give me the Kronos suit?
wheeler		I hoped the challenge would improve your performance. You could say it was a carrot.
andrew		A carrot?!
joe		I buy that.
andrew		As in, the vegetable?
seidman		 I'm sorry, Andy.
andrew		Uh huh... Okay... I see...
wheeler		Good luck, Andy.
andrew		Who are you?
security guard		I'm here to escort you to your office so you can organize your belongings.
joe		Okay. Explain to me like I'm a two year old, because there's an element to this I can't get through my thick head: Didn't you have an obligation to inform your employer you had this dreaded, deadly, infectious disease?
andrew		The law says people with disabilities cannot be terminated, so long as they can perform the duties required by their position...
joe		Okay, okay... They discover you have this horrible, disgusting, terminal illness, and they panic, for any number of perfectly valid reasons. They're frightened for themselves, their families... Maybe it's the homo angle. Maybe they don't want to rub elbows with someone who's just popped out of the closet with a terminal case of acne. And how do they explain your status to the client for Chrissake?
andrew		Joe, from the day I arrived to the day they fired me, I performed consistently, thoroughly and with absolute excellence. And if they hadn't fired me, that's what I'd be doing today.
joe		Okay... They want you out. It's against the law to fire you for having AIDS, so they make you look like a fuck up. Which leads us to the mysterious, lost file.
andrew		They sabotaged me.
joe		I knew you were going to say that. I don't buy it, and I don't see a case.
andrew		Look. I know I have a case. If you don't want to take it for personal reasons...
joe		Correct. I don't.
andrew		Thanks for your time.
joe		Beckett? I'm sorry about... what's happened to you. It's a fucking kick in the head.
andrew		 Don't send flowers, Joe. I'm not dead yet.
iris		 Have a nice day.
joe		Find out if Armbruster can see me this afternoon.
filko		 What the hell's wrong with him?
joe		I'm not worried. What are you doing?
joe		I didn't have contact. What do you consider "contact?" We were sitting in the same room, three, four feet... What if you shake hands? Wait. I know the answer. Only sex, or sharing needles. I know that. We didn't shake hands, anyway.
joe		Right.
joe		Yeah, but Doc, isn't it true they keep finding out new things about this disease? So you tell me, today, there's no danger, and I go home, and I hold my baby, and six months from now I hear on the news: "whoops! We were wrong.' You can carry it on your clothes, your skin, and now I've got to worry about my kid. What are you doing?
joe		Why are we going to do that?
joe		You want to give me an AIDS test?!
joe		It doesn't travel through the air, by breathing, or touching, right?
joe		Thanks, Doc, but I don't need an AIDS test. Are you crazy? But thanks for the information. Really.
armbruster		IV drug use.
joe		Get real.
joe		 Uh.... No. Not really.
joe		Not especially.
lisa		How many gays do you know?
joe		How many do you know?
lisa		Lots.
joe		Who?
lisa		Karen Berman. Aunt Teresa. My cousin Tommy who lives in Rochester. Eddie Meyers from the office. Joe Cantwell, he's one of the partners. His lover, Greg. Stanley, the guy who's putting in our kitchen cabinets.
joe		Your Aunt Teresa is gay? That beautiful, sensuous woman is a... lesbian?
lisa		Duh...
joe		Since when?
lisa		Probably since she was born.
joe		Allright. I admit it: I'm prejudiced. I don't want to work with a homosexual. You got me.
lisa		Okay, Joe...
joe		I mean, two guys, doing the horizontal thing? I don't get it. Don't they get confused? "Is that mine? I thought it was yours." Hey, call me old fashioned, call me conservative... I think maybe you have to be a man to get just how nauseating the whole basic idea really is.
lisa		Fine, Joe.
joe		And the way they work out, pumping up, so they can be macho and faggot at the same time... I can't stand that shit. Now I'm being totally honest with you.
lisa		That's perfectly clear.
joe		Would you take a client if you were constantly thinking: "I hope this guy doesn't touch me. I don't even want him to breathe on me?"
joe		 Shit...
librarian		This is the supplement. You're right, there is a section on...  ... HIV related discrimination.
andrew		Thank you.
librarian		We have a private research room available.
andrew		I'm fine, thanks.
librarian		Wouldn't you be more comfortable in a research room?
andrew		 No. But would it make you more comfortable?
librarian		Whatever, sir.
joe		Oh, Beckett. How's it goin'?
andrew		Fine.
joe		Who'd you get?
andrew		What?
joe		Find a lawyer?
andrew		I'm a lawyer. How's your baby?
joe		Huh? Oh. Great. She's great.
andrew		What's her name?
joe		Rayisha.
andrew		Rayisha. Very nice.
joe		How did they find out?
andrew		 One of the partners spotted a lesion on my forehead.
joe		Uh huh...
andrew		Good point.
joe		They didn't fire her?
andrew		No. They didn't fire her.
joe		So Kenton connected the... lesion, and whatever suspicions he had about your personal life... to this woman, Maria... and blew the whistle on you. Suddenly you're losing files, and it's time to let you go. But, up to this point, you've been their Golden Boy, their rising star... Their behavior is... inconsistent.
andrew		Thank you.
joe		There is no relevant precedent.
andrew		 Arline decision. Supreme Court.
joe		Arline?
joe		"The Federal Vocational Rehabilitation Act of 1973 prohibits discrimination..."
wheeler		 Julius!
kenton		Dr. J.!
lawyers		How's it goin', Doctor?/This is an honor!/etc ...
joe		Excuse me. Charles Wheeler?
wheeler		... interview every employee, support staff, associates, partners. Did any of them know Andy was sick? How did they know? Did he tell them? Did they notice something was wrong with his appearance? None of this information got to the managing partners. We know that. Make sure everyone else does too... And Beckett: I want to know everything about his personal life. Did he frequent those pathetic bars on Camac Street?
seidman		Jesus.
wheeler		 What about other homosexual facilities, whatever they are?
seidman		Charles...
wheeler		What deviant groups or organizations did he secretly belong to?  What is it, Bob?!
seidman		Let's settle with Andy and put this whole tragic mess behind us.
wheeler		Andrew brought AIDS into our offices, into our men's room. He brought AIDS to our annual goddamn family picnic.
kenton		We ought to be suing him.
seidman		For Christ's sake, where's your compassion?
kenton		Compassion? Andy sucks cocks, Bob. He takes it up the ass. He's a pervert.
seidman		That's kind of... extreme, Walt. Andy's private life is none of our business.
wheeler		Bob. You're trying my patience. Andrew Beckett is making his private life our business. We gave him Kronos. Did he say, "I'm sick. I might not be able to see this through?"
seidman		He was doing a great job.
wheeler		Bob. I must ask you to shut the fuck up. Did Andrew Beckett say "I might not be able to serve our clients to the best of my ability?" He said nothing. And now, Andrew Beckett proposes to haul me into a court of law, to sling accusations at me, in full view of the entire, Philadelphia, judicial establishment. My God.
killcoyne		Beckett doesn't want to go to court, he's hoping for a quick tasty settlement.
seidman		A jury might decide that Andy has a case.
wheeler		Wait a minute. The man was fired for incompetence, not because he has AIDS. You didn't know he was sick, did you, Bob?
kenton		Holy Shit. Did you, Bob?
seidman		 No. Not really.
filko		Charles Fucking Wyant Wheeler?!
joe		Morning, Filko.
colleague		Hey, it's the local chapter of the ACLU!
filko		You're a Republican, Joe! You belong to the NRA!
joe		How many toilet stalls are there in the women's restroom on this floor, Filko?
filko		How many... what?!
joe		Two. How many toilet stalls are there in the men's room? Two, plus four urinals. How many wheelchair accessible toilets in either of those restrooms? Zero. In this entire building? Zero. Get the picture, Filko? Discrimination! You find yourself a female, paraplegic, legal assistant who is qualified to work here, except she can't take a leak... and you've got yourself a sex discrimination suit and a handicapped discrimination suit. Not handicapped. What do you call someone who can't use a normal restroom? "Gastro-intestinally challenged!"
iris		Wyant Wheeler's asking for a postponement on the prelim, Joe.
joe		Low-life, sleazy scumbags. Of course they want a postponement, I've got a client with a terminal disease. They're going to drag their heels every step of the way, the rotten bastards.  Is that spelled right?
woman's voice		I can heal myself.
andrew		I can heal myself.
woman's voice		I can heal myself.
andrew		I can heal myself.
miguel		I was coming out of the gym today, and I ran into Jimmy. Do you know what he asked me? "What's it like knowing your boyfriend's going to die?"
andrew		Jerk... What did you say?
miguel		I said, "Everyone's going to die, Jimmy. But Drew's not going to die of AIDS. There's a cure around the corner, and he plans to be around to take advantage of it."
andrew		You got that right, Mikey...  You still believe that, don't you?
miguel		Yes. I think it will be a simple solution. They'll put it in a syringe, inject it into your bloodstream. It'll neutralize the virus. It'll revitalize the immune system, and people with AIDS will become healthy again.
wheeler		You're looking better, Andy. How do you feel?
andrew		Fine, thanks, Charles.
judge garnett		Charles, Walter...
wheeler		Congratulations on the new grandson.
judge garnett		Thank you. We're very happy.
judge garnett		Attorney for the plaintiff?
joe		Joseph Miller, Your Honor. Macready and Shilts Legal Services.
judge garnett		I've seen your television commercials. "If you or anyone you know has been injured through the fault of others... It should say, "through the negligence of others."
joe		I'll take that under consideration, Your Honor.
judge garnett		On behalf of the defendants?
belinda conine		Belinda Conine. Of Petersen, Lehigh, Monroe and Smith.
jerome green		And Jerome Green.
dexter smith		Dexter Smith.
ralph petersen		Ralph Petersen.
judge garnett		 Whom do I address? I can't talk to four lawyers at once.
belinda		I'm chief litigator, Your Honor.
judge garnett		Fine. I've asked the litigants to be present for this conference, in the hope we can settle this matter today, among ourselves... There is nothing I hate more, than to see lawyers suing each other. If you look at the opinion polls, when Mr. John Q. Citizen is asked to rank professions according to the respect he holds for them... Where are the lawyers? Somewhere below personal fitness trainers and only slightly above child pornographers. If we keep suing each other, if we fail to settle the smallest difference among ourselves with mutual respect, if we continue to scrap like bucks in heat, we'll fall lower on that list. And when people lose respect for lawyers, they lose respect for the law. And when this society loses all respect for the law, we'll be murdered in our beds, my friends, our cherished institutions will be burned to the ground and our children and our grandchildren will live like savages.
joe		If it please Your Honor, we hope to settle this matter.
judge garnett		By God you will settle it! If you force this case to trial, young man, you'll regret it for the rest of your natural-born days... Now, Joseph. What would you require to settle this matter today?
joe		Reinstatement at full salary. Back pay covering the period of unemployment and...
judge garnett		Hold it, Joe.  He wants to come back to work, Chuck.
wheeler		That's impossible, Your Honor.
judge garnett		That's impossible, Joe.
belinda conine		If it please Your Honor, we're prepared to offer a cash settlement of twenty-five thousand dollars.
joe		Your generosity overwhelms me, Belinda, considering my client was earning over a hundred thou when he was terminated almost six months ago.
judge garnett		Give me a break, Joe. Let's cut through these false attitudes. Give them a figure. How much do you want?
andrew		I want to go back to work, Your Honor.
judge garnett		You're here at my indulgence, young man. I'm waiting for a figure, Joe.
joe		Based on what my client would have earned over the next three years, including benefits and projected raises, and the extraordinary cost of medical care for someone with Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome... We would settle today for the very fair amount of one million five hundred thousand dollars.
judge garnett		Very good, Joe. Now, Belinda, I've got a figure over here, of one million, five. I...
joe		One more thing, Your Honor...
andrew		 Any settlement agreement must include, and this is critical, a letter of exoneration, making clear my termination had nothing to do with the quality of my work.
belinda conine		Your Honor, Mr. Beckett's incompetence nearly sabotaged a 350 million dollar suit.
andrew		I was the one who was sabotaged.
belinda conine		We have complaints about Mr. Beckett's lack of preparation, his disorganization, his arrogant, defensive attitude... The list goes on.
jerome green		We have letters.
joe		Why haven't you produced these letters?
judge garnett		Take it easy.  What's the big deal, Chuck? The boy wants a letter, to show to his mother, for her to keep after he's gone. Why are you being hard- assed about this?
wheeler		I wish I could exonerate you, Andy. But I'd have to lie to do it.
andrew		 Counselor.
wheeler		Don't do this, Andy.
joe		Whoa, whoa...  What do you expect them to say, you're Alan Dershowitz?
kenton		A trial takes time, Beckett. Do you know what I'm saying?
andrew		I think I catch your subtle drift, Walter.
kenton		You'll be sorry, Beckett.
wheeler		Andy, you don't want this.
joe		With all due respect, Your Honor, my client chooses to pursue his constitutionally guaranteed right to a trial.
andrew		This is the house where I grew up. In Downington, Pennsylvania.  See this... ?
miguel's voice		 And today is... ?
andrew		Today is my parents' fortieth wedding anniversary.
alexis		Uncle Andrew!
andrew		 This is my niece, Alexis. Say hello, Alexis.
alexis		Mommy's pregnant again.
andrew		 You heard it here first, folks. News as it happens.
jill		Hello, darlin'.
andrew		This is my sister, Jill, the most fertile woman on the planet. She's married to Reverend Jim.
jill		You feel thin.  Hello, Miguel.
miguel		Hey, Jill. Nice to see you, sweetheart.
jill		 Is he eating?
miguel		We don't discuss his weight.  Do we?
ladies		There he is! Hi, Andrew! Don't point that thing at me! etc...
andrew		Hi, Mom. How do you feel on your fortieth anniversary?
sarah		Ancient. How do you think I feel? Put that thing down and give me a hug.  Andrew, stop! ... He still doesn't listen.
andrew		Where's Dad?
sarah		He's out in his shed showing your uncle his new riding mower.
andrew		Things might be said, at the trial, that... are not going to be easy for you to hear. Things about me, about my private life. And I want to make sure it's okay with everybody.
matt		I appreciate you asking, Andy, but really, it's your call.
andrew		What do you think, Jill?
jill		To be honest, I'm worried about Mommy and Daddy. They've had to go through so much already... And, we all know...  There's going to be even worse things to deal with, eventually. I wonder if it's fair to put them through this.
andrew		Mom?
sarah		All I know is, you got through your diagnosis fine, like a trooper. But when they fired you... you were so devastated, Andy... I don't expect any of my kids to sit in the back of the bus. Fight for your rights.
andrew		Thanks, Mom... Dad?
bud		Supposedly, the Lord doesn't give you more trouble than you can handle. But I'm having a hard time believing that these days.
andrew		 Thanks, Dad. I love you guys. How about you, Randy?
randy		Hey. You're my kid brother, Andy. That's the bottom line. I mean, what are those bastards going to say? You're gay? Shit, I knew that when you were five years old.
miguel		Wait a minute...  You're gay?
jill		What about you, Andy? You're not a militant type. You've always been so private.
andrew		I guess... I don't have time for that any more.
sarah		Jim? Will you lead us in a prayer?
reverend jim		Dear Lord. Sometimes it is difficult to remember to be grateful...
everyone		Amen.
guido		"After all the days of Spring have flown..."
miguel		Yes. I can.
belinda		Fact. Andrew Beckett performed at a consistently mediocre level. Fact. He made a grievous error on a multi-million dollar lawsuit... Fact. He claims he is the victim of lies and deceit. Fact. Andrew Beckett lied to his employers, going to great efforts to conceal his disease from them. Fact. He was successful in his duplicity. The partners at Wyant Wheeler did not know Andrew Beckett had AIDS when they fired him...
joe		Andrew Beckett represented your company in a lawsuit in 1990, is that correct?
laird		Wyant Wheeler represented us.
joe		But, Andrew Beckett was in charge of litigation for the suit.
laird		That's correct.
joe		Were you pleased with his work?
laird		We were satisfied.
joe		Were you satisfied, or were you pleased?
laird		We were satisfied.
joe		Mr. Laird, when I approached you about being a witness at this trial, and you agreed, you gave sworn testimony in a deposition. Is that correct?
laird		That's correct.
joe		According to the deposition, you said you were "thrilled, impressed, overwhelmed" by the quality of Andrew Beckett's work. Do you remember saying that?
laird		I may have said something like that. But that's not how I feel at this moment.
joe		Okay, Mr. Laird. Explain this to me like I'm a four year old: Did Andrew Beckett win your lawsuit for you or not?
laird		We won.
joe		Did that thrill, impress and overwhelm you?
laird		It satisfied me.
joe		It's a long way between being overwhelmed and being satisfied. A cheeseburger may be satisfying whereas caviar and champagne and roast duck and baked Alaska for dessert might be considered overwhelming. Do you agree?
laird		I might.
joe		Five months ago you characterized Andrew Beckett as caviar and now you're calling him a cheeseburger. Your standards have shifted a great deal, and I'd like to know why you've changed your mind.
laird		Since that time I've devoted more thought to the subject, and that's how I feel now.
jerome green		Partner Robert Seidman was the supervising attorney for your lawsuit?
jerome green		Does the supervising attorney guide the litigating attorney during the trial?
jerome green		As far as you know, in the handling of your lawsuit, Andrew Beckett was simply following orders.
laird		That's a fair assessment of the situation.
andrew		I'm not political. I just want compensation for being fired.
reporter medina		But you are gay, aren't you?
andrew		"I don't see how that's any of your business...  But yes, I am."
reporter medina		"Do you believe that homosexuals deserve special treatment?"
filko		Hell, no!
reporter medina		"This case is sending a cold chill through the legal community. One of Wyant Wheeler's key clients, the Grace Foster Foundation, which supports several AIDS charities, has taken its business to another firm until this matter is resolved..."
filko		 You're not starting to get a little... light on your feet here on us, are you?
joe		Yeah, Filko. I am.  I'm on the prowl, Filko. I need a man. Not just any man. I need a hunk. A hunk like you. How about it, Filko? Want to play sailor? This time, I'll be first mate and you can be Columbus.
filko		Chill out, Joe.
joe		 Those people make me sick, Filko! But a law's been broken, okay? The law. Remember the law?
sarah		"This is a world full of war, famine, poverty, homelessness... and people make a fuss because two men or two women want to live together, or make love. Seems kind of silly, doesn't it?"
joe		And Walter Kenton knew the lesions on your face and arms were caused by AIDS?
maria		Definitely. People were going around, whispering things. I figured I didn't have anything to lose, so I told all the partners.
joe		How did Walter Kenton treat you, after you told him you had AIDS?
maria		Every time he came into contact with me, he'd get this look on his face. I called it, the "Oh God" expression. As in "Oh God, here comes that woman with AIDS."
joe		Ms. Torres? Have your employers fired you for having AIDS?
maria		No. When I need time off, for medical reasons, we work it out.
joe		Thank you. No more questions.
jerome green		Miss Torres. How did you contract the AIDS virus?
maria		During a transfusion. I lost a lot of blood giving birth to my second child.
jerome green		In other words, in your case you happen to be an innocent victim of the AIDS tragedy.
maria		Look. I'm no different from everyone else who has this disease: I'm not guilty, I'm not innocent. I'm just trying to survive.
joe		Beyond noticing the marks on his face, were there other things about his appearance that made you suspect he had AIDS?
anthea		He was losing weight. He looked kind of tired sometimes. But he was working so hard... Still, I felt something was wrong.  And I can't believe they're saying they didn't notice anything.
belinda		Objection.
judge garnett		Just answer the question.
anthea		Sorry.
joe		Ms. Burton. You're black.
anthea		Is that a question?
joe		No. Have you ever felt discriminated against, at Wyant Wheeler?
anthea		Yes.
joe		In what way?
anthea		Well... One time, Mr. Wheeler's secretary, Lydia, told me Mr. Wheeler had a problem with my earrings.
joe		Your earrings?
anthea		Apparently, Mr. Wheeler felt they were too... "ethnic" is the word she used. She said he would like it if I wore something smaller, less garish, and... more "American."
joe		What did you say?
anthea		I said my earrings are American. They're African-American.
joe		Thank you. No more questions.
belinda		Miss Burton? Do you still work at Wyant Wheeler?
anthea		Yes.
belinda		Were you recently promoted?
anthea		Yes. I'm now in charge of the paralegal department.
belinda		Thank you.
young man		How's the trial going? It's a great case.
joe		Good school. What year?
young man		Second.
joe		Great.
young man		Would you like to have a drink with me? I just finished a game, I could use a beer.  I don't pick up people in drug stores every day.
joe		Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa... do you think... ? You think I'm...  ... gay?
young man		Aren't you?
joe		What's the matter with you? Do I look gay to you?
young man		Do I look gay to you? Relax.
joe		Relax? I ought to kick your faggoty little ass for you!
young man		Take it as a compliment. Geesh.
joe		Don't you know this is exactly the kind of bullshit that makes people hate you guys?
young man		Fuck you! You want to kick my ass? You want to try?  Asshole.
joe		You're the asshole, buddy.
young man		 Get a life.
joe		But what was it?! What was this guy thinking... ?!
lisa		Don't know, Joe.
joe		Is there some kind of expression I've picked up from Beckett?! Some kind of fairy attitude I've unconsciously adopted?! Am I walking different?! Some kind of vocal thing?! Have I picked up some kind of homo vibe?!
lisa		Have you changed your aftershave?
joe		Very funny. I had a box of Pampers under my arm for Chrissake!
lisa		Joe?
joe		 Yeah... ?
lisa		Two men making love... ? Now tell me again... why is that disgusting?
joe		 Lisa, c'mon. One guy sticking his dick in another guy's mouth? It's disgusting.
lisa		Okay, so... help me with this one, Joe... Is it disgusting for someone to put his dick into someone's mouth? Or, is it disgusting for someone to take a dick into their mouth?
joe		 Great, Lisa. Thank you.
jamey		Yes. We found a copy. It been incorrectly filed...
joe		Has a file ever disappeared like that before? Vanished into thin air, all of a sudden, only to reappear in the nick of time?
jamey		I've never known that to happen before. No.
joe		 Did you have something to do with this file being lost accidentally-on-purpose?
belinda		Objection!
joe		I'll rephrase.  Did you have anything to do with this file being... misplaced?
jamey		Absolutely not.
joe		Are you a homosexual?
jamey		What?!
joe		C'mon, Mr. Collins. Are you homosexual? You know, gay?
judge garnett		Hold it, hold it!
belinda		Objection! Where has this come from?! Suddenly Counsel is attacking his own witness. Mr. Collins' sexual orientation has absolutely no relevance to this case.
judge garnett		I said, HOLD IT!  Mr. Miller. Could you kindly share with me exactly what's going on in your brain, because I don't have a clue at the moment.
joe		Your Honor, everyone in this courtroom is thinking about sexual preference, sexual orientation, whatever you want to call it. They're looking at me, and wondering about it...  They're looking at Mr. Beckett, and wondering about it. They're looking at Mr. Wheeler and wondering about it. They might even be looking at you and wondering about it. So, let's get it out in the open. Let's talk about what this case is really about: the general public's hatred... our loathing, our fear of homosexuals.
andrew		 Very good.
judge garnett		In this courtroom, Mr. Miller, justice is blind. To matters of race, creed, color, religion. And sexual orientation.
joe		With all due respect, Your Honor... We don't live in this courtroom, do we?
judge garnett		No. We don't... However, as regards this witness, I'm going to sustain the defense's objection.
marine		No, sir. I do not.
marine		I know.
joe		And how many weeks at a time would you be out to sea, without stopping at port?
kenton		Anywhere from two weeks, to several months.
joe		Any women on board?
kenton		Not when I was in the Navy.
joe		So during those long voyages, months at a time, out to sea, no women in sight, a hundred, hardworking, robust, young men, in the prime of their life, at the peak of their natural appetites, desires, their god- given, hormonal instincts... Anything going on?
kenton		Going on... like...?
joe		Like... two sailors playing hide the salami.
belinda		Objection!
judge garnett		Mr. Miller!
kenton		 We had one guy like that.
belinda		You haven't ruled on my objection, Your Honor.
judge garnett		Let's continue.
joe		 You had one guy "like that?"
kenton		Yeah. But we took care of him.
joe		How did you do that?
kenton		We stuck his head in the latrine, after ten of us had used it.
joe		You taught him a lesson.
kenton		Yes, we did.
joe		Like firing Andrew Beckett taught him a lesson?
belinda		Objection!
joe		I'll withdraw.  You were aware, when you worked with Maria Torres, that she had AIDS, correct?
kenton		She didn't try to conceal it.
joe		So you are aware of the difference between a lesion and a bruise, is that correct?
kenton		I know the difference. That doesn't mean I'm always able to recognize the difference.
joe		But didn't you avoid contact with Ms. Torres, after you found out she had AIDS? She says you acted repulsed by her and you avoided her, is that correct?
kenton		I felt, and still feel, nothing but the deepest sympathy and compassion for people like Maria, who have contracted this terrible disease through no fault of their own.
miguel		 Drew! Are you ready? If we start at eight, we'll be done by twelve.
miguel		It's not going through.
andrew		 We'll have to flush it again.
miguel		Hold still. Shit.  The goddamn vein's clotted. We have to go the goddamn hospital, so they can change the goddamn catheter.
andrew		I have too much work to do. Skip the treatment.
miguel		We're not skipping this treatment.
andrew		I said, skip it, Michael. It's my treatment.
miguel		Fuck you.
andrew		Fuck you. This shit's probably not doing me any good anyway.
miguel		That shit's saving your life, you asshole!
andrew		What's wrong with you?
miguel		Close the law book.
andrew		I'm not going to close the--
miguel		CLOSE THE FUCKING LAW BOOK!
andrew		ALLRIGHT IT'S CLOSED!  Jesus!
miguel		The least you can do is look at me, while I'm sticking this shit into your arm. Forget the fucking case, one hour a day, and give me a little of your time.
andrew		 You don't think there's much time left, do you?
miguel		That's not what I said.
andrew		You're scared. You think we're near the end.
miguel		No.
andrew		Maybe I should start making plans, is that what you think? Start planning my memorial service? "Begin to prepare for the inevitable."
miguel		 Maybe you should think about it.
andrew		What's that mean?!
miguel		 Maybe you should think about it.
andrew		I'm not going to die.
miguel		That's right. We're on the Positive Plan. You don't have a Fatal Disease, you have Manageable Illness.
andrew		You want me to give up? Let this thing turn us into victims?
miguel		Then, what are we, Drew?! The winners? "Ladies and gentlemen, the first prize of AIDS goes to Andrew Beckett and his lover Miguel..." Excuse me, I'm not your lover. I'm your Care Partner. FUCK!
andrew		I'm not ready to die.
miguel		Do you think I'm ready for it?! I hate this shit. I'm not a fucking martyr! I hate every goddamn part of it!
andrew		I am so scared. I am so fucking, incredibly, fucking scared...
joe		Did I ever tell you, I hate costume parties?
lisa		My lettuce is wilting.
joe		We're friends of Beckett's.
andrew		It's me, you dork.
lisa		I'm Lisa Miller.
andrew		Glad to finally meet you. Come on in.
andrew		 I have to introduce you to the can of soup. You can enter the costume contest together as a lunch special.
andrew		This is Lisa Miller. Miguel Alvarez.
miguel		My sister, Maria.  Pastrami on rye?
lisa		Corned beef.
miguel		Want to dance?
lisa		Sure!
joe		Beckett. You seem... better. Energized, more alive...
andrew		I had a blood transfusion today. I feel great.
joe		I'm a law suit.
andrew		Not bad.
joe		Get it?
andrew		Let's find you a drink.
joe		Beer.  We need to go over your Q and A.
andrew		Excuse me, I'm having a goddamn party, is that allright with you?
joe		Sure. It's fine.
andrew		No, we have to do it. But later, allright?
joe		Thank you.
la toya		'Scuse me, darling.
joe		You think I'm uncomfortable...
andrew		Correct.
joe		You're right.
andrew		Thank you.
marie antoinette		I'm an accountant. What do you do?
joe		I'm a lawyer.  That's my wife!
sarah		Have a cocktail wienie.
joe		Thanks, Sarah.  Nice costume.
policeman		It's not a costume, I just got off work. You're cute.
joe		 That's my wife. Want to see a picture of my baby?
policeman		 Absolutely. Want to see a picture of my baby?
joe		I'll see you in an hour, max.
lisa		Night, honey.
andrew		Congratulations, Miller.
joe		Let me tell you something, okay? When you're brought up, like the rest of us, in a place like where I was brought up, there's not a whole lot of discussion about... homosexuals. As a kid, you're taught right away that queers are weird, queers are funny, they're a danger to kids, they're afraid to fight, and they all want to cop your joint. And that pretty much sums up the general thinking out there, if you want to know the truth.
andrew		Thank you for sharing that with me, Joe.
joe		Let's review these notes for your testimony. We have a big day on Monday.
andrew		 Uh huh...
andrew		Charles. Okay. Miller?
joe		What?
andrew		Do you... pray?
joe		Yeah. Sure.
andrew		What have you prayed for?
joe		For a healthy baby. For Lisa to make it through the delivery. For the Phillies to get into the playoffs.
andrew		 There's a possibility I won't be around for the end of this trial.
joe		I've considered that.
andrew		What happens?
joe		We proceed, representing your estate.
andrew		I've made provisions in my will for some charities. Miguel will need a lawyer. I know it's not your area...
joe		I know a good probate lawyer.
andrew		Thanks.  Do you like opera?
joe		Opera?
andrew		Want to hear my favorite aria?
joe		Opera?
andrew		 Andrea Chenier, by Giordano. This is Madeleine. She's telling how, during the French revolution, a mob set fire to her house. Her mother died, saving her.
joe		I think I'll... I told Lisa.
andrew		Right.
joe		You're ready, don't worry.
joe		Jesus.
joe		Fucking guy...
bailiff		Place your left hand on the Bible and raise your right hand.
bailiff		"Do you swear to tell the truth...
andrew		Wyant Wheeler had aggressively recruited me. They were the most prestigious firm in Philadelphia, full of opportunity. And I was impressed by the partners.
joe		Including Charles Wheeler?
andrew		Particularly, Charles.
joe		What impressed you about him?
andrew		He was... the kind of person I thought I wanted to be.
joe		What kind of person is that?
andrew		Possessed of an encyclopedic knowledge of the law. A razor sharp litigator, a genuine leader, gifted at bringing out the very best in others. An awesome ability to illuminate the most complex of legal concepts to colleagues, courtrooms, the person on the street.  The kind of person who plays three sets of tennis but doesn't sweat. But underneath the elegant surface, was an adventurous spirit.
joe		Obviously, at this time, you weren't sick.
andrew		It's possible I was infected with the HIV virus at that time, but I wasn't diagnosed until several years later.
joe		You didn't look then, the way you look now?
andrew		No. I was thirty pounds heavier. I was athletic.
joe		A regular all-American guy?
andrew		I suppose you could say that.
joe		Except... you were gay?
andrew		I still am.
joe		In the years you worked at Wyant Wheeler, did you ever tell Charles Wheeler you were gay?
andrew		No. I didn't.
joe		Can you explain why you didn't?
andrew		You don't bring your personal life into a law firm. You're not supposed to have a personal life, really. Anyway, I did plan to tell Charles, eventually. But then, this thing happened at the tennis club...
wheeler		Longstreet's interested in the Harrisburg deal.
andrew		I'm seeing him this afternoon.
first man		What do you call a woman who has PMS and ESP at the same time?.
second man		What?
first man		A bitch who knows everything.
charles wheeler		How does a faggot fake an orgasm?
seidman		Charles, that's revolting!
andrew		Relieved. That I'd never told him I was gay. Very relieved.
joe		Are you a good lawyer?
andrew		I'm an excellent lawyer.
joe		What makes you an excellent lawyer?
andrew		I love the law. I know the law. I excel at practicing it. It's the only thing I've ever wanted to do.
joe		What do you love about it?
andrew		Well... many things. But I think the thing I love the most, is that every once in a while, not that often, but occasionally... you get to be part of justice being done. It's really quite a thrill when that happens.
belinda		You said earlier you aspired to be the kind of person who had "an adventurous spirit." Is that correct?
andrew		Something like that.
belinda		Do you take risks?
andrew		In my work? Yes. Calculated risks. You have to.
belinda		In general. Do you take risks in other areas of your life?
andrew		Not unnecessary ones.
belinda		Have you ever been to the Apollo Cinema on Sansom Street?
andrew		 A few times.
belinda		Gay pornographic movies?
andrew		Yes.
belinda		Do men have sex with each other in that theater?
andrew		Yes.
yuppie		I'm Robert.
andrew		Andrew.
robert		I think we'll figure it out.
belinda		When? Approximately what year did this event take place?
belinda		Were you aware in 1984 or 1985 that there was a fatal disease out there, called AIDS, and that you could contract it through sexual activity?
andrew		It's impossible to know exactly when or how I was infected with HIV.
belinda		But you were having anonymous sex in porno theaters in 1984 and 1985?
andrew		That happened once. People weren't talking about AIDS then, the way we are now. Or safe sex.
belinda		You'd heard of AIDS in 1984, 85?
andrew		I'd heard of something. The gay plague, gay cancer, but... we didn't know how you could get it, or that it could kill you.
andrew		No.
belinda		While you were employed at Wyant Wheeler, you did everything you could to make sure no one knew you were an active homosexual, correct?
andrew		That is not correct. I never lied about it.
belinda		Did you keep a picture of your lover on your desk?
andrew		No.
belinda		Do other lawyers at the firm keep pictures of their spouses or fiances on their desks?
andrew		Some do. I didn't.
belinda		As a homosexual, one is often forced to conceal one's sexuality, is that right?
andrew		In some situations.
belinda		Isn't it true you have spent your life pretending to be something you're not, so much so that the art of concealment and dishonesty has become second nature to you?!
joe		Objection!
belinda		I'll withdraw it. Mr. Beckett? Were you living with Miguel Alvarez in 1984 or 1985 when you had your anonymous sexual encounter in the porn theater?
andrew		Yes.
belinda		You could have infected him, isn't that right?
andrew		Miguel has not been infected. As I said, we weren't aware of AIDS, then, or how it is spread.
belinda		Really?
andrew		Yes.
belinda		You've testified the lesions on your face were visible to the people you worked with, correct?
andrew		That's right.
belinda		And it's your contention, that when the partners were made aware of the lesions, they jumped to the conclusion you had AIDS and fired you.
andrew		Absolutely.
belinda		Do you have any lesions on your face at this time?
andrew		One. Here, in front of my ear.
belinda		Remembering you are under oath, answering truthfully, can you see the lesion on your face, in this mirror, three feet away? Answering truthfully.
andrew		By the time I was fired, there were four lesions on my face, much bigger...
belinda		Answer the question, please.
andrew		No. I can't really see it.
belinda		Thank you.
andrew		Yes sir.
joe		I only need five!  May I?
andrew		Yes. On my torso.
joe		If it please the court, I'd like to ask Mr. Beckett to remove his shirt, so that the jury can have an accurate idea of what we're talking about.
belinda		We object, Your Honor. It would unfairly influence the jury.
joe		Your Honor, if Mr. Beckett was forced by his illness to use a wheelchair, would the defense ask him to park it outside? We're talking about AIDS, we're talking about lesions. Let's see what we're talking about.
judge garnett		 I'll allow it. Would you mind removing your shirt, Mr. Beckett?
andrew		Allright.
joe		Can you see the lesions on your chest in this mirror?
andrew		Yes.
joe		Thank you.
cut to:		COURTHOUSE CORRIDOR, ACTIVITY  ...
seidman		I've discovered something interesting, Charles.
wheeler		 What, Bob?
seidman		No matter how hard I try, I can't lose a file in my computer.
belinda		I don't think I should hear this.
seidman		You can erase the backup...  But why would you?
kenton		 What's the point, Bob?
wheeler		 Very interesting, Bob. Let's make a note of that. Andy didn't lose the complaint in his computer. He never put it in. He lied about that, too.
seidman		 Charles...
wheeler		If you feel differently, Bob, you should say so, when you're called to the stand. After all, this isn't a conspiracy.
belinda		Why did you recruit Andrew Beckett to your firm?
wheeler		If you're the owner of a major league ball club, you recruit the hot rookie. And Andy was tremendously promising as a young attorney. That's why we went after him, that's why we hired him, and that's why we stuck with him, year after year... waiting for the promise to be fulfilled. But it never was.
belinda		You kept giving him another chance?
wheeler		Of course we did. When you've groomed someone they way we groomed Andy, nurturing him, lavishing all kinds of special treatment on him... you've made quite an investment. We were waiting for his promise to kick in, and deliver. But, ultimately, we could no longer ignore the gap between the promise and the reality... This is one of the saddest times in my life. To sit in this court, testifying to Andy's ultimate failure to make the grade. To discover that he is one of those people who wants to benefit by the system, but doesn't want to play by the system's rules. To think you know someone, only to find out... you don't know them at all. It's heartbreaking.
belinda		Thank you. That's all for now, Your Honor.
judge garnett		Mr. Miller?
joe		 Explain to me, if you can, Mr. Wheeler, explain this to me like I'm a ten year-old. This trial is not about a disease, is that what you're saying? Not about your understandable, if unfounded, fear of catching AIDS through casual contact with someone who has it? You're saying, this trial is about Andrew Beckett's character. Am I getting this right?
wheeler		Yes, character. To the extent that it affects a person's ability to do a great job.
rachel		I didn't mind covering for Andy, but I did wonder... when was he planning to deal with his problem?
wheeler		Sometimes it seems like society is run by these kinds of people.
joe		What kind of people?
wheeler		People who want to bend the rules...
killcoyne		If you want to be a leader in this society, you have to make certain sacrifices.
wheeler		... to suit their personal desires, and the rest of us have to live with it.
kenton		You have to make a decision: is this guy partner material?
joe		Who makes the rules, Mr. Wheeler? You?
seidman		Yes, I did see the lesions. I suspected he was sick...
wheeler		The everyday, common person with decent values...
rachel		It seems like he wasn't willing to face the reality of his situation...
seidman		I didn't tell the others, I was afraid to...
wheeler		... But now, we're standing up for ourselves...
seidman		... But we shouldn't have fired him...
wheeler		... It's time to get this society back on track!
andrew		Could you call an ambulance, please?
miguel		It's making it worse. Take it out. Take it out!
waitress juror		They wanted to see if he'd rise to the challenge.
schoolteacher juror		They wanted to give him a final chance.
businessman juror		I'd still love to know what happened to that missing file.
homemaker juror		Wouldn't we all?
businessman juror		Why would they fire him? Why not a medical leave, or...
schoolteacher juror		They hate homosexuals.
businessman juror		It's not against the law to disapprove of homosexuals.
lesbian juror		It is against the law to fire someone for having AIDS. That's why we're here.
businessman juror		You're the foreman. You haven't said anything. What do you think?
marine juror		They're saying he wasn't a good lawyer. He was mediocre. And the fact that they gave him the most important lawsuit they'd ever had, for one of their most important clients... they say that doesn't prove anything, because that was just a test. What did they call it? A carrot. To see if he'd rise to the occasion... Okay... Say I've got to send a pilot into enemy territory, and he's gonna be flying a plane that cost 350 million dollars... Who am I going to put into that plane? A rookie who can't cut the grade, because I want to see if he'll rise to the challenge? Or am I going to give that assignment to my best pilot, my most experienced, my sharpest, my top gun... The very best I've got?
marine		We have, Your Honor...
judge garnett		Have you awarded any damages?
marine		Yes, we have, Your Honor.  For back pay and loss of benefits ... one hundred fortythree thousand dollars.
andrew		What do you call a thousand lawyers chained together at the bottom of the ocean?
joe		What?
andrew		A good start.
joe		It was good working with you, Andrew. You're welcome.  Hey. Shouldn't you put that thing back on?
andrew		 Sure thing.
joe		I'll see you, Beckett.
andrew		 Thanks for coming by.
joe		You bet. We'll see you later.
joe		 He's looking good. I wouldn't be surprised if he gets out of here soon.
miguel		We just want to get him home. Thanks for stopping by, Joe.
joe		Night.
miguel		He's tired. He ought to sleep.
joe		What do you call a thousand lawyers chained together at the bottom of the ocean?
matt		Night, Andy. See you tomorrow, buddy.
bud		Goodnight, son. Get some rest, okay?
sarah		Goodnight angel, my sweet boy...
randy		Andy.
andrew		 I'm okay, bro. I'll see you tomorrow.
andrew		I'm ready...
miguel		Ready for what, baby?
andrew		Whatever.
miguel		I hope you're ready for "Studs," because that's what's on.
lisa		 It's Miguel.
joe		Miguel?
****Dialogues from script :Phone_Booth.txt****

phone booth		 by  Larry Cohen
narrator		There are 237,911 pay telephones in the five burroughs of the city of New York.  Many of them are still in working order.
narrator		Despite increased usage of cellular devices, an estimated four and a half million New Yorkers and two million visitors still utilize pay telephones on a regular basis.  At thirty-five cents a pop... for the first three minutes.
narrator		You're looking at the telephone booth at the corner of 45th Street and 8th Avenue in the heart of the Manhattan theatrical district.  It has been scheduled to be removed and replaced by a kiosk.  It's one of the few remaining phone booths left in the city.
narrator		At least three hundred calls daily originate from this booth.  The coins are collected twice a day. This booth has been burglarized forty-one times in the last six months.
mario		Stu, we got to talk.
stu		Wish I could accommodate you, Mario, but this is my busy time of day.
mario		How come you cross the street every time you go past the restaurant?
stu		Why don't I stop in later for some lunch?
mario		There's no more drinks or free meals until the restaurant starts showing up in the columns like you said.
stu		I'm doing my level best for you people.
mario		One lousy mention in the Post and you expect to eat for six months!
stu		I got the food critic from the Village Voice all lined up to give you a review.
mario		That's what you tell me last July. And he never shows.
stu		I was allowing you time to expand the menu.  Wallpaper the bathrooms, for God sakes.  You get only one shot with these fucking critics and I don't want you to blow a rare opportunity.
mario		You the one blowing it.  How long you think you can fuck everybody?
stu		Hold on right there.  I've got a very excellent reputation around this town.
mario		So how come you take two nice suits of clothes from Harry and never get his daughter on David Letterman?
stu		Hell, I'm not an agent.  I'm a publicist.
mario		Mister, you're nothing!
stu		Believe me, Valerie's on the waiting list to audition.  Harry's got no complaints.  He just let me pick out this tie the other day.
mario		That Harry's a damn fool!
stu		Mario, please let me make this up to you.  How about I arrange for the opening night party for this new off-Broadway show I'm handling -- to be held at your place with local TV coverage on nine and eleven?  I mean I had it promised to another client -- who actually pays me money.  But it isn't firmed up yet.  And I could throw it your way.  Maybe.
mario		What is involved?
stu		You'd toss in the buffet for say seventy or eighty.  The producers would supply their own vino, of course.  I'd deliver you a truckload of celebrities.  And if they like the food, they'll all come back, naturally.
mario		What celebrities?
stu		You want Liza Minelli?  An Oscar winner.  Or Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.?
mario		Is he still alive?
stu		I saw him last night going into the Four Seasons.  I'll bring you over a whole VIP list when we come by for dinner.
mario		How come everybody wants to eat but nobody wants to pay?
stu		You can't think small like that. Hey, you still feature musicians Fridays and Saturdays?
mario		At least they work for their meals.
stu		What about Harry's daughter as an extra added attraction?  She'll belt out five or six showtunes -- two sets a night -- and it won't cost you a fucking nickel.
mario		How come?
stu		Star Showcase!  Let me handle setting that up.  And when she eventually goes on Letterman, she'll announce I'm currently appearing over at Mario's fine supper club.  Right over CBS she'll say that, Mario.
mario		You're full of shit.  You know that?  All bullshit!
stu		That's just a vulgar word for PR.  Mario, you can't hurt my feelings. Even when I was a kid and they hurled certain invectives my way, it never bothered me.  Other kids would fall apart if anybody called them a fucking name.  Me, I just loved the attention!  'Shit-for- brains' -- that's what the bigger kids named me.  And I answered to it.  Hey, 'shit-for brains' reporting for duty.  Everybody loved me for that.  I could take abuse.  After a while, I kind of wore them down.  There was nothing more they could say to me.  So they stopped.  I kind of missed it.
mario		I'm sorry I even talked to you.
stu		I'll bet your loving wife put you up to this.  She saw me pass by and she sent you out in the street. But I don't hold it against you personally -- you still serve up superior veal chop.  Now I got urgent business to conduct, Mario.
stu		Hello, Mavis, sweet creature.
mavis' voice		Where have you been?  Do you think I have nothing to do but wait around for you to call?
stu		I'm only a few minutes late, loveliest individual on earth.
mavis' voice		Stu, I'm so lonely.  When can I see you?
stu		Good news in that arena.  Kelly goes into rehearsal as of Monday. You know how dedicated she is.  By the time she gets back from dancing her ass off, she goes right to sleep.  We'll have both our days and certain nights.  Not to mention when they take the show on the road.
mavis' voice		How long is that for?
stu		Four to five weeks -- minimum.
mavis' voice		Maybe I should quit my job so we can be together full time.
stu		I wouldn't do that.
mavis' voice		Sometimes I think if I have to give one more fucking manicure...
stu		That's how you met me.
mavis' voice		I never saw a worse set of nails. Bit right down to the quick.
stu		I'm much better groomed since you've been looking after me.
mavis' voice		I'm glad you admit it.
stu		Even Kelly remarked on it when I first met her.
mavis' voice		She could care less how you look. She's only interested in pushing her own career.  Some wife you're stuck with!
stu		The marriage is not without its compensations.  Do you imagine I could afford that apartment on what I'm earning?  Not with everybody cutting back on the publicity.  Not to mention a million college graduates coming into the profession trying to cut me out. And one thing you can't expect from your clients is loyalty.  They get a couple of bad notices, they dump you.  Goodbye.
mavis' voice		Don't go.
stu		I wasn't saying goodbye to you.  I was saying how the clients try to give you the wave off without even a month's notice.
stu		 What?  Is your watch busted?  It's twenty after eleven and I'm gonna be occupied indefinitely with my transaction.  So get out of my face!
stu		Sorry, honey.  There will be no further interruption.
mavis' voice		Why must you always be calling me from some booth?
stu		On account of that phone records are regularly subpoenaed in divorce proceedings.  And I don't want some entry showing up on my cellular bill either.  She gets the mail. She looks these items over. Sometimes she even dials up a strange number to see who it is.
mavis' voice		Then she suspects something.
stu		It's only because her last husband, the choreographer, ran around on her.  She can't get that out of her head.  That's how she caught onto him.  The phone bills.
mavis' voice		She hasn't developed much skill at holding a man.
stu		You know what a self-fulfilling prophecy is?  She was so sure I was going to find me a woman that she finally drove me back to you.  I thought I'd feel all guilty about it -- but I guess it hasn't kicked in yet.  Still, I wouldn't do anything to hurt her.  Basically, Kelly's a decent individual.
mavis' voice		What about hurting me?  Like last time?
stu		Hurt?  You were glad to be rid of me.
mavis' voice		For a while I was, 'til I took stock of what was around.  You're the lesser of many evils.
stu		That's about the nicest thing you ever said.
mavis' voice		I'll have it engraved.
stu		We've been up front with each other from the beginning.  Let's keep it that way.  How about a drink?  Say seven o'clock?  The Monkey Bar?
mavis' voice		Meet me in front.  I don't like walking in there unescorted.
stu		Yeah, you're great enough looking to be mistaken for one of those thousand dollar a night girls.
mavis' voice		It happens all the time lately.
stu		And wear that short black number I bought you from Bendel's.
mavis' voice		Again?  I don't know if it's me or that dress you like.
stu		Have a good day.  Make plenty of tips.  And leave the whole evening open.  She thinks I've got Knicks tickets.
stu		 It's your boy Stuart.  When was the last time I called you for a favor?
stu		I just need one line.  Anybody you wanna say was seen dining out at Mario's Stromboli restaurant.
stu		Who's asking any favors?  I'm offering reciprocal information.
stu		Check it out.  Tony award-winning producer Willie Beagle tossed his wife back into rehab again following her third attempt at diving off the terrace at their plush eighteen room residence at the San Remo.  I got it from the doorman.
stu		Louis, my intentions were entirely honorable.
voice		Don't even think about leaving that booth.
stu		What?
voice		Stay exactly where you are and listen carefully.
stu		I've got a heavy day, mister.
voice		You know better than to disobey me.
stu		I don't know you at all.
voice		Are you absolutely sure?
stu		Who is this?
voice		Someone who's watching you.
stu		Get lost!
voice		Love the gray suit.  That red and black tie makes a nice combination.
stu		Where?  Where are you?
voice		Closer than you think.
stu		I don't see you.
voice		There are any number of windows. Check them out.
stu		Okay, you had your little joke.
voice		I'm not sufficiently amused.  Not yet.  We have more to talk about.
stu		Do me a favor.  Call up somebody else.
voice		But it's you I'm interested in. You know how many people use that booth every day?
stu		Why don't you tell me?
voice		Better than two-hundred people on average.
stu		Is that what you do?  Count them?
voice		What else do I have to do?  It's interesting watching people. Trying to guess who they are.  And what they're up to.
stu		What are you -- a shut-in of some kind?
voice		You might say that.  I can't go out.  I might be seen.
stu		Somebody's looking for you?
voice		Desperately.
stu		The cops?
voice		Not yet.
stu		The ex-wife.  What'd you do -- run out on child support?
voice		What kind of man do you think I am?
stu		Frankly, I could care less.  You had your fun.  Now goodbye.
voice		It's not in your best interests to hang up on me.  That would make me angry.
stu		Isn't that just too bad?
voice		For you.
stu		There's ten million names in the phonebook.  Pester somebody else.
voice		I never talk to people I can't see. I need to study their reactions.
stu		Alright, bullshit artist, what am I doing right now?
voice		Scratching your forehead with your left hand.  Now you're brushing your hair back.
stu		Okay, okay, you got me in your scrutiny.  So what?
voice		So let's talk.
stu		Only I got nothing to say.
voice		Oh, you will.  You'll do a lot of talking before this conversation is over.  And it'll only end when I want it to.
stu		Is that a fact?  Well if you watch closely, you will see me hang up.
voice		I don't think you will.
stu		Why not?
voice		I interest you.
stu		Why should I be interested in some creep who gets his jollies spying on strangers in phone booths?
voice		But you're not a stranger, Stu.
stu		Who put you up to this?
voice		You were my very own selection.
stu		Why me in particular?
voice		Because you're so afraid.
stu		Ha!  What've I got to be afraid of?
stu		Just about everything.  You have so much to hide.
stu		How do you figure that?
voice		Why else would a man with a perfectly good cellular bother to make calls from a pay booth?
stu		That's my business.
voice		I've made it mine.
stu		All of a sudden I'm required to give explanations to you?
voice		In explicit detail.
stu		What is this?  Some kind of candid camera gag?  Or like that thing on HBO where the cab driver is taping what goes on in the back seat?
voice		This is not showbusiness, my friend.  This is reality.
stu		Your reality.  Not mine, you lowlife fuck.
voice		Stu, you'll be made to suffer for your attitude, so let's dispense with the vulgarities.
stu		Now you're threatening me!  Fuck you.  Could that be any clearer?
voice		You're only making it easier for me to do you harm.
stu		Oh yeah.  Right.  Can you see how I'm trembling?
voice		You will be.
stu		Shit, this is a new one.  Fucking threatening calls in a goddam phone booth.  When are you going to start with the heavy breathing.
voice		I'm not the degenerate.  You are, Stu.
stu		You don't know anything about me.
voice		Infinitely more than you know about me.
stu		Like what?
voice		Like the number you dialed when you first entered the booth.
stu		How would you know that?
voice		I'm watching through a scope and I could clearly read the buttons you pushed.  I have another extension here by the window.  Shall I dial that same number back for you? Would that convince you?
voice		Let's see who's on the other end of the line.
stu		Don't.
voice		Too late.  It's already ringing.  I'll hold the receiver up so you can listen in.
mavis' voice		Hello?
voice		Well, hello.
mavis' voice		Who is this?
voice		Someone who's really tight with your boyfriend -- who just called you from his favorite phone booth.
mavis' voice		You know Stu?
voice		Stu?  Oh, I know him better than anyone.  What he does -- how he thinks.  How he lies.
mavis' voice		Who the hell is this?
voice		Stu is listening in.  He knows what we're both saying.
mavis' voice		Stu?  Is that true?  Are you there?
voice		He doesn't feel like talking.
stu		 Mavis!  Just hang up the goddam phone.
voice		She can't hear you, Stu.  Only me.  Mavis, I'm afraid Stu hasn't been totally honest with you.  But then he can't be honest with anyone, can he?
mavis' voice		What's your name?  To whom am I speaking?
voice		You've never heard of me, Mavis. He doesn't want you to know I exist.  He wishes I didn't exist. But there isn't anything he can do about that.  Still there, Stu?  All you can do is listen.
stu		Mavis -- the guy is a fucking nutcase!  Hang the fuck up.
voice		She doesn't want to.  She wants to know all about us.  Don't you, Mavis?
mavis' voice		Did his wife put you up to this? That bitch, Kelly?
voice		Oh yes, the bitch wife, Kelly.  My very next call.
stu		 He doesn't know my wife!  Don't tell him anything else.
felicia		Could you hurry it along?
stu		Can you hear me, Mavis?  Keep your big mouth shut.
voice		Is that any way to talk to a woman you love?  Mavis, is he always that abusive to you?
mavis' voice		You're getting me all upset.  I don't know who you are or how you know all this --
voice		I find out things -- from watching people and listening to them.
mavis' voice		Just what is your relationship to Stu?  That's all I want to know.
voice		Well, what do you think?
mavis' voice		Answer me, goddam it!
voice		Well alright.  Stu and I are -- longtime companions.  A pair.  Two of a kind.  Closer than close. Peas in a pod.  Spoons in a drawer.
mavis' voice		You pervert!
voice		That, too.
stu		Don't believe a word of it.  It's all lies.
voice		Too late, Stu.  She already believes it.
mavis' voice		You can tell that scumbag never to bother me again.
voice		He won't care.  He'll still have me.
stu		It's not true.  I do care.
felicia		Get done in there, mister.  I got me an important call.
stu		Go away.
felicia		Shit I will!  Finish up!
voice		Why don't you tell me what you think of us?
mavis' voice		You're both disgusting.
voice		That's what he said about you. Well, if Stu didn't have the balls to come out and tell you the truth, I felt it was my responsibility to clear the air.  Goodbye now, Mavis. Thanks for your time.  Back to you again, Stu.
stu		You total asshole!  How could you do that?
voice		Speaking of females, that woman hovering outside the booth -- may as well tell her that you'll be on the line forever.
stu		Like hell I will.
voice		I'm ready for you to take out your cellular and phone home.  And this time, I'll listen in.
stu		There's no chance of that.
voice		Or should I call Kelly and make up something totally outrageous?  You must realize by now I have a vivid imagination.
stu		You don't know our phone number!
voice		Are you absolutely sure?  I may have been watching you on a regular basis.  Keeping track of all the numbers I see you dial.
stu		And I'm supposed to believe that?
voice		I've put a great deal of preparation into this -- prior to actually saying hello.  Now do you want to dial 832-7165 -- or should I?
stu		What are you going to tell her?
voice		You'll do the talking.
stu		What am I supposed to say?
voice		Try telling her the truth.
stu		Look, I don't want to hurt Kelly. She's always there for me.  It's just my nature to have a little 'strange' on the side.  It doesn't mean shit.
voice		But you still find it necessary?
stu		Kind of like having a beautiful home.  With everything you ever dreamed of.  But you still need that vacation now and then.  Some nice hotel room with a great view. Maybe a pool.  Only you wouldn't want to spend more than a few days in any hotel.  Eventually, you want to go back to your home and all your stuff.  You're real glad to check out.
voice		Kelly is home and Mavis is a hotel? I'm sure they'll both appreciate that explanation.
stu		You're ruining my fucking life, you sonofabitch.
voice		Didn't I warn you about calling me names?  It makes me vindictive.
stu		What else can you do to me?
voice		We haven't even begun.
stu		She's not home.  She went out.
voice		I'll bet she's back.  Now hold the cellular up where I can see it -- so I can be certain you don't misdial on me.  A little higher and to your left. Now I have it in perfect view. Dial slowly.
felicia		If you got you a cell phone, how come you taking up the whole fucking booth!  This here's an emergency!
stu		There's another booth on the next block.
felicia		It's busted.  Every damn phone on Eighth Avenue is busted but this one.
stu		Well, I'm not through!  Go in a restaurant or someplace, but get away from me!
felicia		I'm gonna pull you out of that booth and snatch you ballheaded!
felicia		You assaulted my person.
stu		Let me hear from your lawyer!
felicia		You're hear alright.  I'm coming back.  And your ass better not be around.
voice		Good work, Stu.  Now let me see you dial.  Tuck the receiver under your chin and dial your remote.
stu		I'm doing it.
stu		I told you she was out.
voice		Let it ring.
kelly's voice		Shepard residence.
voice		Hold it close to the receiver so I can hear.
kelly's voice		Hello?
stu		Honey, it's me.
kelly's voice		What's taking you so long?  I thought we were having some lunch at Mario's?
stu		Change of plan.  We're not eating in that dump any more.
kelly's voice		How come?
stu		The Health Department gave them a 'C' rating -- that's how come. Here I'm trying to put the place on the map and he fucks it all up with a major roach problem.
kelly's voice		That's disgusting.  Okay, I'll fix us a sandwich.  Where are you now?
stu		Just in a phone booth.
kelly's voice		How come?  The caller ID says you're on your cellular.
stu		Oh yeah, I am.
kelly's voice		But you're also in some phone booth?
voice		Explain that one, Stu.
stu		I only stepped in because the traffic was so loud outside.
kelly's voice		Well just hurry on back.
voice		Tell her you can't.
stu		Not for a few minutes.
kelly's voice		Are you sure you're alone?  I hear somebody in the background.
stu		The guy in the next booth.  He's got a bad connection and he's hollering his fool head off.
voice		You've got an answer for everything.
stu		I love you, baby.
kelly's voice		Do you?
stu		You know that.
kelly's voice		Stu -- who was that man?
stu		What man?
kelly's voice		Some person who phoned fifteen minutes ago -- just after you went out.
stu		I don't understand...
kelly's voice		This total stranger rang up and told me to wait by the phone -- because you'd be calling me in a few minutes -- from a booth.  And I said what would he be doing in any phone booth?
stu		And what did this guy say?
kelly's voice		He said you'd be making phone calls.  What else?
stu		Making calls is part of my business.
kelly's voice		To whom?
stu		Clients.  People.  Planting items like I do.
kelly's voice		Women?
stu		Once in a while one of them could be a woman.  I just called "Elaine's" and talked to her to see who was in there last night.
kelly's voice		You know exactly what I mean.
stu		You're not going to start that shit again?
kelly's voice		I just feel something is wrong.
stu		What could be wrong?
kelly's voice		The way you sound.  You don't sound like yourself.
stu		Yeah?  Who do I sound like?
kelly's voice		Someone who's scared.  There's fear in your voice like I've never heard before.
voice		See, Stu?  Kelly agrees with me.
kelly's voice		I want you to come back home.  Now!
stu		I told you.  In a while.
kelly's voice		No.  I want you here now.  In case he calls back, I don't want to answer again.
stu		Why should he call back?
kelly's voice		I feel like he's going to.
stu		You're the one that sounds frightened.  And of nobody.
kelly's voice		He's not a nobody.  He knows about us.
stu		You're not telling me all he said. What are you holding back?
kelly's voice		I can't discuss it on the phone. Just get over here!
stu		 Why did you do that to her?  She never did you any harm.
voice		How would you know?  Everybody does harm to somebody.  And then they try their best to forget it.
stu		Maybe me -- but not her.  Whatever I've done, there's no reason to take it out on her.
voice		Suppose that's the only way I can get to you?  You claim you love her.
stu		Yeah, I do.
voice		You don't even love yourself.
stu		But Kelly... I would never hurt.
voice		Still you have to uphold your status as an honorary asshole.
stu		Listen, I've treated all my women decent.  I never laid a hand on any of them, even when provoked.  And I always let them down easy.  I'm not ready to let Kelly go. Maybe I never will be.
voice		What if she dumps you first? What's the odds she's already taken up with somebody?  One day soon you'll come home and find her gone along with the CD player and the VCR.
stu		I'm not gonna let you mind-fuck me all day!  That's it.  This call is ended.
voice		Not until I say it is.
stu		What happens if I hang up?
voice		You don't really want to find out.
stu		I'm dying to hear this!!!  What the fuck can you do about it -- up in your fucking high window with your goddam binoculars?
voice		I never indicated I had binoculars. I said I had a highly magnified telescopic image of you that brought you up so close I could see where you nicked yourself under the chin shaving this morning.
stu		Oh -- while you're at it, have a look up my ass.
voice		I may very well do that, Stu.  In the meantime, think about what kind of device has a telescopic sight mounted on it.
stu		What?  You mean... like a rifle?
voice		A high-powered .30 calibre bolt action Remington 700 with a carbon one modification and a state of the art Henzholdt tactical sniperscope. And you're in the cross hairs, Stu.
stu		I'm supposed to believe that?
voice		There's only one way I can prove it to you.  Hang up the receiver and find out.  At this range, the exit wound ought to be about the size of a small tangerine.
stu		And you're just going to kill me for no reason?
voice		For plenty of reasons!  Because you hung up.  For years I hated people hanging up on me.  Ex-girlfriends. Women I didn't even know. Prospective employers.
stu		I get hung up on all the time.  You get used to it.
voice		Or else you don't.  I worked for months getting people to switch to MCI -- being insulted at and being hung up on hundreds of times a day. The ones that cursed me out for invading their privacy never bothered me as much as those that clicked off without even bothering to reply.
stu		Then why didn't you go after one of them?
voice		Maybe you are one of them.
stu		Hey, I have worked in a boiler room myself peddling "Term Life."  I Would never be rude to a fellow salesperson.
voice		Can you feel it on you now?  The heat of it.  I'm moving the strike zone down to your stomach area. Now I'm raising it up again. Directly above the chest cavity -- sliding up to the forehead just above the left ear.
stu		Shit -- I do feel it.
voice		Tell me where I'm going with it now.
stu		Across my forehead -- now back where it was before.
voice		I'm amazed how you can do that. You're amazingly accurate.  Now I know what you're thinking. If I drop down on the floor of the booth and flatten myself out...
stu		No, I'm not thinking that.
voice		Oh yes you are.  Can I crawl out using the booth as a shield?  Can I crawl to that Chrysler illegally parked only three or four feet away?  The shattering glass may cut me, but it'll only be superficial. Otherwise, this lunatic will never let me out alive.
stu		No.  You will.  I know you will. If I just cooperate.
voice		Where is it now?  Think and feel for the warm spot.
stu		Below the shoulder?
voice		Which one?
stu		The right shoulder.
voice		Remarkable how we're in tune. You're doing far better than the others.
stu		What others?  What do you mean?  You said 'others!'
voice		 I'm sure you read about the Italian tourist shot dead ten days ago at the corner of Forty-fifth and Eighth?
stu		I saw it on the news.
voice		And where are we now?
stu		Oh, God.  Forty-fifth and Eighth.
voice		What else do you remember about that killing?
stu		I don't know.
voice		Try.
stu		He was gunned down.  And nobody was caught.  And they didn't even bother to take his wallet or his watch... or anything.
voice		Now you know why.  It wasn't a robbery.
stu		What did he do?
voice		He hung up -- so I disconnected him permanently.
stu		Please -- don't do it to me.  You got no reason to do it to me.
voice		Don't give me reason.
stu		I'm not looking to.  Tell me what you want!
voice		Tell me about your job.
stu		What's to tell?  I'm in Public Relations.  They used to call us "flacks."  Now we're media consultants.
voice		What do you do, exactly?
stu		Plant items in the paper and on the tube.  More important sometimes, keep stuff out.
voice		What've you kept out?
stu		One of my people got nailed for indecent exposure.  I managed for the cops to use his real name instead of his stage name so nobody picked up on it.
voice		You saved the little deviate's ass, didn't you?
stu		He's in major therapy now.  I swear he is.
voice		You must hang with some major celebrities.  Journalists, newscasters -- those types.
stu		I'm real close with Larry King. And the "Hard Copy" people.
voice		Could you get him down here?  Larry King?
stu		Why would he want to come here?
voice		Because you asked him to.
stu		He comes from Atlanta.
voice		Well, who could you get?
stu		I don't know.
voice		Wolf Blitzer?
voice		Probably not.
voice		Regis?
stu		Definitely no chance.
voice		You'd be offering them an exclusive newsbreak.  I'm talking about more than one homicide.
stu		How many?
voice		I don't answer questions.  I ask them.
stu		I gotta have the facts.  They might not believe me.  My record isn't too good when it comes to hard news.
voice		You're not considered a reliable source?
stu		On a divorce or separation, maybe. Or who's gay, or who isn't gay any more.  I kind of specialize in that kind of material.  I mean I could probably get you Joe Franklin.
voice		How about Cindy Adams?
stu		I might have a shot.  Are you familiar with Liz Smith?
voice		Do you know her number?
stu		Want I should call her?  How much can I say?
voice		Tell her you're in direct touch with a killer who's willing to speak honestly if she shows up here alone and without notifying the authorities.
stu		She usually likes to have a celebrity involved.  If you had an actor or a sports figure held prisoner instead of me, there'd be better odds she's come.
voice		Then lie.  Pick a celebrity and put them in the booth.
stu		Let's see.  Who does she like?  Who couldn't be reached to deny it?
voice		I'm anxious to see you in action. Don't keep me waiting.
stu		 Hi -- Stu Shepard.  Put me through. I've got hard news for her.  I can only talk to her directly.  But say it regards -- Liza.
voice		Liza?  That was imaginative.
stu		 Liz, hello.  Sure I'll make it brief.  Killing two weeks ago in the theatre district?  Turn out a sniper did the job.  Yeah, a sniper with a rifle.  Now he's got another victim lined up.  Not just your anonymous New Yorker, but Liza. Now you can't call anybody or Ms. Minelli's dead meat and so am I. She's hostage in a phone booth right in the sniper's sights.  But he says he'll talk to you and let her walk.  I know it'll take balls to do this, but you're a fine and courageous newspaper woman...
stu		Hello?  Hello?  Either she's on her way over or she doesn't believe me.
voice		You weren't particularly convincing.
stu		I didn't really believe in what I was saying.
voice		Because you don't really believe my Remington is pointed at you?
stu		I do.
voice		You're ninety percent sure.
stu		At least ninety-five percent, easy.
voice		Let me erase all doubt.
stu		No.  Don't shoot.
voice		Control yourself, Stu.  Glance down at your chest.  What do you see.
stu		Oh, my God.  A dot.  A fucking red dot.
voice		Like you've seen in the movies?
stu		The laser dot.  Just before some poor bastard always gets blown away.
voice		Usually a supporting player.  That lovely but by now generic special effect of the bullet piercing the forehead.
voice		This takes all the guesswork out of it.  You know exactly where to expect it before I even tighten my finger on the trigger.
stu		Don't tighten.  Don't even tickle that fucking finger.
voice		How about Geraldo?  He's run his ass off to get in on this.
stu		You're talking about the old Geraldo.  Look, I can try and reach cable NBC.  They're hungry.
voice		I'm disappointed.  I wanted to go first class.
stu		They do a great job.  They'll haul a whole crew over to cover your surrender "live."
voice		I never expressed interest in giving myself up.  There are so many other phone booths in the city.  I'm just getting warmed up.
stu		That's entirely up to you.  Your choice.  I'm just trying to set you up with the proper communicator.  I suppose Liza wasn't strong enough.  I should've said Madonna.
voice		Now you're being creative.
leon		Drag your baggy butt out of that booth.  We got business to conduct out of there.
felicia		He been in there all day.
stu		I'm not through.
leon		Hang up that receiver or I'll make you eat the fucking thing!
stu		Fuck off or I'll call a cop.
leon		Do you see one around here?  What you think I'm gonna be doing while you're waiting for a prowl car to get assigned?  I'm about to cut you a second asshole if you don't vacate those premises.
stu		I can't.
felicia		He's got him a fucking cellular. What's he need to be on our booth for?
stu		I can't explain it.
leon		I'm not interested in your explanations even if you had any.
leon		If I flick this, I use it.
stu		I'll make it worth your while to go away.  How much do you want?
leon		Make me an offer.
stu		Thirty dollars.  It's all I've got in cash.  Take it and go.
leon		You're offering to rent my phone booth?  For how long?
stu		I don't know.  For as long as it takes.
leon		What's so special in there?
stu		Do you want the money?
leon		Is that a genuine Rolex you've got on?
stu		Come on, man.  That's my good watch.
leon		That's what it's gonna take.
stu		Then here.  Take the damn thing.
leon		And the thirty!
stu		Take it all.
leon		Now I'm satisfied.  But you still got to deal with Felicia here.  I believe you spoke harshly to her.
stu		I apologize.
leon		And did her some injury.
stu		An accident.  I'm sorry about that, too.
felicia		The man don't sound like he means it.
leon		I agree.  Why don't you hang up a minute so we can discuss this matter at length.
stu		It's long distance.  I can't lose the call -- I might not get them back.
leon		Do I have to rip that fucking phone out of there?
stu		That wouldn't be a good idea.  Would it?
voice		Not at all.
stu		I gave you everything I've got.
leon		That pinky ring looks attractive. Felicia might like that.
felicia		It might fit.
stu		You want the ring, you've got the ring.  If I can get it off.
leon		I can get it off you.
stu		Let go of me!  It's coming loose. There.  Okay, Felicia, with my deepest apologies.  Goodbye now.
leon		What's really going on in that booth -- that escapes the naked eye?
stu		Nothing.  Talk.  That's all.
leon		That your connection on the end of the line?  Or are you dealing?
stu		This has nothing to do with drugs.
leon		You gotta be high on something to willingly divest yourself of your valuables -- just to maintain occupancy of a fucking phone booth that the local bums piss in every night.
stu		I knew it smelled for some reason.
leon		You look like you're ready to piss yourself.
stu		Because I am.
leon		Maybe if the city provided decent public toilets, folks wouldn't relieve themselves in the subway stations and phone booths!
stu		I'll take it up with the mayor.
leon		Next thing you know you're gonna claim we mugged you -- took your billfold and watch.
stu		No, you didn't.  It was a fair and equitable deal.  You had territorial rights to this booth and I paid a license fee.  Fair is fair.  Now leave me in peace.
leon		You sure you're alright?  He don't look well.
felicia		Kind of pale.  Even for a white man.
leon		Jaundice they calls it.  Probably advanced liver trouble.  If it's cirrhosis, you better find yourself a twelve step program and quick.
stu		Thanks for your interest but I'm in perfect health.
felicia		So how come his hand is shaking?
leon		The man is cracking up.
felicia		Lookit the sweat pouring off the sonofabitch.  That's one sick mother you started up with, Leon!
leon		Me?  You're the one that brought me over and exposed me to all his germs.
stu		I'm terminal, okay?  Now can I close the booth and continue my conversation?
leon		I'm worried now it might be catching.  All that money out of your sweaty pocket is probably crawling with some rare and incurable disease.
stu		Fine.  Give it back.
leon		What good's that?  We done touched it.
stu		Well go wash your hands.
leon		Come on now.  Own up to what you're carrying.  Is it some of that sexually transmitted shit?  Cause in that case, we can relax.
stu		I'm sick of you.  Now get out of my face.
leon		Here we's being solicitous as to your health and you respond by heaping abuse!
felicia		Whip his arrogant ass.
stu		Touch me and I'll throw up on you.
stu		 You can see what I'm up against here.
voice		Want me to get rid of him for you?
stu		What do you have in mind?
voice		I'll think of something.
stu		God -- no.  Don't.  It's not necessary.
voice		You asked for my help.
stu		I'll handle it myself.
voice		You're not doing too well.  I can settle it in a fraction of a second.  Shall I demonstrate?
stu		No.  For your own safety, mister, just walk away.
leon		Now the man is turning aggressive... issuing threats upon my person.
stu		You're making this happen.
leon		If you don't hang up and step out, I'm about to topple this booth into the gutter with you inside it.
stu		 Stop that!
stu		 The guy's insane!
voice		Only one way to stop a mad dog. Give me permission.
stu		I can't.
voice		If he forces you out of that booth, I've told you what to expect.  You or him, Stu.
felicia		Don't cut yourself, honey.
derelict		Looks like the fucker is comin' loose.
street person		Shove it out into the oncoming traffic.
derelict		What'll you bet the bus could knock that fifty feet?
stu		 Hello?  Hello?
voice		 You're breaking up.  We're about to be cut off.
stu		I can't help it!
voice		That counts as a hang-up.
stu		No.  It can't.  That's not fair.
voice		I can still make him stop.  Say the word.  Can you hear me?
stu		Yes.
stu		 You did it!
voice		You said 'yes.'
stu		I said 'Yes, I can hear you.'  Not 'Yes -- kill the motherfucker!'
voice		Don't try to renege on it.  I was following orders.
stu		You're twisting it all around.  I didn't do this!
felicia		I warned you not to cut yourself.  Look at all that blood.  He must've hit an artery.
felicia		Oh, Jesus.  What is that?  Talk to me!  What happened?
derelict		Gunshot!
street person		Yeah.  Sucking chest wound right over the heart.
felicia		Somebody call an ambulance.
street person		Call the meatwagon.  He's fucked up.
felicia		You shut the fuck up!
felicia		Why did you do that to him?
stu		I didn't.
felicia		 You all saw it!  He shot my man without no provocation!
derelict		Yeah.  Pumped one right into him at close range.
stu		How could I?  I don't even have a gun.  Look!
street person		Everybody get the fuck back!  They shoot one -- then they shoot everybody in sight!  Kill all the fucking witnesses!
stu		Come back.  You've got to see -- I'm not armed.
felicia		Hang up and dial 911.  Get a doctor!
stu		I can't hang up.  That's what this is all about.
felicia		You're gonna stand there and let him die?
stu		 Emergency.  Yes.  There's been a shooting at Forty-fifth and Eighth -- on the corner.  A man is down. What's the difference who I am?  I don't want to be involved.
felicia		 That's bullshit.  He's the shooter. You're talking to the shooter.
stu		That wasn't nice.
felicia		Go ahead -- make a fucking run for it.  I hope they gun you down -- like you did him!
stu		I'm not going anyplace.  I'm staying right here in this booth.  Unless you give me permission.
voice		You're attracting a lot of attention.  I suppose when the police get there, you'll accuse me.
stu		What do you expect me to say?
voice		That's up to you.  But any mention of me will not be appreciated.
stu		You mean...?
voice		You won't even get to finish your sentence.  Oh look, that little red dot is dancing around all over you again.  You saw how quickly it can happen.  And how accurate I can be.
stu		They can't blame me -- I'm not armed.
voice		Who's going to believe that?  With all those witnesses to the contrary.
stu		They can see with their own eyes.
voice		Remember to leave me out of it.
stu		How can I?
voice		You'll put the proper spin on it. Isn't that your specialty?  Feeding the public a story that may not have a shred of truth -- and making it totally believable?
stu		This isn't a story.  This is real. This is murder.
voice		If you'd only dealt with the man reasonably, shown him some respect, this might not have been necessary.
stu		I gave him my money, my watch...
voice		But not your respect.  Which is what he required of you.
stu		He was a fucking thief.
voice		And now he's a fucking dead thief. Do you feel better about that?
stu		I don't feel a bit guilty.  This is all your doing!
voice		Now you're being disrespectful of me.  You never learn.  Your job is to deal with people -- but you're not good at it.
stu		Hey, I'm not taking any more criticism from some lunatic sniper who gets his kicks killing strangers.
voice		You keep insisting I'm a stranger. Probably because you don't recognize the voice.  But there are cheap electronic devices available that disguise the voice.  I might not even be a man.  I might be one of those many women you've almost totally forgotten.  One who doesn't forgive easily.  One who wants to watch you squirm.
stu		You're a man.  I know you're a man. Women don't kill with telescopic rifles.  They stab you.
voice		You sound so sure of that.  But you've never provoked any man as much as have the women in your life.  And so many of them, Stu.  Do you even remember their names?
stu		I've got no time to rehash my whole life.  Oh my God!  The cops are here.
felicia		 That's him -- in the booth.  He's got a gun!
sergeant		 Throw down your weapon and come out with your hands raised.
stu		 They're ordering me to come out.
voice		I can see that.  Ignore them.
stu		What if they open fire?
voice		They probably won't.  Look across on the east side of the street.  Do you see the tourist with the home video camera?
stu		What about him?
voice		He's going to keep the police on their best behavior.  So long as you don't take what could be interpreted as hostile action, you'll be safe.
stu		You call this safe?  Six cops with guns pointed my way?
voice		You want me to reduce them to three -- or two?
stu		Absolutely no more shooting.  Now is that clear?
voice		You can always change your mind.
sergeant		 You know the drill.  Hands clasped behind the back of your neck -- moving slowly -- step out of the booth.  If we see any sign of a weapon, we will respond.
stu		 You won't, because there isn't any.
sergeant		 I repeat.  Raise your hands.
stu		I can't.  I'm on a phone call.
captain ramey		You have thirty seconds to comply.
stu		I told you.  I'm busy.  Come back later.
voice		Very good, Stu.
ramey		You've been given an order.
sergeant		We're dealing with a mental case. He's looking for us to kill him.
ramey		Well he's not getting his wish.
felicia		Tell me he's gonna be alright.
medic		Step aside.  Let us look at him.
medic		Nothing we can do.  Don't touch the body.  They'll need it to mark the crime scene.
sergeant		Same corner as two weeks ago.
ramey		Maybe it's more than a coincidence. Cover me.  I need to talk to him.
sergeant		You've got your vest on?
ramey		What do you think?
ramey		I'm not armed.
stu		Neither am I.
ramey		Yeah, sure.  I need to know what happened.
stu		Can't talk about it.
ramey		Sure you can.  My name's Ramey. Captain Ed Ramey.  What's yours?
stu		Look, I don't want to be friends.
ramey		You look like you need a friend.
voice		Tell him you've already got a friend.
stu		 I've got a friend, okay.
ramey		Is that who you're talking to on the phone?
stu		None of your business.
ramey		When somebody gets shot, it becomes my business.  Let's not have anybody else killed.  I want to hear your side of it.
stu		I've got no side of it.
voice		Don't worry, Stu.  I've got him fixed right in my sights.  I won't let him hurt you.
ramey		Has this happened to you before? The need to hurt someone?  To put a bullet in them?
stu		You won't believe anything I say.
ramey		Try me.
stu		I couldn't shoot anybody.  I'm not armed.
ramey		You're right.  I don't believe you. What's that bulge in your pants pocket?
stu		That?  That's my cellular.
ramey		A cellular?  Then what are you doing in a phone booth making calls?
stu		Do you want to see it?
ramey		Don't reach for it, mister.
stu		Then how can I show it to you?
ramey		I don't need to see it.  I know what's there.  All these witnesses saw you use it on him.
street person		 Damn straight!
derelict		 Yeah!  Shot him down like a dog!
stu		They're all lying.  Nobody saw it because it didn't happen.
ramey		A man is dead but it didn't happen.
stu		Not on account of me!  This is like some bad dream.
ramey		You're walking through a bad dream and you can't wake up.  Do you want to wake up?
stu		I'm trying.
ramey		And in this dream, you killed that man.  He was bothering you so you iced him.
stu		No.
ramey		Then who did?
voice		Don't tell him, Stu.  Or it'll be the last thing he ever hears.  His blood will be on your hands.
stu		 I don't know.
ramey		But you saw it happen?
stu		Yes.
ramey		You were the closest one to him. You must've seen who did it.
stu		No.
ramey		We're trying to be honest with each other, aren't we?
stu		Not necessarily.
voice		I'm losing patience with this cop.
stu		 I'm handling this.
ramey		Who do you keep talking to on the phone?
stu		Nobody.  My psychiatrist.
voice		Excellent, Stu.  You're getting good at this.
ramey		What's this doctor's name?  It's important we know.
stu		He says not to tell you.  It's privileged information.
voice		Damn good reply.  Now you're having fun.  Admit it.
stu		Whatever you say.
voice		Playing it so close to the edge. I'll bet you've never felt so alive.  That's how I feel when I look through the sight and select somebody.
ramey		I respect your right to privacy. I've been to therapy myself.  The department provides it.  I know it's not good form for a cop to be admitting that, but...
voice		Tell him not to come any closer.
stu		Stop right there.  Back up a few steps.  Back where you were.
ramey		If it makes you more comfortable.
voice		Tell him to read you your rights.
stu		I want you to read me my rights and stop asking questions.
ramey		Al least tell me your first name.
stu		It's my right not to have any name.
ramey		No gun and no name.  You're a highly underprivileged person.
voice		Demand a lawyer.
stu		And get me a lawyer, too.  I want a lawyer brought down here to negotiate my surrender.
voice		Brilliant, Stu.  Keep winging it.
ramey		It'll be hard to find a lawyer willing to risk his life.  But if you hand over the gun...
stu		How can I when you won't let me take it out?
ramey		We'll take it out for you -- as soon as you exit the booth with your hands raised and...
stu		 Now we're back to that again.  It's always "Get out of the booth.' 'You can't stay in the booth.' Well, I like it in the fucking booth.  It's my whole world now. It's my booth and I'm never coming out.
ramey		We're not about to force you because there could be a miscalculation and then we'd never find out why this happened.
stu		Why is it so important to know? The guy is dead.  Isn't that enough?  Knowing isn't going to make him alive again.  So who gives a fuck!
ramey		It's what makes the job interesting.  Finding out why. Something drove you to do this. You didn't go out today expecting this to happen.  It was a nice day. You were out for a walk.  And then suddenly it all changed.
stu		All I wanted was to make a phone call.  One lousy phone call for thirty-five fucking cents.
voice		Careful, Stu.  Don't volunteer too much.
ramey		You got some bad news on that call.
stu		The worst.
ramey		Something that pushed you over the edge?
stu		And I've been falling ever since.
ramey		Time to land.
stu		When you hit bottom, you die.
ramey		I'm your safety net.
stu		If I tell you what you want to know -- you'll die, too.
ramey		I'll go see about that lawyer.
stu		Now that's a good idea.
voice		He's lucky.  I had him centered in my cross hairs.  I really had to restrain myself.
voice		It's not the police.  It's the media.  You're news, Stuart.
voice		You've never gotten this much press for any of your clients.  I'm making you a famous person.
stu		They're just hoping for coverage of me dying in the gutter.
voice		Their presence is putting the police on their continued best behavior.
stu		Those cops are just looking for any excuse.
voice		Then don't give them one.
voice		Who could it be?
stu		Kelly.  She was worried about me.
voice		Maybe she's seen this on television.  It must be on every channel by now.  Breaking news.
stu		She doesn't watch daytime TV.
voice		One of the neighbors could've alerted her.
stu		Why are you saying this?  You want me to reach in my pocket so you can see them open fire?
voice		That's an unwarranted accusation and very unbecoming in light of the good advice I've given in the past. Have I ever steered you wrong?
stu		God -- how I'd love to hear her voice.
voice		It might even be worth it.  She's insistent, isn't she?
stu		If she knows I'm in trouble, she won't give up.
voice		Probably glued to the TV by now. I'm watching coverage on two stations now.  Channel surfing.  Well, there you are on two and four and five.  Not any decent angles on you, though, stuck inside there.
voice		But if you'd take one or two steps outside and look up, I think they could get a clear picture of you.
stu		You said I'm not allowed to leave the booth.
voice		I might be willing to bend the rules and let you enjoy your moment of fame.  Set the phone down without hanging up... and take a step or two outside.  Just for a minute.  Then come straight back in or I'll be forced to provide 'live' coverage that should rival the historic Zapruder footage.  Nothing like an exploding head to excite viewer interest.
stu		No, thanks.  I'll stay where I am.
voice		It was only a suggestion.  Since you're convinced I'm going to plug you anyway, it can't matter much.
stu		If you shoot me, you give yourself away.
voice		Even without a muffler, they'd never hear the report with all this noise.  Afterwards, it'd take them a good ten minutes to realize you weren't plugged by some overzealous officer.  Then they'll blame the media for inciting a crackpot vigilante to come down here and do the SWAT team's job for them.
stu		You expected them to come.  You had this all worked out.
voice		I write the scenario and you all play your parts -- as directed.
stu		Poor Kelly.  What she must be going through.
voice		Why don't you tell her how you feel about her?
stu		I'd never get the words out.  Not with fifteen or twenty rounds in me.
voice		You can't be certain they'd fire. They'd see it was only a phone.
stu		They wouldn't wait to see.
stu		Why doesn't she hang up?
stu		It's her!  She's not calling me. She's over there.
voice		Is she?
stu		The blonde girl in the green jacket.
voice		Can't miss her.  Very attractive, isn't she?
stu		She must've heard all the commotion and come downstairs.
stu		It's somebody else who knows my cell number.  It's you!
voice		You continue to impress.
stu		Why is it so important that they kill me?
voice		Because that's how I win.
stu		This time you won't.  If you want me dead, you'll have to do it yourself.
voice		Either way I can't lose.
stu		It's all a game to you -- because you're incapable of feelings. You're not even human.
voice		I pride myself on that.  What's so great about being human?  It's the lowest form of life on this planet and I've taken it upon myself to thin the herd.
stu		I quit.  I'm not answering back any more.  I won't hang up but I'm not playing.
voice		Stu?  Stu, don't be that way. You're taking the pleasure out of it.
sergeant		This here's Helfand, of New York Telephone.
helfand		Glad to help out.
ramey		Have you got the number of that booth?
helfand		Sure do.
ramey		Can you tap into that call?
helfand		It can be done.
sergeant		But not without a warrant.  You could be violating this psycho's civil rights.  Especially if he's on the line with his fucking psychiatrist.
ramey		Shit.  I don't want to blow this on a technicality.  Tracing the call isn't any violation, is it?
sergeant		As long as we don't listen in.
ramey		 Okay, we've got to know who he's talking to and their current location.
helfand		That I can handle.  As long as they keep the circuit open.
ramey		I need the number and an address to go with it.
voice		Stuart, my friend.  Do you want to see how close I can come without actually hitting you?
voice		May I call attention to the yellow pages?
voice		Hollow points are designed to break up on impact.  It would've behaved differently if it had pierced your soft flesh.  The pieces would've bounced around looking for a way out.  That's where the real damage occurs -- finding an exit -- deflecting off all that bone...
voice		Still the silent treatment?  My father used to dish that out when he chose to punish me.  Not a word spoken -- one time for over a month.  I'd try and goad him to acknowledge I existed, but he stared right through me.  You're bringing back unhappy childhood, Stu.  That's not wise.
voice		Since you're ignoring me, I'll focus on someone else.  There she is -- nice and sharp.  I can see the two little punctures in each earlobe and my God, what kind of a girl would have her nostril pierced?
stu		No!
voice		What was that?  Louder, Stu.  We must have a bad connection.
stu		Leave her out of it.
voice		I didn't expect her to show up here.  But since she has -- I'll improvise.
stu		Don't.  Please don't.  I'm sorry. I'm talking to you again.  I'll talk all you want!
voice		It's a bad dye job.  The black roots are growing in and it makes her look cheap.
stu		I've screwed up her life enough already.  Please don't hurt her.
voice		I don't necessarily have to kill her.  I could be persuaded to settle for a reasonable mutilation. Which part of her displeases you most?  If she turns a bit more in profile, I'm accurate enough to remove the tip of her unpleasantly protruding nose.  It's just cartilage.  Any decent cosmetic surgeon will have her looking better than ever.
voice		You can see her talking to the police now.  She's identifying herself as your wife.  They're very interested in who you are.  They're taking her over to see the officer in charge.  What was his name?
kelly		What do you mean psychiatrist?  He doesn't see any psychiatrist.
ramey		Then who'd your husband be talking to?
kelly		There was some guy that called the house this morning and said weird stuff to me.
ramey		Stu seems to be checking things out with this person.
kelly		He hasn't got many friends -- I can tell you that.
ramey		Remain here, please.  We may need you later.
kelly		You won't hurt him?
ramey		We'll do our best not to.
voice		She won't even feel it when it happens.
stu		Take me instead.
voice		Don't distract me.  Now's the time to be absolutely still.  I have to hold my breath as I squeeze gently --
stu		No!  I'm hanging up.  That's it.
ramey		Shit.  He hung up.
sergeant		Maybe they already traced it. Anyhow, it doesn't matter.  Looks like he's coming out.
stu		 I've giving myself up.  Take me!
swat officer		 First the gun.  We want to see you toss away your weapon!
stu		Shit.  I can't.
swat officer		 Take him.
sergeant		What is going on with these fucking phone calls?
ramey		 Hold your fire.  Let him answer it.
sergeant		Are you nuts?
ramey		Let them talk.  He's not going anywhere.  He's going back inside the booth.
stu		 Yeah?
stu		 You got the wrong number.  Hang up.
stu		Wrong number.  Wrong number.
voice		Aw, relax, Stu.  Only yanking your chain.  Now can we start over?
stu		Those cops won't wait much longer.
voice		What else can they do?  They can't afford to just shoot you like I can.  Not with so much media coverage.  Not unless you make some stupid aggressive move.  The ABC Mobile Unit just rolled up.
stu		Will you look at that?  I must be going out over the network.  Bet they're pre-empting usual programming.
voice		And just think -- if you survive this, your trial will be televised. And you can try and make the world believe I ever existed.  I'd be your only defense.
stu		How are they gonna prove that I killed anybody when there's no gun?
voice		They'll plant one.  The police aren't above that -- when they're desperate to convict.
stu		No, sir.  No gun and I walk.
voice		Don't you think I took that into account?  Am I a fool?
stu		What do you mean?
voice		Haven't I considered every eventuality?  I knew they'd come and cordon off the block.  And that there'd have to be a gun someplace.
stu		Where?
voice		It's a small booth, Stu.  Have you checked every inch of it?
stu		 It's not on the floor.
voice		Then what's left?
stu		Up above.
voice		Could be.  Why don't you reach up there and lift the plastic sheet -- and feel around.
stu		If they see me reach for something, they could open fire.
voice		They could.  But you have to know if it's there.  Don't you?
stu		I totally don't give a shit.
voice		In a narrow space, tucked just to the left of the fluorescent bulb. You can almost see it outlined if you look closely.
stu		It doesn't matter.  I know about ballistics.  The slug in that dead guy came from your rifle, not any handgun.
voice		You saw how hollow points splinter on impact.  There's nothing much for ballistics to match to.  The same make .30 calibre bullets are in that handgun.  The prosecution rests.
stu		There's no gun up there.  I don't see a damn thing.
voice		Slide your finger up under the plastic and you'll feel the cold metal surface.  There are four rounds left in it.  Should you decide to shoot your way out.
stu		I could never shoot anybody.
voice		You could shoot me, Stu.  You'd do that in a minute if you could.
stu		And I'd fucking love it!
voice		Now you're speaking from the heart. Come on, just lift the partition a few inches and feel what's there for you.
stu		I'm not getting my fingerprints on your fucking weapon.  What about powder residue?  How are they going to explain that to a jury?
voice		Do you think that'll matter with so many eye witnesses?  Do it... or should I re-focus my attention on Kelly?
stu		No.
voice		You carefully distracted me from her before and I let you get away with it.  But if you're not going to play fairly --  There she is again.  So close I feel like I could touch her.
stu		Get off her!
voice		Then mind me when I speak.
stu		Look!  I'm reaching up with my left hand.  I'm pushing against the partition.  It's giving.  I'm feeling around with my fingertips. It's filthy up there.
stu		I'm -- touching something.
voice		One of the finest handguns Remington makes.  Lightweight, efficient and highly accurate.
stu		I'm not picking it up.
voice		Not right now.  But eventually...
stu		I wouldn't have a chance.
voice		I never said you would.
stu		I'm not insane.
voice		But you're getting there.  It wouldn't take much.
stu		That won't happen.
voice		You could pull the gun down, shove it in your own mouth and jerk the trigger.  That's another option.
stu		Why would I do that?
voice		To please me.  And ensure that nothing happens to Kelly.  I don't necessarily have to deal with her today in the midst of a crowd of cops.  I can take her out any time I like.  When she goes to pull down her blinds at night or when she walks the dog first thing in the morning.  What is it -- a Jack Russell?
stu		Okay.  I know you can do it.  But don't talk about that.  Please.
voice		I'd rather see you remembered as the gallant gunman who tried to shoot his way past an army of police -- than as a coward who sucked the barrel.  I'm doing your PR for you.  Creating a final image that'll endure.  The outraged New Yorker who was pushed too far. When some lowlife street person tries to invade his territory, he retaliated.  And when the forces of the law closed in, he was defiant... to the end.
stu		Like that nerdy sonofabitch who blew those three wiseass kids away on the subway?
voice		Exactly.  Nobody minded that he was a sicko.  He was living out a New Yorker's pet fantasy.  Can you remember that movie where Peter Finch started screaming 'I'm not taking it anymore!'  And everybody picked up on it.
stu		'I'm mad as hell and I'm not taking it anymore.'
voice		That was it.  Poor Finch got himself an Oscar for that.  But he was dead by then.  I mean he really died.  Maybe playing that part took too much out of him.
stu		 'I'm not taking it anymore.'  'I'm not taking it anymore.'
voice		That's the way!  Psyche yourself up.  Everybody respects a man who fights back, even if he goes a little berserk in the process.
stu		Fighting back.  That's what it's about.
voice		Exactly!  We all understand the poor schmuck that gets laid off and comes back and shoots all his bosses.  We all thought of doing that.  But only he had the balls. The terminally ill husband who gets his policy canceled and machine guns the insurance company offices. Maybe somebody will finally get the message.  You can fuck human beings over only for so long before they come back at you.  I'm still holding on Kelly and she looks very concerned.  I could relieve all that anguish in a fraction of a second.  Shall I?
stu		I'm on my knees begging you.
voice		Stand up, Stu.  You're embarrassing yourself.
voice		Stu -- I want you back on your feet facing me.  So you can see what I'm going to do to her.
voice		Be a man, Stuart.  Don't let them see you like this.  You're an embarrassment to me.
sergeant		 Officer on east side of the street reports subject removed a dark metallic object from his pocket. We better move.
ramey		Hold all fire until you actually identify a weapon.  We're doing this on fucking TV!
emergency operator		 Police.  Is this an emergency? Hello?  Is someone on the line?
stu		 You've made your point.  Who's going to believe I've got a sniper with a telescopic sight holding me in a fucking phone booth at 45th and 8th?
voice		It took you a while to believe it yourself.
stu		If you'd put a bullet in that Captain Ramey, it would've been a different story -- but you were too wise to do that.
voice		Why don't you do it for me?  Wave the old captain back over and get him nice and close and then use the handgun on him.
stu		 Why me?  You could pick off any of those cops from your window up there.  Like you did that pimp. And that tourist last week.  But this time you want me to do your killing for you.
voice		And you will!  To save Kelly.
emergency operator		 Can you speak up, sir?  What is your name?
voice		That's better, Stu.  Now turn around so I can see you.
stu		This booth.  It's my whole world -- shrunk down to four feet by three feet.  Not much bigger than the size of a coffin.
voice		They can put handles on the booth and bury you in it.
stu		 When I saw you put that bullet into that black dude, I knew you'd never let me out of this phone booth alive.
voice		You're wasting my time.  Reach up and take the gun.
stu		 Let me see you first.  What harm can that do you?  You're in one of those windows.  I've got to know which one.
voice		No need for that.
stu		Being so far, I could never identify you.  I don't even want to.
voice		What is it then?
stu		Don't worry that I'd try to point you out.  You'd shut me up with one of your .30 calibre hollow points before I could even raise a finger.
voice		Why does it matter so much?
stu		I want to see that you exist.  Like God exists.  It's not enough to believe.  You want to see him -- just once -- even at a distance.
voice		And then you'd take the gun down. And use it.  We have a deal on that?
stu		Show yourself to me and I'll take the gun down.  I swear.
voice		I don't have to make deals.  And you're irritating me by trying to negotiate.  God doesn't have to prove anything.  He just strikes you down when he gets in the mood.
stu		Stop!  I won't ask to see you anymore.
voice		I'm glad that's settled.  But look who else has showed up?
stu		Who?
voice		I guess she saw the coverage on TV and just couldn't keep away.
stu		What are you talking about?
voice		The 'hotel' just arrived.  And a very beautiful little hotel she is. Actually, I'd classify her as more of a motel.
stu		Mavis?  I don't see her.
voice		She's too far back behind the police line.  But I've got a fine shot at her from up here.
stu		You don't even know what she looks like.
voice		You're in an enviable position now, Stu.  You get to choose between them.  Tell me which one.
stu		I can't.
voice		Which will it be?  Kelly or Mavis? Or should I simply select one?
stu		I need time to think...
voice		You've got to be more in touch with your feelings.  You said you love Kelly.
stu		I do.
voice		Then I'm doing you a favor putting you out of the way of temptation.
stu		It wasn't Mavis' fault.  It was all my fault.
voice		Then take the third option.  Reach above you and pick up the gun.
stu		You'll leave them both alone?
voice		There won't be much point in harming them without you around to impress.
stu		I'll do it.
voice		Let me see you do it.
stu		I need one minute.  One last minute, please.  Can you give me that?
voice		Don't tell me you're going to say your prayers?
stu		Something like that.
ramey		They should've traced the fucking call by now.
sergeant		 There's something else coming in. A 911 operator says your name was mentioned by somebody that's still on the line.  Somebody talking about a phone booth.  And a sniper.
ramey		Patch me through.  Hello, this is Captain Edward Ramey.  What about that call?
emergency operator		The line is still open.  It's originating from a booth at 45th and 8th.
ramey		We're there!  Can you play me back your recording of the entire call?
emergency operator		I can't replay the tape while it's still running.
ramey		Then switch to another machine and play back what you've got.
emergency operator		It's awful faint.  He's not talking directly into the receiver.
stu's voice		 'Who's going to believe I've got a sniper with a telescopic sight holding me in some fucking phone booth...'
telephone technician		Got what you wanted.  The call's coming from up the street.  The Hotel Broadway.
ramey		Have you got the room?
telephone technician		It's not that easy.  Electronic switchboard.
ramey		 Move your SWAT units to the hotel. No... wait.  Any movement will alert the sniper.  If he sees any of us withdraw, he may panic.
sergeant		There's another SWAT unit on the way.
ramey		Intercept them.  Divert them to the hotel.
sergeant		It's done.
ramey		Send them in from the Forty-third Street side.  I don't want any activity the sniper might catch sight of.  He's probably high up and facing that booth.  He's got to continue to believe our full attention is focused on the man inside -- whoever the hell that poor bastard is.  Hello 911 operator, I missed some of that.  Run it halfway back and repeat it.
ramey		 Jesus... he's a dead man.
voice		The police seem all excited about something, Stu.
stu		Are they?  I wasn't looking.
voice		I can't wait any longer.  Say amen, then reach up for the gun.  When your hand comes down, I want to see it.
stu		I'm too afraid.
voice		For once, be brave.  Surprise yourself.
stu		I'm shaking all over.
voice		Guys in combat situations even shit their pants.  But they follow orders.
stu		As soon as the cops see a gun, they'll open fire.
voice		Then I'd advise you to fire first.
police sniper		 Give me the word.
voice		Hard part's over.  Drop your arm and point it like you'd point your finger and squeeze.
stu		No.  You do it.  If you want me dead, then fucking murder me!
voice		Why must I keep invoking some poor girl's name every time we come to an impasse?  I'm focused back on Kelly again.  You're obviously not willing to trade your life for hers.
stu		I am!  I'm doing it!
stu		There!  You see it?  They all see it.
stu		Where are you?  Damn you!!
voice		Thanks for such an interesting afternoon.
ramey		Hello?  This is Captain Ramey. Somebody talk to me.
ramey		What's his condition?
ramey		Get a statement from him.  I'll be right over.
medic		Don't try to sit up.
stu		What was that?
ramey		 Rubber bullet.
medic		You'll have one hell of a nasty welt.  Busted rib.  Maybe a permanent scar there.
stu		It couldn't hurt much more if you really shot me.
ramey		Somebody was going to and we thought it may as well be us.
stu		Did you get him?
ramey		Sure as hell did.  Thanks to you.
stu		Still alive?
ramey		Barely.
medic		We'll be giving him a hypo for the pain.  It'll put him out for a while.
stu		It's okay.  I'm not really shot.
kelly		I was so afraid.  I thought...
stu		I thought so, too.  But we're going to be alright.  Both of us.
kelly		Remember how you swore up and down you'd get me on TV?  Well, you did. I already got interviewed on Fox and Channel Eleven and they even want me on A.M. America tomorrow morning.
stu		Bet you didn't think I could deliver on that.
medic		Will you please let go of him, Miss?
stu		No.  No hypo.  I want to see him first.
ramey		Relax.  The guy's dying.
stu		That's why I've gotta talk to him. Please!
ramey		We'll see.
medic		 You can ride with him in the ambulance.
ramey		This is Ramey.  Over.  This is Ramey.  Ten-Four.
ramey		Shit.  Get everybody off this wavelength.
ramey		Hello.  Hello!  Pick up!  Yeah, it's Ramey again.  Can you hold the phone close enough so the perp can listen?
cop's voice		He's not saying a word, Captain.
ramey		He's not about to talk to us. Maybe to him.
ramey		Forget that.  Stand him up.  Can you stand?
stu		I can try.
ramey		Help him over here.
ramey		Here.  Speak up.
stu		 It's me.  Do you hear me?  Answer me.
voice		 Had to have the last word, Stu.
stu		I finally beat your ass.  Admit it, you fuck.
voice		But you'll never forget me.  I gave you the most thrilling day of your life.  Say thanks.
stu		Now you're gonna die, you bastard.
voice		I lost a lot of blood.  Don't you want to donate some for me?  Then we'd really be part of each other.
stu		Hang on.  I can't wait to see you at the hospital.  So I can yank your fucking air tube out.
voice		Wish I could give you that pleasure.  You deserve it.  ... Only I'm out of time.
stu		What's your name?  At least tell me who you are.
cop's voice		He's gone.
ramey		Don't worry.  We'll find out who he is.  And why he picked you.
stu		No.  You won't.  What do you want to bet you won't?
stu		I'll spend my whole life trying to figure that out.
stu		 Gotta sleep now.  No phone calls...
****Dialogues from script :Pi.txt****

lenny meyer		You see...The Hebrew "A," the number 1. The Hebrew "B," Bet, is two. You can take any Hebrew text and turn them into a long string of numbers.  The waitress refills Max's coffee.
lenny meyer		The Torah is just a long string of numbers. Some say that it's a long code sent to us from God.
lenny meyer		Don't worry. This one just goes over your head.  Lenny places the other Teffilin over Max's head. Max collects himself.
sol		So?  MAX So, maybe, even though we're not sophisticated enough to be aware of it, there is an underlying order...a pattern, beneath every Go game. Maybe that pattern is like the pattern in the market, in the Torah. The two sixteen number.
dissolve to		PAN ACROSS NEW EUCLID
lenny meyer		I don't know.  Can you really find it?  MAX If the number's in there, I'll find it.
black		A phone ringing...once... twice...then we hear
max		I don't want your wallet. Who sent you?  Max grabs the kid's camera.
max		Who the hell sent you!?  PHOTOGRAPHER Wha...I'm sorry...  MAX Who are you?!  PHOTOGRAPHER I'm...a...student I've got an assignment for class.  The Photographer pulls out his student ID. Max looks at it. Then he rips out the film-exposing it.
max		C'mon! I know who you are. You're not gonna save the world.
max		So?  RAV COHEN That word was the true name of God.  MAX Yeah...  RAV COHEN The true name, which only the Cohanim knew, was two hundred and sixteen letters long.
max		Stop it, please!
tight on		a tree branch gently blowing in the wind.
