****Dialogues from script :10_Things_I_Hate_About_You.txt****

rider		Hey -- sorry.
kat		Leave it
bianca		Did you change your hair?
bianca		You might wanna think about it
boy		 Hey, Bianca.
girl		Awesome shoes.
miss perky		I'm sure you won't find Padua any different than your old school.  Same little asswipe mother-fuckers everywhere.
miss perky		 Any questions?
cameron		I don't think so, ma'am
miss perky		Then go forth.  Scoot   I've got deviants to see.
miss perky		 Patrick Verona.  I see we're making our visits a weekly ritual.
patrick		I missed you.
miss perky		It says here you exposed yourself to a group of freshmen girls.
patrick		It was a bratwurst.  I was eating lunch.
miss perky		With the teeth of your zipper?
michael		You the new guy?
cameron		So they tell me...
michael		C'mon.  I'm supposed to give you the tour.
michael		 So -- which Dakota you from?
cameron		North, actually.  How'd you   ?
michael		I was kidding. People actually live there?
cameron		Yeah.  A couple.  We're outnumbered by the cows, though.
michael		How many people were in your old school?
cameron		Thirty-two.
michael		Get out!
cameron		How many people go here?
michael		Couple thousand. Most of them evil
michael		We've got your basic beautiful people. Unless they talk to you first, don't bother.
michael		 Those 're your cowboys.
cameron		That I'm used to.
michael		Yeah, but these guys have never seen a horse.  They just jack off to Clint Eastwood.
michael		 To the right, we have the Coffee Kids. Very edgy.  Don't make any sudden movements around them.
michael		And these delusionals are the White Rastae.
michael		 Big Marley fans.  Think they're black. Semi-political, but mostly, they watch a lot of Wild Kingdom, if you know what I mean.
michael		 Derek - save some for after lunch, bub?
derek		 Michael, my brother, peace
cameron		So where do you fit in all this?
michael		Future MBAs-  We're all Ivy League, already accepted.  Someday I'll be sipping Merlot while those guys --
michael		 are fixing my Saab.  Yuppie greed is back, my friend.
cameron		That girl -- I --
michael		You burn, you pine, you perish?
cameron		Who is she?
michael		Bianca Stratford.  Sophomore. Don't even think about it
cameron		Why not?
michael		I could start with your haircut, but it doesn't matter.  She's not allowed to date until her older sister does.  And that's an impossibility.
kat		Why didn't we just read the Hardy Boys?
kat		This book is about a guy and his fishing habit.  Not exactly a crucial topic.
kat		 Frankly, I'm baffled as to why we still revere Hemingway.  He was an abusive, alcoholic misogynist who had a lot of cats.
joey		As opposed to a bitter self-righteous hag who has no friends?
kat		I guess the school board thinks because Hemingway's male and an asshole, he's worthy of our time
kat		 What about Colette?  Charlotte Bronte? Simone de Beauvoir?
patrick		Mother Goose?
miss perky		Katarina Stratford.  My, my.  You've been terrorizing Ms. Blaise again.
kat		Expressing my opinion is not a terrorist action.
miss perky		Well, yes, compared to your other choices of expression this year, today's events are quite mild.  By the way, Bobby Rictor's gonad retrieval operation went quite well, in case you're interested.
kat		I still maintain that he kicked himself in the balls.  I was merely a spectator.
miss perky		The point is Kat -- people perceive you as somewhat ...
kat		Tempestuous?
miss perky		No ... I believe "heinous bitch" is the term used most often.
miss perky		 You might want to work on that
kat		As always, thank you for your excellent guidance.
bianca		Not really.
teacher		Mandella -- since you're assisting us, you might as well comment.  I'm assuming you read the assignment.
mandella		Uh, yeah, I read it all
teacher		The whole play^
mandelia		The whole folio.  All the plays.
teacher		 You've read every play by William Shakespeare?
mandella		Haven't you?
kat		The fact that you're cutting gym so you can T.A. Sophomore English just to hear his name, is a little without in itself if you ask me.
mandella		Who's that?
kat		Patrick Verona   Random skid.
mandella		That's Pat Verona? The one who was gone for a year? I heard he was doing porn movies.
kat		I'm sure he's completely incapable of doing anything that interesting.
mandella		He always look so
kat		Block E?
kat		 Mandella, eat.  Starving yourself is a very slow way to die.
mandella		Just a little.
kat		What's this?
mandella		An attempted slit.
kat		I realize that the men of this fine institution are severely lacking, but killing yourself so you can be with William Shakespeare is beyond the scope of normal teenage obsessions.  You're venturing far past daytime talk show fodder and entering the world of those who need very expensive therapy.
mandella		But imagine the things he'd say during sex.
kat		Okay, say you do it.  You kill yourself, you end up in wherever you end up and he's there.  Do you really think he's gonna wanna dace a ninety pound compulsive who failed volleyball?
cohort		Virgin alert.
joey		Lookin' good, ladies.
mandella		Tragic.
cameron		Why do girls like that always like guys like that?
michael		Because they're bred to.  Their mothers liked guys like that, and their grandmothers before them. Their gene pool is rarely diluted.
cameron		He always have that shit-eating grin?
michael		Joey Dorsey?  Perma-shit-grin.  I wish I could say he's a moron, but he's number twelve in the class.  And a model.  Mostly regional stuff, but he's rumored to have a big tube sock ad coming out.
michael		 You know French?
cameron		Sure do ... my Mom's from Canada
michael		Guess who just signed up for a tutor?
cameron		You mean I'd get a chance to talk to her?
michael		You could consecrate with her, my friend.
joey		 The vintage look is over, Kat. Haven't you been reading your Sassy?
kat		Yeah, and I noticed the only part of you featured in your big Kmart spread was your elbow.  Tough break.
joey		 They're running the rest of me next month.
kat		The people at this school are so incredibly foul.
mandella		You could always go with me.  I'm sure William has some friends.
joey		Need a ride, ladies?
mandella		That's a charming new development
kat		 Remove head from sphincter!  Then pedal!
cameron		You all right?
michael		Yeah, just a minor encounter with the shrew.
cameron		That's her?  Bianca's sister?
michael		The mewling, rampalian wretch herself.
kat		"Undulating with desire, Adrienne removes her crimson cape, revealing her creamy --"
sharon		In the microwave.
walter		 Make anyone cry today?
kat		Sadly, no.  But it's only four-thirty.
kat		 Where've you been?
bianca		 Nowhere... Hi, Daddy.
walter		Hello, precious.
kat		How touching.
walter		What's this?  It says Sarah Lawrence?
kat		I guess I got in
sharon		What's a synonym for throbbing?
walter		Sarah Lawrence is on the other side of the country.
kat		I know.
walter		I thought we decided you were going to
kat		You decided.
bianca		Is there even a question that we want her to stay?
kat		Ask Bianca who drove her home
sharon		Swollen...turgid.
walter		 Who drove you home?
bianca		Now don't get upset. Daddy, but there's this boy... and I think he might ask...
walter		No! You're not dating until your sister starts dating.  End of discussion.
bianca		What if she never starts dating?
walter		Then neither will you.  And I'll get to sleep at night.
bianca		But it's not fair -- she's a mutant, Daddy!
kat		This from someone whose diary is devoted to favorite grooming tips?
walter		Enough!
walter		 Do you know what this is?
walter		This is why you're not dating until your sister does.
bianca		But she doesn't want to date.
walter		Exactly my point
walter		 Jesus!  Can a man even grab a sandwich before you women start dilating?
sharon		Tumescent!
walter		 You're not helping.
bianca		Can we make this quick?  Roxanne Korrine and Andrew Barrett are having an incredibly horrendous public break- up on the quad.  Again.
cameron		Well, I thought we'd start with pronunciation, if that's okay with you.
bianca		Not the hacking and gagging and spitting part.  Please.
cameron		 Okay... then how 'bout we try out some French cuisine.  Saturday?  Night?
bianca		You're asking me out.  That's so cute. What's your name again?
cameron		 Forget it.
bianca		No, no, it's my fault -- we didn't have a proper introduction ---
cameron		Cameron.
bianca		The thing is, Cameron -- I'm at the mercy of a particularly hideous breed of loser.  My sister.  I can't date until she does.
cameron		Seems like she could get a date easy enough...
cameron		Why?
bianca		Unsolved mystery.  She used to be really popular when she started high school, then it was just like she got sick of it or something.
cameron		That's a shame.
bianca		Gosh, if only we could find Kat a boyfriend...
cameron		Let me see what I can do.
michael		You're in school for one day and you ask out the most beautiful girl?  Do you have no concept of the high school social code?
cameron		I teach her French, get to know her, dazzle her with charm and she falls in love with me.
michael		Unlikely, but even so, she still can't go out with you.  So what's the point?
cameron		What about him?
michael		 You wanna go out with him?
cameron		 No - he could wrangle with the sister.
michael		What makes you think he'll do it?
cameron		He seems like he thrives on danger
michael		No kidding.  He's a criminal.  I heard he lit a state trooper on fire.  He just got out of Alcatraz...
cameron		They always let felons sit in on Honors Biology?
michael		I'm serious, man, he's whacked.  He sold his own liver on the black market so he could buy new speakers.
cameron		Forget his reputation.  Do you think we've got a plan or not?
michael		Did she actually say she'd go out with you?
cameron		That's what I just said
michael		You know, if you do go out with Bianca, you'd be set.  You'd outrank everyone. Strictly A-list.  With me by your side.
cameron		I thought you hated those people.
michael		Hey -- I've gotta have a few clients when I get to Wall Street.
cameron		So now all we gotta do is talk to him.
michael		I'll let you handle that.
pepe		Some people like the Colombian, but it all depends on your acidity preference. Me?  I prefer East African and Indonesian.  You start the day with a Sumatra Boengie or maybe and Ethiopian Sidamo in your cup, you're that much farther ahead than someone drinkin' Cosia Rican or Kona -- you know what I mean?
cameron		Hey, there
cameron		 Later, then.
michael		Hey.
joey		Are you lost?
michael		Nope - just came by to chat
joey		We don't chat.
michael		Well, actually, I thought I'd run an idea by you.  You know, just to see if you're interested.
joey		We're not.
michael		 Hear me out.  You want Bianca don't you?
michael		 But she can't go out with you because her sister is this insane head case and no one will go out with her. right?
joey		Does this conversation have a purpose?
michael		So what you need to do is recruit a guy who'll go out with her.  Someone who's up for the job.
michael		Exactly
michael		Oh, hey, nothin' man   Purely good will on my part.
michael		 I have a dick on my face, don't I?
cameron		You got him involved?
michael		Like we had a choice?  Besides -- when you let the enemy think he's orchestrating the battle, you're in a position of power. We let him pretend he's calling the shots, and while he's busy setting up the plan, you have time to woo Bianca.
cameron		You're one brilliant guy
kat		So he has this huge raging fit about Sarah Lawrence and insists that I go to his male-dominated, puking frat boy, number one golf team school. I have no say at all.
mandella		William would never have gone to a state school.
kat		William didn't even go to high school
mandella		That's never been proven
kat		Neither has his heterosexuality.
kat		 Do you mind?
mandella		Does it matter?
kat		If I was Bianca, it would be, "Any school you want, precious.  Don't forget your tiara."
mandella		Janice Parker told me he was a roadie for Marilyn Manson.
patrick		Touch of the flu.
miss perky		I'm at a loss, then.  What should we talk about? Your year of absence?
patrick		How 'bout your sex life?
miss perky		Why don't we discuss your driving need to be a hemorrhoid?
miss perky		You weren't abused, you aren't stupid, and as far as I can tell, you're only slightly psychotic -- so why is it that you're such a fuck-up?
patrick		Well, you know -- there's the prestige of the job title... and the benefits package is pretty good...
miss perky		Fine.  Go do something repugnant and give us something to talk about next week.
mandella		Look, it's really easy.
trevor		You're a freedom fighter. Be proud, sister.
mandella		Your "people" are white, suburban high school boys who smoke too much hemp.  I have not freed you, Trevor.  Only you can free yourself.
bianca		C'esc ma tete. This is my head
cameron		Right.  See?  You're ready for the quiz.
bianca		I don't want to know how to say that though.  I want to know useful things. Like where the good stores are.  How much does champagne cost?  Stuff like Chat.  I have never in my life had to point out my head to someone.
cameron		That's because it's such a nice one.
bianca		Forget French.
bianca		 How is our little Find the Wench A Date plan progressing?
cameron		Well, there's someone I think might be --
bianca		Show me
bianca		Give me a sign when he walks by.  And don't point.
cameron		There.
bianca		Where?
cameron		I guess he didn't see me  Some other time --
bianca		My God, he's repulsive. He's so perfect!
patrick		Yeah
patrick		Two legs, nice rack...
joey		Yeah, whatever.  I want you to go out with her.
patrick		Sure, Sparky.  I'll get right on it.
patrick		You need money to take a girl out
joey		But you'd go out with her if you had the cake?
joey		You got it, Verona.  I pick up the tab, you do the honors.
patrick		You're gonna pay me to take out some girl?
joey		I can't date her sister until that one gets a boyfriend.  And that's the catch. She doesn't want a boyfriend.
patrick		I can't take a girl like that out on twenty bucks.
patrick		Fifty, and you've got your man.
patrick		There's a way to get a guy's attention.
kat		My mission in life.
kat		Oh, right.  Friday.
patrick		The night I take you to places you've never been before.  And back.
kat		Like where?  The 7-Eleven on Burnside? Do you even know my name, screwboy?
scurvy		So I guess the Jeep won't be getting a new Blaupunkt.
bianca		Have you ever considered a new look? I mean, seriously, you could have some potential buried under all this hostility.
kat		I have the potential to smack the crap out of you if you don't get out of my way.
bianca		Can you at least start wearing a bra?
patrick		Hey
kat		I don't really think you warrant that strong an emotion.
patrick		Then say you'll spend Dollar Night at the track with me.
patrick		Come on -- the ponies, the flat beer, you with money in your eyes, me with my hand on your ass...
kat		You -- covered in my vomit.
patrick		I was in the laundromat. I saw your car. Thought I'd say hi.
patrick		You're not a big talker, are you?
kat		Depends on the topic. My fenders don't really whip me into a verbal frenzy.
walter		My insurance does not cover PMS
kat		Then tell them I had a seizure.
walter		Is this about Sarah Lawrence? You punishing me?
kat		I thought you were punishing me.
walter		Why can't we agree on this?
kat		Because you're making decisions for me.
walter		As a parent, that's my right
kat		So what I want doesn't matter?
walter		You're eighteen.  You don't know what you want.  You won't know until you're forty-five and you don't have it.
walter		Christ!  I want a night to go by that I'm not staring a contraction in the face.
joey		When I shell out fifty, I expect results.
joey		Watching the bitch trash my car doesn't count as a date.
patrick		I got her under control. She just acts crazed in public to keep up the image.
joey		Let me put it to you this way, if you don't get any action, I don't get any action.  So get your ass on hers by the end of the week.
patrick		A hundred bucks a date.
patrick		Forget her sister, then.
joey		You better hope you're as smooth as you think you are, Verona.
cameron		La copine et I 'ami?  La diferance?
bianca		A "copine" is someone you can count on. An "ami" is someone who makes promises he can't keep.
cameron		You got something on your mind?
bianca		I counted on you to help my cause. You and that thug are obviously failing. Aren't we ever going on our date?
cameron		You have my word.  As a gentleman
bianca		You're sweet.
cameron		 How do you get your hair to look like that?
bianca		Eber's Deep Conditioner every two days. And I never, ever use a blowdryer without the diffuser attachment.
cameron		You know, I read an article about that.
bianca		You did?
patrick		Whatever the hell it is you're standin' there waitin' to say.
cameron		We wanted to talk to you about the plan.
michael		The situation is, my man Cameron here has a major jones for Bianca Stratford.
patrick		What is it with this chick?  She have three tits?
michael		I think I speak correctly when I say that Cameron's love is pure.  Purer than say -- Joey Dorsey's.
patrick		Dorsey can plow whoever he wants. I'm just in this for the cash.
michael		That's where we can help you.  With Kat.
michael		Patrick, Pat, you're not looking at the big picture.  Joey's just a pawn. We set this whole thing up so Cameron can get the girl.
patrick		You two are gonna help me tame the wild beast?
cameron		And he means that strictly in a non- prison-movie type of way.
cameron		This is it.  A golden opportunity. Patrick can ask Katarina to the party.
michael		In that case, we'll need to make it a school-wide blow out.
cameron		Will Bogey get bent?
michael		Are you kidding?  He'll piss himself with joy.  He's the ultimate kiss ass.
bianca		I think I like the white shirt
bianca		Expensive?
joey		Exactly  So, you going to Bogey Lowenbrau's thing on Saturday?
bianca		Hopefully.
joey		Good, 'cause I'm not gonna bother if you won't be there.
bianca		Have you heard about Bogey Lowenstein's party?
cameron		Sure have.
bianca		 I really, really, really wanna go, but I can't.  Not unless my sister goes.
cameron		I'm workin' on it. But she doesn't seem to be goin' for him.
cameron		 She's not a...
bianca		Lesbian?  No. I found a picture of Jared Leto in one of her drawers, so I'm pretty sure she's not harboring same-sex tendencies.
cameron		So that's the kind of guy she likes? Pretty ones?
bianca		Who knows?  All I've ever heard her say is that she'd dip before dating a guy that smokes.
cameron		All right.  What else is she partial to?
patrick		Lou, it's okay.  They're with me.
cameron		I've retrieved certain pieces of information on Miss Katarina Stratford I think you'll find helpful.
patrick		What?!
cameron		Number one.  She hates smokers
cameron		Her favorite uncle
patrick		Are you telling me I'm a -  "non-smoker"?
cameron		Another thing.  Bianca said that Kat likes -- pretty guys.
patrick		What?  You don't think I'm pretty?
cameron		Okay!  I wasn't sure
cameron		 Okay -- Likes:  Thai food, feminist prose, and "angry, stinky girl music of the indie-rock persuasion".
patrick		So what does that give me?  I'm supposed to buy her some noodles and a book and sit around listening to chicks who can't play their instruments?
michael		Ever been to Club Skunk?
patrick		Yeah.
cameron		Gigglepuss is playing there tomorrow night.
michael		Assail your ears for one night.
cameron		It's her favorite band.
michael		I also retrieved a list of her most recent CD purchases, courtesy of American Express.
michael		I prefer to think of it simply as an alternative to what the law allows.
bianca		Can you turn down the Screaming Menstrual Bitches?  I'm trying to study.
bianca		 Don't tell me you're actually going out?  On a school night, no less.
bianca		 Oh my God, does this mean you're becoming normal?
kat		It means that Gigglepuss is playing at Club Skunk and we're going.
bianca		 I don't know why I'm bothering to ask, but are you going to Bogey Lowenstein's party Saturday night?
kat		What do you think?
bianca		I think you're a freak.  I think you do this to torture me.  And I think you suck.
bruce		Take it easy on the guys in there.
bruce		Next time, leave the Bic at home, Skippy.
skippy		It's a bottle opener.
bruce		Didn't have you pegged for a Gigglepuss fan.  Aren't they a little too pre-teen belly-button ring for you?
patrick		Fan of a fan.  You see a couple of minors come in?
bruce		Never
patrick		Padua girls.  One tall, decent body. The other one kinda short and undersexed?
lead singer		Hello, out there.  We're Gigglepuss and we're from Olympia.
patrick		You know, these guys are no Bikini Kill or The Raincoats, but they're right up there.
kat		You know who The Raincoats are?
mandella		Has he importun'd you with love in honourable fashion?
mandella		They were.  I only wish William could have been here to witness the rebirth of punk rock with us.
kat		So true.
cameron		So, then she says that she almost didn't wear the Kenneth Coles with that dress because she thought she was mixing, you know, genres. And the fact that I noticed -- and I'm quoting here - "really meant something."
cameron		Hell, I've just been going over the whole thing in my head and -
michael		What?  We took bathes together when we were kids.
joey		What's your gig in all this?
cameron		I'm just the new guy.
joey		You better not fuck this up.  I'm heavily invested.
michael		Hey -- it's all for the higher good right?
cameron		Is it about me?
miss perky		You're completely demented.
patrick		 See you next week!
miss perky		You two know each other?
bianca		She's obviously not going.
bianca		Daddy, I --
walter		And where're you going?
bianca		If you must know, we were attempting to go to a small study group of friends.
walter		Otherwise known as an orgy?
bianca		It's just a party. Daddy, but I knew you'd forbid me to go since "Gloria Steinem" over there isn't going --
walter		Do you know about any party? Katarina?
bianca		Daddy, people expect me to be there!
walter		If Kat's not going, you're not going.
bianca		You're ruining my life'  Because you won't be normal, I can't be normal.
bianca		Bogey Lowenstein's party is normal, but you're too busy listening to Bitches Who Need Prozac to know that.
walter		What's a Bogey Lowenstein?
bianca		Can't you forget for just one night that you're completely wretched?
kat		At least I'm not a clouted fen- sucked hedge-pig.
bianca		Like I'm supposed to know what that even means.
kat		It's Shakespeare.  Maybe you've heard of him?
bianca		Yeah, he's your freak friend Mandella's boyfriend.  I guess since I'm not allowed to go out, I should obsess over a dead guy, too.
walter		Girls
kat		I know about the goddamn party.  I'm going.
walter		Oh, God.  It's starting.
bianca		It's just a party. Daddy.
walter		Wear the belly before you go.
bianca		Daddy, no!
walter		Just for a minute
walter		 I want you to realize the weight of your decisions.
bianca		You are so completely unbalanced.
walter		 Promise me you won't talk to any boys unless your sister is present.
bianca		Why?
walter		Because she'll scare them away.
bogey		Nice to see you.  Martini bar to the right, shots in the kitchen.
joey		Lookin' fresh tonight, Pussy-Kat
kat		Wait -- was that?-- Did your hairline just recede?
kat		Away.
guy		Drink up, sister.
patrick		What's this?
patrick		I say, do what you wanna do.
kat		Funny, you're the only one
bianca		Where did he go?  He was just here.
bianca		Joey.
cameron		Evening, ladies.
bianca		Hi.
cameron		Looks like things worked out tonight, huh?
bianca		You know Chastity?
cameron		I believe we share an art instructor
bianca		Would you mind getting me a drink, Cameron?
cameron		Certainly Pabst?  Old Milwaukee? RaiJieer?
bianca		Surprise me.
michael		Extremely unfortunate maneuver.
cameron		The hell is that?  What kind of 'guy just picks up a girl and carries her away while you're talking to her?
michael		Buttholus extremus.  But hey, you're making progress.
cameron		No, I ' m not.
cameron		 She used me!  She wants to go out with Dorsey.  Not me.  I'm an idiot!
joey		So yeah, I've got the Sears catalog thing going -- and the tube sock gig " that's gonna be huge.  And then I'm up for an ad for Queen Harry next week.
bianca		Queen Harry?
joey		It's a gay cruise line, but I'll be, like, wearing a uniform and stuff.
bianca		Neat...
joey		My agent says I've got a good shot at being the Prada guy next year.
bianca		I'll be right back.
bianca		He practically proposed when he found out we had the same dermatologist. I mean. Dr. Bonchowski is great an all, but he's not exactly relevant party conversation.
bianca		Combination.  I don't know -- I thought he'd be different.  More of a gentleman...
bianca		Sometimes I wonder if the guys we're supposed to want to go out with are the ones we actually want to go out with, you know?
kat		Bianca, I need to talk to you -- I need to tell you --
bianca		 I really don't think I need any social advice from you right now.
kat		I want another one
joey		My man
patrick		Do what?
joey		Get her to act like a human
patrick		Okay?
kat		I'm fine. I'm
patrick		You're not okay.
kat		I just need to lie down for awhile
patrick		Uh, uh. You lie down and you'll go to sleep
kat		I know, just let me sleep
patrick		What if you have a concussion? My dog went to sleep with a concussion and woke up a vegetable. Not that I could tell the difference...
kat		Okay, I'll just sleep but stay awake, okay?
patrick		C'mon, let's walk
patrick		Cameron, I'm a little busy
cameron		It's off. The whole thing.
patrick		What 're you talking about?
cameron		She's partial to Joey, not me
patrick		Cameron -- do you like the girl?
cameron		Sure
kat		This is so patronizing.
patrick		Leave it to you to use big words when you're shitfaced.
kat		Why 're you doing this?
patrick		I told you
kat		You don't care if I die
patrick		Sure, I do
kat		Why?
patrick		Because then I'd have to start taking out girls who like me.
kat		Like you could find one
patrick		See that?  Who needs affection when I've got blind hatred?
kat		Just let me sit down.
patrick		How's that?
kat		Who?
patrick		Dorsey.
kat		I hate him.
patrick		I know.  It'd have to be a pretty big deal to get you to mainline tequila. You don't seem like the type.
kat		 Hey man. . .  You don ' t think I can be "cool"?  You don't think I can be "laid back" like everyone else?
kat		You know what they say
patrick		No. What do they say?
kat		 What?
patrick		I thought you were...
kat		Go away
bianca		Dinner taste better on the way out?
bianca		 I don't get you.  You act like you're too good for any of this, and then you go totally apeshit when you get here.
kat		You're welcome.
patrick		Cute
joey		A bunch of us are going to Jaret's house.  Wanna come?
bianca		I have to be home in twenty minutes.
cameron		 Have fun tonight?
bianca		Tons
bianca		 Cameron?
bianca		 Do you think you could give me a ride home?
patrick		I'm driving, so I get to pick the tunes.
kat		It's my car.
patrick		And I'm in control of it.
kat		But it's Gigglepuss - I know you like them.  I saw you there.
patrick		Busy
kat		Were you in jail?
patrick		Maybe.
kat		No, you weren't
patrick		Then why'd you ask?
kat		Why'd you lie?
patrick		Do what?
kat		This.
patrick		Start a band?
patrick		You don't strike me as the type that would ask permission.
kat		Oh, so now you think you know me?
patrick		I'm gettin' there
kat		The only thing people know about me is that I'm "scary".
kat		He just wants me to be someone I'm not.
patrick		Who?
kat		BIANCA
patrick		No offense, but you're sister is without.  I know everyone likes her and all, but ...
kat		You know -- you're not as vile as I thought you were.
patrick		So, I'll see you in school
cameron		I looked for you back at the party, but you always seemed to be "occupied".
bianca		 I was?
cameron		You never wanted to go out with 'me, did you?
bianca		 Well, no...
cameron		Then that's all you had to say.
bianca		But
cameron		You always been this selfish?
cameron		Just because you're beautiful, doesn't mean you can treat people like they don't matter.
cameron		 And I'm back in the saddle.
derek		Kat, my lady, you sway to the rhythm of my heart.
clem		Yippe kai-aye, bra.  Dance for me, cowgirl.
derek		Because the deputy meant him no harm, my friend.  It was only the sheriff that was the oppressor.
joey		Kat, babe, you were on fire.
clem		Ms. Blaise, can I get the bathroom pass?  Damn if Shakespeare don't act as a laxative on my person.
mandella		You went to the party?  I thought we were officially opposed to suburban social activity.
kat		I didn't have a choice.
mandella		You didn't have a choice?  Where's Kat and what have you done with her?
kat		I did Bianca a favor and it backfired.
kat		I got drunk.  I puked.  I got rejected. It was big fun.
patrick		Hey
michael		So you got cozy with she who stings?
patrick		No - I've got a sweet-payin' job that I'm about to lose.
cameron		What'd you do to her?
patrick		I don ' t know.  I decided not to nail her when she was too drunk to remember it.
michael		I'm on it
michael		Hey there.  Tired of breathing?
mandella		Yeah.  I guess.
mandella		You think?
mandella		Who could refrain that had a heart to love and in that heart, courage to make ' B love known?
michael		So, listen... I have this friend
cameron		She hates you with the fire of a thousand suns .  That's a direct quote
patrick		She just needs time to cool off I'll give it a day.
cameron		She kissed me.
joey		Don't talk to me about the sweetest date.  That little halo Bianca is gonna be prone and proven on prom night.  Six virgins in a row.
patrick		I don't know, Dorsey. ..the limo.-the flowers.  Another hundred for the tux --
joey		Enough with the Barbie n' Ken shit. I know.
kat		Can you even imagine?  Who the hell would go to this a bastion of commercial excess?
mandella		Well, I guess we're not, since we don't have dates .
kat		Listen to you!  You sound like Betty, all pissed off because Archie is taking Veronica.
kat		You ' re looking at this from the wrong perspective.  We're making a statement.
bianca		 Hi, Joey.
joey		You're concentrating awfully hard considering it's gym class.
bianca		You know the deal.  I can ' t go if Kat doesn't go --
joey		Your sister is going.
bianca		Since when?
patrick		Excuse me, have you seen The Feminine Mystique?  I lost my copy.
patrick		I heard there was a poetry reading.
kat		You 're so --
patrick		Pleasant?
kat		Unwelcome.
patrick		Unwelcome?  I guess someone still has her panties in a twist.
kat		Don't for one minute think that you had any effect whatsoever on my panties.
patrick		So what did I have an effect on ?
kat		Other than my upchuck reflex? Nothing.
patrick		You were right. She's still pissed.
michael		Sweet love, renew thy force!
patrick		Man -- don't say shit like that to  me. People can hear you.
cameron		 You humiliated the woman! Sacrifice yourself on the altar of dignity and even the score.
michael		Best case scenario, you're back on the payroll for awhile.
patrick		What's the worst?
cameron		You get the girl.
patrick		If I go down. I'm takin' her with me
patrick		"I'd hide it to myself.  And never talk about it.  And didn't I go and shout it when you walked into the room --"
patrick		Flog me.
kat		Sir, I'd like to state for the record that Mr. Verona ' s current incarceration is unnecessary.  I never filed a complaint.
kat		But, Mr. Chapin, I hardly think a simple serenade warrants a week of detention.  There are far more hideous acts than off-key singing being performed by the student body on a regular basis.
kat		Wait, Mr. Chapin.  There's something I've always wanted to show you.
kat		These.
kat		Thank you, Mr. Chapin.
kat		He left!  I sprung the dickhead and he cruised on me.
patrick		I guess I never told you I'm afraid of heights.
kat		 C'mon.  It's not that bad
patrick		Try lookin' at it from this angle
kat		Put your right foot there --
patrick		Forget it.  I'm stayin'.
kat		You want me to climb up and show you how to get down?
patrick		 Maybe.
kat		You shit!
kat		The Partridge Family?
patrick		I figured it had to be something ridiculous to win your respect.  And piss you off.
kat		Good call.
patrick		So how'd you get Chapin to look the other way?
kat		I dazzled him with my wit
kat		Yeah, well, don't let it get out
patrick		So what's your excuse?
kat		Acting the way we do.
patrick		Yes
kat		I don't like to do what people expect. Then they expect it all the time and they get disappointed when you change.
patrick		So if you disappoint them from the start, you're covered?
kat		Something like that
patrick		Then you screwed up
kat		How?
patrick		You never disappointed me.
kat		For. . . ?
kat		State trooper?
patrick		Fallacy.
kat		The duck?
patrick		Hearsay.
kat		I know the porn career's a lie.
patrick		Do you?
kat		Tell me something true.
patrick		I hate peas.
kat		No -- something real.  Something no one else knows.
kat		What?
patrick		No one else knows
kat		You're amazingly self-assured. Has anyone ever told you that?
patrick		Go to the prom with me
kat		Is that a request or a command?
patrick		You know what I mean
kat		No.
patrick		No what?
kat		No, I won't go with you
patrick		Why not?
kat		Because I don't want to. It's a stupid tradition.
patrick		People won't expect you to go...
kat		Why are you doing this?
kat		All of it -- what's in it for you?
patrick		So I have to have a motive to be with you?
kat		You tell me.
patrick		You need therapy.  Has anyone ever told you that?
patrick		cover that up
bianca		Quick question -- are you going to the prom?
bianca		Then Guillermo says, "If you go any lighter, you're gonna look like an extra
cameron		No...
bianca		do you listen to this crap?
cameron		What crap?
bianca		Me.  This endless ...blonde babble. I'm like, boring myself.
cameron		Thank God!  If I had to hear one more story about your coiffure...
cameron		 I figured you'd get to the good stuff eventually.
bianca		What good stuff?
cameron		The "real you".
bianca		Like my fear of wearing pastels?
bianca		 You know how sometimes you just become this "persona"?  And you don't know how to quit?
cameron		 No
bianca		Okay -- you're gonna need to learn how to lie.
trevor		You're gonna look splendiferous in that, Mandella.
sharon		Would you rather be ravished by a pirate or a British rear admiral?
walter		Pirate -- no question.
bianca		Daddy, I want to discuss the prom with you. It's tomorrow night --
walter		The prom?  Kat has a date?
bianca		No, but
walter		It's that hot rod Joey, right? That ' s who you want me to bend my rules for?
bianca		He's not a "hot rod".  Whatever that is.
walter		You're not going unless your sister goes.  End of story.
bianca		Fine.  I see that I'm a prisoner in my own house.  I'm not a daughter. I'm a possession!
walter		 You know what happens at proms?
sharon		They'll dance, they'll kiss, they'll come home.  Let her go.
walter		Kissing?  Is that what you think happens?  Kissing isn't what keeps me up to my elbows in placenta all day.
bianca		Come in.
bianca		Like you care.
kat		I do care. But I'm a firm believer in doing something for your own reasons, not someone else ' s .
bianca		I wish I had that luxury. I'm the only sophomore that got asked to the prom and I can't go, because you won ' t.
kat		Joey never told you we went out, did he?
bianca		What?
kat		In 9th.  For a month
bianca		 Why?
bianca		But you hate Joey
kat		Now I do.  Back then, was a different story.
bianca		As in...
kat		He said everyone was doing it.  So I did it.
bianca		You did what?
bianca		But
kat		After that, I swore I'd never do anything just because "everyone else" was doing it.  And I haven't since. Except for Bogey's party, and my stunning gastro-intestinal display --
bianca		 Why didn't you tell me?
kat		I wanted to let you make up your own mind about him.
bianca		No. you didn't!  If you really thought I could make my own decisions, you would've let me go out with him instead of helping Daddy hold me hostage.
kat		That's not
bianca		I'm not stupid enough to repeat your mistakes.
kat		I guess I thought I was protecting you.
bianca		God, you're just like him! Just keep me locked away in the dark, so I can't experience anything for myself
kat		Not all experiences are good, Bianca. You can't always trust the people you want to.
bianca		I guess I'll never know, will I?
bianca		Come in.
kat		Feel like shopping?
walter		What do you wanna watch?  We've got crap, crap, crap or crap
bianca		Hi, Mommy.  WALTER
bianca		You like?  My date should be here in five.
walter		I'm missing something.
bianca		I have a date, Daddy.  And he ' s not a captain of oppression like some men we know.
cameron		Wow
bianca		Let's go.
walter		But -- who -- what --?
kat		Hey, guys. I'm going to the prom. See you in a few.
walter		What just happened?
sharon		Your daughters went to the prom.
walter		Did I have anything to say about it?
walter		That ' s what I thought
walter		late
kat		How'd you get a tux at the last minute?
patrick		It's Scurvy's.  His date got convicted. Where'd you get the dress?
kat		It's just something I had.  You know
kat		Look, I'm  -- sorry -- that I questioned your motives.  I was wrong.
patrick		No prob.
kat		are you ready?
kat		Quite the ostentatious display
patrick		Look, Clem even wore his good boots
mandella		Have you seen him?
kat		Who?
mandella		William - he asked me to meet him here.
kat		Oh, honey -- tell me we haven't' progressed to full-on hallucinations.
bianca		 What are you doing here?
bianca		I did.
patrick		My grandmother's .
kat		What?
patrick		That's where I was last year.  She'd never lived alone -- my grandfather died -- I stayed with her.  I wasn't in jail, I don't know Marilyn Manson, and I've never slept with a Spice Girl.  I spent a year sitting next to my grandma on the couch watching Wheel of Fortune.  End of story.
kat		That ' s completely adorable!
patrick		It gets worse -- you still have your freshman yearbook?
joey		What's Bianca doing here with that cheese dick?  I didn't pay you to let some little punk ass snake me.
cameron		Admit it.  You lost.  Be a man.
joey		I'm not your brother, white boy.
bianca		That's for making my date bleed
bianca		 That's for my sister.
bianca		 And that's for me.
cowboy		And that's for the fourth grade, asshole.
patrick		Wait I...
kat		You were paid to take me out!  By -- the one person I truly hate.  I knew it was a set-up!
patrick		It wasn't like that.
kat		Really?  What was it like?  A down payment now, then a bonus for sleeping with me?
patrick		I didn't care about the money.
kat		You are so not what I thought you were.
bianca		Are you sure you don't want to come with us?  It'll be fun.
kat		I ' m sure .
bianca		You looked beautiful last night, you know.
kat		So did you
cameron		She okay?
bianca		I hope so.
walter		Was that your sister?
kat		Yeah.  She left with some bikers Big ones.  Full of sperm.
walter		Funny.
walter		 I don't understand the allure of dehydrated food.  Is this something I should be hip to?
kat		No, Daddy.
walter		 So tell me about this dance. Was it fun?
kat		Parts of it.
walter		Which parts?
kat		The part where Bianca beat the hell out of some guy.
walter		Bianca did what?
kat		What's the matter?  Upset that I rubbed off on her?
walter		No -- impressed.
walter		 You know, fathers don't like to admit that their daughters are capable of running their own lives.  It means we've become spectators.  Bianca still lets me play a few innings.  You've had me on the bleachers for years.  When you go to Sarah Lawrence, I won't even be able to watch the game.
walter		Oh, Christ.  Don't tell me you've changed your mind.  I already sent 'em a check.
cameron		I'd like to express my apologies.
kat		For what?
cameron		 I didn't mean for you to get -- When Bianca asked me to find you a boyfriend, I had no idea it would turn out so -- ugly. I would never have  done anything to compromise your - - -
teacher		Who can tell me at what point Lucentio admits his deception?
bianca		Let go!
kat		You set me up.
bianca		I just wanted --
kat		What? To completely damage me?  To send me to therapy forever? What?
bianca		No! I just wanted
miss perky		Ladies?  Shall we take a trip to my office?
miss perky		So you're the real bitch
bianca		Yes!  Okay?  Yes -- I'm the real bitch. I wanted her to get a boyfriend so I could.  Apparently, this makes me a horrible person.  I'm sorry.
bianca		 I swear -- I didn't know about the money.  I didn't even know Joey was involved.  I would never intentionally hurt you, Kat.
kat		Am I supposed to feel better? Like, right now?  Or do I have some time to think about it?
bianca		 We'll be getting back to you.
bianca		Is that woman a complete fruit-loop or is it just me?
kat		It's just you.
kat		I'11 go
kat		I hate the way you talk to me/ and the way you cut your hair/ I hate the way you drive my car/ I hate it when you stare.
kat		A Fender Strat. You bought this?
patrick		I thought you could use it. When you start your band.
kat		Is that right?
patrick		Yeah, but then I fucked up. I fell for her.
kat		You can't just buy me a guitar every time you screw up, you know.
patrick		I know
kat		And don't just think you can
kat		Why is my veggie burger the only burnt object on this grill?
patrick		Because I like to torture you.
kat		Oh, Bianca?  Can you get me my freshman yearbook?
patrick		Don ' t you even dare. . .
cameron		They do to!
bianca		They do not!
cameron		Can someone please tell her that sunflower seeds come from sunflowers?
mandella		I can't remember a word of Shakespeare right now. Isn't that weird?
kat		You're freaked over this, aren't you?
bianca		He's more than freaked.  He's froke
kat		I'd like to call your attention to Patrick Verona's stunning bad-ass look of 1995 ---
bianca		Patrick -- is that- a.
kat		Perm?
patrick		Ask my attorney.
****Dialogues from script :12.txt****

first woman		I've been here one year and I've lived through an earthquake, fires, floods...
second woman		The rains...it just keeps coming...the floods...the hillsides are coming down... you can't get to and from work and it's just a mess.
third woman		You survive by natural instincts, you go with the flow.
allen		Okay...hold on. Yeah I'll take care of you in a second...I'm transferring you over..
allen		Hello.? Yeah okay I've got somebody else on hold...I'm going to transfer you over. It might be a second, just hold on.
allen		Okay, oh doctor.  TALK SHOW HOST Hello?  EXTERIOR - RANCH HOUSE FROM ABOVE - DAY We see rooftops of ranch buildings from high above. We HEAR the sound of a plane flying overhead. We HEAR ALLEN'S voice.
allen		Are you there?  EXTERIOR - RANCH HOUSE - DAY The Ranch House stands isolated in a dry island valley. The plane passes overhead.
allen		Can I use my real name on the radio?
allen		First of all I'm invisible. I see myself looking in a mirror. I'm having this dream almost every night.
allen		And the next thing you know I'm getting married. I don't know to whom....  INTERIOR - RANCH HOUSE - DAY MARIE-NOEL looks in the mirror again; the conversation on the radio affirms something she knows to be true.
allen		Like an entire solid month.
allen		Then all of a sudden I see myself walking down a road by the harbor....  The TALK SHOW HOST interrupts. WE HEAR a telephone ring.
allen		Can you hold on for one second... Hello.  TALK SHOW HOST No, actually we can't...Hello?  INTERIOR - OFFICE - DAY ALLEN is trying to juggle too many things at once. He tries to transfer incoming calls without losing them. He has the TALK SHOW HOST on hold again.
allen		Yeah, I've got two other lines. Can you hold a second? Great....
allen		Hello...yeah...hold on. I can transfer you now.
allen		Hi. Hi. Sorry.
allen		Sorry..
allen		I'm really sorry....
allen		Am I on?
allen		Okay. I'm walking along the road down by the harbor, and I'm invisible, and I go around looking at people knowing that they can't even see me and in this dream.....
allen		... I ride around with people. I get in their cars, I go all over town.  INTERIOR - OFFICE - DAY ALLEN has risen to a peak in energy.
allen		I mean here...this, this, this.  TALK SHOW HOST And how does it feel to you?  VIEW on PHONE: WE HEAR a RING
allen		Can you hold on a second?  NOTE: DISCONTINUITY - Glasses disappear from ALLEN's Hand.  VIEW ON ALLEN He turns to a colleague in the office while the TALK SHOW HOST languishes on hold.
allen		I've got two juice commercials. I'm like the spokesman for the company now. I got a Baske and Robbins, and I'm on avail for a couple of beer things that are going on..  WE HEAR another RING. A hand in the foreground picks up a phone. ALLEN goes back to the line of the TALK SHOW HOST.
colleague		Hello...
allen		Dr. Powell I'm back....
allen		Sorry to put you on hold....You see then I get out of the car...
allen		...and I walk all day...  EXTERIOR - LA - NIGHT MARIE-NOEL walks down Hollywood Blvd. Creatures of the night surround her.
allen		...and all night.  TALK SHOW HOST Don't put me on hold...  EXTERIOR - LA - NIGHT ALLEN walking on a back street.
allen		No, no, no, no. I'm at work. I'm at work.
allen		What do you think? Do you think I'd make a fake call in the middle of work?
allen		And then this really strange thing happens.
allen		While I'm walking...I'm an Actor...
allen		I'm walking, and I see myself walking, but I don't stop, I just keep on walking.
allen		I want to know what you think about the dream, let me finish it! Can you hold on a second please?
tony		Come on...
tony		Yes it is.
tony		Let's not.
tony		We'll just go home and we'll wait it out.
tony		Let's not.
tony		Don't give up. I mean nothing has happened to us. She'll probably be at the boat waiting for us when we get there.  EXTERIOR - ADJACENT STREET - SUNRISE BRENDA fast walks on a street next to the park.  As she approaches, she suddenly stops. WE HEAR the sound of rain. It is a clear morning.  Perplexed, she laughs.  EXTERIOR - PARK - SUNRISE TONY and MARIE-NOEL walk urgently through a wooded section of the park. The sound of thunder gets louder and louder getting closer to them. TONY grabs MARIE-NOEL'S arm as the fearful sound passes close to them without incident.  EXTERIOR - ADJACENT STREET - SUNRISE BRENDA walks past the camera, still perplexed by the odd occurrence.  EXTERIOR - LA - SUNRISE We see the mountain again and continue to HEAR the airplane.  EXTERIOR - WEST LOS ANGELES - SUNRISE The fog is coming in. Tops of buildings disappear.
tony		Let's not be naive about the earthquake...  EXTERIOR - CENTURY CITY FROM THE AIR - SUNRISE The fog gets thicker...
tony		It's a good sign...  VIEW on WILSHIRE BLVD...Thick Fog.
tony		That's what saved us.  EXTERIOR - LA - SUNRISE We see the silhouette of buildings from a distance. The sun rises above them.  EXTERIOR - PARK - SUNRISE TONY and MARIE-NOEL continue to walk urgently through a wooded section of the park.
their pov		We see a sheep standing beside a tree in the fog.
allen's voice		Hi this is ALLEN at 969-8895. I'm not home right now but if you want to leave me a message I'll get back to you as soon as you can...  ALLEN listens for a minute. He is not quite awake.  TITLE: "Actor Credit"
allen's voice		If it's important and during the day you can call me at Knapp Communications. The number is  932-1465. Uh, I should be there all day. And if it's not important and you don't want to call me there leave a message on this machine but don't hang up I really hate that and, uh,that's it, bye.  We HEAR a BEEP but no one is on the line. ALLEN's head hits the pillow and he flashes to.  Clip of Scorcese's Mean Streets. Where Keitel's head hits the pillow.  ALLEN walking satisfied.
silence		 MUSIC: Bach: Well Tempered Clavier #10  Rack focus: MOON  INTERIOR - ISLAND - NIGHT MARIE-NOEL is sitting in the dark, smoking a cigarette.
tony		The first time you feel sexual you see fate all around you? Is that what you want?
tony		I have the feeling that that's dad's only motive.
tony		They think we are selfish...  TITLE: TONY in the city, FILMORE on the island.
tony		They think we should procreate.  TONY breathes a sigh.
allen		Not two guys, a girl and a guy.  They were related. Marie-Noel that's her name, not very Greek I know...
interviewer		And she was the one you were married to?
allen		Yes.
interviewer		Who own this house?
allen		I do, I mean we did.
allen		It started this way.
interviewer		So you're an actor?
allen		Yes.  I'm an actor.  That's where I met the guy.
allen		I met him at a casting call for a commercial... He said his name was Tony.  EXTERIOR - HOLLYWOOD - DAY ALLEN walks along the sidewalk on his way to a casting call.
allen		I was late...  INTERIOR - ALLEN'S TEMP JOB - DAY ALLEN talks on the phone wearing sunglasses.
allen		So I had to make up an excuse for work..  WIDER view on ALLEN at work.
allen		Some temp job I was working downtown.  VIEW on Rainy sky with jet and palm tree.  VIEW on LA river.  VIEW on PEOPLE at bus stop.
allen		It was raining, and there was this flood and everybody was jittery.  EXTERIOR - FRONT YARD OF ALLEN'S HOUSE - NIGHT ALLEN continues his interview.
allen		Because something that big in nature doesn't usually happen around here except an earthquake, or your occasional rare winter snowstorm every ten or twenty years.  EXTERIOR - AGAINST BLACK - NIGHT MARIE-NOEL speaks to TONY.
camera man		Okay, ready to roll.
interviewer		What's your name?
allen		Allen.
interviewer		And you were kidnapped by aliens, did you say?
allen		No, no, no, no.  I was involved with this woman and this guy.
interviewer		Wait, wait, wait, let me understand this... you were involved with a goddess?  Like a Greek goddess?
allen		With a Greek, Zeus, Athena type goddess.
interviewer		Where is she now?
allen		She's like hunting quail in the Sierras now.
allen		Yeah, we were married right before....
allen		Very quiet. Where you from?
allen		Do you act?
voice		TONY, are you there?  Come on! Pick up the phone!
voice		TONY, are you there, Tony! Tony! Tony!  ...and find TONY at the door looking at the coin. It indicates he should go into a Barber shop. TONY looks inside the Barber shop and sees threatening faces. He enters anyway. Goes up to GUY SELLING SODA who takes the coin out of TONY's hand and gives him a soda. TONY is puzzled.  DISSOLVE:  Tony is siting in a chair with a cloth wrapped up to his neck. The barber looks at TONY'S hair. TONY is trying to open the can but can't figure it out.
tony		Do you have a church key?
barber		What will it be?
tony		I'll......
guys		Yeah, what'll it be man?  TONY looks around at the 8 mean faces around him.
tony		I want to cure my passive aggressive personality.  From now on when I want something I'm going to ask for it. I'm going to learn how to be more observant of signs and consider how other people might need clearer signals from me.
guy 1		Why don't you get a job. That's what the man says....
guy 2		...You look good, you'd do great in an interview.
guy 1		Join a group. Do something for other people.
guy 3		Go up and talk to people. See if you have someone in common...
guy 4		Do some charity work...
all		Mingle..Be creative. Take chances. Take ownership.
guy 3		Ride the bus....
brenda		This case is a mess. We don't know what is going on with the child. No, no, no, no, no no, the couple is stonewalling. Nobody has seen the child, in what, 15 years. Every visit is marked "guardian unavailable". Nobody bothers because it's the island. And get this, the couple, they're not married. No. They're the step-children of the owner of the island who is now deceased...  EXTERIOR - CATALINA EXPRESS TERMINAL - EARLY MORNING BRENDA walks into the terminal.
doolittle		The is your meeting so why don't we get down to business.
dave		Sounds fine.
doolittle		Call Boston if you want. I don't think the time change will make any difference
dave		Your name is Filmore West, correct?  TONY does not answer.
doolittle		We're requesting an environmental impact study on the employment angle in Avalon.
dave		Are you kidding?  Any loss in jobs will be absorbed in the Federal tourism franchise. Employment will double, property and leases will increase in value. The overall benefit will be stunning to the average citizen of Avalon.
doolittle		What if we tell everybody about the national resources here. If you'll remember your history gentlemen, the civil war was won by the collateral in the Treasury created by the California gold rush. We think the government needs a big hit of cash right now to cure the deficit. Remember what Churchill said, a great government never has to face the truth nor pay cash.
dave		Could we have a moment?
doolittle		We're looking very good here. Just don't give them anything they can use. Do not say anything.  INTERIOR - ISLAND OFFICE - DAY DAVE and TOSHI stand and walk to the corner of the room.
dave		What if we bring up the legality of him impersonating his grandfather.
toshi		I think we need something stronger. Any sexual harassment suits or child abuse. He's a guardian.
brenda		Hello, I'm from the department of Human Services in LA.  I'm looking for a missing child who may be somewhere on the island.
sheridan		Name?
brenda		A Marie-Christine West? Her guardian is a Mr. Filmore West.  INTERIOR - INN ON MT. ADA - DAY TONY and DOOLITTLE as they confer.
tony		I think I know what's going on here.
doolittle		Good, good, good, good, just don't say anything.
brenda		Did they have a child with them? Or did they take this child with them?  The OFFICER interrupts BRENDA.
officer		They're brats. They're very unpopular around here. They're keeping the property values from tripling.
brenda		Great, where can I find them?
sheridan		Probably France. What would you do if you owned all of Catalina and Anacapa..?
officer		...all the way to San Miguel including the Big Island which has gold deposits and the IRS are looking for them?  BRENDA's expression changes. She becomes maniacal.  INTERIOR - INN ON MT. ADA - DAY DAVE and TOSHI sit down again, ready with a response.
dave		I'd like to direct your attention to the signatures on these documents.  DOOLITTLE rips the document out of DAVE'S hand.
doolittle		This is intolerable!
dave		One is a reconveyence of a second deed of trust, and the other is your recent letter to us. You would have been 4 years old at the time of the first document.
tony		You guys believe in fairy tales don't you?
dave		We want to know who you are.
tony		This reminds me of the Tempest where the rightful Duke is robbed of his kingdom by his evil brother...
toshi		Were you born in this country?
tony		...and the evil brother puts the good Duke and his daughter out to sea in a small boat to die. And at the end of the story....
doolittle		My client is using a figure of speech.
dave		Then where are we going with this, guys?
tony		You two are going to jail.
doolittle		We're saying....you don't have enough money.
tony		What do you say next?
toshi		We're just representing the United States Government in an attempt to take what the people have a right to.
tony		Big Brother. Orwell! No, no, That's too recent.
doolittle		The situation is irreversible.
dave		What are you going to do?  Act it out for us.  TONY heats up.
tony		...And it's raining and hailing and lightning's striking and you guys think that I'm dead, but I'm not. I'm really back in the big island with my daughter.  DOOLITTLE puts his hand on TONY'S shoulder to restrain him.
tony		And you know what we're doing. Playing chess, and having a picnic!  TONY stands up to leave and crashes into a waiter who trips and spills dishes on the floor.  MUSIC: BACH Concerto in D minor  EXTERIOR - AVALON HARBOR - DAY Tourist boats come and go.  INTERIOR - AVALON CLOTHING SHIP - DAY BRENDA looks at a map of the Channel Islands.  She sees the Big Island. A woman behind the counter comes up to her.
counter person		Hi.  Can I help you?
brenda		Which way to the Big Island?
ranch hand		You must have slept a long time.
tony		I've been sleeping a lot lately.
ranch hand		Yeah about 2 years.
ranch hand		A woman named Reggie Swan confirmed she'll arrive March 4th. She'll be staying until September.  I got the bunk house all ready for her.  The RANCH HAND goes back for a second box as TONY continues down the dock.
ranch hand		There have been quite a few fly-overs by the park service.  The last 6 months there has been surf on the North point. Anyone who can afford a boat has been streaming up here like freeway commuters.
tony		Yeah.
ranch hand		This thing with the surfers has become some sort of a cult. There have been a few entries on the South shore, young men looking for Marie-Noel...I vacated them immediately.
tony		Uh huh.
ranch hand		The park service has been on the island almost full time, as expected, and the monk from the monastery arrived for another year.
brenda's pov		The lethal arrowhead is pointed at MARIE-NOEL'S head.
tony		More in the boat.
tony		Likewise.
tony		A dry hole.
tony		I scattered them for their own protection. And it doesn't bother me because any animal, no matter where it starts, turns out the same.  TONY eats pop tarts.
tony		The ones you were wearing the night .....
tony		Is there anything about Halloween in Edgar Allen Poe?  MARIE-NOEL sits up and stops the conversation.  MUSIC Starts: Heavy Rock  FLASH BACK: Halloween Concert. VIEW on audience Dancing..The show on stage..Image of death..View on Sheep in fog.  MUSIC Stops
tony		I guess it's about time. It was starting to bug me.
tony		You can stop living out of suitcases and fix the place up?
tony		What's that supposed to mean?
tony		I'm in the same situation you are. Moving or sitting still is the same thing, they're everywhere.
tony		I think we can stall the government until the next gubernatorial election.
tony		If anything happens to me you should take the train East...  TONY points East.
tony		...We both came from the West. I think we'll be heading that way.  MARIE-NOEL Well, you'll be all set up in LA if anything happens to me.  He pauses and doesn't answer right away.
tony		We've had a good life. We've been lucky. All these extra years are for stories. There's nothing left to do except to see how we fit into them.  MARIE-NOEL becomes silent and distracted, digging in a drawer.
tony		I thought we were going to drop that.
tony		How should I know?
tony		You'll know what to do when the time comes.
tony		Good.
woman		What are you doing in my apartment? What are you doing here?  ALLEN wakes up, startled, rubbing his eyes.
woman		And who's pizza is this? Excuse me!
allen		Calm down. We weren't expecting you for a while, we had the exterminator come in like you requested...
woman		Oh you did?
woman		And who the hell is this?  ALLEN  Take this stuff out for her.  H. TOM starts frantically collecting the garbage.
woman		You've got pizza in my place...you're lying here. Who's clothes are these?  ALLEN picks up his bag of things. H. TOM finishes his cleanup.
allen		There's no pizza here; there's no clothes here.
woman		You had no permission to come into my place. A guy sleeping in my bedroom, sleeping on my couch.
allen		I'm going to request to the board that you perhaps should be kicked out for your bad sculpture.
woman		Oh you are?  Get the hell out of here. What kind of manager are you anyway?  The WOMAN slams the door and shakes her head in amazement.  MUSIC: Arne Mellnas Transparence  EXTERIOR - AUNT DEBBIE'S HOUSE - DAY A green cab pulls up in front of a garish Encino home. JULIENNE gets out, dressed plainly, with one suitcase. The cab leaves and she gives a skeptical once over to the house. She is about to begin her new life.  Is this it? She walks up the pathway to the door and notices a great quantity of mushrooms growing on the front lawn. She steps over the flowers, kneels down and picks up one of the mushrooms. She looks at it and wonders.  VIEW of SUN A partial eclipse is in progress.
allen		Hi, Aunt Debbie?
aunt debbie		What's that on your face?
aunt debbie		Did you move that refrigerator to my new building?
aunt debbie		Liar. Your car doesn't work.
aunt debbie		Who's this?
allen		Shut up!
allen		He picks up my residual checks and he's a really good plumber.
allen		Shut up!  No we didn't.
aunt debbie		That refrigerator, did you strap it on top of the car?
aunt debbie		And then did you ditch their car?
allen		Shut up!
aunt debbie		So you faked homelessness and begged for free chicken.  FLASHBACK: ALLEN and H. TOM stand at the window of a fast food stand faking homelessness. ALLEN has Will Work For Food written on his stomach.
allen		What are you saying Aunt Debbie?
aunt debbie		The refrigerator is all scraped up and has no freon. And you smell rancid. And why are you so fat!
allen		One, two, three..
aunt debbie		Your cousin just arrived. When you see her, be sociable!
allen		You know I've been having these dreams lately where my mother finds me floating down the river in a little wicker basket and it turns out that  I am not related to you!  MUSIC: JOHN ADAMS "Fearful Symmetries"  EXTERIOR - LA - DAY TONY continues his search, flipping a coin to indicate the direction he should search. He tires of this and turns around, walking aimless around LA.  EXTERIOR - BUS BENCH - DAY TONY sits on a bench talking to several people. They are annoyed and walk away. A weird man with an odd head dress sits next to TONY. Tony gets up and leaves.  EXTERIOR - LA - DAY TONY walks off and walks into a line of workers carrying 2x4s. He ducks and almost gets decapitated, takes refuge at a bus bench. A MUSICIAN is sitting on the far end of the bus bench reading.
tony		Do you have the time?  MUSICIAN
tony		Why are you her right now?
tony		Why did you come up just this minute?
tony		Is this the bus you always take?
tony		You're late! Why are you late?
tony		Nothing caused you to be late?
view		A Tire rolls up the hill propelled by the crash. TONY and the man re-enter frame.
car man		Oh my god!  I can't fucking believe this! My car must have popped out of park!  It could have hit you.  Oh my god, I can't believe this...800 bucks...Oh my god!  TONY runs in Panic.  MUSIC: Guy Klucevsek "Reprieve"  VIEW ON TONY The tire does not fall from its own weight, it starts rolling back down the hill.
car man		Call 911!
allen		I have a genius IQ. My parents would have killed if I went into business. They'd love it.  MUSIC: Bach Suite #2 S. 1008
allen		If they were alive, you know what I'd tell them? I'd tell them I'm a temp in an insurance company.
allen		You're not listening. I don't want to be poor. But it's not like I'm doing some I gotta starve thing here. If I had enough money I'd be happy.
allen		Not me. I keep my nut real low. Basically I live off my relatives. You know?  Free rent. All the chicks I can pluck from my aunt's building. All I need is one national commercial a year and I can live like a king.
allen		Where do you get these things you say, man. Are you still on acid?
julienne		There's two choices for me right now. I'm either pregnant or feeling a false pregnancy.  The first one is impossible.
aunt debbie		Are you trying to tell your mother that you're knocked up?
julienne		Incredible weather we're having.
aunt debbie		I hate it because it makes my skin dry, especially my private parts.
julienne		In Maine, it's been frozen for two months.
aunt debbie		Why are you here anyway?
julienne		To take care of you. I thought that giving it all up and taking care of my old mother would be the simplest life possible. What you're telling me about my cousin Allen is upsetting.
aunt debbie		My dear husband, bless his soul THE BASTARD. He was very good to me..
julienne		You always said that.....
aunt debbie		It was my idea, not his! Now you're cousin Allen is the bastard.
julienne		Look mom, I came out here because I needed to. I've went through a time with so many regrets. I got ostentatious and solemn and I hated myself, and anyone who behaved the same way.  Independence works better alone. I'm a girl Shane, you know the gunfighter who hung up his guns.
aunt debbie		You didn't give them enough sex, that's your own fault.
julienne		Too many people in my past have been hurt, and all of them named Tony.
aunt debbie		Have you seen all these mushrooms around the house?
julienne		Fato Profungus... I believe they're called.
aunt debbie		You would know that. But don't eat them. Mrs. Johnson up the street says they make you horny.And when are you going to learn to drive?
julienne		Probably never. I like walking.
mortician		And what qualifies you for this job?
tony		Well, what is the job?
mortician		State privacy laws require that we watch over our guests day and night from the minute they arrive to the day of the funeral.
tony		You mean the bodies?
mortician		Yes. You're the body watcher.
tony		Oh. The body watcher.
mortician		Well, do you have any questions?
tony		Oh, no.
mortician		I have a few questions, if you don't mind.
tony		Okay.
tony		No, no. If I work at night I'll meet people during the day. See, I don't sleep much at night.
mortician		You have two lives? I have two lives. I've always wanted to be a stand up comic. Do you mind if I show you some of my material?
tony		Go ahead.
mortician		A man says to his doctor he can't remember things from one minute to the next the doctor says, "How long has this been going on?" The man says, "How long has what been going on?"
tony		That's good.
mortician		What are you doing?  You depraved person! Is that a client?  Get out of here!
mortician		Mr. Peterson?
tony		I dunno...Not yet. I see something here!
mortician		I don't care what you see. Get out.
pan		Oh hi.
hermes		We need to talk.
pan		OK.
pan		I've been living quietly by myself, except for the moon-light orgies and me scoring twice a day.
hermes		Dad wants to talk to you...because you're family.
pan		Hermes, I'll pay you if you get me back into the organization. I've got this new pornography you have to see...
pan		His mother was Jefferson's mistress.
hermes		We should help him.
pan		No.
pan		He lives on my island. There will always be as many demigods as there are minor poets. There are too many of them. They have good lives. They don't need any help.  TONY approaches JULIENNE. JULIENNE approaches TONY.  She sees TONY and smiles.
julienne		God I have a headache. Do you know the best thing for headaches?
tony		Is that why you came here just now?
julienne		...most people go to the vegetable section, I come here because I believe in headaches....Men who are worth anything always have headaches..
tony		I walk to get rid of my headaches....
julienne		I thought so. Everything's OK here as long as you're name isn't Tony.
tony		OK.
pan		Should we screw things up?  VIEW on TONY and JULIENNE
julienne		It's a challenge life put before me overcoming my Tony Karma. Men want blonds and good breasts. Women with breasts always do well. They also like tomboys. They trust tomboys. They consider them honorable and would never have sex with them unless the tomboy asked?  VIEW on PAN and HERMES
hermes		No, don't.  PAN yells at the top of his lungs. HERMES is thrown backward into a closet.  VIEW on Gas coming from a broken pipe.  INTERIOR VIEW ON TONY AND JULIENNE WE HEAR an alarm. A WOMAN comes up to TONY in a state of fright.
woman		There's gas leaking. Get out.  TONY starts to run out of the store pulling JULIENNE by the hand. He looks back and sees a FRAIL OLD WOMAN who does not understand the danger. TONY wants to go back.
tony		 I'll meet you outside.  TONY goes back to help the old WOMAN.
tony		Come on. there's a gas leak.  TONY tries to pull her.
julienne		A nice young man pulled me out and then went back in to save someone..and then there was this explosion  INTERIOR - DEBBIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT ALLEN and H. TOM are listening to the broadcast.
allen		Hello  Do you know a Tony.  AUNT DEBBIE Wrong number. They keep asking for TONY. Look it's your cousin!  VIEW ON TELEVISION
julienne		Then the store blew up.
debbie		She could have died.
allen		Holy shit, that's my cousin?
son		Where's the money Greg?  ALLEN My name isn't Greg, My name is Allen.  FATHER Maybe he isn't Greg. They said he was a big guy.
son		Where's the money Greg?
son		Are you allergic to pain?
son		Where is the money Greg?
father		What's with the gun?  I said no guns?
son		Is that your black Range Rover parked outside?
son		What?
son		Let's pop him. He knows a lot now.
father		Come on. He doesn't know anything.
father		Come on. We're sorry. Have a good day.
allen		You guys do sloppy work.  A desk lamp and the light bulb pops. It startles him.
radio		The New York Daily news says.. 1200 people
radio		Will be returned.. tomorrow..because you blew it...You're absolutely right..  ANGLE ON RADIO MARIE-NEL is turning the dial randomly.
radio		And what's going to happen?..to the personality of your dog...and don't forget..our children's     future..please.. because forces will gather... to take you away...  CLOSE UP ON MARIE-NEL She hears something she thinks is interesting.
radio		...from the island.  Then the radio becomes unintelligible. She turns the dial and only hears static.  WE HEAR Phone ringing.  INTERIOR - ALLEN'S ROOM - DAY ALLEN sits in his easy chair and answers the phone.
allen		Hello? Wouldn't you know it, the phone doesn't ring all day and it's you.  EXTERIOR - LA - DAY VIEW on Rain clouds above sunny houses on Highland Blvd.
radio		Matrix lactating....
allen		You notice something on the way home..
radio		...Etched droplets.
allen		Convertible with young bleach blond, mom in back...  EXTERIOR - THE VALLEY - DAY Julienne walks on Ventura Blvd.
allen		..mom in back...  ANGLE ON MARIE-NEL She dabs he finger into the color purple on her color palette.
radio		Heroic mall facing darlings.. Hasty Scotch preceding flick...  ANGLE ON ALLEN
radio		...finding freckles...
radio		talented...heady slap...  ALLEN  My time is mine again.  VIEW on ALLEN drinking glass of water on his balcony.
radio		slap, talented, heady...
radio		...breaks on not finding form...
radio		ditched glue...laughter pulling Orion...Wrist on loan...  TONY walking by tall poplars in the Valley on Mulholland drive.
radio		...bowed to & clean...  VIEW on mountain field of flowers. VIEW on Plane in landing pattern. VIEW on TONY's POV walking on Melrose. VIEW on ALLEN hanging up the phone. VIEW on MARIE-NEL putting on her makeup faster. VIEW on earthquake damaged buildings. VIEW on 3 people coming out of doors simultaneously.
radio		secret cycled from...the obvious...lodged style hawked from home...searing material lush as trash...  VIEW of the THIELE twins  MUSIC: Ludwig van Beethoven - Piano Concerto #8 in C minor, Op. 13 "Pathetique"  VIEW on MN putting on her makeup faster, and faster till it is an even bigger mess.
radio		feet lifting heavy ball...to shoulder in backward world...lovely cart...lucky... faucet of distant lakes...bad swath forever poor...  MARIE-NEL pulls off her black wig. She looks off camera as if she hears something.  EXTERIOR - LA - MORNING Close on pre-sunrise LA. Earthquake shakes the buildings as sun rises.  WE HEAR the sound of a HELICOPTER.  VIEW on LA. A moon rises in eclipse.  MUSIC: Haydn String Quartet Op 76, Allegro con Spirito
allen		Hey Barry, what are you doing here?
barry		I'm going to see my daughter's dance class. Aren't I allowed to have a life?
barry		Do you want this?
barry		16 table spoons of sugar. Fat is funny. Better you than me.
allen		Did you wipe it?
barry		I always knew you were a very talented man.
allen		You know Barry, when I was growing up in Maine my neighbors would say: Oh you're going to Hollywood to be a star, Huh, That was pretty embarrassing, wouldn't you say? You're just like them.
barry		What? Moi?
allen		It wasn't very nice.
barry		What haven't I done for you lately
allen		You're always so fucking condescending.
barry		What are you talking condescending, what are you saying?
barry		See you Allen. Aren't you going in the actor's entrance?
allen		They always bring us in the back door here but I'm going in the front today.
allen		You know I've added up all the time my commercials have run on television and I'm already way done with my 15 minutes of fame.
barry		Should I take that personally?
allen		Take it how ever you'd like.
barry		You know what? I'm going to take the steps. I don't feel comfortable in this elevator.
allen		Is this about me?
barry		No. I just don't like elevators. You know what and elevator is. It's a coffin. If it ever stops. Did you know that? The cables are weak, and it stops, there's no air.
allen		Barry!
barry		If there was an earthquake you know what would happen?
allen		Barry!
barry		...you'd be dead.
allen		Barry!
barry		I'd rather walk and have thighs.
allen		Barry!
allen		I'll call you at the office later. Oh oh oh! I'm scared.
allen		Oh Barry, I almost forgot...
allen		You're a pussy Barry.  Casting?
tony		Sure.
tony		It's all right.
allen		BARRY!!!!
tony		It'll be over soon.
allen		Are we under anything structural? Get in a door jam.
allen		Do you smell gas?
tony		What?
allen		We're going to die. Barrrrrrry!
homeless woman		After the earthquake was all over we went down to    the lobby and sad down in the lobby of the building...
homeless woman		...until the sun came up. And then we went off to our room to see if there was any damage, it was pretty bad. It was quiet, there wasn't anybody driving, there were people just wandering around, you know we walked out and we looked and we saw the cracks..... and you know down the street over here beside the building was off, a big bell tower up the street was tilted halfway down, it was sort of scary......
homeless woman		...and you know down the street over here beside the building was off, a big bell tower up the street was tilted halfway down, it was sort of scary......
tony		What a beautiful day for an earthquake.
tony		I don't own a car. I walk.
allen		You walk?
tony		Yeah I walk.
allen		Where do you live?
tony		Out of town.
allen		Where out of town....like New York out of town,     Texas out of town?
tony		A couple of hours out of town.
allen		Like Palm Springs out of town?
tony		Yeah, like Palm Springs out of town.
allen		And you don't have a car?
deranged woman		There's no love in the world! I miss my friend more than any thing that's ever happened to me. She had favorites of course.
tony		This makes me happy to know. We I have to go now.
deranged woman		You your self may know someone she liked.
tony		Loser. You're such a loser. You have terrible taste in clothes! All your taste is in your friggin' mouth!
allen		What are you doing?
tony		You don't want to have anything to do with her.
allen		I beg to differ. Is that tricycle listed. This never happens to me during the day.
allen		Why are you moving out?
fleeing tenant		This place is condemned. No use of paying you any more rent.
allen		Don't think you're going to get your security deposit back.
voice		Watch out for the floor up there, it's weak.
julienne		I thought you were dead?
julienne		We have to start meeting like this.
allen		What are you doing here?
julienne		Someone's fallen in the floor upstairs.
allen		Don't worry about it..Just a dead beat. We have to get out of here there's going be an aftershock.
tenant's voice		Who checked the gas main, asshole!
jim		The government has flip-flopped in maybe two or     three years the problem will come up again but it     least it gives us some breathing room.
tony		I'm thinking about starting over in LA. I like it     there, I've met some people I like. I'm happy for     the the first time in years.
jim		I knew you would be in spite of all the damage.
tony		How much?
jim		All interior roads are out. Raymond's barn fell     down. There's no power except from generators on     the big island
tony		Have you heard from Marie-Nel?
jim		No. We flew over and there's no damage to any structures, but her radio is out.
tony		I think I should get up there.
anthony		Stop the engine. Listen.  They all HEAR thunder.  ANTONY plunges overboard with his board and pack and starts Paddling. The zodiac pulls next to him.
anthony		I'll be all right. Pick me up on Sunday.  The zodiac speeds off.
first surfer		I guess so.
flash forward		MARIE-NEL reads the note, tearfully.
sequence		ANTHONY paddles toward shore.
****Dialogues from script :127_Hours.txt****

aron		Nearly missed it!
aron		Hey. Are you doing the east pike? Can I come along with you for a while? The girls don't reply, just look at each other.
kristi		 Sure, I'm Kristi.
megan		Megan.
aron		Nice to meet you. What a day.
kristi		It's beautiful.
aron		Did you bike or come straight from the trail head?
kristi		We left the car there. Pretty quiet.
aron		I left mine at the Horseshoe Canyon and biked here.
megan		You biked from Horseshoe? That's 20 miles or more.
aron		17 and windy.
megan		Yeah, you surprised us, sneaking up like that.
aron		Sorry.
megan		It's kind of nervy seeing a lone guy walking up to you in the middle of the desert.
aron		Yeah, I know, I mean there's no one around for 50 miles.
kristi		... and suddenly there's a guy right behind you and `wait a minute, why is he wearing a HOCKEY
aron		Let me guess... You're here for the paintings or the Cathedral?
kristi		The Cathedral? We've got a bit disorientated and the map isn't great. Where is it?
aron		The climb's a little tricky but it's worth it.
aron		There's thousands of holds but you can't see them until you're almost upside down and then they just keep appearing... it's a bit of a act of faith so I'll go first... take off as much as you dare as there's a bit of a surprise at the other end...
aron		I swear I won't look but I swear you won't care when you get out here...
megan		Are you ok? ARON!
kristi		Of course he's ok. Listen to him. Aron fills the cathedral dome with his version of a Phish song at the top of his voice. Kristi strips to her underwear and traverses away from Megan.
megan		We've got to go again. And film it!
megan		I really can't eat all this chocolate by myself... Never mind, yes I can!
kristi		So have you got a girlfriend, Aron?
aron		Well, there's not really anyone special.
megan		Ah, so there's lots of girlfriends.
kristi		There's always a girl, you just don't know it yet.
megan		Yeah, we meet lots of guys and there's always a girl.
aron		Long story.
kristi		With lots of characters in it.  CUT TO:
megan		Wow, highest person in Colorado.
aron		Well I figure no one else is mad enough to climb in the winter.
kristi		... you can be the highest person on the continent!
megan		Didn't you see it?
aron		What? No.
megan		Yeah, it's an old cattle guardian's house - the roof's caved in and someone spray-painted MOTEL 6 on the side. Smelled weird though.
aron		Just like a MOTEL 6 then?
kristi		Why are you on your own?
aron		Solitude. Great tunes. Empty mind. He indicates the wilderness.
megan		Phish?
kristi		Not those guys from...
aron		Yeah, I know, I know.   See, that's why I'm on my own. Nobody likes me or my band. They laugh as he goofs for them. He gathers all their packaging and stuffs it in his backpack.
aron		I'm not certified yet but that's what I want to do.
megan		An illegal instructor.
aron		It's hard to get the hours to
kristi		Well, we'll sign your time-card today.
aron		Great. Now put your ass on my head.
kristi		Okay but don't look and no grabbing now, if I do...
megan		Oh whatever, you love it.
kristi		Shhh!
aron		 You'll have to chimney down a little ways - like here, watch - one foot on each wall then squat onto your right heel, now your butt's on the wall, so you can move your right foot across, now put your left foot under your butt lower down and scootch your butt down - watch that black part, it's slick, slime, try not to get it on your shoes - if you can get to these bomber handholds here it's like an elevator shaft and just think friction to control the slide. This is a keeper so always have someone at the bottom to boost you out. He looks up to them.
megan		I didn't understand any of that.
aron		Why don't you come with me to the Big Drop Rappel? I can give you a lift back to your car.
kristi		How far is it? He shows them on the map.
aron		About another 8 miles or so, I think.
megan		You'll never get out before dark.
aron		No, I really got to do this. Anyway I've my miner's lamp.
megan		You don't climb at night, do you?
aron		No, it's great for seeing snakes in hand holds. Can I get a picture then? They pose with raven feathers in their hair.
kristi		Yeah, we'd like that. What time?
megan		Where?
aron		Drive on the east road and about 40 miles out there's a huge inflatable Scooby Doo. You can't miss it. Turn off and it's about 2 miles down that track. Starts late and it'll go right thru. Lots of cheek kissing and his last picture of them...
kristi		Come on Aron, hike out with us - we'll go get your truck, hang out and have a beer.
aron		No, I really got to do this.
kristi		Okay. Scooby Doo, yeah?
aron		That's the one. I'll have 3 cold beers waiting for us.
megan		12 cold beers!  CUT TO:  EXT. CANYON FORK. DAY. POV VARIOUS.
aron		Easy Aron, easy now. He keeps moving, descending still, but a little more circumspect. He lets the change of pace allow him to whip round his pack and with the practice of thousands of times selects and plays a CD without stopping, slipping the headphones over his head.  CUT TO:
cd recording		Good evening Las Vegas... are you having a good time? Are you ready for PHISH! Whether we are or not, the first song begins on a wave of adoration from his fellow Phish fans. He sings along.  CUT TO: 
phototime		He snaps the log now arching above him well out of reach.
aron		Won't be coming back this way.
aron		Yep.
aron		FUCK, get your hand out of there!
aron		FUCK! What the fuck? How the fuck did you get your hand trapped by a fucking boulder? Its crushed, it's fucking dying man! He reaches up and touches the trail of blood, hair and skin left on the canyon wall as the rock pushed him to where he is. Looks under boulder, no blood - check. [He hears the crowd cheering on his headphones. It's been playing throughout. He switches it off]
aron		Not good. He blows the whole lot into our face with a mighty gust.
aron		Shit!
aron		Sweet.  CUT TO: 
mark		Wow, look at the size of this one. There's no cliffs or mountains anywhere near. We look at Mark's pleasant, unremarkable face for far too long as he looks around -
aron		Cool. He picks it off his arm and places it on top of the rock next to where he's working. It's a grain of sand on the seashore but it's something.
aron		Aahhhhh.
raven		Caw-caw.  CUT TO:
aron		Caw-caw.
rana		OK - lights off and line up alongside me. They turn off their vehicles' headlights as she draws a long line in the sand and they join her standing on one side of it.
aron		It's three-oh-five on Sunday. This marks my twenty-four-hour mark of being stuck in Blue John Canyon above the Big Drop. My name is Aron Ralston. My parents are Donna and Larry Ralston of Englewood, Colorado. Whoever finds this, please make an attempt to get this to them. Be sure of it. I would appreciate it. He takes long blinks and seems to avoid looking at himself though the screen is facing him. He looks alarmed and wide eyed, startled, in contrast to his slow slurred delivery.  ARON  So... I was hiking Blue John Canyon yesterday... and this happened. He pulls the camera round to show where his forearm and wrist disappear into the horrifyingly skinny gap between the chockstone and the wall. As he does that we  INTERCUT WITH:  INT/EXT. VARIOUS. CANYON. DAY.  Flashes of the accident-almost in silhouette - like an animatic side view. It freezes just before the moment of entombment.  CUT TO:
aron		What you're looking at there is my arm, going into the rock... and there it is, stuck. It's been without circulation for 24 hours.   
aron		So the way I see it... there's kind of four things happening here... I tried to move it with some rigging... useless... and I tried chipping away at the rock... I think part of the problem is, is that my hand is actually supporting the rock. Which means every time I chip away the rock moves a bit and settles onto my hand again. I can't feel it happening but microscopically, it seems to be, because the little gap over there between the rock and the wall seems to be getting smaller. And this chockstone is the hardest thing here.
aron		So the third thing left was to cut my arm off.
pause		 ARON  Which means I'm waiting for someone to come along. He summons up the guts to let the evidence out.
aron		   HELP!!! HELP!!!! OVER HERE!!!  HEEELLLPP!!! Freaky. We just see an arbitrary view of the rock and sky on the video camera, maybe with a bit of elbow, but we hear his desperation, screaming at no one, distorting on the tiny speaker.  CUT TO:
aron		No one's coming Aron.
aron		God, I am praying to you for guidance. I'm trapped in Blue John Canyon - you probably know that - and I don't know what I am supposed to do. I've tried everything I can think of. I need some new ideas. Please show me a sign. PAUSE - Just his breath. He switches on the head lamp and the inside of the bag explodes with light. There's enough light for any kind of heaven but it's just Aron in Blue John Canyon. He looks around his bag. He stops. Silence. Only his breathing to listen to. Heart rate... fast... too fast. Light off.
aron		Still not sure. I'll see you Tuesday.
aron		Always do.  CUT TO:
girl		That was your Mom! And your Dad called. Call him. We're going. See you next week. Oh, and Rana called.  CUT TO:
aron		It's freaking me out looking at myself so I hope you guys are OK with this
pause		 CUT TO:
aron		It's Monday - all day - bummer. I spent the morning trying to create a 6:1 system ration and lift the boulder but friction between the rope and carabiners is dissipating every bit of force I apply.   
aron		There's a raven flies overhead, I clocked it at 8.15. I'll bet it's there tomorrow too. I'll film it for you tomorrow
aron		I have about one hundred and fifty millilitres of water left. That's four ounces. I can't believe it but I peed twice today, within a few minutes of each other. How is this possible? It's two days since I peed, I'm dehydrated and I had to go so quickly I forgot to save the first. I saved the second in the CamelBak. Will I drink it? It smells foul, and hot but it'll settle. And I can chill it in the sand in the night. It's like Polar winter here for nine hours.
aron		No number twos. Which will disappoint my insect friends. They're gonna have to wait. The sunlight appears down here for a few hours. I get 15 minutes of it at 9.35... and apart from chipping away uselessly at this rock that's pretty much my morning routine.
aron		I keep chipping at the rock but just to generate warmth and give me something to do. I think it's making it worse. I know it's settling more on my arm as I remove material from it. The area where I chipped flakes off yesterday has already rotated down onto my arm.
aron		The blades are too blunt even to break the skin. I guess that's the chipping. It's not even a proper Leatherman. It's a knock-off one we got free in a gift pack with a torch... Mom gave it to me.
aron		I've been thinking about what my friend Rob in Aspen says to me several... frequently.. Several times that, confusingly, 'It's not what you do but who you are'. I kind of got hung up on that a lot, because I always thought who I was, was very much wrapped up with what I did. That I was happy because of the things that I did that made me happy. If things you do make you happy, then they can also make you unhappy. I think that's why I found myself being as ambitious and energetic - The wind interrupts him and he shivers.  ARON  It's cold... this place is an ice- box at night... And killing winds. 
pause		 ARON 
aron		No. No. Don't.
aron		See you later... ... swallows quickly 2 'spoons' of urine without disturbing the sediment. Tangy and bitter, the saltiness makes him wince.  CUT TO:
aron		 Fuck a nut, Aron. Pay fucking attention - look what you did? He stares at the stain - with all the dirt on his shorts it's already paste. He screws the lid on slowly and can barely be bothered to lift his lens into his mouth.
aron		Good morning everyone! It's 6:45 Tuesday morning in BJ Canyon. The weather is great! I figure by now that Leona, my housemate - Hi Leona! - has missed me hopefully since I didn't show up last night. Another hour and a half they'll miss me for not showing up for work. Hi Brion at work! Best case scenario is they notify the police and after a 24 hour hold they file a report, a missing persons report. Which means noon tomorrow it's official that I'm gone. I do still have the tiniest bit of water left. Well, actually, I've resorted...I've had a couple pretty good gulps of urine that I saved in my Camelbak. I sorta let it distill...it tastes like hell. So it's 70 hours since I left on my bike from Horseshoe Trailhead during which time I have consumed 3 liters of water and a couple mouthfuls of piss.
pause		Still, I'd get a drink. He shudders, it's ridiculous. Then composes himself during a long blink and looks straight at the camera.
aron		Ready for lift-off. He bounces his full weight in the stirrups and pulls on the haul line. It looks a better set up.
aron		Whoa, that's the bone. He pulls the knife out opening the wound more. There's barely any blood. He pokes at the gash with the tool.
aron		Shit missed it. 8:31AM. He's late and I still missed it.
violently with		Temperature 57 - shivers, like 56 - 55  chattering,
racking his		A figure starts body with a a small fire to furious comfort Aron. vengeance. Perfect for bacon and beans. He pisses again 02.02=>03.03=>04.04 ARON: Huge luminous figures on There's the "I can't believe the inside of the black interior Scooby this..." bag. Doo waving at a decants the table in front sediment out of V.O: There you are of it piled to Camelbak. The creaking point stench of the with margaritas sediment makes the excess runs him retch and jerk down the table away. Where is all legs. This coming from?
burrito washed		Did that make sense? down with a swig of urine, He switches off and applies winces and lip balm. swallows somehow. ARON: He looks at it and bites a `That's it. bit off. Masticates it on I'm on the and on... Chewing. urine diet now. Well, The chockstone it's no waits and Aron's slurpee...' foot kicks and then lands and they fall together.
aron chipping		away desultory A slit of light in blackness reveals Jon in work clothes. Aron licks A light switch flicks on and moisture thin metal shelves full of condensation cleaning supplies appear He takes shots from inside the on 3 sides, industrial mop, of himself bag. His head- Aron in his canyon gear, with his still 
turns always		Rana's face is remaining in huge on the inside the light.An of his head bag, smiling accelerating at him. Her face in huge carousel of scale compared to his head. yellow warmth.
aron		God, it's Aron again. I still need some help. It's getting bad here. I'm out of water and food. Listen. Give me the strength not to do anything against myself. I want to see this through, whatever. A rumbling thunderous sound grows and the inside of the bag begins to bear the image of the top of the canyon at dawn but crumpled like paper, creased like the bag [BUT STRETCHED ACROSS 2 SCREENS]. The noise grows and grows...
aron		Out of date. May Day. Not dead. He smirks.
aron		No raven today. Everything's fucked. Sonja... if you still want me to play at your wedding... there's a tape in a box in the basement of Mom and Dad's Lounge. It's me 1993 or 1994. We hear the music. Mozart, Beethoven, Bach, Chopin - he can hear it as he played it until...
voice		I did this Aron. I created this. The boulder did what it was here to do. It was waiting for me but it did the only natural thing it could do. I chose to come here, I chose to do this descent by myself. I chose not to tell anyone where I was going. I chose to turn away from the women who were there to keep me from getting in this trouble. I wanted it to be like this. Look how far I came to find this spot.
aron		I hate this rock. The rage blooms purple in his mind.
pow		Like a gunshot in the canyon, the bone breaks. The sound ricochets. He rises and sees the bone pushing up violently against the skin. He feels it. It's a serrated, but clean, successful break. Still he says nothing.
bang		A second gun shot smashes around the canyon. He's sweating heavily and yet euphoric, possessed. He checks the underneath of the arm. It's broken too. Around the same place. He can rotate his forearm like a shaft inside a housing. Giving himself no time to wake up he grabs the knife, looks at the watch-  CUT TO:
aron		Ok Aron, here we go. You're in it now.
erik		We are the Mejers from Holland. At the start of the trailhead we talked to a ranger who told us about a car that was parked in the area already for several days and that the owner might be missing in the canyon. We joked that we would keep our eyes open and that we would try to find him. After a hike of 5.3 kilometres to the Great Gallery  where we took some pictures, we returned and suddenly heard a noise behind us, and after that a voice that cried "Help, I need help". Monique and I immediately realized that this had to be the missing person.
erik		We are the Mejers from Holland. You should stop and rest.
aron		No, we need to keep hiking. We need a helicopter - who can run fastest?- You, go now fast. Take him.
erik		They told us you were here.
aron		Who? Who told you?
erik		The police at the parking lot
aron		Do you have a phone?
erik		There's no signal for miles. Nobody for 6 days and then like London buses another couple appears. They too are confronted by:
aron		Do you have a cell phone?
wayne		No. I'm Wayne. I have some medical training.
aron		Is it ok for me to drink so much water?
wayne		Sure so long as it doesn't make you vomit. Aron drinks more and more, he overhears...
aron		I gotta stop and empty my shoes. You'll have to tie my shoe lace. As he sits his head slumps forward. He's absolutely motionless. Wayne and Erik try to talk to him but he can barely hear them. A pop song spins round and round distantly.
pilot		Are you Aron?
aron		Yes I am. Can I get a lift?
aron		I'm gonna make a terrible mess of your seat.
pilot		Just get in buddy. We're all looking for you.
aron		Thank you for bringing me back. The most senior of the burly men says,
burly man		That's all your miracle days used up kid. You need to rest. You can stand everyone a beer later. Aron is greeted by medics. Needles. Care. Machines. Tubes.
aron		Will you look after this for me please?
aron		Mom.
mom		My boy. My only one. There you are. She strokes his head so gently.
aron		Hey Mom.
mom		How are you feeling?
aron		OK. Are you okay...
mom		You've been asleep for 2 days. We are so lucky... She's a decent woman and a devoted mum. She looks weary, worn out with worry and love for her boy.
aron		Mom, I'm sorry I scared you.
rana		OK - he's got 3 vegetarian hotdogs and the tickets and he'll be
aron		So are you guys ok with me?
rana		Yeah. We split up a while back when you were in hospital.
aron		Christine told me.
rana		 Is that what this is about?
aron		Yeah.
rana		What about the climbing? Aron reaches in his bag and pulls out his scary looking prosthetic arm / axe. He clinks the points together. She doesn't laugh, maybe a smile.
aron		I'm gonna finish the 49ers this winter or next.
rana		 Well, all I can't figure out is what took you so long to cut it off and get one of these. They both laugh. But he also answers.
aron		Rana, before I did it I was hallucinating, I saw this child, a little blond boy -
rana		 Not Jesus please...
rana		No Aron, it's not.
rana		You know, everyone who cares for you, a little bit of them dies each time you go back.
****Dialogues from script :12_Monkeys.txt****

cole		Ssssst!  Jose, what's going on?
jose		"Volunteers" again.
scarface		"Volunteer duty".
cole		I didn't volunteer.
scarface		You causing trouble again?
cole		 No trouble.
tiny		James Cole.  Cleared from quarantine.
microbiologist		Thank you.  You two wait outside.
scarface		He's got a history, Doctor.  Violence.
scarface		Anti-social six -- doing 25 to life.
engineer		I don't think he's going to hurt us.  You're not going to hurt us, are you Mr. Cole?
cole		No, sir.
microbiologist		Why don't you sit down, Mr. Cole.
astrophysicist		We want you to tell us about last night.
cole		I went to the surface and I collected specimens like I was told.
cole		 I mashed the spider, didn't I?
microbiologist		We'll get to the spider later, Mr. Cole.  Right now, we want to know everything that you saw.
astpophysicist		Where you collected sample #4, what street was that?
cole		Uh...
botanist		It's important to observe everything.
cole		I think it was...I'm sure it was 2nd Street.
terrified traveler		Just exactly why did you volunteer?
astrophysicist		Wake up, Cole.
cole		Uh, I didn't hear the...
microbiologist		 I asked you, why did you volunteer?
cole		Well, the guard woke me up.  He told me I volunteered.
engineer		We appreciate you volunteering.  You're a very good observer, Cole.
cole		Uh, thank you.
engineer		You'll get a reduction in sentence.
astrophysicist		To be determined by the proper authorities.
engineer		You don't want to jeopardize that reduction, do you, Cole?  Have it taken away?
cole		No, sir!
astrophysicist		We have a very advanced program, something very different, requires very skilled people.
microbiologist		An opportunity to reduce your sentence considerably...
zoologist		And possibly play an important role in returning the human race to the surface of the earth.
engineer		We want tough minded people.  Strong mentally.  We've had some...misfortunes with "unstable" types.
astrophysicist		For a man in your position...an opportunity.
botanist		Not to volunteer could be a real mistake.
microbiologist		 Definitely a mistake!
poet		Still among the myriad microwaves, the infra-red messages, the gigabytes of ones and zeroes, we find words, infinitesimally small, byte-sized now, tinier even than science lurking in some vague electricity where, if we listen we can hear the solitary voice of that poet telling us, "We are no other than a moving row Of Magic shadow-shapes that come and go Round with the Sun-illumined Lantern hold In Midnight by the Master of the show."
poet		"Yesterday This Day's Madness did prepare; Tomorrow's Silence, Triumph or Despair: Drink!  for you know not whence you came, nor why: Drink!  for you know not why you go, nor where."
franki		-- so they get there and they ask the guy real nice for some kind of i.d., and he gets agitated, starts screaming about viruses. Totally irrational, totally disoriented, doesn't know where he is, what day it is, alla that stuff.  All they got was his name.  They figure he's stoned out of his mind, it's some kinda psychotic episode, so they're gonna bring him...
railly		He's been tested for drugs?
franki		Negative for drugs.  But he took on five cops like he was dusted to the eyeballs.  No drugs.  You believe that?
railly		You have him in restraints.
franki		Were you listening?  We got two officers in the hospital.  Yeah, he's in restraints, plus the medic gave him enough stellazine to kill a horse.  Look at him!  Still on his feet.
railly		That would explain the bruises, I guess.  The struggle.
franki		You want to go in?  Examine him?
railly		Yes, please.  You said he gave a name...
franki		 James Cole.  That's everything we got.  None of the James Coles on the computer match him. No license, no prints, no warrants.  Nothing. You want me to go in with you?
railly		 No, thank you.
franki		I'll be right here...just in case.
railly		Mr. Cole?  My name is Doctor Railly. I'm a psychiatrist.  I work for the County -- I don't work for the police. My only concern is your well being -- do you understand that?
cole		I need to go now.
railly		I'm going to be completely honest.  I'm not going to lie to you.  I can't make the police let you go...but I do want to help you.  And I want you to trust me.  Can you do that, James?  May I call you "James"?
cole		"James"!  Nobody ever calls me that.
railly		 Have you been a patient at County? Have I seen you someplace?
cole		No, not possible.  Listen, I have to get out of here.  I'm supposed to be getting information.
railly		What kind of information?
cole		It won't help you.  You can't do anything about it.  You can't change anything.
railly		Change what?
cole		I need to go.
railly		Do you know why you're here, James.
cole		Because I'm a good observer.  Because I have a tough mind.
railly		I see.  You don't remember assaulting a police officer...several officers?
cole		They wanted identification.  I don't have any identification.  I wasn't trying to hurt them.
railly		You don't have a driver's license, James?  Or a Social Security card?
cole		No.
railly		Why not?  Most people have some ID.
cole		You wouldn't understand.
railly		You've been in an institution, haven't you, James?  A hospital?
cole		I have to go.
railly		A jail?  Prison?
cole		Underground.
railly		Hiding?
cole		I love this air.  This is wonderful air.
railly		What's wonderful about the air, James?
cole		It's so clean.  No germs.
railly		You're afraid of germs?
cole		I have to go.
railly		Why do you think there aren't any germs in the air, James?
cole		This is April, right?
railly		July.
cole		 July?!
railly		Do you know what year it is?
cole		What year is it?
railly		What year do you think it is?
cole		1995?
railly		You think it's July of 1995?  That's the future, James.  Do you think you're living in the future?
cole		 No, 1995 is the past.
cole		Where are you taking me?
cole		South of France?!  I don't want to go to the South of France.  I want to make a telephone call.
billings		Lemme see your head, Jimbo, see if you got any creepy crawlies.
cole		I need to make a telephone call.
billings		 Gotta work that out with a doctor, Jimbo. Can't make no calls 'til the doctor says.
cole		It's very important.
billings		What chew gotta do, Jimbo, is take it easy, relax into things.  We all gonna get along fine if you just relax.
billings		Jeffrey.  Yo!  Jeffrey.  This here is James. Whyncha show James around?  Tell him the TV rules, show him the games an' stuff, okay?
jeffrey		 How much you gonna pay me?  Huh?  I'd be doing your job.
billings		Five thousand dollars, my man.  That enough?  I'll wire it to your account as usual, okay?
jeffrey		Okay, Billings.  Five thousand.  That's enough.  Five thousand dollars.  I'll give him the Deluxe Mental Hospital Tour.
jeffrey		Kid around, kid around.  It makes them feel good, we're all pals.  We're prisoners, they're the guards, but it's all in good fun, you see?
jeffrey		Here's the games.  Games vegitize you. If you play the games, you're voluntarily taking a tranquilizer.
jeffrey		What'd they give you?  Thorazine?  How much?  Learn your drugs -- know your doses.
cole		I need to make a telephone call.
jeffrey		A telephone call?  That's communication with the outside world!  Doctor's discretion.  Hey, if alla these nuts could just make phone calls, it could spread.  Insanity oozing through telephone cables, oozing into the ears of all those poor sane people, infecting them!  Whackos everywhere!  A plague of madness.  SCREWDRIVERS WITH MINIATURE BUILT-IN RADAR DEVICES, STEREO SYSTEMS WITH BRAIN IMPLANTED HEADPHONES, VOICE- ACTIVATED COMPUTERS, AND...
terry		Take it easy, Jeffrey.  Be calm.
jeffrey		So if you want to watch a particular program, say "All My Children" or something, you go to the Charge Nurse and tell her what day and time the show you want to see is on.  But you have to tell her before the show is scheduled to be on.  There was this one guy who was always requesting shows that had already played.  He couldn't quite grasp the idea that the Charge Nurse couldn't just make it be yesterday for him, turn back time ha ha.  What a fruitcake!!
jeffrey		Seriously, more and more people are being defined now as mentally ill.  Why? Because they're not consuming on their own.  But as patients, they becone consumers of mental health care.  And this gives the so-called sane people work!  WHOOO!  SHOCK THERAPY!  GROUP THERAPY! HALLUCINATIONS!  THERAPEUTIC DRUGS! IGGIDY DIGGIDY DIG!  PERFECT!  THE SYSTEM IN HARMONY LIKE A BIG MACHINE...
terry		Okay, that's it, Jeffrey, you're gonna get a shot.  I warned you...
jeffrey		 Right!  Right!  Carried away, heh heh. I got "carried away".  Explaining the workings of...the institution.
tj washington		I don't really come from outer space.
jeffrey		This is TJ Washington, Jim -- he doesn't really come from outer space.
tj washington		Don't mock me, my friend.  It's a condition of "mental divergence". I find myself on another planet, Ogo, part of an intellectual elite, preparing to subjugate barbarian hordes on Pluto. But even though it's a totally convincing reality in every way...I can feel, breathe, hear...nevertheless, Ogo is actually a construct of my psyche.  I am mentally divergent in that I am escaping certain unnamed realities that plague my life here.  When I stop going there, I will be well.  Are you also divergent, friend?
jeffrey		Staff!  Whoo!  Time for Staff.  Now the geniuses cure you.  Hallelujah!
cole		This is a place for crazy people!  I'm not crazy!
cole		Well, you've got some real nuts in here! Listen to me, all of you -- I have to tell you something that's going to be difficult for you to understand, but...
cole		1989.  Look, I'm not confused.  There's been a mistake, I've been sent to the wrong place.
cole		Hey, I'm not going to hurt anybody.
cole		 Do any of you know anything about the Army of the Twelve Monkeys?  They paint this, stencil it, on buildings, all over the place.
cole		Right.  I guess you wouldn't, this is 1989, they're probably not active yet. That makes sense!  Okay.  Listen to me, three billion people died in 1995. Three billion, got that?  Almost the whole population.  Of the world! Only about one percent survived.
cole		Save you?  How can I save you?  It already happened!  I can't save you.  I'm simply trying to get some information for people in the present so that someday...  You don't believe me.  You think I'm crazy.  But I'm not crazy.  I'm a convict, sure, I have a quick temper, but I'm as sane as anyone in this room.  I...
cole		 No!  Look, I don't belong here!  What I need to do is make a telephone call to straighten everything out.
cole		Scientists.  I'm supposed to report in to them.  They'll want to know they sent me to the wrong time.
cole		No, no.  I can't talk to them.  It's called, "voice mail".  I'm supposed to leave messages. They monitor it from the present.
cole		No, no.  This is the past.  This has already happened.  Listen...
cole		No, 1995 is the past, too.  Look...
cole		No!  I mean yes, but... Look, I've been given a lot of drugs but I'm still perfectly lucid. You have to let me use the phone.  One call!
mother		Yes?  Whaaaaat?  "Voice mail"!  I don't know what you're talkin' about. ... Is this a joke?  I don't know any scientists. James who?  Never heard of you!
railly		It wasn't who you expected?
cole		It was some lady.  She didn't know anything.
railly		Perhaps it was a wrong number...
cole		No.  That's the reason they chose me -- I remember things.
railly		James, where did you grow up?  Was it around here?  Around Baltimore?
cole		 What?
railly		I have the...strangest feeling I've met you before...a long time ago, perhaps. Were you ever...?
cole		Wait!  This is only 1989!  I'm supposed to be leaving messages in 1995.  It's not the right number yet.  That's the problem.  Damn!  How can I contact them?
railly		James, take these.  Please -- I helped you like I said I would.  Now I want you to trust me.
woman's voice		NOOOOOOOOOO!
jeffrey		You think you can remove the grill but you can't.  It's welded.
jeffrey		See?  I toldja.  And all the doors are locked, too.  They're protecting the people on the outside from us.  But the people outside are as crazy as us.
jeffrey		You know what "crazy" is?  "crazy" is "majority rules".  Take germs for example.
cole		Germs?!
jeffrey		In the 18th century there was no such thing!  Nobody'd ever imagined such a thing -- no sane person anyway.  Along comes this doctor...Semmelweiss, I think.  He tries to convince people... other doctors mostly...that there are these teeny tiny invisible "bad things" called germs that get into your body and make you...sick!  He's trying to get doctors to wash their hands.  What is this guy...crazy?  Teeny tiny invisible whaddayou call 'em?..."germs"!
jeffrey		"What about the germs?"  I say.  He goes, "I don't believe in germs.  Germs are just a plot they made up so they can sell you disinfectants and soap!" Now, he's crazy, right?  Hey, you believe in germs, don't you?
cole		I'm not crazy.
jeffrey		Of course not, I never thought you were. You want to escape, right?  That's very sane.  I can help you.  You want me to, don't you?  Get you out?
cole		If you know how to escape, why don't you...?
jeffrey		Why don't I escape, that's what you were going to ask me, right?  'Cause I'd be crazy to escape!  I'm all taken care of, see?  I've sent out word.
cole		What's that mean?
jeffrey		I've managed to contact certain underlings, evil spirits, secretaries of secretaries, and assorted minions, who will contact my father. When he learns I'm in this kind of place, he'll have them transfer me to one of those classy joints where they treat you...properly. LIKE A GUEST!  LIKE A PERSON!  SHEETS! TOWELS!  LIKE A BIG HOTEL WITH GREAT DRUGS FOR THE NUT CASE LUNATIC MANIAC DEVILS...
jeffrey		Sorry.  Really sorry.  Got a little agitated.  The thought of escaping crossed my mind and suddenly...suddenly I felt LIKE BENDING THE FUCKING BARS BACK, RIPPING OFF THE GODDAMN WINDOW FRAMES AND...EATING THEM, YES, EATING THEM, AND LEAPING, LEAPING...
jeffrey		You dumb assholes!  I'm a mental patient! I'm supposed to act out.  Wait til you morons find out who I am.  My father's gonna be really upset.  AND WHEN MY FATHER GETS UPSET, THE GROUND SHAKES! MY FATHER IS GOD!  I WORSHIP MY FATHER.
cole		They hurt you!
jeffrey		Not as bad as what they're doing to kitty.
cole		Look at those assholes, they're asking for it!  Maybe people deserved to be wiped out!
jeffrey		 I didn't say a word about "you know what".
cole		What are you talking about???
jeffrey		You know -- your plan.
jeffrey		What're you writing?  You a reporter?
cole		 It's private.
jeffrey		A lawsuit?  You going to sue them?
billings		Yo, James -- time to take your meds.
jeffrey		Get it?  Monk - Key.  Monk!  Key!
cole		 What....???
jeffrey		Wooooo, they really dosed you, bro. Major load!  Listen up -- try and get it together.  Focus!  Focus!  The plan! Remember?  I did my part.
cole		What...???
jeffrey		Not, "what", babe!  When!
jeffrey		 Now!
jeffrey		 YES -- NOW!  BUY NOW!  STOCKS AND BONDS! NO MORE MONKEY BUSINESS -- BUY NOW.
jeffrey		YES, YES.  ENHANCE YOUR PORTFOLIO NOW!
jeffrey		BUY!  SELL!  SEIZE THE OPPORTUNITY!
jeffrey		OPPORTUNITY!  DEFINITELY!  A WINDOW OF OPPORTUNITY!  OPENING NOW!  NOW'S THE TIME FOR ALL GOOD MEN TO SEIZE THE MOMENT!  YES! YES!  MASTERCARD!  VISA!  THE KEY TO HAPPINESS!
jeffrey		SEIZE THE MOMENT!  GET RICH!  NOW'S THE TIME!  GO FOR IT!
billings		 God damn you, Jeffrey, quit playing the fool.
jeffrey		LAST CHANCE!  LAST CHANCE!  HEY -- OW!
patient		Place to go would be...Florida.  The keys are lovely this tine of year.
patient		Be careful.  J. Edgar Hoover isn't really dead.
railly		 Cole.  James Cole -- right?
railly		Poor man...
doctor		Just relax -- don't fight it.  We have to know exactly what's there so we can...
doctor		Eh, excuse me.  Can I help you?
railly		It's just a shot to calm you.
cole		No more drugs.  Please...
railly		I have to do this, James.  You're very confused.
railly		I didn't think I was being defensive. I was just...
railly		Okay, it was bad judgment.  But I have the strangest feeling about him -- I've seen him somewhere and...
railly		I said it was bad judgment!  What else do you want me to say?
billings		Uh, Dr. Fletcher -- we got another... situation.
billings		Yes, sir.  Did it myself.
railly		He was fully sedated!
woman's voice		NOOOOOOOOOO!
astrophysicist		Well?
cole		Uh, what?
engineer		He's drugged out of his mind!  He's completely zoned out.
astrophysicist		Cole, did you or did you not record that message?
cole		Uh, that message...me?
microbiologist		It's a digital reconstruction of a message, Cole, from a weak signal on our contact number.  Did you make that call?
cole		 I couldn't call!  You sent me to the
scientists		1989!
zoologist		You're certain of that?
geologist		 What did you do with your time, Cole? Did you waste it on drugs?  Women?
cole		They forced me to take drugs.
botanist		Forced you!  Why would someone force you to take drugs?
cole		I got into trouble.  I got arrested. But I still got you a specimen -- a spider -- but I didn't have anyplace to put it, so I ate it.  It was the wrong year anyway, so I guess it doesn't matter.
engineer		What about it, Cole?
zoologist		Did you see it?
cole		Uh, no, sir.  I...
astrophysicist		What about these people?  Did you see any of these people?
astrophysicist		Him?  You saw that man?
cole		Uh, I think so.  In the mental hospital.
astrophysicist		You were sent to make very important observations!
botanist		You could have made a real contribution.
geologist		Helped to reclaim the planet...
zoologist		As well as reducing your sentence.
microbiologist		The question is, Cole -- "Do you want another chance?"
cole		Where are you?
cole		My name's not "Bob".
cole		Where are you?
cole		What do you mean, "maybe"?  What's that supposed to mean?
geologist		No mistakes this time, Cole.
astrophysicist		Stay alert.  Keep your eyes open.
zoologist		Good thinking about that spider, Cole. Try and do something like that again.
microbiologist		Just relax now -- don't fight it.  We have to know exactly what's there so we can fix it.
sergeant		 Where's your mask?!  And your clothes... and your weapon, you idiot?!
cole		What?  What??
sergeant		 Captain!  A Kraut!  We got a Kraut!
cole		I don't understand.  Where am I?
captain		 How'd you get here, soldier?  What's your rank?  Where are your clothes?
cole		I...don't understand.
captain		 German!  Speak German!  What are you doing here?
cole		JOSE!
jose		Cole!  Oh, God, Cole, where are we?
disheveled professor		Doctor Railly -- please!  I wonder if you're aware of my own studies which indicate that certain cycles of the moon actually impact on the incidence of apocalyptic predictions as observed in urban emergency rooms and...
marilou		You were great.
railly		You're leaving?
marilou		The reservation's at nine thirty -- it's getting late.
disheveled professor		Doctor Railly -- please -- this is very important!
wayne chang		 You sure you're gonna be all right?
railly		 I'll be there in twenty minutes.
disheveled professor		Dr. Railly, I simply cannot understand your exclusion of the moon in relation to apocalyptic dementia...
man's voice		Get in!
man's voice		I've got a gun.
railly		You can have my purse.  I have a lot of cash and credit...
railly		Here!  You can have the keys.  You can...
man		START THE CAR!  NOW!
railly		Where... where are we going'
man		I need you to drive me to Philadelphia.
railly		 But that's... that's more than 200 miles!
man		That's why I can't walk there.  Turn here... I think...
railly		If you make me go with you, it's kidnapping.  That's a serious crime. If you let me go, you could just take the car and...
man		I don't know how to drive!  We went underground when I was nine, I told you that.  When you come to the corner, turn right.
railly		Cole!  James Cole!  You escaped from a locked room six years ago.
cole		1989.  Six years for you.  There's the sign!  Right here!
railly		I can't believe this is a coincidence, Mr. Cole.  Have you been...following me?
cole		You told me you'd help me.  I know this isn't what you meant, but...I was desperate... no money...bum leg... sleeping on the streets. I probably smell bad.  Sorry about that. But then I saw your book in a store window with a notice about your lecture.  I can read, remember?
railly		Yes, I remember.  Why do you want to go to Philadelphia?
cole		It's the next step.  I checked out the Baltimore information, it was nothing. It's Philadelphia, that's where they are, the ones who killed everyone.  Zs that a radio?  Does it play music?
cole		I've never seen the ocean!
railly		It's an advertisement, Mr. Cole.  You do understand that, don't you?  It's not really a special message to you.
cole		You used to call me "James".
railly		You'd prefer that? ... James...you don't really have a gun, do you.
cole		 Everybody's got a gun.  In this city...
cole		Can you...can you make it louder?  I love hearing twentieth century music! Hearing music and breathing air!
cole		"Never cry wolf!"
railly		What?
cole		My father told me that.  "Never cry wolf."  Then people won't believe you if...something really happens.
railly		"If something really happens"...like what, James?
cole		Something bad.  Is that all the music? I don't want to hear this stuff...
railly		Did something terrible happen to you when you were a child?  Something so bad...?
cole		Ohhhh, that one!  Can we hear that one?
answering machine		Dr. Railly -- this is Palmer from Psych Admitting.  There was a guy here this afternoon looking for you.  He seemed very agitated.  We tried to keep him, but he refused 'n I kept thinking, I know this guy.  Then, just a few minutes ago, it came to me.  It's Cole!  James Cole. Remember him?  The paranoid who pulled the Houdini back in '89.  Well, he's back and he's...cuckoo...and he's looking for you.  I thought you oughta know.
marilou martin		It's just as I told you -- my husband and I had gone ahead -- she never showed.  That's totally unlike her!
officer two		 Do you happen to know the make of her car?
marilou martin		Um...Acura...'92 Acura. ... Also, that cat's starving!  She would never neglect her cat!
cole		You were in my dream just now.  Your hair was different, but I'm sure it was you.
railly		We dream about what's important in our lives. And I seem to have become pretty important in yours.  What was the dream about?
cole		About an airport...before everything happened.  It's the same dream I always have -- the only one.  I'm a little kid in it.
railly		And I was in it?  What did I do?
cole		You were very upset.  You're always very upset in the dream, but I never knew it was you before.
railly		It wasn't me before, James.  It's become me now because of...what's happening.  Please untie me.
cole		No, I think it was always you.  It's very strange.
railly		You're flushed.  And you were moaning. I think you're running a fever.  What are you doing?
cole		I'll be back in a minute.
railly		No!  Don't leave me here like this!
tv anchorman		And in Fresno, California...crews continue to attempt to rescue nine year old Ricky Neuman.
cole		My notes.  Observations.  Clues.
railly		Clues?  What kind of clues?
cole		A secret army.  The Army of The Twelve Monkeys.  I've told you about them. They spread the virus.  That's why we have to get to Philadelphia.  I have to find them -- it's my assignment.
railly		What will you do...when you find this...secret army?
cole		I just have to locate the virus in its original form before it mutates.  So scientists can come back and study it and find a cure.  So that those of us who survived can go back to the surface of the earth.
cole		You won't think I'm crazy next month. People are going to start dying.  At first the papers will say it's some weird fever, some virus.  Then they'll begin to catch on.  They'll get it.
cole		I thought it was about us.  I thought maybe they'd found us and arrested me or something.
cole		Just a joke.
railly		Does that disturb you, James?  Thinking about that little boy in the well?
cole		When I was a kid I identified with that kid, down there alone in that pipe...a hundred feet down -- doesn't know if they're going to save him.
railly		What do you mean -- when you were a kid?
cole		Nevermind.  It's not real -- it's a hoax.  A prank.  He's hiding in a barn. Hey, turn left here.  Left!
evangelist		"And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate houses and dragons in their pleasant palaces:  and her time is near to come, and her days shall not be prolonged."
cole		Where I come from we think of this as Eden. If we could just see the sun, eat sun-grown food.  Eden!  Look at them!  They donut know what they have.  They don't see the sky.  They don't feel the air!
cole		The Twelve Monkeys!!!  They're here.  Somewhere.  Come on!
cole		Look, I'm warning you.  You do anything, I'm going to go crazy -- hurt people!
railly		I'm not going to "do" anything, I promise.  But you need help, James. None of this is what you think it is.
louie		No, sir, Old Bob -- don't even try.  They hear everything.  They got that tracking device on you.  They can find you anywhere.  Anytime.  Ha Ha!
louie		 But I fooled 'em, old buddy!
cole		They're keeping an eye on me.
railly		Who's keeping an eye on you?
cole		The man...with the voice.  I recognized him.  He's from the present.  He...
railly		James, no -- we shouldn't be here!
railly		James!  We have to go back.  Those men...
first thug		Hey, buddy.
second thug		Stick around, bitch.
cole		Please!  Please don't hurt me!
cole		Are you hurt?
railly		Uh, no.  Yes.  I mean, just some scrapes...
railly		Is he...alive?
cole		Come an.  We're running out of time. You can't help him.
railly		Oh, Jesus, James!  You killed him!
cole		I did him a favor.  Now come on.
railly		You didn't have a gun before, did you?
cole		I've got one now.
evangelist		You!  You!  You're one of us, aren't you?
fale		Uh, can we help you?
fale		Excuse me.  You looking for something in particular?
railly		It's all right, James -- it's just a tape.
cole		I, uh, I'm looking for the, ah, the Army of the Twelve Monkeys.
teddy		We don't know anything about any "Army of the Twelve Monkeys", so why don't you and your friend disappear, okay?
cole		I just need some information...
teddy		Didn't you hear me?  We're not...
railly		James, no -- don't hurt them.  Please, I'm a psychiatrist -- just do whatever he tells you to do.  He's... upset -- disturbed.  Please -- he's dangerous -- just cooperate.
fale		What do you want -- money?  We only have a few bucks.
cole		I told you what I want.  Lock the door!
railly		James, why don't we...?
cole		Lock it now!
ben		I told you that fuckhead Mason would get us into something like this.
fale		Shut up!
cole		Mason???
railly		Jeffrey Mason?
ben		Yeah, tucking, crazy Jeffrey Mason.
fale		Then, Jeffrey becomes like this...big star -- the media latch on to him because he's picketing his own father, a "famous Nobel Prize winning virologist". You musta seen all that on TV.
cole		No, I don't watch TV.
cole		Is this him -- Dr. Mason?
fale		That's him.
ben		 What are you going to do with us?
cole		 Tell me more about Jeffrey.
fale		 Jeffrey started getting bored with the shit we do...picketing, leafleting, letter-writing stuff.  He said we were, "ineffectual liberal jerkoffs".  He wanted to do guerrilla "actions" to "educate" the public.
fale		Yeah, that's when he let a hundred snakes loose in the Senate.
teddy		But we weren't into that kind of stuff. It's counter productive, we told him.
fale		So he and eleven others split off and became this underground..."army"
cole		The Army of The Twelve Monkeys.
ben		They started planning a "Human Hunt".
teddy		They bought stun guns and nets and bear traps.  They were gonna go to Wall Street and trap lawyers and bankers...
ben		But they didn't do it.  They didn't do any of it.
teddy		Yeah, just like always, Mr. Big Shot sold his friends out!
cole		What's that mean?
fale		He goes on TV, gives a news conference, tells the whole world he just realized his daddy's experiments are vital for humanity and that the use of animals is absolutely necessary and that he, Jeffrey Mason, from now on, is going to personally supervise the labs to make sure all the little animals aren't going to suffer.
cole		 What's this?
railly		If those young men don't get loose, they could die in that basement.
cole		All I see are dead people.  Everywhere. What's three more?
railly		 You know Dr. Mason's son, Jeffrey Mason, don't you, James?  You met him in the County Hospital six years ago.
cole		The guy was a total fruitcake.
railly		And he told you then his father was a famous virologist.
cole		No -- he said his father was "God"!
railly		This can't go on, James.  You're not well.  You're burning with fever.
cole		We need gas.
railly		I thought you didn't know how to drive.
cole		I said I was too young to drive.  I didn't say I was stupid.
railly		What's the matter with your leg?
cole		I got shot.  Look -- there's a gas station up ahead.
railly		Shot!  Who shot you?
cole		It was some kind of...war.  Never mind, you wouldn't believe me.  Turn off here.
cole		You were going to run out off gas on purpose, weren't you?
railly		No.  I want you to turn yourself in, James -- It'll go much better for you if you do -- but I'm not going to trick you.
cole		 That has your name on it.  Give him cash.
cole		Where are you going?
railly		You can come with me.  I have to get some things.  Scissors, bandages, some alcohol or whiskey. ... I have to look at your leg, James.  I'm a doctor.
railly		You shouldn't put your weight on it. You need stitches and antibiotics. Lucky for you it was near the surface.
cole		I love seeing the sun.
railly		Wait -- let me help you.
cole		 You smell so good.
railly		 You have to give yourself up, you know.
cole		I have to do something now.  Something I don't want to do.  I'm so sorry.
cole		I have a mission.  It's important.
first agent		They find him?
second agent		Who??
first agent		That kid.  The one in the pipe.
second agent		You believe this?  They're dropping a monkey down there with a miniature infra-red camera strapped on him and a roast beef sandwich wrapped in tinfoil.
first agent		You're making that up!
jeffrey		What are you talking about?  What friend?  I'm not expecting anyone.
jeffrey		This is ridiculous.  My father is making a major address.
jeffrey		 Never saw him before in my life.  Go ahead and shoot him or torture him or whatever it is you do.
cole		 You do know me.  You helped me once.
jeffrey		 See, he definitely doesn't know me.  Now, I'm going to go back and listen to my father's very eloquent discourse on the perils of science WHILE YOU TORTURE THIS INTRUDER TO DEATH.
cole		I'm here about some monkeys.
jeffrey		Excuse me -- what did you say?
cole		Monkeys.  Twelve of them.
jeffrey		Arnold...Arnold.
jeffrey		 My God, Arnie, what's happened to you? You look like shit
jeffrey		Of course I know him.  What do you think -- I act like this to strangers? Listen -- you fellas are terrific.  I thought you were pulling a number on me.  What a terrible thing if you'd thrown old Arnie out.  I owe you guys the big apologia!  Mea culpa, fellas.  Christ, Arnie, it's black tie!  I mean, I said, "drop by," but, like, this is Dad's big "do"...vips, senators, secret service, and...and everything.
jeffrey		Arnold Pettibone.  Old Arnie Pettibone. Used to be my best friend.  Still is. What've you lost, Arnie -- forty pounds? No wonder I didn't know you. You hungry? Lots of dead cow, dead lamb, dead pig. Real killer feast we're putting on tonight.
jeffrey		Hey, nice ta see ya.  Lookin' good!  Hi, there.  Yes, it has been a long time.
jeffrey		 Why, thank you -- you look wonderful, too.
cole		Listen to me -- I can't do anything about what you're going to do. I can't change anything.  I can't stop you.  I just want some information...
jeffrey		We need to talk.  Come on.  Upstairs.  Who chattered?  Goines?  Weller?
cole		I just need to have access to the pure virus, that's all!  For the future!
jeffrey		Come on, follow me.  You don't lock so good.
cole		I don't have time to go upstairs.  The police are looking for me.  I need to know where it is and exactly what it is.
jeffrey		 I get it!  This is your old plan, right?
cole		Plan?  What are you talking about?
jeffrey		Remember?  We were in the dayroom, watching TV, and you were all upset about the...desecration of the planet. And you said to me, "Wouldn't it be great if there was a germ or a virus that could wipe out mankind and leave the plants and animals just as they are?"  You do remember that, don't you?
cole		Bulishit!  You're fucking with my head!
jeffrey		And that's when I told you my father was this famous virologist and you said, "Hey, he could make a germ and we could steal it!"
cole		 Listen, you dumb fuck!  The thing mutates We live underground!  The world belongs to the fucking dogs and cats.  We're like moles or worms.  All we want to do is study the original...
jeffrey		You're right!  Absolutely right.  Me's a nut case, totally deranged.  Delusional! Paranoid.  HIS PROCESSOR'S ALL FUCKED UP, HIS INFORMATION TRAY IS JAMMED.
jeffrey		YOU KNOW WHAT IT IS, THE "ARMY OF THE TWELVE MONKEYS"?  IT'S A COLLECTION OF NATURE KOOKS WHO RUN A STORE DOWNTOWN. SPACE-CASE DO-GOODERS SAVING RAIN FORESTS. I HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH THOSE BOZOS ANYMORE. I QUIT BEING THE RICH KID FALL GUY FOR A BUNCH OF INEFFECTUAL BANANAS. SO MUCH FOR YOUR GRAND PLOT!
jeffrey		MY FATHER HAS BEEN WARNING PEOPLE ABOUT THE DANGERS OF EXPERIMENTATION WITH VIRUSES AND DNA FOR YEARS. YOU'VE "PROCESSED" THAT INFORMATION THROUGH YOUR ADDLED PARANOID INFRA-STRUCTURE AND LO AND BEHOLD, I'M FRANKENSTEIN AND THE "ARMY OF THE TWELVE MONKEYS" BECOMES SOME SORT OF SINISTER REVOLUTIONARY CABAL. THIS MAN IS TOTALLY BATSHIT! YOU KNOW WHERE HE THINKS HE COMES FROM???
cole		LIGHTS!  LIGHTS!
pilot		There!  He's showing lights.
pilot		Goddamnit!  Where is he?
pilot		Where? CO-PILOT Eight o'clock!  He was right there.
pilot		He musta turned his lights of if.
pilot		Maybe he's not driving!
police officer		He's not in here.
railly		You bastard!  You total bastard!
railly		I could have died in there.  If something had happened to you I would have died.
cole		I...I...I'm really sorry.
railly		What have you done?  Did you...kill someone?
cole		 No!  I...don't think so.  I stole a car and they chased me.  I hit a tree.
railly		See -- you can drive after all!
cole		Yeah, sort of, I guess.  I...I'm sorry I locked you up.  I thought...I thought... I think maybe I am crazy!
railly		What made you think that?
cole		Jeffrey Mason said it was my idea about the virus.  And suddenly, I wasn't sure.  We talked when I was in the institution, and it was all...fuzzy. The drugs and stuff.  You think maybe I'm the one who wiped out the human race?  It was my idea?
railly		Nobody is going to wipe out the human race.  Not you or Jeffrey or anybody else.  You've created something in your mind, James -- a substitute reality. In order to avoid something you don't want to face.
cole		I'm..."mentally divergent".  I would love to believe that.
railly		It can be dealt with, but only if you want to.  I can help you.
cole		I need help all right.  They're coming after me.
railly		First, it's important that you surrender to them instead of them catching you running.  Okay?
cole		 It would be great if I'm crazy.  If I'm wrong about everything...the world will be okay.  I'll never have to live underground.
railly		Give me the gun.
cole		The gun! ... I lost it
railly		You're sure?
cole		 Stars!  Air!  I can live here.  Breathe!
railly		I'm going to attract their attention, let them know where we are, okay?
railly		 They'll tell you to put your hands on top of your head.  Do what they tell you.  You're going to get better, James -- I know it!
cole		I love this world!
railly		Remember, I'm going to help you.  I'll stay with you.  I won't let them...
railly		Then I said something to him about cooperating and he said he would do that, so I got in the car and started honking the horn.  When I got out, he was gone.
lieutenant halperin		You lucked out.  For a while we thought you were a body they found down state... mutilated.
railly		He wouldn't do something like that -- he...
lieutenant ralperin		 This the man he attacked?
railly		I'd like to be clear about this.  That man and the other one were..."severely" beating us.  James Cole didn't start it.  In fact -- he saved me!
lieutenant ralperin		Funny thing, Doctor, maybe you can explain it to me, you being a psychiatrist -- why do kidnap victims almost always try to tell us about the guys who grabbed 'em and try to make us understand how kind these bastards really were?
railly		 He's sick.  He thinks he comes from the future.  He's been living in a carefully constructed fantasy world and that world is starting to disintegrate.  He needs help!
astrophysicist		Come on, Cole, cooperate!
geologist		Spit it out... you went to the home of a famous virologist...
cole		 You...don't...exist!  You're in my mind...
wayne		Sorry.
railly		No -- I'm in a state of hyper- alertness.  I can't sleep.
marilou		Did you take the sedative?
railly		I hate those things.  They mess my head up.
railly		 He's dead, isn't he -- that little boy?
wayne		He's fine.  It was just a "prank" he and his friends pulled.
scientists		---found my thrills on Blueberry Hill...
scientists		Well done, James!  Well done!  Nice going!  Congratulations!  Good for you!
botanist		During your "interview," while you were..."under the influence," you told us you liked music!
zoologist		This isn't the prison, James.
botanist		This is a hospital.
astrophysicist		But just until you recover your, uh,... equilibrium.
engineer		You're still a little... disoriented.
geologist		Stress!  Time travel!
astrophysicist		You stood up very well, considering...
geologist		Superior work!  Superior!
botanist		You connected the Army of the 12 Monkeys to a world famous virologist and his son...
microbiologist		Others will take over now...
zoologist		We'll be back on the surface in a matter of months....
geologist		We'll retake the planet.
astrophysicist		We're very close!  Because of you!
engineer		 This is it, James...what you've been working for.
botanist		A full pardon!
microbiologist		You'll be out of here in no time.
astrophysicist		Women will want to get to know you...
cole		I DON'T WANT YOUR "WOMEN," YOU BRAINLESS TWIT! I WANT TO BE WELL!
astrophysicist		 Of course you want to be well, James. And you will be...soon.
cole		YOU DON'T EXIST, YOU SILLY BOZOS! YOU'RE NOT REAL! HA HA HA! PEOPLE DON'T TRAVEL IN TIME! YOU AREN'T HERE. MADE YOU UP!  YOU CAN'T TRICK ME! YOU'RE IN MY MIND! I'M INSANE AND YOU'RE MY INSANITY!
railly		He not only used the word "prank" -- he said the boy was hiding in a barn.
railly		For God sakes, Owen, listen to me -- he knew about the boy in Fresno and he says three billion people are going to die!
railly		And what we believe is what's accepted as "truth" now, isn't it, Owen?  Psychiatry -- it's the latest religion.  And we're the priests -- we decide what's right and what's wrong --we decide who's crazy and who isn't. ... I'm in trouble, Owen.  I'm losing my faith.
cole		 I saw you! In 1995!  In the real world! You were a bum!  You pulled out your teeth.
cole		FUCK YOU!
cole		Oh, yeah?  What do I want?
cole		Tell me.  Tell me what I want.
cole		More...than...anything.
lieutenant halperin		Dr. Railly?  Jim Halperin, Philly P.D.. Sorry to call so early but...
railly		You found him?  Is he all right?
lieutenant halperin		Au contraire, Doctor.  No sign of your good friend, the kidnapper.  However, the plot thickens.  I have a ballistic report on my desk that says the bullet you claim you removed from Mr. Cole's thigh is an antique...and all indications
lieutenant ralperin		So what I was thinking was, maybe if I sent a detective down there to talk with you, you could maybe revise or amplify on the circumstances.... Hello?  Hello?  Dr. Railly?
railly		No!
astrophysicist		The food, the sky, the certain, uh, sexual temptations -- you haven't become "addicted" have you, Cole?  To that "dying" world'
cole		No, sir!  I just want to do my part. To get us back on top...in charge of the planet.  And I have the experience, I know who the people are...
biologist		He really is the most qualified...
geologist		But all that..."behavior"...
astrophysicist		 You said we weren't "real," Cole...
cole		Well, sir, I don't think the human mind was built to exist in two different... whatever you call it..."dimensions." It's stressful, you said it yourselves, it gets you confused.  You don't know what's real and what's not.
microbiologist		But you know what's real now?
cole		Yes, sir.
geologist		He'd have to bone up, catch up to our research, the latest clues...
zoologist		He's proved to be a quick study...
astrophysicist		You can't trick us, you know.  It wouldn't work.
biologist		And why would you want to?  It'll be dangerously close to the end.
cole		I understand.  There'd be no point.
astrophysicist		We're going to think about it, Cole. Among ourselves.  We'll get back to you.
railly		Please, I know it sounds insane but...
botanist		Let's consider again our current information -- if the symptoms were first detected in Philadelphia on June 28, 1995, that makes us know that...?
cole		It was released in Philadelphia,
botanist		And it appeared sequentially after that in...?
cole		San Francisco, New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, then Peking.
botanist		Meaning...???
cole		That the virus was taken from Philadelphia to San Francisco, then to New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, then Peking.
botanist		And your only goal is...???
cole		To find out where the virus is so a qualified scientist can travel back into the past and study the original virus.
botanist		So that...???
cole		Uh, so that a vaccine can be developed that will, uh, allow mankind to reclaim the surface of the earth.
railly		IS ANYBODY IN THERE?  HELLO?  IS SOMEONE IN THERE?  IF YOU'RE IN THERE, I NEED TO TALK TO YOU.
fale		It's the kidnap woman -- the one who was with the guy who tied us up.
ben		What's she doing?
fale		She's drawing attention to us, that's what she's doing. ... I don't know what you're up to this time, Mason, but you're gonna get us in deep shit!
jeffrey		Whine, whine, whine.  What about walkie talkies?  We used to have walkie talkies.
railly		I SAW YOU!  I SAW SOMEONE MOVING.  I KNOW YOU'RE IN THERE!
louie		That's what they do -- secret weird stuff!
railly		You!  I know you!
louie		Not just on them.  Do 'em on people, too -- down at the shelters.  Feed 'em chemicals 'n take pictures of 'em.
railly		Have you seen James Cole?  The man...?
louie		They're watchin' you.  Takin' pictures.
railly		The police.  I know.  Listen, I need to talk to James, but he has to be careful how he contacts me.  He mustn't get caught.  Do you understand me?
louis		Uh, yeah, sure.  Uh...who's James?
railly		He was with me, he spoke to you. Several weeks ago.  He said you were from the future...watching him.
jeffrey		You get the bolt cutters?
kweskin		One dozen.  They're in the van.
fale		One dozen bolt cutters!  Whadda you gonna do with one dozen bolt cutters?
jeffrey		 You really want to know?
fale		No!  Absolutely not. Don't tell me anything.
ben		Hey!  Do you know what she's doing?
teddy		What's it say?
ben		I can't see it.
jeffrey		 WHY DON'T WE FORGET MY GODDAMN PSYCHIATRIST AND DEAL WITH THE TASK AT HAND.  THIS IS IMPORTANT.
fale		 Your psychiatrist?  Did you just say, "your psychiatrist"?
jeffrey		Ex-psychiatrist!  Now, what about flashlights?  How many flashlights...?
fale		That woman is...was...your... psychiatrist?  And now she's spray- painting our building?
cole		Kathryn!
railly		James!
railly		James!  That's a policeman.  Pretend you don't know me.  If he sees you...
cole		 Don't worry -- it's all okay now.  I'm not crazy any more!  I mean, I am crazy, mentally divergent, actually, but I know it now and I want you to help me.  I want to get well...
railly		James -- put your hands down and listen to me.  Things have changed!
railly		James, come on!  We have to get out of here!
cole		I've seen that...before.
railly		James, trust me.  We're in terrible trouble.  We have to run.
ben		Wow, a guy in a Chevy is chasing her and some other guy I can't see.
fale		Hey, no problem, it's probably just another kidnapping featuring Jeffrey's shrink, pardon me, make that ex-shrink.  This is your leader, a certifiable lunatic who told his former psychiatrist all his plans for God knows what whacko irresponsible schemes, and now who knows what she's painted out there on our wall?
jeffrey		WHO CARES WHAT PSYCHIATRISTS WRITE ON WALLS?  You think I told her about the Army of the 12 Monkeys?  Impossible!  Know why, you pathetically ineffectual and pusillanimous "pretend-friend-to- animals"?!  I'll tell you why:  because when I had anything to do with her six years ago, there was no such thing -- I hadn't even thought of it yet!
fale		 Then how come she knows what's going on?
jeffrey		Here's my theory on that.  While I was institutionalized, my brain was studied exhaustively in the guise of mental health. I was interrogated, x-rayed, studied thoroughly.  Then, everything about me was entered into a computer where they created a model of my mind.
jeffrey		Now I have to get going -- do my part. You guys check all this stuff out and load up the van.  Make sure you have everything.  I'm outta here.
fale		He's seriously crazy -- you know that.
railly		James!  Come on.
cole		I don't understand what we're doing.
railly		 We're avoiding the police until I can....talk to you.
cole		 You mean, treat me?  Cure me?  Kathryn, those words on the wall -- I've seen them before...  I...I...dreamed them.
desk clerk		Twenty five bucks an hour.
railly		An hour?!
desk clerk		You want quarter hours, go someplace else.
railly		 Here's ninety eight.  For the night.  Deal?
desk clerk		Forty four.  Fourth floor, turn right. Elevator's busted.
desk clerk		Tommy?  This is Charlie at the Globe. You know if Wallace has a new girl? Sort of a rookie type?  Blonde?
railly		Okay...you were standing there looking at the moon...you were eating grass... then what?
cole		I thought I was in...prison again.
railly		Just like that?  You were in prison?
cole		No, not really.  It's...it's in my mind.  Like you said.
railly		You disappeared!  One minute you were there, the next minute you were gone. Did you run through the woods?
cole		I don't know -- I don't remember.
railly		The boy in the well.  How did you know that was just a hoax?
cole		It was?  I didn't...know.
railly		James, you said he was hiding in the barn...
cole		I think I saw a TV show like that when I was a kid.  Where a boy...
railly		IT WASN'T A TV SHOW!  IT WAS REAL!
cole		Well, maybe that kid saw the same TV show and copied it.  Listen, you were right, it's all in my head.  I'm mentally ill, I imagine all that stuff.  I know they're not real, I can trick them, make them do what I want.  I just worked on them in my head and I got back here.  I can get better.  I can stay here.
railly		What does this mean to you?
cole		...I had a dream about...something like that.
railly		You had a bullet from World War One in your leg, James!  How did it get there?
cole		You said I had delusions -- that I created a world -- you said you could explain everything...
railly		Well, I can't. ... I mean...I'm trying to.  I can't believe that everything we do or say has already happened, that we can't change what's going to happen, that I'm one of the three billion people who are going to die...soon.
cole		I want to be here.  In this time.  With you.  I want to become...become a whole person.  I want this to be the present. I want the future to be unknown.
railly		 James...do you remember...six years ago...you had a phone number!  You tried to call and...
wallace		This is my territory, bitch!
cole		 Is this real -- or is this one of my delusions?
railly		This is definitely real:  Excuse me, I think we have a little misunderstanding here...
wallace		What're you -- some kind of tough guy? You wanna be a hero?  You gonna try and mess with me?  Come on...
wallace		Now that's a smart boy.  But you, honey, you think you can go 'round me and peddle your fancy ass in this part of town, you bet your life we got what I would call a major goddamn misunderstandin'.
railly		JAMES -- DON'T!
wallace		 You...heard...her.  Don't do it, man.
railly		 Put him in the closet, ... But get his money first.
cole		 You want me to rob him?
railly		I...I...We need cash, James.
wallace		You two are crazy.  I got friends.  You put me in a closet, they're gonna be really pissed.
railly		James, no!
wallace		I have friends, man -- if you cut me...
wallace		What...the...fuck..are you doing???
railly		Oh, my God, James.  Did you kill him?
cole		Just...just in case.  In case I'm not crazy...  I don't want them to find me.  Ever.  I don't want to go back.
railly		Push it tight!
plainclothes cop		POLICE!  THROW YOUR WEAPONS OUT AND COME OUTTA THERE!
railly		Wait here.  I'm going to try that phone number.  Let's hope it's nothing!
railly		James!  James!  It's okay.  We're insane!  We're crazy!
railly		It's a Carpet Cleaning Company...
cole		A Carpet Cleaning Company?
railly		 No superiors!  No scientists.  No people from the future.  It's just a Carpet Cleaning Company.  They have voice mail -- you leave a message telling them when you want your carpet cleaned.
cole		You... you left them a message?
railly		 I couldn't resist.  I was so relieved. Wait'll they hear this nutty woman telling them...they better watch out for the Army of the Twelve Monkeys...
cole		"The Army of the Twelve Monkeys -- they're the ones who are going to do it.  I can't do anything more.  The police are watching me."
railly		You... you couldn't have heard me.
cole		They got your message, Kathryn.  They played it for me.  It was a bad recording...distorted.  I didn't recognize your voice.
railly		Come on.
railly		And this.  Anything else?
railly		I guess that's it.
clerk		Shall I put this on your account, Ma'am?
railly		 No -- I'll pay cash.
railly		What floor are the wigs on, please?
kweskin		So then he goes into this incredible riff about how his shrink, like, replicated his brain while he was in the nut house. Turned it into a computer.
weller		And Fale believed it?
kweskin		Oh, you know Fale!  He's like, "If you guys get nailed -- and I'm sure you will -- I never saw you before in nay life!"
jeffrey		Let's do it!
jeffrey		Okay, that's Stage One.  In Stage Two, Monkey Four is over here...
goines		What's the harm in opening the bag? His eyes are taped.
sandy		Yeah, it's cruel leaving him like that.
jeffrey		Ah, but cruelty is his specialty.
ichioka		So why should we be like him?
jeffrey		Want the full effect?
jeffrey		What...virus?
jeffrey		What virus are we talking about, Dad?
jeffrey		You "develop" viruses and you're calling me insane?  Typical.  What does this virus attack?  Don't tell me, you sick fuck, it doesn't matter.  Have I ever "developed" a virus?  Do I put helpless animals in cages and measure their reactions to electrical stimuli? Do I inject radioactive substances into living creatures and examine their bowel movements?  Wow!  And I'm crazy!
jeffrey		THIS IS A FUCKING EXPERIMENT!  YOU'RE OUR HELPLESS LITTLE TEST ANIMAL, DADDY. GOT THAT?  NOW -- WHAT FUCKING VIRUS HAVE YOU COME UP WITH, YOU DEMENTED FUCKING MANIAC?
railly		Here, let me help you.
cole		I think I've seen this movie before. When I was a kid.  It was on TV.
railly		 Shh -- don't talk.  Hold still.
cole		 I have seen it, but I don't remember this part.  Funny, it's like what's happening to us, like the past.  The movie never changes -- it can't change -- but everytime you see it, it seems to be different because you're different -- you notice different things.
railly		If we can't change anything...because it's already happened, then we ought to at least smell the flowers.
cole		Flowers!  What flowers?
railly		 It's an expression.  Here...
cole		Why are we doing this?
railly		So we can stick our heads out the window and feel the wind and listen to the music.  So we can appreciate what we have while we have it.  Forgive me, psychiatrists don't cry.
cole		But maybe I'm wrong.  Maybe you're wrong.  Maybe we're both crazy.
railly		In a few weeks, it will have started or it won't.  If there are still baseball games and traffic jams, armed robberies and boring TV shows -- we'll be so happy, we'll be glad to turn ourselves in to the police.
shadowy moviegoer		SHHHHHHH
cole		 Where can we hide for a few weeks?
railly		You said you'd never seen the ocean...
cole		Kathryn?!
brunette		We're booked on a 9:30 flight to Key West.
cole		You were in my dream just now.  I didn't recognize you.
railly		Well, you look pretty different, too.
cole		I mean in my dream -- I didn't realize it was you.  Then...I woke up and I...I thought you were gone.
railly		 I remember you...like this.  I feel I've known you before.  I feel I've always known you.
railly		Nine thirty
woman cabbie		Might be tight.
woman cabbie		On your normal mornin', okay, plenty a time, but today, gotta take inta account your Army-of-the-Twelve-Monkeys factor.
railly		What?  What did you say?
woman cabbie		Twelve Monkeys, honey.  Guess you folks didn't turn on your radio this morning.
woman cabbie		Bunch a weirdoes let all the animals outta the zoo last night.  Then they locked up this big shot scientist in one of the cages. Scientist's own kid was one a the ones did it!
railly		That's what they were up to!  Freeing animals!
cole		On the walls -- they meant the animals when they said, "We did it."
woman cabbie		You can hear it on the radio all the stations...
railly		Maybe it's going to be okay.
detective		Tell your people if they spot either one of them, not to try and apprehend then.  They should notify us and...
cole		I know this place! ... This is my dream.
railly		Airports all look the same.  Maybe it's...  James!  Your moustache!  It's slipping.
cole		It's not just my dream.  I was actually here!  I remember now.  My parents brought me to meet my uncle.  About a week or two before...before...before everybody started dying.
railly		They may be looking for us, James.  Use this.  You can fix it in the Men's Room.
cole		 I was here...as a kid.  I think you were here, too.  But you...looked just like you look now.
railly		 James, if we're identified, they're going to send us someplace...but not to Key West!
cole		 Right!  You're right.  I have to fix this.
railly		 I'll get the tickets and meet you... in the Gift Shop.
railly		Judy Simmons.  I have reservations for Key West.
cole		Listen, I don't know whether you're there or not.  Maybe you just clean carpets.  If you do, you're lucky -- you're gonna live a long, happy life. But if you other guys exist and you're picking this up -- forget about the Army of The Twelve Monkeys -- they didn't do it.  It was a mistake' Someone else did it.  The Army of The Twelve Monkeys are just dumb kids playing revolutionaries.  It was someone else!
cole		I've done my job.  I did what you wanted. Good luck.  I'm not coming back!
ticket agent		Don't see a lot of this... cash.
railly		It's...a long story.
ticket agent		 They'll begin boarding in about twenty minutes.  Have a nice flight, Mrs. Simmons.
cole		Leave me alone!  I made a report.  I didn't have to do that.
cole		This is the present.  This is not the past. This is not the future.  This is right now!
cole		I'm staying here! You got that?  You can't stop me!
plump man		 Anything you say, chief.  It's none of my business.
ticket agent		Woooo-eeee.  San Francisco, New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, Peking! That's some trip you're taking, sir, All in one week!
ticket agent		 Have a good one, sir.
cole		Jo...Jose????
jose		Pulling out the tooth, man, that was nuts!  Here, take this.
cole		What?  What for?  Are you crazy?
jose		Me?  Are you kiddin?  You're the one! You were a hero, man.  They gave you a pardon!  And whadda you do?  You come back and fuck with your teeth!  Wow!
cole		How did you find me?
jose		The phone call, man.  The phone call.
cole		The call I just made?  Five minutes ago?
jose		Hey, five minutes ago, thirty years ago! Yes, that phone call.  I been in training for this a couple a months now -- ever since I got back from that... "weird" war we were in.  You remember that?  Here, take it, man!  You could still be a hero if you'd cooperate!
railly		Oh, my God!
jose		Coma on, Cole, don't be an asshole.  Look, I got orders, man!  You know what I'm sposed to do if you don't go along? I'm sposed to shoot the lady!  You got that?  They said, "If Cole don't obey this time, Garcia, you gotta shoot his girlfriend!"
jose		I got no choice, man.  These are my orders.  Just take it, okay?
cole		This part isn't about the virus, is it?
jose		Hey, man...
cole		It's about obeying, about doing what you're told.
jose		They gave you a pardon, man.  Whatdaya want?
cole		Who am I supposed to shoot?
railly		James!  Thank God!  I thought you'd disappeared.  Listen, I think I know who it is!  I saw him!  It's Dr. Mason's assistant.  An apocalypse nut!  The next flight to San Francisco leaves from Gate 38. If he's there, it has to be him.
cole		I love you, Kathryn.  Remember that.
railly		Maybe we can stop him.  Maybe we can actually do something.
security officer		Excuse me, sir.  Would you mind letting me have a look at the contents of your bag?
railly		Oh, God, we don't have time for this.
security officer		I'm going to have to ask you to open this, sir.
security officer		It's empty!
railly		Please listen to me -- this is very urgent!
traveler		We're all in a hurry, lady.  What's so special about you?
security officer		That's not necessary, sir.  Here you go.  Thanks for your cooperation.  Have a good flight.
cole		Get your hands off her!
cole		I said, get your hands off her.  She's not a criminal.  She's a doctor...a psychiatrist.
railly		THERE HE IS!  HE'S CARRYING A DEADLY VIRUS!  STOP HIM!
first detective		 Police Officers.  Would you step over here, please.
first detective		STOP OR I'LL SHOOT!
astrophysicist		Jones is my name.  I'm in insurance.
****Dialogues from script :12_Years_a_Slave.txt****

anne		Solomon... Solomon, turning back to his wife with a broad smile waving her forward:
solomon		Come, Anne. Jump.
alonzo margaret		Jump. You can make it. I've done it. You can make it.
anne		I will not ruin my dress. Catch me!  Solomon moves close, holds out his arms. Yet, there's still just a bit of mischievousness in his eyes. Anne gives her husband a lightly stern look to which Solomon replies.
solomon		I will catch you, Anne.
anne		You will.
solomon		Mr. Parker.
parker		Mr. Northup. Mrs. Northup.
solomon		We are in need of a fresh carry all for the Mrs's travels.
parker		A year's passed? Off to Sandy Hill?
anne		I am. Using a long pole, Mr. Parker fetches down a CARRY ALL from an upper shelf.
parker		Something to suit your style, but sturdy enough for the forty miles round trip. Handing the Bag to Anne, she is immediately taken by it.
anne		It's beautiful.
anne		We will take it. Children, come see what your father has just purchased for me. As the children run over - chattering excitedly about the new gift - they RUN PAST JASPER who has quietly entered the store. At the checkout counter sits a portrait of WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, the edges draped in black crepe. Before the book sits a LEDGER. Mr. Parker asks of Solomon:
parker		If you would sign our condolence book. My hope is to find a way to forward it to the Widow Harrison. Sad days for the nation.
solomon		Yes, certainly. Poor Mrs. Harris and her children. I hope brighter times ahead.
parker		A moment, sir, and you will be assisted.
solomon		If we could discuss the price...
parker		Forgive me, Mrs. Northup. A customer waits. Welcome, sir. To Jasper, with good nature:
solomon		Shop well, but mind your wallet.
parker		Ignore the gentleman's nonsense. Now, may I interest you in a new cravat? Pure silk by way of the-- Before Parker can finish, the door opens. It's Jasper's Master, FITZGERALD. He's stern, clearly displeased.
fitzgerald		Jasper!
solomon		No intrusion. Fitzgerald looks to Solomon. It is a cold glare as though he wasn't speaking to, and has no interest in a response from a black man. Looking back to Parker:
fitzgerald		Good day, sir.
solomon		"Thus has passed away from earth our late President." Solomon starts from the top of the article.
margaret		Will you read it again?
anne		Not just now, darling. Anne enters the dining room and places a large chicken at the center of the table. As she takes a seat, all heads are bowed.
margaret		For food that stays our hunger, For rest that brings us ease, For homes where memories linger, We give our thanks for these.
all		Amen.
solomon		Margaret, that was wonderful.
margaret		Thank you, Papa.
solomon		Alonzo, do you have something to say?
alonzo		Yes, I helped Momma make this.
anne		Yes, and you were such a good help. Especially making the gravy.
margaret		Papa, I would very much like to learn how to play the violin. Could you teach me?
alonzo		Me too!
margaret		Yes, but I asked Papa first.
solomon		Both of you, calm down. We will have our first lesson after this wonderful dinner. And on that note, let's start eating.
solomon		Travel safely.
anne		Stay safely. Anne and the children loaded up, the Driver chides the horse and the carriage heads off. Solomon waves a hearty good bye to his wife and children.
brown		Sir.
hamilton		He was indeed.
solomon		Mr. Moon is being overly gracious.
brown		Taking into consideration his graciousness and your modesty, may we trouble you for a moment of your time to converse, sir?
solomon		A circus?
hamilton		That is our usual employee. The company currently in the city of Washington.
brown		Circus too constricting a word to describe the talented and merry band with which we travel. It is a spectacle unlike most have ever witnessed. Creatures from the darkest Africa as yet unseen by civilized man. Acrobats from the Orient able to contort themselves in the most confounding manners.
hamilton		And I myself in aide of Mr. Brown; an internationally renowned practitioner in the art of prestidigitation.
brown		We are on our way thither to rejoin the company having left for a short time to make a small profit from our own exhibitions.
hamilton		The reason for our inquiry with Mr. Moon...
brown		Yes. We had just a devil of a time in procuring music for our
solomon		Thank you sir...
brown		If we could persuade you to accompany us as far as New York... We would give you one dollar for each day's service and three dollars for every night played at our performances. In addition we would provide sufficient pay for the expenses of your return from New York here to Saratoga.
solomon		You understand this is all very sudden.
hamilton		Consider it an opportunity to see
solomon		It's intriguing...
hamilton		If there is any way in which you would give consideration to the offer... Solomon gives the whole deal one last consideration.
solomon		The payment offered is enticement enough, as is my desire to visit the metropolis.
hamilton		We are delighted, sir. So delighted. Though we would add that our travel plans--
brown		We would like to depart with haste.
solomon		As luck would have it, my wife and children are traveling. I will write her of our plans.
brown		Excellent! I would beg you collect yourself, then we may proceed.
hamilton		No letter to post?
solomon		No need. My return will coincide with my family's.
brown		We're off then.
hamilton		Not an additional tip from a one of them. They expect to be entertained for nothing.
brown		And not satisfied a bit despite giving them more than what they paid for.
solomon		It's the national mood. There's too much grief to make room for frivolity.
hamilton		My sincerest apologies, Solomon. You were promised opportunity, and you were given none.
brown		The opportunity is with the circus. A two man show poorly promoted, what were we to expect? But the circus bills itself.
hamilton		True.
brown		I have told you of the circus with which we are connected. Creatures from the darkest of Africa. Acrobats from the Orient who--
solomon		You have described it, yes.
brown		Yes. We need to return immediately to Washington. Solomon...I believe us familiar enough now, but forgive me if I am bold...would you consider making the trip with us? Solomon gives a bit of a laugh at the idea.
hamilton		Entertaining at pubs and inns has it's place, but a man of your skills deserves better.
brown		Hear, hear.
hamilton		And more importantly you would build your own name and following. The circus tends to attract those with the highest of reputations. An introduction here and there could amount to a lifetime of reward. Now would be the time. With your family away, an opportunity presents itself.
brown		Said as fellow artists as well as businessmen. Well worth the effort at least.
solomon		You present a flattering representation. As my family will be traveling back shortly, perhaps I might commit only to one trial engagement.
hamilton		Oh, very good, sir. Very good. I cannot recall being so excited.
brown		There is a practical concern. If you are to continue on with us you should obtain your free papers.
solomon		Not necessary.
brown		Here in New York, no. But we will be entering slave states and as a matter of precaution... It's to all our benefit we should not have to come to account for your well being.
hamilton		Six shillings worth of effort could well save much trouble later.
brown		We'll go to the Customs House in the morning, then travel on. Good business all around.
brown		Forty-three dollars. All to you.
solomon		That...it's far more than my wages amount to.
brown		Consider the remainder an advance from the circus. I cannot tell you...I honestly wish you had seen the expression of our director when I described your abilities. He was fairly overcome with excitement.
hamilton		You should have invited him to sup with us.
brown		I did. I did, but so many preparations before the company is to depart.
brown		Tomorrow we shall prepare for our Washington debut. But tonight, our thoughts are with the great man
hamilton		Cheers.
brown		Another. Our departed President deserves all the salutation we can imbibe. Hamilton and Brown drink again, and Solomon does as well.
hamilton		That's all right Solomon. No shame in it. No shame at all.
hamilton		I'm afraid that Brown and I haven't brought you much luck. But rough waters bring smooth sailing. Eventually they do.
solomon		....So...so sorry...
hamilton		Shhh. We won't hear it. We won't.
brown		Let him sleep.
hamilton		Hmm. A good night's sleep. And tomorrow...tomorrow you will feel as well and refreshed as though the earth were new again. Hamilton lingers a bit too long and a bit too close to Solomon for Brown's taste. With more than a bit of
brown		Hamilton! Nothing more we can do for him.
hamilton		Such is the pity. Displaying an odd sort of disappointment, Hamilton slinks away from the bed. He crosses to, and BLOWS OUT A CANDLE. The room goes dark with a blackness more than night. Brown and Hamilton exit. Solomon lays in the dark and moans. His sounds becoming MORE AND MORE
burch		Well, my boy, how yah feel now? Solomon rises up as best he can. With all the resolve he can put together he states what he considers to be fact:
solomon		I am Solomon Northup. I am a free man; a resident of Saratoga, New York. The residence also of my wife and children who are equally free. I have papers. You have no right whatsoever to detain me--
burch		Yah not any--
solomon		And I promise you - I promise - upon my liberation I will have satisfaction for this wrong.
burch		Resolve this. Produce your papers.
solomon		...I...I insist... Burch regrets hearing this. Not from sympathy, but rather because he's nearly too tired to go back to beating Solomon. Yet, as if returning to work, Burch returns to pummeling Solomon. Burch punctuates the blows
burch		Yah a slave. Yah a Georgia slave! Burch continues to strike, and strike... This time until the paddle SNAPS IN HALF. Burch then GRABS THE WHIP. Hardly missing a stroke, he whips Solomon relentlessly, the flails cutting into Solomon's back. Again, Burch's arm tires before Solomon "breaks."
solomon		...No... Burch goes back to whipping and whipping, and whipping...
radburn		I seen a good many of the black kind just where yah're. Sick. Make me sick. Often times the situation was resolved, and I think; what was all the beatin' and abuse for? Things end as they should, and the violence was for naught. So why cause trouble when they ain't no cause for it? Be of a cooperative nature, and things don't need be particularly unpleasant.
solomon		Help me! Someone help me! If anyone at all hears him, they do not respond. Solomon continues his plaintive cry for assistance.
radburn		Go on. Warsh up. The men, soaking in humility as well as water, begin to scrub with A SINGLE BAR OF HARSH SOAP passed among them.
randall		Do you know when my Mama will come?
radburn		Hush him up! Seeing Solomon has no answer for him, Randall begins to cry.
randall		Mama ..! Mama! Is she going to come? Doing all he can to spare the child from a certain
solomon		Quiet, please. Randall is becoming nearly inconsolable.
randall		Mama!
solomon		Your mother will come, I swear she will, but you must be silent. Please. Be silent! On the seeming strength of Solomon's promise, Randall goes silent. Solomon looks to Radburn, who just throws water on the soapy men.
radburn		That old thing of yours is just rags and tatters. Need something proper to wear. Solomon doesn't move for the clothing.
solomon		...Thank you...
radburn		Yah keep bein' proper, yah'll see how things work out. Radburn starts to take the old shirt.
solomon		No! It was from my wife.
radburn		Rags and tatters. Rags and tatters. Taking the shirt, the "rags and tatters" as he calls them, Radburn exits, locking the door behind him. Solomon sits with the plate of food before him. He pushes the plate away rather than eat.
solomon		This can't stand. It is a crime. I believe now someone lay in wait for me. My drink was altered... We are free men. They have...they have no right to hold us. Solomon waits for a response from the others. They give none.
clemens		Who in your estimation is that sympathetic ear?
solomon		The two men I journeyed with. I'm certain they're making inquires at this very moment.
clemens		I would be just as certain they are counting the money paid for delivering you to this place.
solomon		They were not kidnappers. They were artists. Fellow performers.
clemens		You know that? You know for certain who they were?
john		No.
clemens		I don't say that to give you empty agitation, John...
john		For y'all. For y'all they ain't nothin' but that! But John was'n kidnapped. John bein' hold as debt, tha's all. Massa pay his debt, and John be redeemed--
clemens		Boy, our masters will not come for us. John is nearly beside himself with panic.
john		Now John's...John's sorry for y'all, but tha's how it be. Where y'all goin', yah goin' witout John. Massa take care of me. Massa take care.
randall		Mama! All three men turn and look. At the moment Randall doesn't call out emptily. At the door to the yard is Burch along with two women. One in her late twenties; ELIZA. She is "arrayed in silk, with rings upon her fingers, and golden ornaments suspended from her ears." Though a slave, Eliza was a mistress and has - to this point - lived well. This is reflected in her airs and her speech. The other is a little girl, light in skin color, of about seven or eight. This is EMILY, Randall's half sister. As she enters the yard Eliza squeals with high delight, then breaks into tears of both sorrow and joy. Clearly this is mother and child being reunited.
eliza		My darling. My sweet, sweet baby.
eliza		When I say I had my master's favor, you understand. Above even his own wife, I had it. Do you know that he built a house for me? Built it on the sole condition that I reside there with him. The added promise in time I would be emancipated. And for nine years he blessed me with every comfort and luxury in life. Displaying the finery she still wears:
burch		Come on. Get yer blankets. Get up. Sensing that things will not end well:
eliza		No, please don't...
burch		I don't want to hear yer talk. Get in the yard.
eliza		Please...
radburn		Ain't no need for all that. Putting hand to Randall's head.
john		John's massa gunna pay his debt. John's massa gunna come for him.
burch		Not a word out of none a yah. Not a word. Burch and Radburn begin driving the shackled slaves from the yard.
mulatto woman		Cheer up and don't be so cast down.
ray		Clemens...! Clemens Ray! We are in the port of New Orleans, one of the busiest in the young nation. On the dock itself there is a bustle of activity as goods are loaded and unloaded from a various ships. It's a bit of controlled chaos as a VARIETY OF LANGUAGES are spoken and shouted while slaves are shuttled from the Orleans to a holding pen. Solomon, and all the slaves are overwhelmed by all that is happening around them. Two men - among many - are awaiting the arrival of the Orleans. They are JONUS RAY - Clemens Ray's master - and DAVIS who is the solicitor of Mr. Ray. They both look like they mean business. The moment the gangplank is laid, Ray yells for Clemens. Clemens, seeing his master, is nearly crazy with delight. He is, uncharacteristically beside himself. Ironically, his master now represents "freedom."
clemens		...My master... Master Ray, sir! Master Ray! Clemens pulls on his chain. As he does so, Several other slaves collapse in his effort to reach his master, like dominos.
ray		Who is in charge of this vessel?
captain		I am the Captain.
ray		I am Mr. Jonus Ray. My solicitor has documentation verifying that the Negro named Clemens Ray is my property. As he reads PAPERS handed to him by Davis:
captain		I know nothing of--
ray		You are ordered by court to return that property immediately, or face charges of thievery.
captain		My duty is to transport goods. I am not responsible for their origin.
ray		Remove these contraptions! To his mate:
captain		Free him! Biddee does as ordered. Once free, Clemens hugs and sobs over his master as would a lost and then found child.
ray		It's all well, now, Clemens. You will return home with me.  Consider this notice and warning.
freeman		Oren. John. Lethe. Eliza. Randall. Emily. Platt... Platt! Solomon does not respond. Freeman looks around. He spots Solomon.
captain		Burch. Freeman steps to Solomon. He gives him a looking over.
freeman		Stand up. Solomon does as told.
solomon		My name is not Platt. My name is-- Freeman strikes Solomon hard across the face.
freeman		Your name is Platt, and I will teach you your name so that you don't forget.  Shackle my niggers. Get them to my cart.
freeman		Tallest to smallest, understand? Are you taller than her? Then you'd go before her. Do it. Move.  Keep your heads up. A sense of direction; that's how you look smart. None of those saucer eyes. Rid yourself of that smile. Look like a goddamn grinnin' monkey. Put the least thought in your head. C'mon, now. Think of somethin'. Weary of Cape's playing, Solomon moves to Cape. He asks:
solomon		Can you play a reel?
solomon		If I may...? Cape looks to Freeman:
freeman		He sick of your caterwaulin'. Let him play, boy. Let's see what he can do. Cape reluctantly hands the fiddle over to Solomon. Solomon tunes it a bit, then begins to play. His fingers stiff at first, he takes a moment to warm up. But as he warms up he is, despite the circumstances, masterful.
ford		What is the price for the ones Platt and Eliza?
freeman		A thousand for Platt; he is a nigger of talent. Seven hundred for Eliza. My fairest price.
ford		You will accept a note?
freeman		As always, from you, Mr. Ford. Eliza is beside herself as it seems she is about to be separated from her family. She begs of Ford:
eliza		Please, sir... Please don't divide my family. Don't take me unless you take my children as well.
freeman		Eliza, quiet!
eliza		You will have the most faithful slave in me, sir. The most faithful slave that has ever lived, but I beg that you do not separate us. A BUYER interrupts the skirmish and approaches Freeman and delivers coolly, eyeing Randall-
buyer		Your price for the child?
freeman		You see how fit the boy is. Like ripe fruit. He will grow into a fine beast. Randall is made to run, and jump by FREEMAN - exhibiting his activity and his condition.
buyer		Done. He reaches into his waistcoat and retrieves his wallet, counting out six hundred dollars, placing them into the already extended hand of Freeman. Ford sees the distress and panic in Eliza; it visibly touches him. He now tries to buy EMILY to console her.
ford		How much for the little girl? You have no need for her. One so young will bring you no profit.
freeman		I will not sell the girl. There's heaps 'n piles of money to be made off her. She is a beauty. One of the regular bloods. None of your thick-lipped, bullet headed, cotton picking niggers.
ford		Her child, man. For God's sake, are you not sentimental in the least?
freeman		My sentimentality stretches the length of a coin. Do you want the lot, Mr. Ford, or do you pass on them all?
ford		I will take the ones Platt and Eliza. Eliza grips her children tight.
eliza		I will not go without my children. You will not take them from me.
freeman		Take her out of here. Cape DROPS HIS FIDDLE, begins to pull Eliza away toward the door of the room, but her screaming and pleading do not abate. IT IS CLEARLY UNSETTLING TO THE OTHER BUYERS.
emily		Mama... Mama!
emily		Don't cry, Mama. I will be a good girl. Don't cry. I will keep my head up and I will look smart. I will always look smart.
freeman		Make merry, all of you! Goddamn it, Cape! Keep her quiet or it's your damned hide I will take it out of! Cape pulls a rag, stuffs it in Eliza's mouth. Clamping both hands over her mouth, he hauls Eliza from the room by the head. IT IS AN UGLY, UGLY SCENE.
chapin		Sam, call to the Mistress.
sam		Mistress! Mistress, they arrivn'. MISTRESS FORD EXITS the house - along with her attending slave, RACHEL, who is a cook AS WELL AS SAM'S WIFE - and travels to her husband, kisses him, then laughingly
ford		Make me something to eat, dear. The day has taken it from me.
ford		Mr. Chapin--
ford		Separated from her children.
ford		It couldn't be helped.
ford		Mr. Chapin, tomorrow you will take these two up to the mill and start them workin'. For now make them
chapin		Yes, sir.  C'mon, now. C'mon. Don't dawdle.
ford		"But as touching the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read that which was spoken unto you by God, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. And when the multitude heard this, they were astonished at his doctrine. Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying, Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." Despite the lightness with which Ford speaks and the hope in his words, ELIZA SITS OFF TO THE SIDE - SELF-SECLUDED
solomon		But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve. For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? Is not he that sitteth at meat? But I am among you as he that serveth. A white customer - WINSLOW - irate at the sight and sound of slaves reading Scripture, crosses over. He grabs the Bible.
winslow		From where did you thieve this?
sam		Suh, the book is my property. The White Customer has no interest in Sam's answer. With flailing hands he STARTS BEATING ON SAM. Solomon tries to stop him. That only makes the situation worse, Solomon now the target of the man's ire.
winslow		Take your hands from me! Ford comes running over.
ford		What is the commotion?
winslow		Your niggers are either brazen or rebellious. This one was readin' Scripture, and this one claims it to be his.
ford		It is. A gift from his Mistress.
winslow		You condone this?
ford		I encourage it. As a Christian I can do no less.
winslow		You can do no worse, Ford. A slave that reads is dangerous. Winslow moves off. He yells back at Ford:
ford		Pay him no mind. The word of God applies to all. In that you may take comfort.
solomon		The creek is plenty deep enough to sail, even with a boat full of load. The distance from the WORK AREA to the point on the latter bayou is several miles by water fewer than land. It occurs to me that the expense of the transportation would be materially
tibeats		"Materially diminished?"
solomon		If we use the waterway.
tibeats		It's a scheme. Plenty of engineers have schemed similarly. The passes are too tight.
solomon		I reckon them at more than twelve feet at their most narrow. Wide enough for a tub to traverse. A team of niggers can clear it out.
tibeats		And you know what of transport and terra formin'?
solomon		I labored repairing the Champlain canal, on the section over which William Van Nortwick was superintendent. With my earnings I hired several efficient hands to assist me, and I entered into contracts for the transportation of large rafts of timber from Lake Champlain to Troy.
solomon		My great thanks, Master Ford.
ford		My thanks to you, and it is the least of it. My hope is that it brings us both much joy over the years. Following the statement, Solomon's not sure how to react. He remains grateful, but the thought of "over the years" is just a reminder of the altered state in which he now finds himself.
solomon		Eliza. Eliza, stop! Solomon goes to her, grabs Eliza. She does not stop. As if to force the misery from her, Solomon SHAKES ELIZA
eliza		It's all I have to keeps my loss present.
solomon		You let yourself be overcome by sorrow. You will drown in it.
eliza		Have you stopped crying for your children? You make no sounds, but will you ever let them go in your heart?
solomon		...They are as my flesh...
eliza		Then who is distressed? Do I upset the Mistress and the Master? Do you care less for my loss than their well being?
solomon		Master Ford is a decent man.
eliza		He is a slaver.
solomon		Under the circumstances--
eliza		Under the circumstances he is a slaver! Christian only in his proclamations. Separated me from my precious babies for lack of a few dollars. But you truckle at
solomon		No...
eliza		You luxuriate in his favor.
solomon		I survive. I will not fall into despair. Woeful and crushed; melancholy is the yolk I see most. I will offer up my talents to Master Ford. I will keep myself hearty until freedom is opportune.
eliza		Ford is your opportunity. Do you think he does not know that you are more than you suggest? But he does nothing for you. Nothing. You are no better than prized livestock. Call for him. Call, tell him of your previous circumstances and see what it earns you...Solomon. Eliza uses Solomon's name quite pointedly as if to underscore his true self. Solomon get her meaning. Yet he says nothing. Again, pointedly:
eliza		I accuse you of nothing. I cannot accuse. I too have done so many, many dishonorable things to survive. And for all of them I have ended up here... No better than if I had stood up for myself. Father, Lord and Savior forgive me... Forgive me. Oh, Solomon, let me weep for my children.
ford		And Jesus called a little child unto him, and set him in the midst of them, And said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. The phrase seems to trigger Eliza's tears. She begins to sob uncontrollably. Mrs. Ford turns to Rachel in a hushed whisper-
ford		But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea. Woe unto
tibeats		Raise yer shirt. Solomon does as instructed. Tibeats looks at Solomon's back, at the scars from lashings he bears.
ford		He's a good carpenter and quick- witted.
tibeats		I am familiar with his cleverness.
ford		You won't find a nigger more humble.
tibeats		Ain't found a nigger yet I cain't humble. Tibeats heads off. Solomon, highly curious over the preceding.
solomon		Sir, have I done something wrong?
ford		Not your concern, Platt. I say with much...shame I have compiled debts. I have long preached austerity, but find myself hypocritical in that regard. You'll be in the ownership of Mr. Tibeats. You are his now. Serve him as you'd serve me.
solomon		Sir.
ford		And your faithfulness will not be forgotten.
solomon		Yes, sir.
ford		Pride and want have been my sin. Loss of you is but one of my punishments.
tibeats		Make them boards flush.
solomon		They are, sir.
tibeats		They is no such thing. Solomon runs his hands over the boards.
solomon		As smooth to the touch as a yearling's coat.
tibeats		Callin' me a liar, boy?
solomon		Only a matter of perspective, sir. From where you stand you may see differently. But the hands are not mistaken. I ask only that you employ all your senses before rendering judgement. What's Tibeats to do when faced with fact? All he can do is spew invectives.
tibeats		You are a brute. You are a dog, and no better for followin' instruction.
solomon		I'll do as ordered, sir.
tibeats		Then you'll be up at daybreak. You will procure a keg of nails from Chapin and commence puttin' on clapboards. Tibeats wheels away. Solomon goes back to his work. After a few moments Solomon notices a bit of commotion in the drive of the great house. It involves an inconsolable Eliza who is being herded by Sam onto a cart DRIVEN BY A WHITE MAN. Mistress Ford and Rachel watch. Solomon can only watch as the last connection to his days as a free man is driven away to a location unknown.
chapin		If Tibeats prefers a different size, I will endeavor to furnish them, but you may use those until further directed.
solomon		Yes, sir.
tibeats		I thought I told yah ta commence ta puttin' on clapboards this morn'.
solomon		Yes, master. I am about it. I have begun on the other side of the house. Tibeats walks around to look over Solomon's work. He is picayune, as if purposefully looking for fault.
tibeats		Didn't I tell yah last night to get a keg of nails of Chapin?
solomon		And so I did; and Chapin said he would get another size for you, if you wanted them when he came back from the field. Tibeats walks to the keg and kicks it. Moving toward Solomon "with a great passion:"
tibeats		Goddamn yah! I thought yah knowed somethin'! Solomon, perhaps inspired by his moment with Eliza, is in no mood for Tibeats.
solomon		I did as instructed. If there's something wrong, then its wrong with your instructions.
tibeats		Yah black bastard! Yah goddman black bastard! In an inconsolable rage, Tibeats runs off to the piazza to fetch a whip. Solomon looks around. He is alone other than Rachel and Mistress Ford who, shocked by that which she witnesses, runs out to the field to fetch Chapin. Solomon's instinct is to run, but he stands his ground as Tibeats marches back whip in hand.
solomon		I will not. With "concentrated vengeance," Tibeats springs for Solomon, seizing him by the throat with one hand and
tibeats		Yew will not live ta see another day, nigger! This is yer last, I swear it! Solomon ignores the threats, continues to beat Tibeats. Blow after blow falling fast and heavy on Tibeats's wriggling form. The stiff stock of the whip wraps around Tibeats's cringing body until Solomon's arm aches. Tibeats's cries of vengeance turn to yelps for help and then pleas for mercy:
chapin		What is the matter? Tibeats struggles up and tries to present an air of dignity and control while he keeps a demonic eye on
solomon		Master Tibeats wants to whip me for using the nails you gave me.
chapin		What's the matter with the nails? With a mix of shame, anger and embarrassment, Tibeats says, as if being exposed-
tibeats		They're...they're too large.
chapin		I am overseer here. I told Platt to use them, and
tibeats		This ain't done by half. I will have flesh, and I will have all of it. Tibeats moves off toward, and then INTO THE HOUSE. Chapin follows. A long moment, Solomon stands alone. He looks around, not sure what to do; to stay or to flee. Anxiety mounts on his features. A moment more, and Tibeats EXITS the house. He saddles his horse and rides off to beat the devil. Or, worse, to fetch him. Chapin comes running back out of the house. He is visibly excited, and when he speaks he is quite earnest. Though he tries to project reasoned emotions he gives off an air of impending trouble.
chapin		Do not stir. Do not attempt to leave the plantation on any account whatever. But if you run there is no protecting you.
chapin		If you run, Platt, there is no protecting you. Rachel...! Chapin runs off to join Rachel. The two converse at a distance from Solomon, then they head off for the log kitchen. Solomon is now very much alone, and he waits for what is to come. AND WE WAIT WITH HIM. And we wait, and we continue to wait... Moment by moment, the dread of the unexpected mounts. Solomon's eyes begin to well. He has beaten a white man, and he knows that death awaits him.
tibeats		Tha's the one. Tha's him. Dismounting, they move with menace that is tinged with perverse pleasure and wordless malevolence. Solomon tries to fight back, but he is strong armed and tied by TIBEATS - his wrists, and then ankles bound in the same manner. In the meantime the other two have slipped a cord within Solomon's elbows, running it across his back and tying it firmly. Solomon is then dragged toward a peach tree. A lynching is in store. The naked horror of it intensely palpable. Solomon looks toward the piazza, but Chapin is now gone. Tears of fear flow down Solomon's cheeks. He is on the verge of panic; a man heading toward his own execution, he begins to struggle and fight. A rope goes around Solomon's neck, then is tossed over the branch of the tree. The trio begin to hoist Solomon. He gasps and gags as spittle flies from his mouth and the life is choked from him. With suddenness, Chapin comes from the house brandishing a pistol in each hand - Colt Paterson .36 caliber "Holster" pistols with 9" barrels. Chapin moves with determination toward the lynch mob. He is sharp and matter of fact. With the guns in hand, he really doesn't need to be much more demonstrative.
chapin		Gentlemen... Whoever moves that nigger another foot from where he stands is a dead man. I am overseer of this plantation seven years, and in the absence of William Ford, my duty is to protect his interests. Ford holds a mortgage on Platt of four hundred dollars. If you hang him, he loses his debt. Until that is canceled you have no claim to his life. Directing his attention to Ramsay and Cook:
tibeats		Yah got no cause. Platt is mine, and mine ta do with as I please. Yah touch my property, I will 'ave yah strung up as well. Tibeats mounts up and departs. There is a surreal moment as Chapin's not sure what to do about Solomon. He chooses to do nothing. Solomon is left dangling by the neck from the tree as Chapin calls to Sam in the
chapin		Sam! Get the mule. You must ride to Master Ford. Tell him to come here at once without a single moment's delay. Tell him they are trying to murder Platt. Hurry, boy. Bring him back if you must kill the mule to do so!
sam		Yes, suh! Sam mounts up and rides off, the mule demonstrating much speed.
ford		Platt... My poor Platt. Ford produces a blade and cuts Solomon loose. Solomon attempts to carry himself, but he cannot. He falls to the ground and passes out.
ford		I believe Tibeats is skulkin' about the premises somewhere. He wants you dead, and he will attempt to have you so. It's no longer safe for you here. And I don't believe you will remain passive if Tibeats attacks. I have transferred my debt to Edwin Epps. He will take charge of you.
solomon		 Master Ford, you must know; I am not a slave.
ford		I cannot hear that.
solomon		Before I came to you I was a freeman.
ford		I am trying to save your life! And...I have a debt to be mindful of. That, now, is to Edwin Epps. He is a hard man. Prides himself on being a "nigger breaker." But truthfully I could find no others who would have you. You've made a reputation of yourself. Whatever your circumstances, you are an exceptional nigger, Platt. I fear no good will come of it.
epps		"And that servant which knew his Lord's will...WHICH KNEW HIS LORD'S WILL and prepared not himself...PREPARED NOT HIMSELF, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes..." D'ye hear that? "Stripes." That nigger that don't take care, that don't obey his lord - that's his master - d'ye see? - that 'ere nigger shall be beaten with many stripes. Now, "many" signifies a great many. Forty, a hundred, a hundred and fifty lashes... That's Scripter!
edwards		Pick that cotton. Move along now.
treach		C'mon. Drive dem niggers. Edward moves among the slaves, applying the whip to them without regard.
edward		Pick dat cotton. Move along now, hear?
treach		Two hundred forty pounds for Bob.
epps		What yah got for James?
treach		Two hundred ninety five pounds.
epps		Tha's real good, boy. Tha's real good.
treach		One hundred eighty two pounds for Platt. Epps does not look happy. Treach says again:
epps		How much can even an average nigger pick a day?
treach		Two hundred pounds.
epps		This nigger ain't even average. Epps pulls Solomon aside.
treach		Five hundred twelve pounds for Patsey.
epps		Five hundred twelve. Yah men folk got no shame lettin' Patsey out pick yah? The day ain't yet come she swung lower than five hundred pounds. Queen of the fields, she is.
treach		Two hundred six pou--
epps		I ain't done, Treach. Ain't I owed a minute to luxuriate on the work Patsey done?
treach		...Sir...
epps		Damned Queen. Born and bred to the field. A nigger among niggers, and God give 'er to me. A lesson in the rewards of righteous livin'. All be observant ta that. All!
treach		One hundred thirty eight pounds for Phebe.
epps		Hit one forty five yesterday. Pull her out.
treach		Two hundred six pounds for Wiley.
epps		How much he pick yesterday?
treach		Two hundred twenty nine pounds. Wiley is pulled from the line, huddled with Solomon.
uncle abram		Hold my words: General Jackson will forever be immortalized. His bravery will be handed down to the last posterity. If ever there be a stain upon "raw militia," he done wiped away on the eight of January. I say da result a that day's battle is of 'mo importance to our grand nation than any occurrence 'fo or since. Great man. Great man in deed. We all need pray to Heavenly Father da General reign over us always.
epps		Get up! Get up, we dance tonight! We will not waste the evenin' with yer laziness. Get up.
epps		Where's yah merriment? Move yer feet. As the slaves twirl about Epps keeps an attentive eye on Patsey. It should be quite clear that his primary motivation for holding dances is so that he may view Patsey twirl about the floor. This fact is not lost on Mistress Epps. A few moments of Epps's lust on display is all that the Mistress can bear. Jealousy mounting, she snatches up a CARAFE. With all her might she throws it at Patsey. It hits Patsey square in the face. TOO THICK TO SHATTER, IT LEAVES HER BLOODY AND WRITHING ON THE FLOOR. The dancing, the music stop. The slaves, however, react as though it is not the first time they've seen as much from the Mistress. Mistress Epps, screaming like a hellion:
mistress epps		Sell her!
epps		C'mon, now. Wha's this?
mistress epps		You will sell the negress!
epps		You're talkin' foolish. Sell little Pats? She pick with more vigor than any other nigger! Choose another ta go.
mistress epps		No other. Sell her!
epps		I will not!
mistress epps		You will remove that black bitch from this property, 'er I'll take myself back to Cheneyville.
epps		Back to that hog's trough where I found you? Oh, the idleness of that yarn washes over me. Do not set yourself up against Patsey, my dear. That's a wager on which you will not profit. Calm yerself. And settle for my affection, 'cause my affection you got. Or, go. 'Cause I will rid myself of yah well before I do away with her! Mistress Epps stands irate, lost in fury and unable to even think of what to do. Eventually, optionless, she storms away. For a few beats there is only the sound of Patsey sobbing.
mistress epps		Platt...
solomon		Yes, Mistress.
mistress epps		Can you find your way to Bartholomew's?
solomon		I can, ma'am. Handing Solomon a sheet of paper.
mistress epps		This is a list of goods and sundries. You will take it to be filled and return immediately. Tell Bartholomew to add it to our debt.
solomon		I will, Mistress. Solomon looks at the list. In a careless moment, Solomon reads quietly from it. He catches himself, but not before the Mistress notes his action. With high
mistress epps		Where yah from, Platt?
solomon		I have told you.
mistress epps		Tell me again.
solomon		Washington.
mistress epps		Who were yah Master?
solomon		Master name of Freeman.
mistress epps		Was he a learned man?
solomon		I suppose so.
mistress epps		He learn yah ta read?
solomon		A word here or there, but I have no understanding of the written text.
mistress epps		Don't trouble yer self with it. Same as the rest, Master bought yah to work. Tha's all. And any more'll earn yah a hun'red lashes. Having delivered her cool advice, Mistress heads back into the house.
mistress epps		Any trouble?
solomon		No, ma'am. No trouble.
master shaw		Platt Epps, good Sunday morning.
solomon		Good morning, Master Shaw. I've been sent by Master to retrieve Patsey. May I approach?
master shaw		You may. Solomon makes his way over to the piazza.
solomon		Excuse me, Mistress Shaw.
mistress shaw		Nigger Platt.
solomon		My apologies. Patsey, Master wishes you to return.
patsey		Sabbath day. I's free ta roam.
solomon		Understood. But the Master sent me running to fetch you, and said no time should be wasted.
mistress shaw		Drink tea?
solomon		Thank you, Mistress, but I don't dare.
mistress shaw		Would you knowed Massa Epps's consternation ta be any lessened wit your timely return? Sit. Sit and drink the tea that offered.
solomon		...I'd rather not say...
mistress shaw		L'il gossip on the Sabbath be fine. All things in moderation. Solomon is not sure what to say. He struggles to be as diplomatic as possible.
solomon		As you are aware, Master Epps can be a man of a hard countenance. There are times when it is impossible to account for his logic. You know he has ill feelings toward your husband.
mistress shaw		He do.
solomon		Master Epps has somehow come to believe, as incorrectly as it may be, that Master Shaw is... That he is something of a lothario and an unprincipled man. A misguided belief born out of their mutual competition as planters, no doubt.
mistress shaw		No doubt...if not born outta truth itself. The Mistress waves to Shaw. Shaw, unsuspecting of the conversation, waves back.
solomon		I'm certain Patsey's well being is Master Epps's only concern.
mistress shaw		Nothin' Epps desire come outta concern.
solomon		I meant no disrespect.
mistress shaw		He ain't heard you.
solomon		I meant no disrespect to you, Mistress.
mistress shaw		Ha! You worry for me? Got no cause to worry for my sensibilities. I ain't felt the end of a lash in 'mo years than I cain recall. Ain't worked a field, neither. Where one time I served, now I got others servin' me. The cost to my current existence be Massa Shaw broadcasting his affections, 'n me enjoyin' his pantomime of fidelity. If that what keep me from the cotton pickin' niggers, that what it be. A small and reasonable price to be paid 'fo sure. Looking toward Patsey, speaking with great empathy:
epps		Pats...! Patsey!
solomon		Do not look in his direction. Continue on. Epps does not care to be ignored. He lifts himself and moves toward the pair in a rage.
epps		Patsey...! Solomon moves between Epps and Patsey, cutting Epps off as Patsey continues on. Playing up his "ignorance" of
solomon		Found her, Master, and brought her back just as instructed.
epps		What'd you jus now tell her? What'd you say to Pats?
solomon		No words were spoken. None of consequence.
epps		Lie! Damned liar! Saw you talkin' with 'er. Tell me!
solomon		I cannot speak of what did not occur. Epps grabs Solomon.
epps		I'll cut your black throat. Solomon pulls away from Epps, RIPPING HIS SHIRT IN THE PROCESS. Epps gives chase. Solomon begins to run around the large pig sty, easily keeping his distance. Epps, however is undeterred. He moves after Solomon as speedily as he can, which isn't very speedily at all. And quickly he tires. Epps is forced to bend over and suck air. Solomon maintains his distance, barely breathing hard. His breath returned to him, Epps starts up the chase again. Solomon runs on out of reach. Shortly, Epps again stops, gets his breath... And now in what should be quite comical, Epps again runs after Solomon. Again, Epps's vigor leaves him before he can even get close to the slave. Dropping down to the dirt, in a show of regret and piety:
mistress epps		What? Wha's the fuss?
solomon		A misunderstanding is all. It began when I was sent to retrieve Patsey from where she'd taken sabbatical at Master Shaw's. Upon returning, Master Epps believed Patsey and me to be in conversation when we were not. I tried to explain, but it lead to all this.
mistress epps		What is it? Ya cain't remain the Sabbath without her under your eye? Ya are a no-account bastard.
epps		Hold a moment...
mistress epps		A filthy, godless heathen. My bed is too holy for yah ta share.
epps		Wha's...wha's he been tellin' yah?
mistress epps		Of yer misbegotten ways.
epps		And he would know what of anythin'? I ain't even spoken with him today. Platt, yah lyin' nigger, have I? Have I? Discretion being the better part and all, Solomon remains silent.
treach		Get him water. Edward runs to fetch a gourd. He carries it to Henry,
edward		Go'won. Git up. Unsteadily, Henry lifts himself and goes back to picking cotton. He joins in again with the spiritual, as if the song is all that can keep him going.
uncle abram		We dance tonight, massa? Epps remains quietly focused on Patsey. And it's clear from her apprehensive expression just what it is he's come looking for. This time there is no escaping it. As if to acknowledge the badness to come, Phebe lightly cries.
mistress epps		A moment from the dancing. Come sample what I baked for y'all. The slaves, thankful for the rest as much as the food, file toward the tray reciting a chorus of "Thank you, Mistress." As Patsey moves toward the pastries:
epps		Seen nothin' but her turn away.
mistress epps		Are you blind or ignorant? It was hot, hateful scorn. It filled that black face. Yah tell me yah did'n see it, then yah choose not to look, or yah sayin' I lie.
epps		Whatever it was, it passed.
mistress epps		Is that how yah are with the niggers? Let every ill thought fester inside 'em. Look at 'em.
patsey		Platt... Platt, you awake?
solomon		I am.
patsey		I have a request; an act of kindness.
solomon		Return it!
patsey		It yours, Platt.
solomon		For what cause?
patsey		All I ask: end my life. Take my body to the margin of the swamp-- Solomon looks at Patsey as though she were insane.
solomon		No.
patsey		Take me by the throat. Hold me low in the water until I's still 'n without life. Bury me in a lonely place of dyin'.
solomon		No! I will do no such thing. The...the gory detail with which
patsey		I thought on it long and hard.
solomon		It is melancholia, nothing more. How does such despair even come to you?
patsey		How can you not know? I got no comfort in this life. If I cain't buy mercy from yah, I'll beg it.
solomon		There are others. Beg them.
patsey		I'm begging you!
solomon		Why? Why would you consign me to damnation with such an un-Godly request?
patsey		There is God here! God is merciful, and He forgive merciful acts. Won't be no hell for you. Do it. Do what I ain't got the strength ta do myself. Solomon says nothing. Clearly he's not about to do the deed. With nothing else to do, knowing she is damned with every breath she draws, Patsey crawls back to her spot on the floor and lays herself down.
epps		It is a plague.
epps		A plague! It's damn Biblical. Two season God done sent a plague to smite me. I am near ruination. Why, Treach? What I done that God hate me so? Do I not preach His word?
epps		I don't care nothin' fer the damn Bayou. I'm sufferin'. Epps looks among his slaves at work, his enmity growing.
epps' slave		I hear cutting cane is twice as hard as picking cotton.
bob		But at least we'll be away from Master Epps.
uncle abram		Boy, you two have no sense. Epps returns to his slaves and gives a parting salutation.
epps		Yer Judge Turner's for the season. More if need be, until my crop return. Yah'll bring no disrespect to me, and yah'll bring no biblical plagues to him. Be decent, ere mark my words, I will deliver an ungodly whippin'.
overseer		Draw the cane from the rick, cut the top and flags from the stalk, understand? Leave only that part which is sound and healthy. Cast off the rest...
zachary		Off the porch. Get off. Like a dog shooed away, Solomon steps down. Eventually Judge Turner exits the house and crosses to Solomon.
solomon		...Sir...
judge turner		Platt is it? Have you cultivated cane previously?
solomon		No, sir, I have not.
judge turner		You take to it quite naturally. Are you educated?
solomon		Niggers are hired to work, not to read and write. Turner gives that a bit of consideration as he gives Solomon a wary looking over.
judge turner		You play the fiddle?
solomon		I do.
judge turner		Willard Yarney, a planter up the bayou, celebrates his anniversary in a three week's time. I will hold out your name to him. What you earn is yours to keep.
solomon		Sir.
judge turner		Mind yourself, Platt.
solomon		C'mere. C'mon, boy.
uncle abram		Runaways I would expect. The Bayou full with 'em. They nothin' 'mo dangerous than a nigger in flight.
solomon		They acted out of desperation.
uncle abram		Act outta lunacy. Heads fulla stories 'bout life up north. Yah ever been north, Platt?
solomon		...No...
uncle abram		And never should yah be. I hope that yah never bear witness the sorry condition of the northern black. Got neither no purpose, nor direction. They jus...they jus fall about the streets in search of sustenance of both body and spirit.
solomon		You know this to be so?
uncle abram		Two of my massas tolt me.
celeste		I am hungry. Give me food.
solomon		Who are you?
celeste		I'm hungry. Solomon gives Celeste some of his food. Celeste, famished, devours it.
solomon		What is your name?
celeste		My name is Celeste.
solomon		What are your circumstances?
celeste		I belong ta Massa Carey, and 'ave been two days among da palmettoes. Celeste is sick and cain't work, and would rather die in the swamp
solomon		Yes.
celeste		Why?
solomon		There are some whose tracks the hounds will refuse to follow.
celeste		Give me more food. I'm starvin'.
solomon		This is all my allowance for the
celeste		Give it to me. Almost as if compelled, Solomon does as ordered. As she eats, Celeste aggrandizes herself:
celeste		I am hungry. Solomon gives Celeste the handkerchief he's filled. She opens it, and begins to devour the food. As she eats:
solomon		Platt.
celeste		Was you free?
solomon		I was. I am. Solomon exposes his wrist, displays his tattoo as he
celeste		Free heart means nothin if'n yo body gunna die a slave.
solomon		I will not.
celeste		How? Celeste knows you ain't gunna run. Celeste knows it ain't your nature.
solomon		I have a plan. I have a letter.
celeste		A letter? How'll yah mail da letter? Who yah trust to post it? A nigger that can read and write is a nigger that'll hang. There is a pause. Solomon can't answer this question. It is the glaring hole in his plan. Having finished eating:
solomon		I risk discovery to take more.
celeste		You will bring Celeste 'mo food. And with that Celeste again moves back into the darkness.
solomon		I have my letter.
celeste		Yah has your freedom then?
solomon		All that remains is to contrive measures by which the letter can safely be deposited in the post office. When Celeste speaks she is quite melancholy.
celeste		I have resolved to return to my Massa. Solomon gives an unnerved look. This is not good news.
solomon		Is it more food you need?
celeste		I live in fear.
solomon		None will come after you in the swamps.
celeste		It ain't the patrollers I scared of... At all seasons the howling of wild animals can be heard at night along the border of the swamps. At first their calls were welcomin'. Dey too was free, 'n I thought dey greeted me like a sistah. Lately, dey cries have turned horrifyin'. They mean to kill Celeste.
solomon		The solitude plays tricks. It's your impression, nothing more. If you go back to your master you could face the same.
celeste		My freedom been nothin' but a daydream. So was Celeste's thoughts of slaves conjoinin' in the bayou.
solomon		Better the loneliness. You have been free most of the summer. Return now and your master will make example of you.
celeste		It is lonely dwellin' waiting for others who won't never come.
solomon		Go north. Make your way by night...
celeste		It'll only be worse if'n Celeste don't go back of her own will.
solomon		You won't be caught. The dogs won't track you. You are...you are unique. Celeste...
celeste		You got alternatives, Solomon.
solomon		To return is to die!
celeste		Celeste got no one to write a letter to. As if to punctuate her resolve, without a word more Celeste departs toward the swamp. Solomon starts on into the swamp after her.
solomon		Celeste... Celeste! Solomon continues after Celeste, wading deeper into the dark night and murky waters.
epps		A joyous day. A joyous day. Dark times is behind us. Clean livin' 'n prayer done lifted the plague. Indicating to the cotton:
epps		Wiley...?
treach		Two hundred sixty pounds.
epps		Bob?
treach		Three hundred forty pounds for Bob.
epps		Patsey?
treach		Five hundred twenty pounds.
epps		Tha's a girl. Don't never let me down. Platt?
treach		One hundred sixty pounds. Before Treach is even done announcing the weight, Epps has pulled Solomon aside to where Uncle Abram already awaits his fate.
epps		Armsby?
treach		Sixty four pounds. Epps speaks to Armsby sternly, but nothing of the manner in which he would address the slaves.
epps		A good days labor would average two hundred pounds.
armsby		Yes, sir.
epps		I'm sure in time y'll develope as a picker, but it takes effort, boy. Put some damn effort into it.
armsby		Yes, sir. To Treach, regarding Solomon and Abram:
epps		Take 'em out. Get to whippin'. No force is needed. The slaves understand the situation. They follow Treach out of the Gin house.
armsby		It's a tragedy. How does such come to pass? Working a field and picking cotton like a lowly hand. I'm of a damn sight better station. And my desires never lacked for a grandiose component, though I will admit they have at times been short on ingenuity. But only at times. I've worked as an overseer, you know.
solomon		I did not, sir.
armsby		Not "sir." Just Armsby. Not owed more than any other in the field. I worked plantations from Virginia, down into Alabama. I could manage easy a hundred slaves and have done so. But to toil in the field? Never thought that would come to pass. Never. But times are desperate. Where once I had said "no" to Epps and his merger offerings, I returned cap
solomon		How did you arrive at such a place, if I may ask?
armsby		Ask. It's just conversation. From a pocket Armsby produces a flask.
solomon		Where is your place of birth?
armsby		Maryland. Have you traveled there?
solomon		...I cannot say that I have.
armsby		Fine country. More seasonal than the bayou. A deal less humid.
solomon		Why did you leave it?
armsby		To make my fortune, of course. I gave in to tales of wealth and prosperity that were the lore of the southern states: all that's needed being a patch of land and a few good growing seasons. Cotton,
treach		Get him water. Edward runs to fetch water which he carries to Abram and
bob		I just want to say something about Uncle Abram. He was a good man and he always looked out for us since we were little. God Bless him. God love him. And God keep him. That done, they begin to cover it with dirt. It is all the more of a funeral that Abram will receive.
solomon		The proceeds of my fiddling performances. A few picayunes, but all I have in the world. I promise them to you if you will do me the favor I require. But I beg you not to expose me if you cannot grant the request.
armsby		What do you ask?
solomon		First, your word, sir.
armsby		On my honor.
solomon		It is a simple enough request. I ask only that you deposit a letter in the Marksville post office. And that you keep the action an inviolable secret forever. The details of the letter are of no consequence. Even at that, there would be an imposition of much pain and suffering were it known I was the author. A patron is what I require, sir.
armsby		Where's the letter now?
solomon		...It is not yet written. I will have it in a day. Two at most, my skill with composition as poor as it is. Armsby considers the request.
armsby		I will do it. And will accept whatever payment is offered. Solomon hesitates. In the moment, he's not so sure he can wholly give himself over to trust.
solomon		In two days. ...Thank you. Solomon exits.
epps		Get up. Solomon does. Epps heads back out into the dark. He says nothing, but his directive is clear: Follow me.
epps		Well, boy. I understand I've got a larned nigger that writes
solomon		All I have to say, master, is all that need be said. There is no truth in it.
epps		You say.
solomon		How could I write a letter without ink or paper? There is nobody I want to write to 'cause I hain't got no friends living as I know of. That Armsby is a lying drunken fellow. You know this, just as you know that I am constant in truth. Now, master, I can see what that Armsby is after, plain enough. Didn't he want you to hire him for an overseer? A beat.
epps		I'm damned. I'll be god... Were he not free and white, Platt. Were he not free and white. Epps heads off. Solomon is left to exhale a deep breath.
epps		Take it. You look unsettled.
bass		I'm well.
epps		No shame in taking respite from the heat; drink, shade. It's ungodly for travelers. Hearty, or otherwise.
bass		Your humor is inadvertent. Sensing perhaps Bass's laughter might be at his expense, Epps presses.
epps		Then share what's funny. Or what ills you.
bass		I'm here to complete the work at hand. As requested, and as paid.
epps		Something rubs you wrongly. Before I take further offense, I offer you the opportunity to speak on it.
bass		You ask plainly, I will tell you plainly. What I find amusing: You worry about my well being in the heat but, quite frankly, the condition of your laborers--
epps		"The condition of my..." What in the hell are you--
bass		It is horrid. It's all wrong. All wrong, sir.
epps		They ain't hired help. They're my slaves.
bass		You say that with pride.
epps		I say it as fact.
bass		If the conversation concerns what is factual and what is not; there's no justice nor righteousness in slavery. I wouldn't own a slave if I was rich as Croesus, which I am not, as is perfectly well understood. More particularly among my creditors. There's another humbug: the credit system. Humbug, sir. No credit, no debt. Credit leads a man into temptation. Cash down is the only thing that will deliver him from
epps		What right? I bought 'em. I paid for 'em.
bass		Of course you did. The law says you have the right to hold a nigger, but begging the law's pardon...it lies. Is everything right because the law allows it? Suppose they'd pass a law taking away your liberty and making you a slave?
epps		Ha!
bass		Suppose.
epps		That ain't a supposable case.
bass		Because the law states that your liberties are undeniable? Because society deems it so? Laws change. Social systems crumble. Universal truths are constant. It is a fact, it is a plain fact that what is true and right is true and right for all. White and black alike.
epps		Whoa, whoa, whoa. Yah compare me to a nigger, Bass? Yah might as well ask what the difference is between a white man and a baboon. Now, I seen one of them critters in Orleans that knowed just as much as any nigger I got. Yah'd call them fellers citizens, I s'pose?
bass		Look here; you can't laugh me down in that way. These niggers are human beings. If they are allowed to scale no higher than brute animals, you and men like you will have to answer for it. There's an
epps		Ahhh!
bass		A fearful ill, resting on this
epps		You betray yourself a foreigner!
bass		That will not go unpunished forever. There will be a reckoning yet.
epps		You like to hear yourself talk, Bass, better than any man I know of. Yah'd argue that black was white, or white black if anybody would contradict you. A fine supposition if yah lived among Yankees in New England. But yah don't.
epps		Patsey... Patsey! A drunk Epps asks of the slaves:
phebe		We know nothin' of her, Massa.
epps		The hell you don't! You know where she is! She run off, ain't she? She's escaped, and you miserable black dogs stand like
epps		Run off. Run off, did you?
epps		You miserable wench! Where you been?
patsey		I been nowhere.
epps		Lies to your misdeeds!
patsey		The Sabbath day, Massa. I took me a walk to commune wit da Lord.
epps		Bring the Lord into yer deceptions? Yah Godless... Shaw's. Comin' from Shaw's plantation weren't yah?
patsey		...No...
epps		Yah took yerself ta pleasure Shaw. Yah gave baser passion to that unblushin' libertine! Solomon tries to intervene:
epps		Now yah speak? Now that yah want to add to 'er lies yah find yer tongue. Epps goes to strike Solomon, but Patsey pulls his arm back.
patsey		Do not strike him. I went to Massa Shaw's plantation!
epps		Yah admit it.
patsey		Freely. And you know why. Patsey takes soap from the pocket of her dress.
epps		You lie...
patsey		The Lord knows that's all.
epps		You lie!
patsey		And you blind wit yer own covetousness. I don't lie, Massa. If you kill me, I'll stick ta that.
epps		I'll learn you to go to Shaw's. Treach, go get some line.
mistress epps		Do it! Strike the life from her. Epps again hoists the whip. It trembles in his hand ahead of the act... But he does not have it in him to deliver such a beating. Turning to Solomon, thrusting the whip at him:
epps		Beat her. Solomon doesn't move. Epps shoves the whip into his hand.
patsey		I'd rather it you, Platt.
epps		Strike her, or yah'll get the same!
mistress epps		He pantomimes. There ain't barely a welt on her. That's what your niggers make of yah; a fool fer the takin'. Epps's grief is replaced by fury. EPPS GRABS THE PISTOL FROM TREACH'S HOLSTER and draws down on the slaves.
epps		Yah will strike her. Yah will strike her until her flesh is rent and meat and blood flow equal, or I will kill every nigger in my sight! Solomon can't strike a blow, even if it means his life. But from the ground, from Patsey:
patsey		Do it, Platt. Don't stop until I am dead. What else can he do? Solomon begins to whip, to truly whip Patsey. Her back welts, then tears... Patsey screams in agony. Solomon strikes again and again... After a full thirty lashes Solomon looks to Epps, who is not satisfied.
epps		Until I say no more! I ain't said nothing! Solomon strikes another ten to fifteen times. By now, as promised, Patsey's back has been reduced to LITTLE MORE
solomon		Thou devil! Sooner or later, somewhere in the course of eternal justice thou shalt answer for this sin! Though Epps fronts rage, there should be underlying anguish for what he has done to his beloved Pats.
epps		No sin! There is no sin! A man does how he pleases with his property. At the moment, Platt, I am of great pleasure. You be goddamn careful I don't come to wantin' to lightenin' my mood no further. By contrast to this horror, the field of cotton smiles in the warm sunlight. The birds chirp merrily amidst the foliage of the tress. Peace and happiness seems to reign everywhere. Everywhere else. Epps leaves Patsey to herself. He says not a word to the Mistress as he passes. The Mistress herself heads back into the house. Solomon unties Patsey, lifts her and takes her to the cabin.
solomon		Master Bass, I want to ask you what part of the country you came from?
bass		No part of this land. I was born in Canada. Now guess where that is.
solomon		Oh, I know where Canada is. I have been there myself.
bass		Have you?
solomon		Montreal and Kingston and Queenston and a great many places. And I have been in York state, too. Buffalo and Rochester and Albany, and can tell you the names of the villages on the Erie canal and the Champlain canal. Bass gives Solomon a long and curious stare.
bass		Well traveled for a slave. How came you here?
solomon		Master Bass, if justice had been done I never would have been here.
bass		How's this? Tell me all about it.
solomon		I am afraid to tell you, though I don't believe you would tell Master Epps if I should.
bass		Every word you speak is a profound secret.
bass		How many years all told?
solomon		Just nearly...just passed eleven.
bass		Your story is...it is amazing, and in no good way.
solomon		Do you believe, sir, in justice as you have said?
bass		I do.
solomon		That slavery is an evil that should befall none?
bass		I believe so.
solomon		If you truly do, I would ask...I would beg that you write my friends in the north, acquainting them with my situation and beseeching them to forward free papers, or take such steps as they might consider proper to secure my release. Bass looks at Solomon, holding his gaze for more than a prolonged beat.
bass		I have always forgone relationships and family. I did once have a sweetheart who I loved deeply. Bass points to a measuring tool, which Solomon immediately hands over.
slow dissolve		To a now virtually complete, half-painted white gazebo. Slaves continue to work on it. As they do so, Bass peels away from the structure to have an overview. He beckons Solomon toward him, out of earshot from the slaves who are continuing to work on the gazebo. As Solomon approaches, Bass shouts-
bass		And bring those markers! Solomon gathers a clutch of markers in his hands and approaches Bass.
solomon		You are certain? Bass takes a marker from Solomon and slides it into the earth.
bass		I have inquired thoroughly. More than is safe for either of us. Bass takes another and pokes it into the ground, improvising a pathway towards the gazebo.
solomon		Five months. On top of these years. No cause remains.
bass		If there is any chance...
solomon		Mr. Bass...
bass		I will continue to write your
solomon		Go home knowing you have tried. The weight of defeat should hang very heavily with both men. Nothing more to do, nothing more to say BASS TAKES
sheriff		Platt...? Where is the boy called Platt?
solomon		...Sir... The Sheriff crosses to him.
sheriff		Your name is Platt, is it?
solomon		Yes, sir. Pointing off to the distance.
sheriff		Do you know that man?
solomon		Mr. Parker...?
sheriff		Say again?
solomon		Mr. Parker? As he does, Epps makes his way over.
sheriff		That man received a letter compiling many accusations. You look me in the eye and on your life answer me truthfully: have you any other name than Platt?
solomon		Solomon Northup is my name.
epps		Sheriff...
sheriff		Have you a family?
epps		What's all this?
sheriff		It's official business.
epps		My nigger, my business.
sheriff		Your business waits.
solomon		I have a wife and two children.
sheriff		What were your children's names?
solomon		Margaret and Alonzo.
sheriff		And your wife's name before her marriage?
solomon		Anne Hampton. I am who I say. Solomon pushes past the sheriff. As Solomon moves toward Parker, his pace quickens with each step until his
epps		Nah... You will unhand 'em. Platt is my nigger!
parker		He is Solomon Northup.
epps		You say...
parker		He belongs to no man.
epps		You say! You come here, unfamiliar to me, and make claims.
sheriff		Not claims. I have no doubts. This is Solomon Northup, a resident of Saratoga Springs, NY.
epps		To hell with that! My nigger, and I'll fight you for 'em!
parker		As is your right. As it will be my pleasure to bankrupt you in the courts. Your decision. By this time, the slaves in the plantation have overcome their fear of penalty, and left their work and gathered in the yard as witnesses. They stand behind the cabin, out of sight of Epps. Mistress Epps also bears witness, standing on the veranda next to her house slave. Her face is of a strange mixed emotion. Epps looks to Solomon. Solomon icily, stoically holds his ground. He makes it quite clear in his countenance that nobody owns him. Sheriff, hand on his gun, is there to back Solomon up. Epps, with no other recourse than to
epps		You think this is the last you'll see of me, boy? It ain't.
patsey		Platt... Disregarding Parker, Solomon crosses over to Patsey. Under the circumstances, neither really knows how to engage. Finally, suddenly, Patsey throws her arms around Solomon and they embrace. Epps, now mounted on his horse, witness the encounter. Kicking the stirrups hard into the sides of the horse, he rides off furiously. Calling from the carriage, mindful of Epps:
parker		Solomon...if we know what's wise, we should depart. A moment longer Solomon and Patsey hold each other. They separate, Solomon heading back to the carriage. He and Parker alight. The Sheriff chides the horses and they
parker		Are you ready? Solomon swallows and nods.
solomon		I apologize for my appearance. I have had a difficult time of things these past many years. Solomon looks among his family; trying to recall them as much as they look to see familiarity within him. To his
margaret		He is my husband.
solomon		Husband?
margaret's husband		It is very good to meet you, sir.
solomon		We have much acquainting to do. Margaret rises, she presents her bundle to her father.
margaret		And this is your grandson. Solomon Northup Staunton.
solomon		...Solomon... The fact his grandson carries his name, is overwhelming. Solomon breaks down. Emotionally, physically... But ANNE IS THERE TO CATCH HIM. As she holds him, Solomon says to Anne with all his heart:
anne		There is nothing to forgive. The pair, joined now by the whole family, hold on to each other for life...and one would think for all the rest of their lives.
****Dialogues from script :12_and_Holding.txt****

jacob		You see `em?
rudy		No. But that doesn't mean they're not here.
jacob		What the hell is that?
rudy		Piss.
kenny		You and your deformed brother are dead!
rudy		 Anytime you're ready, dickhead.
kenny		They're fucking dead!
malee		Mom, I need help.
malee		Move it, people.    Outta my way!
leonard		 You're late.
malee		Yeah well, I began menstruating this morning, and I had some difficulty inserting the tampon.  What? It's a natural process. You know, I could conceive, carry and birth a child right now.
leonard		Big deal.    You won't.
malee		But I could. That's what matters.
leonard		The twins said, they'd meet us at the spot.
malee		Wanna race?
leonard		Nah, I'm good.
jacob		Maybe I should have mom look at it.
rudy		If you didn't have that damn mask on, you'd have seen it coming. Our birthday comes once a year, and you ask for a hockey mask. You don't even play.
jacob		Jason from "Friday the 13th" wears one. He's bad ass.
rudy		Exactly. Jason wouldn't run home `cause of a little blood. He'd get back up, decapitate his victim and move on.
jacob		You think Jeff and Kenny will come back?
rudy		I dropped piss on their heads.    I'd say the odds are pretty good.
rudy		Jeff and Kenny were here. I dumped the piss I've been saving on their heads.
leonard		Why were you saving piss?
rudy		Just incase. Pretty smart, huh?
jacob		No, it's stupid cause now they're gonna come back here and kick all our asses.
rudy		Don't be such a pussy.
leonard		Yeah, I could probably take them both myself.
rudy		What are you gonna do, Leonard, eat them?
jacob		All I'm saying is, who cares if they tear it down.
rudy		This is OUR place. We've been coming here since we were seven.
jacob		Nothing lasts forever.
rudy		You're such a butt-munch.
malee		You guys, it's your birthday. Could you try and get along?
debbie		I don't think therapy is helping.
yacco		Why do you say that?   Are you still "cutting"?
debbie		It feels much better than it looks. Really.
malee		Ma, I... Oops.
yacco		Malee, out. Now.
malee		I'm sorry.
yacco		Excuse me for a moment.
yacco		I told you a 100 times to knock.
malee		I said, I was sorry.
yacco		Why aren't you with the boys?
malee		Rudy and Jacob went for pizza with their parents.
yacco		I found this in the backseat of my car this morning. Do you know how much flutes cost?   Go outside, sit on the front steps and practice.
malee		But, mom.
yacco		Now!
malee		Keep it moving. This ain't a show.
jim		Okay, you got your small gifts this morning. Now for the big ones.
ashley		This one is Rudy's.
rudy		Sony play station! Oh my God!      Oh my God! Yes! Too cool!
jim		Since neither of you wanted a party this year, we were able to splurge.
jacob		What is it?
ashley		Only one way to find out.
jim		Go ahead, read it.
jacob		"Plastic Surgery.     Isn't it about time?"  I don't get it.
ashley		Your father and I are going to pay to have your birthmark removed.
jim		Isn't that great.
jacob		You got me surgery for my birthday?
jim		Not just one.     A series of them.
rudy		 Cool.
jacob		It's not "cool".    It totally sucks!
jim		Jacob?
rudy		Don't sweat it. You can borrow my play station anytime you want.
jacob		This isn't about the play station. It's about this thing on my face. Everybody hates it.
rudy		I don't.
jacob		Who cares what you think? You're the reason for all of this. Perfect you with your perfect skin. There to show the world what I'm supposed to look like.  You know, sometimes I just wish I wasn't your twin.
rudy		Screw you! Know what, I take it back, you can't use my play station.
gabe		30 acres.
jim		I already told you, Gabe, I'm not selling that land. Not 30 acres not five.
gabe		I'm willing to pay top dollar.
jim		I'm not gonna let you tear down those woods, so you can stack twenty houses right on top of each other.
gabe		I'm gonna write down a number.
jim		No! My kids... hell, your kids play in those woods all the time. You can't put a price on that.
gabe		I believe I can.
patrick		Good eating, huh son?
leonard		Maybe you shouldn't have seconds, Dad, you know?
patrick		Who are you, Richard Simmons? C'mon, enjoy the day.
kenny		 Me and Jeff are gonna pay that tree house of yours a little visit tonight.
rudy		Why don't you take your smelly ass back to the trailer park?
kenny		Free country, asshole.
rudy		You got nothing better to do than pick on us all the time?
kenny		I did until yesterday.
rudy		I thought you liked "golden showers". Oh no, that was your mother.
kenny		I'll finish this tonight!
rudy		Kenny showed up. He said, Jeff and him are gonna tear the treehouse down tonight. We gotta sneak out and stop them.
jacob		Mom and Dad would kill us.
rudy		We can't let him tear it down.
jacob		It's just a treehouse.
rudy		No, it's not! You know what, you suck. I'm going. Leonard, you in?
jacob		You don't have to go if you don't want to.
rudy		Don't listen to him.     He's a pussy.
leonard		I'll go.
rudy		Finally, someone with balls.
jacob		Rudy.
rudy		Unless you're coming with me, I don't want to hear it.
jacob		What?
rudy		Jeff and Kenny pick on you all the time, and you don't do shit.
jacob		It's my problem.
rudy		No, it's mine too. Cause we're brothers. That's what brothers do. They fight for each other, kill for each other, die for each other.
jacob		I don't feel that way.
rudy		Cause you're a pussy. So stay home, keep your head under the blankets. I'm gonna fight.
leonard		 Some provisions.
rudy		We're only gonna be here a couple of hours.
leonard		When two o'clock rolls around, you'll be begging for one of these.
rudy		Moron, the bat is for Jeff and Kenny. You know, to scare them a little.
leonard		I'm wide awake. I could stay up all night.
leonard		Oh, shit.
rudy		What... What is it?    They here?
leonard		No.
rudy		Where you going?
leonard		They're not gonna show up, I'm goin' home. It's three o'clock-
kenny		Now yours.     And aim for the window.
jeff		You hear that?
rudy		Put it out! Put it out!
jeff		They're in there!   They're in there!
kenny		Wake up!   Wake up, kid!
jim		Ashley?    What is it?
ashley		I forgot to deposit your paycheck last week.
jim		But I already wrote some checks.
ashley		I know. With the cookout and everything, I forgot. I'll deposit it tomorrow. The holiday should buy us an extra day.
jim		Write yourself a note so you don't forget again.
ashley		I just did.
priest		Rest in piece, Rudolph Eugene Carges. May God hold you in the palm of his hand.
gus		Friend or family?
malee		Huh?
gus		The person who died.
malee		Friend.
gus		I'm sorry. You'll like Dr. Chung. This is only my second session, but she's good.
malee		I'm not a patient.     I'm her daughter.
gus		Oh.     I can see the resemblance.
malee		Are you trying to make me sick?
yacco		Mr. Maitland?
malee		It was a funeral, Mom.     How do you think it was?
yacco		I'm sorry I couldn't make it. Let Rudy's parents know I'm available if they need to talk. I won't charge for the sessions.
malee		I know it's okay to cry. I don't need you to tell me, it's okay to cry. If I want to cry, I'll cry.
yacco		Okay.
mother		Ashley, there's more than enough food here.
ashley		No, Rudy loved my deviled eggs. It's right that I make them. Where's the paprika?
ashley		Maybe I threw it out.
ashley		It's okay.
grace		This hospital is a nightmare. The elevator is never there when you need it.
patrick		Where are the girls?
grace		Haley took Sara up to the maternity ward.
leonard		My head hurts.
grace		You're lucky you didn't get killed.
leonard		I told you, I'm sorry.
grace		You try being awakened at four o'clock in the morning by the police saying, they have your son, he's unconscious and on his way to the hospital. I've never been so scared in my life. And poor Rudy.
leonard		My best friend is dead!
grace		Eat this.    It'll make you feel better.
leonard		I'm not hungry. Besides, I can't taste anything anyway.
grace		Hospital food is always bland. This has flavor.
leonard		No, it's because of my condition. I can't taste or smell anything anymore.
grace		What are you saying, condition? What condition?
leonard		 My condition.
doctor		Leonard has a condition.    It's called Anosmia.
grace		Oh my God!     Is it serious?
doctor		No. Anosmia is when a person looses their sense of smell. It's not uncommon in patients who suffer serious head injuries. Unfortunately, it's also affecting his ability to taste. Again, not uncommon.
patrick		Is it permanent?
doctor		Depends on the patient.
grace		What do we do? He can't eat.
doctor		He can eat. He just can't taste what he's eating.
patrick		What she means is, he won't eat.
doctor		Leonard's association with food is no longer about taste. It's about texture. While we may be partial to sweet or salty foods, Leonard will become partial to crunchy or smooth ones. Once he settles on a texture he likes, his appetite will increase.
grace		I can't believe this is happening.
doctor		Considering what Leonard could have suffered, he's lucky. Besides, he is severely overweight. A loss of appetite may be a benefit.
nurse		How'd we do?
leonard		This stuff feels like shit in my mouth.
nurse		It's macaroni and cheese.
leonard		It feels gross. Like there's a film on my tongue.
nurse		So, you can't taste it, right? Maybe you'll like the crunch.
gabe		I'm leaving, Jim.    Again, so sorry.
jim		Gabe, are you still interested in buying the land? Because I accept your offer.
gabe		This is hardly the time to talk business.
jim		Buy the woods, Gabe, please. Tear them down and build. Build houses, condos, a 7-11, I don't care. I just don't want to recognize it ever again.
leonard		You holding up alright, Jacob?
jacob		Jeff and Kenny were the ones that started the fire. It was their fault. Or maybe mine. I should of been there.
malee		You wouldn't have been able to do anything. And it could have been you who died.
jacob		I wish it was. You know the last thing Rudy said to me? He said, I can't be a pussy all my life. He was right, I am. And Rudy might be dead because of it.
malee		Don't say that.  Why don't you talk to your parents about this?
jacob		They can't help me.
malee		Give them time. It'll get better.
jacob		What if it doesn't? My dad hasn't gone back to work yet. What if he loses his job. We could lose our house. I could be homeless.
malee		Then you'll stay with me.
leonard		Or me.
jacob		We're best friends.    We...
malee		Oh my God.
jacob		What?
malee		That guy. I like know him. He's one of my mother's patients.
leonard		So?
malee		I've never seen a patient of hers actually out and about.  Should we go over and say "hi"?
jacob		I just want to get out of here.
leonard		You coming, Malee?
leonard		Are we having company?
grace		No, this is all for you. Your favorites; fried chicken, spaghetti, pizza, french fries, and chocolate cheesecake for dessert. I made everything extra spicy, so you can taste it.
leonard		Ma, it doesn't matter how spicy the food is.
grace		So you're not even gonna try it?
leonard		I'm sure it's delicious.
grace		Forget it.     Don't eat.
leonard		Why not?
grace		 It's unhealthy.
teacher		Tommy Wallace.
tommy		He's not in this class anymore.
teacher		How do you know?
jacob		Cause he's dead.
teacher		I realize being new at this school puts me at a disadvantage, but joking about a fellow classmate's death is anything but funny, Mr....
jacob		I'm his brother. Was.     And I'm not joking. He's dead.
teacher		I'm so sorry. Wow, this is awkward. Would you like the seat left empty?
jacob		Why?
teacher		In memory.
coach		Alright, ladies, welcome to gym. We will be starting things off this year with the United States Standardized Fitness Test.
leonard		That was as far as I could pull myself up.
coach		Ten seconds. You need forty to pass.
coach		23 minutes.
leonard		Not bad.
leonard		Football?
coach		You don't like football?
leonard		I love it. It's just I'll never make the weight requirement. Pop Warner league wouldn't let me play for five years because of it.
coach		There's no weight requirement in high school ball, son.
leonard		Books?
coach		One is on nutrition, the other exercise. You do what they say, and you can play for me once you get to high school.
leonard		Thanks.
coach		Because I've never seen a child so out of shape in my life.
mr farmer		 Did anyone practice over the summer?
ashley		No, they're wrong.    Call them back.
jim		Ashley, I talked to the lawyer.   He wouldn't lie.
jacob		What's going on?
ashley		This is all your fault.
jim		Me?
ashley		If we had gone to the hearings like I said, this wouldn't be happening.
jim		We agreed it would be too painful.
ashley		You agreed.
jacob		Mom, what happened?
ashley		Tell him.    Tell your son.
jim		The boys who killed Rudy cut a deal. They got a year in juvinile hall and five years probation.
ashley		A year. That's what your brother's life is worth. A damn year!
jim		Ashley, calm down!
ashley		How can you be so unaffected by this! How? Our son was murdered!
jim		 It was an accident, and the boys are juveniles.
ashley		So that makes it okay?
gus		Dr. Chung's daughter.
malee		You remembered. We were never introduced. My name is Malee.
gus		Gus.
malee		I was in the mood for a picnic. I thought this would be a nice place to have one.
malee		Would you like to join me?   There's plenty of food.
gus		I don't go to lunch for another ten minutes.
malee		I'll wait. Meet me by the cement mixer when you're ready.
gus		The last time I saw you, you had just come from a funeral. How are you doing?
malee		Okay. Death is like so weird. I mean, it's sad, but I also feel like I've been given this sign. A sign which is telling me, life is short, so you gotta do what makes you happy. You gotta take chances. You gotta get crazy.
gus		What are you doing to "get crazy"?
malee		I play the flute.
gus		 Yeah, that's totally nuts.
malee		No, not that. See, every year my school has this recital. I've always been too scared to play a solo in front of people, but this year I've decided to do it.
gus		Good for you. When is it?
malee		Why do you care?
gus		Cause I'm gonna go.
malee		What? You can't go!    Nobody goes to these things. I don't even think my mom is going.
gus		You gotta have somebody rooting for ya. Besides, I like music, and I owe you for bringing me lunch.
malee		 Okay. Tuesday at 8:30 in the junior high school auditorium.
gus		I'll be there.
malee		 Don't say it if you don't mean it.
gus		I'll be there.      Front row.
leonard		I can't believe how much you suck at this game.
jacob		No.
leonard		You wanna shoot some hoops?
jacob		No.  The sentencing thing totally upset my mom. She was up half the night, crying.
leonard		I can't believe it either. A year ain't shit! Rudy is dead forever.
jacob		I want them dead. I want to kill them. I could handle a year in Juvy hall.
malee		Whoa, what those guys did was an accident. If you were to kill them, it's premedicated. You'd get 20 years to life at least.
jacob		So I'm just supposed to sit here and take it? Be like you guys.
leonard		What is that supposed to mean?
jacob		You seem to have gone on with life pretty easily. Don't you miss him? Don't you care?
malee		It's not that we don't care.     It's just...
jacob		Life goes on.
malee		It does. You have to deal with it. If you don't, it could like eat you alive forever. 90 percent of people's problems is due to their inability to get over the past.
leonard		How do you know?
malee		My mom tells that to all her patients. I've eavesdropped on some of her therapy sessions.
leonard		That's awesome. Can I listen in sometime?
malee		No. Anyway, she says, if a person wants closure, they gotta deal with their problems head on. Go see these guys and let them know how you feel.
jacob		I don't think my parents would be up for that.
malee		Go alone. Juvy hall is only like forty minutes from here. Take the bus.
jacob		Bye, Dad.
jacob		Where's Jeff?
kenny		He's sick.     I think he...
jacob		 I hate you. You know that?     You bastard.
kenny		Rudy knew we were going to be there. He never should have come. You want the truth, all this happened cause of you.
jacob		Me?
kenny		Yeah, you deformed retard! The only reason we started picking on you guys in the first place was because of that thing on your face.
jacob		Every night, I lie in bed and plan your murder.
kenny		I'm shaking.
jacob		First I'm going to take a kitchen knife and chop off your fingers then your nose then your tongue. Then I'm gonna poke out your eyes with the end of a broomstick. Well, not really poke them out, but I'm gonna push them back into your brain. Then I'm gonna take scissors and cut off your ears. When they find you, it's gonna be like putting a jigsaw puzzle back together.
kenny		If you kill me, you come here.
jacob		So? What do I have to look forward to? You've already destroyed my life.
kenny		What happened was an accident.
jacob		There are no accidents. You're gonna pay for what you did. And it's gonna hurt like hell.
grace		What the hell is this?
leonard		I'm reading the list of ingredients in our foods.
grace		Why?
leonard		Research. Do you know the damage these chemicals can do to the human body?
grace		Leonard, put everything back.
leonard		This is serious. You can't keep buying this crap. Don't you care that you're ingesting garbage?
grace		Just put everything back and go to sleep.
yacco		Post traumatic stress is very common in your line of work. Many fire fighters go through this.
gus		Yeah. But why now? I haven't fought fires in ten years.
yacco		Sometimes we experience something so horrific, our memory blocks it out. That way we won't have to relive the pain. It's called repression. Our bodies are not so forgiving, however. Inside, we feel the effects of trauma even when we don't know why.
gus		What does that mean?
yacco		Something stirred your unconscious. If we find out what that was, we can begin the healing process.
gus		A friend was making good money with construction. He got an offer to build that extension off Lindsay Acres. He suggested I come into town and work for a while.
gus		"Light my Fire" is always playing.
yacco		What?
gus		Light my fire. The Doors song.  "Da da something... wallow in the mire... Da, da... we couldn't get much higher. Come on baby light my fire.
yacco		Interesting.
jacob		Dad?
jim		Jacob.
jacob		You okay?
jim		Fantastic.
jacob		Me?
jim		Jacob.   I love you.
jacob		 Yeah?
jim		Will you join me? Join me in this celebration of life. A symbolic gesture of cleaning out the old and bringing in the new.
jacob		Do I have to?
jim		 No, you don't have to.
jacob		Good night, Dad.
malee		Thank you, Mr. Farmer.
malee		Where's Jacob?
leonard		Couldn't make it. He...
malee		Oh my God!     He's coming over.
leonard		Who?
malee		Shut up!     Leave now.
gus		You were awesome.
malee		Really? Be honest. I'd rather you tell me I sucked then lie.
gus		You were great.
malee		Excuse me for a second.
leonard		Ow, ow, ow alright.    I'm going.
malee		So you really enjoyed it?
gus		Yeah. Good song.      What made you pick it?
malee		 Oh, uh... my mother was humming it all last week. Big Doors fan.
gus		Really?   Is she here?
malee		No.
gus		She missed out.
malee		You're so sweet.
gus		Yeah well, I have to go, but thanks again. I had a great time.
grace		That boy is going to bring the entire house down.
patrick		Let him be. He's looking good. I'm proud of him.
grace		 Girls, have you decided what you're going to go as for Halloween?
sara		Either a witch or a princess.
grace		That's nice. Haley?
haley		I'm going to go as a marble.
grace		What do you mean, a marble?
haley		You know, like a bag of marbles, but just one marble.
jeff		I'm really sorry, man.   I...
jacob		You just think about what I said. Get out of my sight. And send Kenny in on your way out.
kenny		What did you say to him?
jacob		I thought you'd both like to know that Halloween was Rudy's favorite holiday.
kenny		Stop it.
jacob		After we'd go trick or treating, we'd sit in our room and swap the candy we hated. Rudy loved Snickers, I Almond Joys.
kenny		Almond Joy sucks.
jacob		What sucks is that I'll never get to sit in my room and swap candy with my brother ever again. Thanks to you.
kenny		Why are you doing this?
jacob		To remind you.
kenny		How could we forget? You been coming here for months to "remind us".
jacob		No one is forcing you to talk to me.
kenny		Anything to get out of my cell.
jacob		Is your cell small?
kenny		Yes.
jacob		So is a coffin.
kenny		You're not the only one who wishes he was still alive. I'd do anything to bring him back, but I can't. It's not easy being in here. Hell, you saw Jeff.
jacob		What happened to him?
kenny		He pissed off the wrong guy off. Jeff is totally fucked right now.
jacob		Good.
kenny		Don't come back here ever again.
jacob		Free country. I'll come if I want.
kenny		Don't expect me to show up.
grace		Be careful now.   Have a good night.
grace		Kids keep coming later every year.
haley		I hate him! I hate him!
grace		Who?    What happened?
haley		Leonard! He threw away all our Halloween candy.
sara		He grabbed our bags and just threw them down a gutter.
patrick		What the hell is going on? Why did you throw away their candy?
leonard		Because their sugar intake is completely unhealthy. Besides, Halloween is supposed to be a celebration of evil. How did candy get wrapped into it?
grace		I am going to ask you this once, and I want a straight answer. Are you in a cult?
patrick		Grace!
grace		This is what happens when kids join cults. The first thing they change is their diets.
leonard		I'm not in a cult. This is all information you can find in books.
grace		The issue here is that you have stolen one of the most exciting nights of the year from your sisters.
patrick		If anybody had done this to you when you were a child, we never would have heard the end of it.
leonard		I wish somebody had done it to me. I wish either one of you had given a shit about my weight.
patrick		I do not care for your language.
leonard		I'm only trying to help you guys.
patrick		What's your point?
leonard		Dad, you and mom are going to die young if you keep eating as poorly as you do.
patrick		What is this obsession you have with weight?
leonard		The coach for Jefferson High is also my gym teacher. He told me that if I got into shape, I could start as center for the Freshman team when I get to high school.
patrick		Center is a great position. Toughest guy on the field. A good center can make or break a team.
leonard		I know.   That's why I'm trying so hard to get into shape. You guys should to. At the rate you're going, you won't make it to your 60's.
patrick		Look, Leonard. Your mom, to her, a tasty meal is just a way of showing she cares.
leonard		She doesn't! Tonight she served spaghetti and meatballs from a can. The amount of sodium alone can wreck havoc on a person's blood pressure. Not to mention...
patrick		Leonard, people just don't drop dead from eating meatballs.
gus		I can't take your Halloween candy.
malee		You'll be doing me a favor. Chocolate gives you zits. Besides, if I want to keep this firm ass as an adult, I gotta develop good eating habits now.
gus		 Maybe just a snickers.
malee		So work is good?
gus		To be honest, I can't wait till this job is finished. This place is creepy. You know, a boy died here like right before we started working.
malee		Rudy.   His name was Rudy.
gus		You knew him?
malee		He was one of my best friends. Remember that funeral I went to?
gus		That was him?
malee		I thought you knew. Two boys threw a flaming cocktail at him. Can you imagine killing someone like that? How evil can you get?
ashley		Jeff Laskey is dead.
jim		What?
ashley		He committed suicide in his jail cell last night. Sally Yngve called just now to tell me.
jacob		Why are you smiling?    A boy died.
ashley		No, a monster that murdered my son died. Justice is served; end of story.
kenny		He used his bed sheet, waited until lights out and then jumped.
jacob		That's terrible.
kenny		His cell mate let him hang there the entire night.
jacob		I'm sorry, Kenny.
kenny		Like you even give a shit. I bet when you heard, you started dancing.
jacob		No.
kenny		I knew he wouldn't make it. It's my fault too. Jeff wasn't a saint when I met him, but he sure as hell wasn't headed here.  That fucking asshole!
jacob		An IPOD!   Sweet!
ashley		You like it?
jacob		I love it.     You guys went crazy this year.
jim		I'm going to shower.
ashley		Jim, Jacob still has one more present.
jim		I thought we were going to wait.
jacob		No, do it now! Now!
ashley		After serious debate, your father and I have decided... to adopt A BABY!
jacob		What?
jim		We're gonna adopt a baby. Hopefully a boy.
leonard		May I be excused?
grace		No!
malee		Why do I have to do this? It's Christmas break.
yacco		You'll be one step ahead in January.
malee		Just because you're an atheist, I don't get to celebrate the holidays.
yacco		Malee.
malee		I'm going for a bike ride.
yacco		There's a foot of snow outside.
malee		The streets are ploughed. Besides, I like looking at all the lights.
yacco		Be home in an hour. Be careful.
malee		Freeze!   That's right.
leonard		Don't worry, white male infants are the hardest to come by. 60 minutes did a whole story on it.
malee		Since when do you watch 60 minutes?
leonard		Since I was in the hospital. They said, any adoption agency worth its salt has at least a three year waiting list. By the time your parents get a kid, you'll be in college. You think they'll want to start over again with that baby shit?
jacob		No, but it's like they're trying to replace Rudy.
leonard		It doesn't matter cause it's not gonna happen.
malee		I'm thirsty.  Can you get us some drinks?
leonard		Why me?
malee		Because it's the gentlemanly thing to do.
jacob		I'll get the drinks.
malee		I'll go with you.
leonard		Why are you all of a sudden going to get the drinks?
malee		 Because you've upset me, and I don't want to see you right now.
leonard		Fine, I'll get the drinks.
malee		I need a favor. It's big. I need you to hide something for me.
jacob		Hide what?
malee		Promise, you won't freak.
jacob		I won't.
malee		You said, you wouldn't freak!
jacob		That's a gun.
malee		I know.
jacob		Where'd you get it?
malee		I can't tell you. I just need you to hide it for a while. When all is cool, I'll come for it.
jacob		Why can't you keep it?
malee		My mother is a total snoop. She goes through my stuff like all the time.  Please, Jacob. Somebody's life might depend on it.
jacob		Is it loaded?
malee		No, but I do have some bullets.
jacob		Nobody has the combination, but me. Besides, I could be building a bomb in here, and they wouldn't even know.
jacob		I sent in some comics for ya.   The X-men one is pretty sweet.
kenny		That last batch was awesome.
jacob		I better get going, I don't want to miss my bus.
kenny		Before you go, I got some news. Apparently, the parole board feels I've been a model prisoner, so they're giving me early release.
jacob		What?   How can they do that?
kenny		I don't know. They just did. You're pissed, aren't you? I knew you would be.  It was an accident, Jacob.
jacob		So you're getting out.   Gonna head back to school, or...
kenny		Fuck school. I'm going to live with my Dad in New Mexico. He's working on a ranch out there.
jacob		You can't leave the state. That violates your probation. You'll have to...
kenny		My dad won't tell anyone. No one will even care I'm out there.
jacob		Your mom will.
kenny		Jacob, in the entire time I've been locked up, you were the only one who came to see me. Trust me, she won't care.
malee		200 dollars! Dad sent me 200 dollars!
yacco		No!  Your father... went out.     He's not home right now.
malee		You're acting weird.     What's going on?
yacco		Nothing.
malee		Well, do you want to come with me to the mall and spend it?
yacco		I'd prefer it if you'd put that money in the bank.  Fine, spend it. You'll have to do it alone though. I have a patient this afternoon. Have a good day.
patrick		Here's the deal. You know how my company flies me to Florida every April?
leonard		You and I have been going since I was eight. It's the guy's week off.
patrick		This year, I'm taking the girls. Just the girls. You're staying home.
leonard		Why can't we all go?
grace		I'm not staying here all alone. Besides, you said it yourself, you've been going for years. Give your sisters a chance.
leonard		Whatever.  I need money.
patrick		What for?
leonard		Clothes.    Nothing I have fits anymore.
grace		Your father and I aren't rich. You can't get a new wardrobe anytime you want.
leonard		What am I supposed to do, go to school naked?
grace		Wear a belt.
patrick		I'll give him some cash, he can get some clothes.
grace		No. He's gonna gain all his weight back in a few months. 
patrick		Grace.
grace		What?    It's true.
leonard		When I was fat. Now I don't have to wear a T-shirt when I go swimming. Who knows, maybe I could even get lucky.
jacob		You're still ugly, though.
leonard		I don't understand what my mother's problem is. It's like the thinner I get, the more she hates me.
jacob		She's probably jealous. Maybe you should put her on that diet.
leonard		Anytime I mention it, my mother goes crazy.
jacob		If you really want her to drop a few tons, put her in jail. Kenny's lost about 30 pounds since he's been incarcerated, and he was already thin.
leonard		Really?
jacob		Yeah. Jail is the perfect weight loss program. You take a fat tub, throw them in a room and force them to eat right and exercise. Don't let them out till they do.
yacco		Malee, dinner!
malee		I got a new look. You know, for Spring. What do you think?
yacco		You look...
malee		Beautiful?
yacco		Different. What happened to your glasses?
malee		Contacts. It took me like forty five minutes to get them in, but beauty is pain.
yacco		Honey, in the future, I'd like to know if you're going to radically change your appearance. Clean your stuff up and come down for dinner.
gus		Malee?   My God, you look...
malee		Different?
gus		Beautiful.     You look beautiful.
malee		I felt like I needed a change, you know?
gus		I bet you're driving the boys at school wild.
malee		Boys my age are so immature. I'm more attracted to older gentlemen.
gus		You don't want somebody that much older than you. An age difference can cause problems.
malee		What kind of problems?
gus		A lot of times when a couple has an age difference, they wind up splitting up because they want different things.
malee		You mean sex.
gus		No.
malee		Are you impatient?
gus		No, but when I was a kid.
malee		Why don't you have a girlfriend?
gus		I did, but it didn't work out.
malee		How old was she?
gus		About my age.
malee		See that, age wasn't an issue, yet you still wanted different things. I don't think it's about age. 
leonard		 Have a good flight!
ashley		We're home.
jacob		Hi.
ashley		Could you come downstairs for a minute. We have a surprise for you.
jim		This is Keith Gardner. You're new brother. Keith our son, Jacob.
keith		It's nice to meet you.
jacob		You get top bunk.
keith		I'm kind of afraid of heights.
jacob		Sucks to be you.
keith		I never thought my future brother would have a KOOL AID stain, smeared across his face.
jacob		Fuck you, it's a birthmark!
keith		We're getting off on the wrong foot.
jacob		When my parents said they were taking in an orphan, I pictured a baby. So what happened, your parents die or something?
keith		I was given up at birth.
jacob		You gonna try and find your mother when you're 18?
keith		As far as I'm concerned, the fact she had me was enough. I don't need to show up one day and disrupt her life.
jacob		Oh, but it's okay to just show up one day and disrupt mine?
kenny		You're blaming me for this?
jacob		No.   But can you believe it?
kenny		Maybe this is the only way they can get over Rudy's death.
jacob		He's a person not a fucking vase.
kenny		I know.
jacob		I gotta get out of there. I can't live in that house for one more day. I want to go with you to New Mexico.
kenny		No way. You've never even   been out on the road.
jacob		So.
kenny		It's not easy. After first night falls, you'll be pissing yourself.
jacob		No, I won't.
kenny		You don't need me to run away from home.
jacob		That's not what this is about.
kenny		Yes, it is.  And you want to come with ME of all people. Are you forgetting, I was the one who killed Rudy!
jacob		That was an accident.
kenny		If this is what you want.   Alright.
malee		Is that Dad? Can I talk to him?
yacco		Take some responsibility for yourself and grow... Hello?...
malee		Well, what do you expect?   All you ever do is yell at him.
yacco		Malee, you don't understand.
malee		He's my Dad! I'm sorry if it bothers you, but I love him. You keep this up then one day, when I'm old enough, I'll leave here and go and stay with him.
grace		Leonard?
grace		 Leonard, what's wrong?
grace		I'm calling 9-1-1!
grace		If I go downstairs, I won't be able to make it back up. Let me call 9-1-1 first, okay?
leonard		I hope someone is hungry.
grace		Get me out of here now!
leonard		No joke, Ma. For the next two weeks while Dad and the girls are away, you will be kept down here. I'll provide you with nutritious meals and plenty of water. You, mother, will learn what it means to be healthy.
grace		That's what this is about, food?
leonard		I'm trying to save your life, mom. Trying to give you a life. Cause I love you.
grace		My life is fine.   I don't need you to "save me".
leonard		You don't even realize how sick you are. It's a problem when an otherwise healthy woman can't drag her ass up a flight of stairs because she's so obese. You're staying down here.
gus		Hello?
malee		I made dinner, my love.   And I have a surprise.
gus		You've been in my apartment before, haven't you?
malee		Don't you like my body?
gus		Malee, stop.
malee		It's okay because I love you.
gus		To go call your mother.
malee		But we're soulmates.
yacco		I don't know what to say to you.
keith		Wanna play some catch?
jacob		Where the hell did you get this?
keith		The closet. Ow, what's wrong?
jacob		Did I say you could play with the glove? Did I?
keith		No, I just...
jacob		Everything, and I mean, EVERYTHING in this room is mine. You are not allowed to touch a thing, especially the glove.
keith		Okay, okay.
jacob		If you tell my parents what I said, I'll kill you. I'll shoot you in the fucking face, I swear it!
jacob		 What's wrong now?
ashley		I was looking at a picture of you and Rudy when you were born. God, I miss him.
jacob		But you have Keith now
ashley		What the hell does that mean?
jacob		You have Keith. Two boys again. Everything is fine.
ashley		We didn't adopt Keith to replace Rudy.
jacob		Didn't you?
ashley		For your information, your father and I discussed adopting for years.
jacob		 Right. Maybe if it was me who died, you wouldn't need another kid to get over it.
ashley		How can you say that? I never wanted either of my children to die.
jacob		But one of us did. If you had to choose which one, I bet you wish it was me.
ashley		I know you think we favored Rudy...
jacob		You did!    Admit it.
ashley		I admit he was easier to raise, but we didn't love him more. Jacob, listen to me. You came with a different set of challenges.
jacob		My birthmark.
ashley		It's not easy being different...
jacob		 I'm not different!! You always made me feel like something was wrong. There's nothing wrong with me.
ashley		I know...
jacob		No, you don't! It's like you don't know how to deal with me. You never did.
ashley		I'm sorry if that is how you feel. You do the best you can as a parent. You don't always know what's right. But you're my son. I'd do anything for you. I'd fight for you, I'd kill for you, I'd die for you.
jacob		Rudy used to say that exact same thing.
ashley		It's true. And as unchristian as it sounds, I still want the boy that killed Rudy dead. Someday, when you grow up, you'll understand what I mean. Someday.
grace		When Pat calls, and I don't answer, he'll know something is wrong. He'll know. I'll be fine.
grace		Open this door now! Let me out, God damn it! Leonard!
yacco		Before we begin, I want to apologize. I should have known what was going on with Malee.
gus		It's my fault. I knew she had a crush on me. I guess, I felt bad for her. She's a very unhappy girl.
yacco		This is your therapy. Not mine. Why was it therapeutic?
gus		I slept last night. I can't remember the last time I slept so deep or so sound. I don't remember dreaming or anything.
yacco		Why do you think that is?
gus		One of the last fires I ever fought was a brownstone, beautiful. The place was burned from roof to basement. Whole family was wiped out. When I was upstairs, inspecting, I found a girl. She couldn't have been more than 12. 
yacco		What did you do?
gus		Exactly what she wanted. I placed my hand over her mouth and what was left of her nose, and I... I killed her. I told myself it was the right thing to do, but I've never been sure.
yacco		What does this have to do with Malee?
gus		When I saw her last night, she had the same look on her face as that girl. She just wanted me to take away her pain.
yacco		Would you mind if we... cut out early today? No charge.
gus		I understand.
malee		 Why does he hate me?
grace		Leonard!
grace		Leonard, don't you smell that...?  Oh God, he can't. Leonard! Leonard, the gas is on!
grace		No!
nurse		It's alive!
leonard		What happened?
nurse		Gas leak.
leonard		My mom, she's...
nurse		She's fine. They've taken her into surgery. She blew out her knees somehow. We're trying to get your father on the phone right now.
leonard		I...
nurse		Shh. You need your rest. Everything is fine now.
kenny		We got sleeping bags, a tent, canteens and a lantern. 
jacob		 Cool.
kenny		You're acting weird.    You gonna chicken out?
jacob		No.
kenny		You better not. I already packed twice the amount of shit. I can't carry it all alone.
jacob		I'll be there.
kenny		Good. I'm telling you, man. It's gonna be great.
jacob		I guess.
kenny		Come on. You can't be a pussy all your life.
jacob		 I know.
kenny		I'll see you tonight.    Don't be late.
grace		Leonard!
leonard		I'm sorry, mom. I didn't mean to leave the gas on. It was an accident. And everything that happened, I... I just thought that maybe, I could help you.
grace		Leonard, my mother died at 52. We had to cremate her body because they didn't make a coffin big enough for her to fit in. Even if they had, no one could have carried it.  I loved her so much. I don't want that to happen to me.
leonard		It doesn't have to.
grace		Even if I can manage the food... Can you honestly see me, running a marathon?
leonard		You don't have to run a marathon. You just have to run to the end of the block. It's not so hard as you think it is.
grace		I'll try.
leonard		Did you tell him what happened?
grace		I told him there was a gas leak.
leonard		I meant...
grace		I know what you meant. I didn't tell him. I don't think I will.
kenny		You're late.
jacob		I'm here.
kenny		Put this on.
jacob		If people see me riding around in the middle of the night, we're screwed. You didn't bring a disguise?
kenny		Who gives a shit what I'm up to.
jacob		Yeah, but if we cut through the construction site, we'll hit the railroad tracks. It's faster and no one will bother us.
kenny		Good point.
kenny		What's wrong?
jacob		I can't do this.
kenny		What?!
kenny		Son of a bitch! I knew it.     I knew you'd chicken...
jacob		I can't let you leave, Kenny.     You have to pay for what you did.
kenny		Whoa, whoa hold on. Alright, I... I won't go. I'll stay here. I'll do my probation.
jacob		You killed him. I gotta do this... for my family. It's the only way.
kenny		Jacob, I told ya, it... it was an accident. I swear. Please, don't. This isn't you.
jacob		I know. But I can't be a pussy all my life.
keith		I thought I wasn't supposed to touch this.
jacob		You're awake.
keith		Yeah.
jacob		It's yours. Just don't leave it outside. If it gets wet, the leather will crack.
keith		I'll take good care of it.   I know this was Rudy's.
jacob		Just a b-b gun. I returned it to a friend of mine.  I'm sorry for being such an asshole to ya.
keith		Does this mean we're brothers now?
jacob		 Yeah. We're brothers.
gus		Malee?
malee		Don't be mad. I was just worried about you. Now I'm out of your life forever. Goodbye. Thanks for not pressing any charges.
malee		Quite a storm last night.
jacob		Huh?   Oh, yeah.
malee		You know, your birthday's coming up. Any hints as to what you might like?
jacob		Whatever you get me will be fine.
malee		 Right.
jacob		 Never better.
****Dialogues from script :1492__Conquest_of_Paradise.txt****

revised		 September 23, 1991
sanchez		Your Majesty would wish to know the true facts concerning the island of Hispanola, our first settlement in the New World, and the activities there of your servant, Christopher Columbus, Admiral of the Ocean Sea, Governor of that Island.  You will remember with what hopes and promises he beguiled us -- the truth is that he now presides over a state of chaos, degradation and madness beyond imagining.
sanchez		From the beginning, Columbus proved himself incapable of managing the affairs of the island.  He appointed his brothers to important positions, at once injuring the pride and dignity of the nobles who had gone with him.  He promised to build a city, the City of Isabel, named after Your Majesty.  What he actually built was nothing but a collection of huts, and that in the wrong place, for all of it was easily swept away by rain and mud. Is that not so, Brother Buyl?
brother buyl		Yes, Your Honor.
sanchez		He promised gold.  Not finding the easy quantities he promised, Columbus commanded each Indian to pay an annual tribute.  Most being unable to, they were barbarously punished, against the express wish of Your Christian Majesties...
sanchez		Since provocation and injustice never ceases, many of the Indians have fled to the forests, or have begun to slay the Christians.
isabel		Could it be so?
brother buyl		Yes, Your Majesty.
sanchez		But there is worse.  From the beginning, he forced the nobles to undergo physical labor, treating them equally with the Indians, all of them reduced to slavery.  When the nobleman Adrian de Moxica protested against such treatment...  Is that not true also, Brother Buyl?
brother buyl		Yes, Your Honor.  It is all true. All of it.  I saw it with my own eyes.
sanchez		He has lost control.  His great arrogance has led him into depravity.  He encourages our soldiers to marry the native women. He promised a paradise, but he has made a hell full of all its horrors.
isabel		Is that the man I knew, Treasurer Sanchez?
sanchez		Yes, Your Majesty.
columbus		Fernando!
fernando		Diego!
columbus		Diego!  Aren't you going to kiss your brother?
marchena		Diego, take Fernando to the dining hall.  He must be hungry.
diego		Yes, Father.
marchena		Diego is a bright boy -- a pleasure to teach -- but so serious... Brothers should be raised together, Colon.  Even brothers from different mothers...
columbus		Father, I am doing what I think is the best for him.  And he has the teacher I would have chosen for myself.
marchena		Just be careful you don't lose him.
marchena		 I have something for you.
marchena		You will be heard at the University of Salamanca...
columbus		God... That's in a week!
marchena		That's what it says.
columbus		How did you manage it?
marchena		 With some difficulty.  I had to promise them you were not a total fool.
marchena		Why do you wish to sail west?
columbus		To open a new route to Asia.  At the moment there are only two ways of reaching it...
columbus		By sea, sailing around the African Continent -- the journey takes a year...
columbus		Or by land...
columbus		By sailing West across the Ocean Sea.
marchena		How can you be so certain?  The Ocean is said to be infinite.
columbus		Ignorance!  I believe the Indies are no more than 750 leagues west of the Canary Islands.
marchena		How can you be so certain?
columbus		The calculations of Toscanelli Marin de Tyr, Esdras...
marchena		 Esdras is a Jew.
columbus		So was Christ!
marchena		Two minutes... and already you're a dead man.  Don't let passion overwhelm you, Colon.
columbus		 I'll try to remember that, Marchena...
marchena		Father Marchena!
columbus		 Passion is something one cannot control!
marchena		 You get so carried away when you are being contradicted!
columbus		I've been contradicted all my life... Eternity!
marchena		 Only God knows the meaning of such words, my son.
columbus		Diego.
columbus		Would you like to come and stay with us?
columbus		I'll do whatever makes you happy.
diego		I am happy, Father.
fernando		Look, Father!
columbus		Fernando!
columbus		Fernando!
columbus		Executions.  In the square.
columbus		They've agreed to see me in a week.
columbus		I could be gone for years.
beatrix		I know.
columbus		I haven't given you much of a life.
beatrix		 Well... that's true.  I have a child by a man who won't marry me!  Who's always leaving...
columbus		Are we going to argue?
beatrix		I'd love to argue with you sometimes.  But you're never here!
columbus		Perhaps I was never meant to live with a woman...
beatrix		 I find that hard to believe.
columbus		Fernando, don't you think we are lucky to live with such a beautiful woman?
monk		 Christopher Columbus?
arojaz		You say Asia can be found by sailing west?
columbus		Yes, your Eminence.  The voyage should not take more than six or seven weeks.
arojaz		Unfortunately, Don Colon, that is precisely where our opinions differ...  Are you familiar with the work of Aristotle?  Erathostene?  Ptolemeus?
columbus		I am, Your Eminence
arojaz		Then you cannot ignore that according to their calculations, the circumference of the Earth is approximately...  22,000 leagues or more.  Which makes the ocean... uncrossable.
arojaz		But you may have found new evidence proving that these men of knowledge are totally mistaken!
columbus		Your Excellencies are aware of the statements of Marin de Tyr?
columbus		Then you are also aware that his theories contradict Ptolemeus... De Tyr believes the Ocean to be only 750 leagues...
columbus		The Florentine Toscanelli and the French Cardinal Pierre d'Ailly both think that Marin de Tyr is accurate in his calculations.  And therefore, that the ocean can be crossed.
columbus		Seven weeks.  Six, during the summer months.
arojaz		Marin de Tyr is wrong -- and has been corrected many times over the centuries by the finest geographers. Your voyage, Don Colon, would take a year!
vicuna		How would the crew survive without being able to land for fresh water? Water is undrinkable after six weeks!  You'd never be able to turn back!
columbus		We wouldn't have to turn back!  We would find land at this point!
arojaz		Senor Colon, an experienced captain such as yourself will understand our concern with the crew.  I am not willing to have on my conscience the loss of men who would have relied upon our judgment.
columbus		Excellency, you are right.
columbus		I am a seaman, not a scholar... But as a simple man craving for knowledge, I have read all the work of these renowned geographers and discovered that none of them could agree on the exact width of this ocean...
columbus		Therefore, as a modest man, I wonder:  who is right?
columbus		Who is right?  This question remains unanswered.
columbus		Your Eminence, there is only one way to settle the matter.  And that is to make the journey.  I am ready to risk my life to prove it possible.
arojaz		Your life, and that of others!
columbus		If they agree to follow me, yes.
columbus		Trade, Your Excellency.  According to Marco Polo, the Kingdom of China is one of the richest of the world. Even the meanest buildings are roofed with gold.
arojaz		 Is that all that interests you? Gold?
columbus		No.  The Portuguese have already discovered black-skinned people.  I, too, will find other populations -- and bring them to the word of God.
arojaz		Christopher -- Christo Ferens -- the Bearer of the Cross!
monk		 And Colon -- the one who populates!
arojaz		If God intended our proximity to Asia, do you believe he would have waited for you to show it to the world?
columbus		Did He not choose a carpenter's son to reveal Himself to the world?
arojaz		So you consider yourself the chosen one?
arojaz		Don't you realize your words could be considered heretical?
columbus		 Blind faith is what I consider heresy!
columbus		 Asia can be found to the west -- and I will prove it.
arojaz		IF-GOD-WILLS-IT!
arojaz		The Treasurer of Spain honors us with his presence.
sanchez		The State has some reason to be interested in this man's proposition, Your Eminence...
arojaz		The Judgment is ours!
sanchez		Naturally.  But I would really deplore the loss of such a potential opportunity for Spain for a... dispute over a point of geography.
arojaz		 He is a mercenary!  Did he not already try to convince the King of Portugal of his absurd notions?
sanchez		Indeed.  The world is full of mercenaries -- and states often make use of them, when it benefits them.  My only concern is the welfare and prosperity of Spain.
arojaz		You would use your influence to assist this... intriguer?
sanchez		You know, Your Eminence, the fascinating thing about power, is that what can be given so effortlessly...
sanchez		... can so easily be taken away.
marchena		... and therefore nothing could justify the participation of Your Highnesses in the venture that relies upon such feeble assumptions, and which any man of knowledge would take to be impractical... if not impossible.
columbus		They didn't listen.  They didn't want to listen!
marchena		You mustn't give way to despair. You must wait.
columbus		Wait!  I've waited seven years already!  How much longer do you want me to wait?
marchena		If God intends you to go, then you will go.
columbus		 Damn God!
marchena		Colon!
columbus		Damn all of you!  You all set up theories based on what?  You never leave the safety of your studies! Go out!  Find out what the world is about and then tell me something I can listen to!
columbus		These don't mean anything!  They're full of assumptions!  Out of the heads of old men who've never been past the end of their gardens!
marchena		No...!  My books...!
columbus		All of them!  Just lies!
marchena		Colon!  Don't!
fernando		Father?
diego		Sssshhhh...!  One can't speak to a man doing penance.
fernando		What can you do?
diego		Nothing.  That's the point, Fernando.
pinzon		Ah, thank God!  I've been looking all over Seville for you!  Never expected to find a sailor in a monastery, eh?
pinzon		Name's Pinzon, by the way.  Martin Alonzo Pinzon.  I'm a ship owner from Palos...
pinzon		 Is he a spy?
pinzon		What is it?  Are you a Trappist?
pinzon		Vow of silence...?  Penance?
pinzon		Jesus!  Just my luck!
pinzon		Listen.  I'll do the talking for both of us.  You just nod.  Agreed? Just as I do with the wife.
pinzon		I know that the Commission turned you down, right?  What do you expect?  You're a foreigner... But I want to help you.
pinzon		You wonder why I believe in you? Hey, I am a seaman.  And we don't like to be told where to go, and where not to go.
pinzon		I don't look like it, but I have friends at the Court.  The Treasurer of Aragon, for example.  He finances me.  His name's Santangel.  Ever heard of him?
pinzon		He can get you an audience with the Queen!  You know why...?  She owes him money.  That's how it is.  You -- me -- the Queen -- the world and his mistress -- agreed?
pinzon		So.  What do you say?
columbus		Where can I meet this man?
pinzon		 Immediately.
santangel		These people built Granada... Centuries ago!  It is a great victory over the Moors, Don Colon -- and yet what a tragedy it is!
columbus		Is this a good time to meet her?
santangel		It couldn't be better.  Victors can't say no.
santangel		Your Excellency... truly grateful... your help... as ever...
isabel		Rise...!  Come forward!
isabel		I should not even be listening to you, since my council said no.  But Santangel tells me you are a man of honor and sincerity... And Sanchez, that you are not a fool.
columbus		 No more than the woman who said she would take Granada from the Moors.
isabel		The ocean is uncrossable?
columbus		What did they say about Granada before today?
isabel		 That she was impregnable.
isabel		I cannot ignore the verdict of my council.
columbus		Surely you can do anything you want.
isabel		How little you know.
columbus		May I speak freely?
isabel		 You show no inclination to speak otherwise!
columbus		I know what I see.  I see someone who doesn't accept the world as it is.  Who's not afraid.  I see a women who thinks... "What if?"...
isabel		 A woman?
columbus		Forgive me... but you're the only Queen I know.
isabel		Then we are equal... since you are the only sailor I know!
isabel		How old are you, Senor Colon?
columbus		Thirty seven, Your Majesty... And you?
isabel		Thirty eight...
isabel		You will be informed of our decision.
columbus		Actually, I thought you were younger than me!
administrator		... and he demands... he DEMANDS to be made a Knight, with the right to bear the Golden Spurs!  He will receive the title of Don Cristobal Colon -- which will be extended to his descendants for ever more...
sanchez		Go on!
administrator		He will be named Great Admiral of the Ocean Sea.  Viceroy of the West Indies... Governor of all islands or lands discovered or as will be discovered with his help...
administrator		The highest titles of nobility, Your Excellency!  To an immigrant sheltered by monks!
sanchez		Furthermore he will receive one eight of all wealth or monies, precious gems, pearls, metals, spices and other lucrative sources conquered within the boundaries of his admiralty...
sanchez		It's very underdone.
administrator		 Underdone!  It's monstrous, Excellency!
sanchez		No, the pheasant.  It's almost raw.
sanchez		You worry too much, Carvajal... The man will have to lower his demands. Believe me, he WILL!
columbus		I WON'T!
sanchez		 We have considered your -- demands very carefully, Senor Colon... Your expectations are... excessive, in every way.
columbus		If I am right, my requests are fair!
sanchez		We have prepared our own contract...
columbus		No...
sanchez		No?
columbus		NO...!  I have waited too long, fought too hard.  Now you expect me to take all the risks while you take the profit!  No... I will not be your servant!
sanchez		I remind you, Senor Colon, that you are in no position to bargain with me.
columbus		I'm not bargaining!
sanchez		 Then you are too ambitious.
columbus		And were you never ambitious, Excellency?  Or is ambition only a virtue among the nobles, a fault for the rest of us?
sanchez		 If you won't accept our proposal, we'll simply find someone who will.
columbus		If you can do that, Excellency -- I'll become a monk!
isabel		You were right, Don Sanchez... His demands could never be granted.
sanchez		Never, Your Majesty.  Although...
sanchez		... Although one may always renegotiate a contract.  Especially signed by Royal Hands.
sanchez		 ... Into a monk...
isabel		 Call him back!
columbus		YEEEEEEES!
columbus		She said yes.
beatrix		 Thank God...
columbus		If I ever come back, I swear I will...
beatrix		 I'm not asking you to swear to anything.
columbus		I don't want you to wait for me.
beatrix		 That's something you can't decide.
columbus		Why not?
columbus		There aren't any monsters, Fernando. The only monsters are in here...  Watch!
fernando		I want to go with you!
columbus		There'll be a time.
fernando		You promise?  Do you swear on St. Christopher...?
fernando		Do you swear on all the Holy Saints in heaven?
columbus		 Yes... Yes, I do... On all of them!
marchena		In Nomine Patris et Filius, et Spiritus Sancti.
columbus		Forgive me, Father.  For I have sinned.
marchena		I am listening, my son.
columbus		Father, I have betrayed my family. I betrayed my men.  And I betrayed you.
marchena		What are you saying?
columbus		I lied.  The journey will be longer than I said.
marchena		How long?
columbus		I am not sure... It could be twice the distance.
marchena		May God forgive you...!  You must tell them!  You must tell your men!
columbus		If I tell them, they won't follow me.  You know that I am right, Father.  You trust me...
marchena		My son, my son...  Christopher, you must speak to them. And if you don't I will.
columbus		You are bound by an oath, Father.
marchena		I believed in you...
columbus		Give me absolution.
columbus		Give me absolution, Father!
columbus		Be good to your mother, Fernando. Do you promise?
beatrix		Speak to Diego.
columbus		Diego!  Here!
santangel		 Take care of my investment, wherever you're going!
columbus		 I have to tell you Santangel.  I don't know where on earth I am going!
sailor		Vaya con Dios!  
columbus		 Due west, Captain Mendez.  And may God be with us...
mendez		God be with us admiral.
columbus		What is it Mendez?  Speak!
mendez		Well... It's the men, Sir.  They wonder how you know our position. We've lost sight from land days ago...
columbus		 And what do you think Mendez?
mendez		Well, I surely know what a quadrant is!  But I've never seen it used at night before.
columbus		Come over here.
columbus		Now, find the North Star.  Do you have it?
columbus		Don't move!  A mistake of one degree and we'll be off 6,000 leagues!
columbus		What do you read?
mendez		Twenty eight.
columbus		That's it.  The twenty eighth parallel.  And we'll follow it until we reach land.
alonso		How do you know land is on the twenty eighth parallel?
alonso		Chicken-ass face!
alonso		Shit!
alonso		I never seen heat like this!  Not even in Las Minas!
sailor		The water's going putrid in the barrels.
alonso		You'll be drinking your own piss... For the glory of Spain... and Admiral Colon...!  Bastard!
alonso		What are you listening to, chicken ass?
sailor		Ah, leave him alone.  He's doing no harm.
alonso		With a face like that?  I don't want you looking at me.  You hear?
alonso		He's the devil's child...
sailor		We'll all go crazy...
sailor		Culo de galina es el hijo del demonio... 
alonso		We should have seen land.
sailor		We left three weeks ago, Alonso. Can't be that near.
alonso		Can't be that far, I say.  Also, I don't like the smell of the sea around here.  Smells like a cunt. Bad sign...
cook		 Of course it smells like it!  That's why sailors take to the sea!
alonso		And why does this one take to the sea?  Nobody knows.  Never says a word...
mendez		To your post!  At once!
ship's boy		Mark.  Twenty nine, Sir!
columbus		Six hundred and twenty nine.
ship's boy		Six hundred and twenty nine!
officer		Six hundred and twenty nine, Sir!
pinzon		I heard.
officer		Captain, I don't understand.
pinzon		I think I do.
mendez		Continue rowing!
alonso		To where?
officer		Captain Pinzon requests permission to board.
columbus		Granted.
pinzon		You lied!  You cheated!  We're way past 750 leagues!
columbus		 Six days ago, yes.
pinzon		You must be mad...!
columbus		We have to keep the hopes of these men alive!
pinzon		We're on the verge of a mutiny, Colon!
columbus		You think I don't know that?
pinzon		We're lost!
columbus		The land is there.  I know it!
pinzon		You don't know anything!  Listen Colon, these are my ships, right? So I'm telling you we're turning back!
columbus		And then what?  Half of the water has gone, the rest is nearly putrid! You know that!
pinzon		 Jesus Maria!  I should have never listened to you!
columbus		You never did.  You did all the talking for both of us, remember?
pinzon		You bloody...
columbus		Pinzon, Pinzon... All we can do now is go forward!  Think about that!
pinzon		You tell that to them!
columbus		You're right.  Let the men decide.
columbus		Who gave you the order to come on board?
alonso		God doesn't want us to cross the ocean...!  This voyage is cursed!
columbus		Cursed?
alonso		We set sail for greed.  God has abandoned us.  The voyage is cursed. There are signs...
columbus		This boy has the voice of an angel. What comes out of his mouth is blessed, Alonso.  What comes out of your is evil.
columbus		Listen to me!  Every man is afraid who does something for the first time.  But those who overcome their fears, will find their rewards.  I do not know if it is God's will that we cross this ocean -- but I am certain it is the devil who puts fears into our hearts...
columbus		This jacket to the first man who sights land!  I want a man up that mast day and night.
columbus		You start first.
mendez		Alonso!  Jaime!  Don't let this wind escape us.
pinzon		 You lucky bastard...
columbus		Pinzon, the more I sail, the luckier I get.
mendez		Shall I take my turn?
columbus		 Mendez!  Mendez!
columbus		Land...
ship's boy		TIERRA...!  TIERRA!
columbus		By the... by the Grace of... God...
columbus		 In the name of their Gracious Majesties of Castille and Aragon, and by all the powers vested in me, I claim this island and name it San Salvador.
mendez		 Arquebuses!
pinzon		 Colon!
columbus		We have come here in peace, and we will behave with honor.  They are not savages and neither will you be. Treat these people as you would your own wives and your own children. Neither are you free to take what you will; for a seashell you give a bandana.  You will respect their beliefs.  Pillage will be punished by the whip.  Rape by the sword.
pinzon		Gold...!  Gold!
columbus		 Give it to him!
pinzon		 By God!  That's the worst trade of my life!
old indian		Cuba!  Cuba!
utapan		Say not here!  Cuba!
columbus		What is it?  A tribe?  An island?
utapan		Island.  Far.
columbus		Help him!
sailor		Do something!  Help him!
utapan		He dead.
columbus		Utapan!  Wait!
pinzon		Well... You'll have to continue without me...
columbus		No.  It's enough.  What would you say to a drop of Jerez, Pinzon?
pinzon		And a nice slice of Santa Fe lamb! I'd sell my soul for it.  Help me up.  I've got to piss, gold.
utapan		He cures.
utapan		 You come!  You speak first!
columbus		Tell the Chief we thank him.
utapan		Chief knows.
columbus		Tell him his country is very beautiful.  Tell him we are leaving men here -- to build a fort.
columbus		Tell him we will return very soon. Many of us.
utapan		Chief says -- how many?
columbus		Thousands.
utapan		Why?
columbus		To bring the word of God.
utapan		Chief says -- he has a God.
columbus		 ... and also to bring medicine.
utapan		Chief says...
columbus		 Tell him we admire his people.
utapan		Chief says he knows you like his...  Women...
columbus		 That's a beginning...
columbus		 Get below!  All of you!  Go!
columbus		 Stay with me!
columbus		We may have to cut it!
columbus		 I'll stay here -- to decide if we cut it.  Help me!
columbus		 Now go!
columbus		I said -- below deck, Mendez!
columbus		One... two... three... four...
columbus		Damn you!
columbus		One... two... three... four... five...
arojaz		It won't be easy to get rid of your prophet now, Don Sanchez.
sanchez		 On the contrary, Your Eminence.  It seems to me the man is preparing his own cross.
columbus		You must not inhale, but simply allow the palate to enjoy the flavor of the Tobacco...
moxica		 And you say this is an Indian vice? By God!  I don't see any kind of pleasure that would make this a sin.
columbus		The Indians have no such word, Don Moxica.
isabel		Do they have such thoughts?
columbus		They come and go as naked as the day God created them...
columbus		They don't see sin in their nakedness.  They live according to nature, in a never ending summer. The islands are covered with trees, filled with blossoms and fruits. And...
sanchez		 Forgive me, Don Colon.  But what about gold?
columbus		These are gifts for Your Majesty.
isabel		We are more than gratified.
master		Si!  Si!  Muy bien!  Excellente! 
sanchez		You defend yourself admirably...
columbus		... for a commoner?
sanchez		To your second expedition.
sanchez		Don Colon -- Don Alonso de Bobadilla.  A man who knows our laws.
bobadilla		I understand that you will soon be appointing Governors for the islands?  Is it not so?
columbus		Forgive me, Don Bobadilla -- those positions have already been taken.
bobadilla		 May I ask by whom?
columbus		Bartolome and Giacomo Colon.
bobadilla		I trust they are men of quality.
columbus		But we do have a lack of notaries. You should contact my administration.
sanchez		 Don Bobadilla is already a judge, my Dear Don Cristobal.
columbus		Good!  We are also in need of judges.  Except there are no thieves!
bobadilla		 I see I was mistaken.  Don Colon has no need for my services...
sanchez		 You seem to have a special talent for making friends.
columbus		What...?  Do I have so many already?
sanchez		 A little hypocrisy goes a long way.
bartolome		You might have given us a choice!
giacomo		Bartolome is stronger, more capable than I will ever be...
columbus		I need both of you.  What are you afraid of?  We are living what we always dreamt of.
giacomo		You know I never shared those dreams with you.
columbus		Are you saying you refuse to help?
bartolome		 You bastard... you always had your own way...
columbus		Let me show you something.
columbus		Of course... Of course... We'll see to it... Yes... Thank you... Soon... Soon...
columbus		 We're brothers!  We must be a House. A bloodline!  In this country one can't exist alone!  I need you...! Both of you!
soldier		Where is the Admiral?  Has anyone seen the Admiral?
columbus		He is here!  What is it?
man		Admiral!  The horses have arrived.
columbus		I know.  I saw them!  Who did we hire today?
assistant		Thirty blacksmiths, twenty eight halberdiers, twenty carpenters, a hundred farmers, twenty miners... and Doctor Chanca, the royal surgeon.
columbus		The royal surgeon?  Then we can count on royal health!
columbus		 He's growing up!
columbus		Beatrix, I want to ask you something.
beatrix		 You don't usually ask.
columbus		 I can arrange for the Queen to take Fernando and Diego into her service.
columbus		It is a great honor.  We could not hope for anything better.
beatrix		For once I wish you weren't right.
moxica		Is this your new world, Don Colon?
guevara		These animals should be shown what savagery can be!
nobleman		Three heads for every life taken. No mercy before God!
guevara		No mercy!  Let's find them.
columbus		No Guevara.  There will be no revenge.
moxica		We lost cousins, friends.  We will wash this in blood.
columbus		If you want to keep your head on your shoulders, you'll do as I say.
columbus		Moxica, I lost friends too... Thirty nine brave men who trusted me.
columbus		You want a war?  Fine.  We are a thousand.  They outnumber us by ten! Who will you kill?  Which tribe?
moxica		We don't need to know.
columbus		We came here to stay!  To build! Not to start a crusade.  In this forest, there is enough danger to sweep us away in days!  So we will be brave and swallow our grief.  And in the name of those who died, we will accomplish what we came for.
utapan		They here.
columbus		Ask the Chief what happened to my men?
utapan		Another tribe made war on them... came by sea... took them away...
brother buyl		God have mercy on their souls...
moxica		The monkey is lying.
moxica		We should kill them, Don Colon.
columbus		No...!  you'll do it my way.  Tell the Chief we will not harm his people, even though we have the power to do it.
columbus		We will work with his people.  We want peace.  Ask the Chief if he understands?
utapan		He understands.
columbus		Ask him if he will help.
columbus		Don Moxica -- we need your horse.
columbus		We can't raise the wheel without it.
moxica		My horse doesn't work.
columbus		Don Moxica -- we all have to work.
moxica		You did not hear me, Don Colon.  Not my horse.
columbus		Forgive me, Don Moxica.  But it was your horse I was talking about.
columbus		Thank you, Don Moxica.
moxica		To the Governor of the Mosquitoes!
moxica		Do you want her?
guevara		To the new world, my friend!  To the new world!
giacomo		 Nima's a good cook!
bartolome		She's more than that!
giacomo		What is it?
columbus		Eat!  I'll tell you later.
giacomo		I'd like to know what I'm eating.
columbus		Iguana.
columbus		What wrong with it?  The Indians eat it!
giacomo		I'm not an Indian.
bartolome		He wishes he were back in the seminary.  Priests always eat well.  And they have very good cellars.
giacomo		Nothing grows here!  Everything rots in the ground.  The wheat and vines wither before we can harvest them.
columbus		We've got to learn to live like the Indians.  Eat your Iguana!
columbus		How much gold have we found?
bartolome		Not enough to justify a single shipment.
columbus		Perhaps it doesn't exist anywhere but in my imagination.
bartolome		Then let's hope not...  What will happen if we can't find enough gold?
columbus		 Then I'm Governor of the Mosquitoes.
brother buyl		What kind of disease is this?
doctor chanca		I don't know.  It seems almost as if we have exchanged diseases with the Indians.  They die of our most common cold, and we of their plague.
brother buyl		God forgive us!
doctor		It seems to be caused by intimacy with the native women, Your Majesty.
isabel		Will he survive?
doctor		No, Your Majesty.  They go mad -- then they die.  There is nothing we can do.
sanchez		Every ship returns with a cargo of sick and dying.  But with no gold! The new world proves expensive, Your Majesty.
isabel		We weren't expecting immediate profits, were we?  We must have faith.  We must give time for time.
translator		He says he has not found any!
moxica		He's lying!
moxica		Bring him here!
moxica		Tell him to put his hands on the table.  Like this!
clerk		Don Giacomo, you'd better come at once!
moxica		Tell them I want them to watch this!
clerk		Don't Moxica!  You can't...
moxica		 I can't?  I can't?
columbus		In one act of brutality, you have created chaos.  Tribes who were fighting each other are now joining forces against us!  All that because of your criminal savagery!
moxica		 Savagery is what monkeys understand.
columbus		You'll be held in detention, deprived of your privileges and possessions.  Until you are returned to Spain where you will be judged. Have you anything to say?
moxica		 You will regret this.
soldier		 You animals!  Can't you wait!
bartolome		 Moxica is right.  Our ways don't work!
bartolome		 Can you find them?
columbus		You have to find them, Utapan.  Look what they did!
utapan		You did the same to your God!
columbus		We have to stop this war.
columbus		Do you know them?
columbus		Stop!  Stop this!
giacomo		 Moxica...
moxica		You know what they will say in Spain about my death -- don't you?
moxica		You are nothing!  You bastards will never inherit your titles.  We are everything.  We are immortal!
brother buyl		I wish to go back with them, Don Colon.  I have no desire to remain in this godless place.
columbus		You may do as you please, Brother Buyl -- though your departure will not help me to make it more Godly.
brother buyl		You treat Christians equally with heathen savages.  You execute members of the nobility.  And what do you offer in return?
columbus		 A new world, Brother Buyl.
brother buyl		Nobody wants one...!  Only you!
columbus		Perhaps hope only exists in the journey.  When it begins, everything is still possible -- every expectation; every dream...
columbus		This is not how I imagined it to be.
columbus		Utapan!
columbus		Utapan, won't you speak to me?  You used to know how to speak to me.
utapan		 You never learned how to speak my language.
indians		Urracan... Urracan... Urracan... Urracan... 
columbus		 Let it go!  Let it go!
sanchez		... But there is worse.  He ordered the execution of five members of the nobility...
isabel		Is this true, Brother Buyl?
brother buyl		Yes, Your Majesty.  It is all true. I saw it with my own eyes.
isabel		Then, what do you suggest, Don Sanchez?
sanchez		He must be replaced.
isabel		And who would you think of, for such a task?
bobadilla		Don Alonso de Bobadilla.
columbus		Yes... I remember...
bobadilla		My letters of appointment.
columbus		Appointment to what?
bobadilla		Viceroy of the West Indies.
columbus		Congratulations.  Then I am free to search for the mainland.
bobadilla		Didn't you learn?  The mainland was discovered.  Weeks ago.  By another Italian.  I forgot his name.
columbus		How far from here?
bobadilla		I am not a seaman.  But I heard it is no more than a week at sea.  I hope you are not too disappointed.
columbus		How could I be?  The mainland has been found.  Exactly as I said it would.
bobadilla		I am afraid this is not the worst news.
fernando		 Father?
columbus		Fernando...!  My God...!
columbus		A man!  Diego, how did this happen?
diego		Santangel is going to see the Queen. We are going to get you out of here.
columbus		Good!  I have to go back!
diego		Go back?
columbus		I have to explore the mainland.
fernando		This time with me!
diego		In your present state it is madness, Father!
fernando		Nobody is forcing you to come with us.
diego		I can't go anyway.
fernando		She's very beautiful!  The Queen has very good taste.  Diego is getting married.
columbus		I am happy for you, Diego.
santangel		Granted his faults.  Yes, a hundred times!  But the man is still remarkable.
santangel		All he asks is a chance to explore this... mainland.
sanchez		It does not belong to him.
santangel		 I beg Your Majesty to receive him. To hear him... He will make no more demands.  He has changed.  He is penitent.
sanchez		Penitent...?  He is suing us for breach of contract!
isabel		Is he?
isabel		Really?
isabel		Rise... Please...
columbus		Now I do look older than you.
isabel		We have decided to allow you to undertake another voyage to the new world...
isabel		But without your brothers.  Nor are you to return to Santo Domingo or any of the other colonies.  You may explore the continent.
columbus		Thank you.
isabel		There is one thing I'd like to understand... Why do you want to go back, after all this?
columbus		Your Majesty -- some men are content to read about things.  I must see them with my own eyes.  I cannot be other than I am.
isabel		I know, I should not tolerate his impertinence.
sanchez		Then why?
isabel		Because he is not afraid of me.
sanchez		All I have to do is call the guards.
columbus		Call them.
sanchez		I am not afraid of you.  You are nothing but a dreamer.
columbus		Look out of that window.
columbus		What do you see?
sanchez		Roofs... towers, palaces... spires...
columbus		All of them created by people like me.
columbus		No matter how long you live, Sanchez, there's something that will never change between us.  I did it! You didn't!
columbus		God... you're so beautiful!  I can't believe no other man has ever taken you away from me...
beatrix		They tried... but I didn't let them.
beatrix		They took everything...
columbus		 Not everything... Do you think I care?  I'm a free man again.  Riches don't make a man rich, they only make him busier...
columbus		God, how much I've missed you!
columbus		I owe you everything, Santangel... but as you see, I can't repay you.
santangel		On the contrary.  It is I who owe you everything.  Through you, I have been an adventurer, an explorer! It's true I shall never see the new world... but it's here... 
santangel		What you are, Colon, is a sailor, a discoverer, a man of imagination... not a politician.  You weren't meant to govern -- You cannot be all things to all men.
santangel		I wish you could have compromised. It would have made your life easier...
columbus		But as least we haven't been bored, have we?
sailor's voice		West... southwest, Captain Mendez...
columbus		How are you feeling, Fernando?
fernando		 Not bad.
columbus		 You know what I always used to do?
columbus		Swallow a piece of pork fat on a string.  It always worked.
columbus		The mainland...
mendez		What's he doing?
columbus		He's drawing an isthmus... He's saying we're on an isthmus.
mendez		We can't be.
columbus		Tell me what he's saying.
translator		He says -- water on the other side.
columbus		Ask him if he means a lake.  A big lake.
translator		No.  Says those are lakes.  Water on other side big -- as wide as here. Above and below, much land.
columbus		 An ocean...?  He's says it's an ocean?
fernando		I don't understand.
columbus		Here is Europe... and over here, the continent of Asia.  But there's something in between!  Another continent!  We've found... another continent!
fernando		Father...
columbus		There must be a passage to that other ocean.
translator		I help.
fernando		Oh my God...
columbus		 What is...?
soldier		Oh Virgen Maria... Oh Madre de Dios... 
soldier		Jesus, Maria, y todos los Santos... 
columbus		 Out!  Get out!
columbus		 Take it.  Come on.  Drink.
columbus		I... I have to see Mendez.
columbus		Your brother was right.  I should have never taken you with me.  I'll never forgive myself.  Never!
columbus		Will you ever forgive me?
columbus		Captain Mendez!
columbus		I came to Your Highness with honest purpose and sincere zeal.  I did not undertake these voyages for honor or wealth -- that is certain.  After years of service to the Crown, I do not have a roof to put over my head... Your Majesty allowed me to explore the continent, believed to be Asia.  I now believe that it is an new Land, of unknown proportions and wealth... Life has more imagination than we carry in our dreams...
duena		"I should be judged as a Seaman who by Divine Will discovered a New World, and thereby placed it under the sovereignty of Your Majesties. I humbly beseech Your Majesties that if it pleases God to remove me hence, you will help the name of Columbus to be remembered with honor... Weep for me, whoever has charity, truth and justice."
arojaz		... West by south west for 750 leagues to Santo Domingo.  From there, west north west, leaving San Juan to the north, reaching the island of Hispanola on the northern cape of San Raphael... Then onto the mainland, at the Cape called Gracias a Dios...
arojaz		Spain -- by Your Majesty's grace -- has confirmed for all humanity the existence of an unknown continent... Tierra Incognita...
arojaz		... This continent was first discovered by a sailor commissioned by your Majesty...
arojaz		His name... Amerigo Vespucci...
arojaz		My God...!  I thought he was dead.
sanchez		You can see for yourself.
arojaz		What a tragedy... what a waste of a life...
sanchez		A waste...?  Let me tell you something, Arojaz.  If your name, or mine, is ever remembered -- it will only be because of his.
marchena		I suppose we're both old men now.
columbus		You'll always be older than me, Father.
columbus		Have you ever forgiven me?
marchena		Yes.  I forgave you a long time ago. You see, I was proud of you.  You were like a willful child.  You wouldn't accept what others told you.  You had to find things out for yourself, hurting yourself -- and others -- in the process.
marchena		Do you remember when you said that people talk about the world, but never leave their gardens.
marchena		More than ever I wonder what it is we do achieve by leaving our gardens... The world changes -- and yet it seems the same.  We find new worlds, but fill them with the same people...
columbus		I have to disagree.
marchena		I knew you would.
columbus		New worlds create new people.
marchena		Oh?  So you are a new man?
columbus		I don't know... I have the impression that I didn't change that much.  I still can't accept the world as it is!
marchena		God bless you, and those like you!
columbus		Can't you stay with us a little?
beatrix		I am busy inside.
beatrix		What is it, now?  Tell me...
columbus		I can't keep my eyes off you.  I would like to catch up with all the moments I didn't spend with you.
columbus		What are you listening to?
fernando		I am not listening, Father.  But I can't help hearing.
fernando		It's Diego... He is at the Court, with Santangel... He says they hope to get your privileges restored... And maybe the house.
columbus		But how is he?  And Dona Maria?
fernando		Fine, it seems.  Diego is thinking of starting a pearl trade, in Santo Domingo... He says he received many letters for you.  Some of your men, mostly.
fernando		This one is from Mendez!
columbus		What does he say?
fernando		He asks when he can come to visit you.  He left his address.
columbus		 He never had one... except aboard my ships!
fernando		I want you to tell me everything you remember, Father.  From the beginning.  Everything.
columbus		Really?  God... I wouldn't know where to start... and yet...
fernando		Tell me the first thing that comes to your mind.
columbus		I remember...
****Dialogues from script :15_Minutes.txt****

emil		Don't fool around.
oleg		Okay.
emil		Did you hear what I said?
oleg		I want to document my trip to America.
immigration officer		Next.  Could I see your documents, please?
emil		Yes sir.
immigration officer		What is your intended purpose of your visit to the United States?
emil		Two weeks holiday.
immigration officer		How much money are you carrying with you?
emil		I have five-hundred dollars.
immigration officer		Can you show me?  Sir, no cameras in the FIS area!
emil		Yes.
immigration officer		Please join us.  Come on forward.
emil		Is there a problem?
immigration officer		No, you're travelling together.  I want to talk to you together.  Hi, how are you?  Can I take a look at your documents?  Are you related?
oleg		Yes...he's my friend.
immigration officer		Okay.  You're a Czech national and you're a Russian national.  How do you know one another?
emil		We are both from Prague.
immigration officer		 How long are you planning to stay?
emil		Two weeks.
immigration officer		I'd like to speak for himself, okay?
emil		He doesn't speak English.
oleg		I speak English.
immigration officer		 Then answer my questions.  Where were you planning to stay during the two weeks that you're here?
oleg		New York.
immigration officer		Yes, we're in New York now.  But where are you planning to stay in New York?
oleg		A cheap hotel.
immigration officer		What are you coming here to do?
oleg		I'm here for movies.
immigration officer		Movies...to be in the movies or to see movies?
oleg		Yes.  No.  Both.  When I was a boy, I see movie at school called "It's a Wonderful Life" directed by Frank Capra. Ever since I want to come to America. Land of the free.  Home of the brave.  A land where anyone can be anything. As long as they are white.
immigration officer		Excuse me?
emil		He made joke, bad joke.  First time on airplane...
immigration officer		Well, they've got valid visas, but they don't have much money.  Uh... and I'm not...uh, I think there's a possibility they may be coming to live and reside.
supervisor		Look how long the line is.  We gotta move 'em out.  I'll take them down to secondary.
eddie		So we're waitin' to hit this warrant - we got Emergency Service with the heavy weapons standin' by - ready to go.  I say, lemme get a cigar outta the car.  I go to get the cigar and BOOM!  All the sudden I turn around and a kid with a shotgun let one go.  Right where I was standin'.  That coulda been it.  I coulda had my head blown off and for what?  Some stupid kid got panicky, takes the safety off and it's over.  If I hadn't gone back for that cigar - for a bad habit - I would've had my head blown off.
hawkins		Jesus Christ.
paulie		Speakin' of bad habits, everybody okay?
hawkins		Another martini.
leon		Coffee for me, I gotta slow down.
eddie		Vodka tonic.
leon		 Maybe you could just put in a shot of Martell?
eddie		What's the kid gonna say - sorry? Meanwhile I'm not here anymore. Like last week - we were at the morgue and this guy was all chopped up - spleen here - liver there - his heart in a pan. Six hours ago this guy was walkin' his dog or buyin' a quart of milk.  Who knows?  But some kid's robbed him for $3 or some shit and shot him and now you can't tell if he's a piece of beef or a human being and I'm thinkin' that's me. Sooner or later.  That's me.
hawkins		Sooner or later that's everybody.
eddie		Not chopped up.  Not chopped up like that.  I mean, what do I got left? Coupla articles.  A medal or two. Plaque here and there and in a coupla years no one remembers me anymore.
hawkins		I think you're getting a little moody there, Eddie.
eddie		I'm not moody.
hawkins		Isn't he a little moody?
leon		Of course he's moody.  He thinks he's in love.
hawkins		In love?  With who?
eddie		How old are your kids?
hawkins		My kids?  Let's see...Susan's 15. Aundrea's 9.  Don't tell me you're thinking about having a kid!  How old are you?  Never mind. Let me just tell you this: Every stupid cliche you hear about kids - they change your life, they make you a better person, they make you whole...  It's all true!  Before I had kids when friends talked about their kids, I wanted to vomit.  Now -- I get it.  Am I right, Leon?
leon		Absomotherfuckin'lutely.  You can have all three of my ex-wives.  But somebody so much as looks sideways at my four girls -- I'd kill 'em.  You haven't seen my youngest have you?
hawkins		Paulie, you've got kids, right?
paulie		My kids don't talk to me anymore but they were great when they were young.
leon		 Unique's home.
eddie		Paulie, I need the cure.
paulie		Step into my office.
hawkins		So you got your kids listening to Opera? You still singing in the church on the weekends?
secondary officer		Okay.  You work in a vodka factory.  I understand that.  And what kind of work do you do?
emil		I am butcher.
secondary officer		You're a butcher?  What do you use pig intestines for?
emil		You stuff sausage in it.
secondary officer		And what do you do with the bones?
emil		Dog food.
secondary officer		Are you married?
emil		No.  Are you proposing?
eddie		Will you marry me?  Wanna get married? What are you doin' Saturday?
leon		When?
eddie		Tomorrow.  At lunch.
leon		You ready?
eddie		The thrill of the hunt.  I love it.
oleg		 Look.  Times Square.  Just like in the movies!
emil		 Don't speak Russian!
oleg		 Why?  Why do I always have to speak to you in Czech?
emil		 Because I don't like your ugly language. I heard enough of it in school!  Now speak Czech or English.  And don't fool around anymore.  You almost got us thrown out!
oleg		Look.  New videocameras.  Color viewfinder.  Image stabilization. Solarization.  Night vision.
emil		We have no money.  Come on.
cabbie		Where you wanna go, buddy?
emil		Here.
hawkins		So what's unique?
eddie		Not what.  Who.
hawkins		That's unique.
eddie		Yeah.  And he still went to the party.
lookout		Top floor.  Back room.
eddie		Yeah.  I make big cases, they make the news and I look good.  But the problem with becoming a star is downtown.  They shoot at stars.  Now be quiet.  Shhh.
hawkins		You're worried for my safety.  I'm touched.
eddie		Keep them out of my way.
hawkins		Okay.  You ready?
eddie		Yeah, yeah.  Jesus.
hawkins		 COME ON!  COME ON!  YOU FUCKING GUYS, LET'S MOVE IT!
eddie		What's your rush?  Going to a party?
unique		Why you chasin' me, man?
eddie		I don't know.  You always come outta your house that way?
unique		It's not my house, man.  I don't live here.
eddie		Well, sounds like burglary to me.
unique		I know you man.
hawkins		 Any chance we can do that again?
eddie		Again?  I didn't wanna do it the first time.
emil		Turn that off!  Get the bags.
oleg		Why should I carry your bag?  I am not a dog.
emil		For five years I paid for your stupidness - you'll carry my bag for the rest of my life if I say so.  Unless you refuse, Oleg.
oleg		What?
emil		Smell like chemicals...for smoking drugs.
milos		Emil???!
emil		Surprise!  Surprise!
emil		Your sister said she didn't know where you were so you shouldn't write to her with return address if you're hiding.
milos		Did you hurt her?
emil		You know me...I never hurt anybody. Where's the money?
oleg		Hello, Tamina.
milos		Take your eyes off her, Oleg!  It's his fault.  Trying to get the bank clerk's phone number?!  I wasn't going to wait!!!
emil		Milos.  Get my money!
milos		 We spent it!
emil		Ha. Ha.
milos		Look at the way we live.  I'm a plumber. You think I'd be working if I had money?!
emil		A job?
milos		Yes, the money is good.
emil		As a plumber?!
milos		It's easy to learn.
emil		A job??  As a plumber???  You think I come to America to work!
milos		We started over, you can too.
emil		 You spent all the money while I was in prison?  Now you tell me to get a job fixing toilets?!?
oleg		What are you looking for?
emil		I'm going to make a bohemian barbecue.
mugger		Got any spare change?  How 'bout a spare twenty?
jordy		Look, I don't have time for you, get out of my way!!
mugger		Alright, how 'bout all your fuckin' money?
jordy		Okay, you're under arrest!  Now you happy?
mugger		Fire Department?  Firemen don't carry guns.
jordy		Oh yeah?  Guess again.
mugger		Hey.  C'mon, you can't leave me like this.  Some freak'll come by and stab me!
louie		Lieutenant - take up your line and relieve Ladder Company 60 on the top floor.
jordy		Hey, Louie, were you first due?
louie		Yeah, I radioed you guys right away 'cause you got two roasts on the top floor but you don't hafta investigate cause homicide is up there.
jordy		Homicide?  Who let them up?  I didn't make it a crime scene yet.
louie		Hey, it's Eddie Flemming.
jordy		I heard.  Who the hell let them up there?
korfin		I don't know, you think Eddie will give me his autograph?
jordy		You see anything in the crowd?  Anybody suspicious?
korfin		Naw - I'm sure the suspect's not here.
jordy		Oh yeah, why?
korfin		'Cause Eddie woulda locked him up by now!
leon		So, it looks to me - from the sixty-nine position - that they were doin' each other but were so whacked out of their heads they set the pipe on the mattress, lit it up, and they got fried.  What do you think, Eddie?
eddie		I don't know.  We got the experts here. Show them what you found - I hope you don't mind, we came over to see if we could help.
korfin		Nah, not at all.  Detective Flemming - Bobby Korfin.  My Uncle Tony worked with you at 2-1 back when you were a rookie.
jordy		Could you put out the cigar?  Part of the job is picking up scents.
eddie		Oh, sure.
leon		Well, I found - check it out - crack pipe.  Looks like they got careless.
korfin		Sorry, bro.
jordy		Hey, that's great you guys got it all wrapped up, but you don't mind if we go through the routine?  It gives us somethin' to do.
eddie		No, we don't mind.  You mind Leon?
leon		No.  Go ahead.
jordy		Thanks.  Appreciate it.
korfin		Okay, Jordy - it was a fast fire, we got good patterns - about thirty minutes old.
jordy		Mouth's clean, too.
korfin		Clean?
jordy		Don't blow your nose!
korfin		But you knew that, right?
jordy		So the way you see it, two crack heads burned themselves up?
leon		That's what it looks like to me.
jordy		And while they're burning up, they're still goin' down on each other?  You got to hand it to them.
leon		 Yeah, well, some people got their priorities straight.
jordy		Evidence.  Of a homicide.
eddie		No, what is it?
jordy		Why don't you explain it, Bobby.  Hey Camello!  You mind punching a hole in the floor?
camello		No problem.  Excuse me, gentlemen.  You might wanna back up a little more.  Don't wanna get your pants wet.
korfin		They have not soot in their mouths, which means they weren't breathin' before the fire and that usually means they were deceased - and this piece of cloth that my partner found means they were wrapped up in something, probably doused with a flammable liquid and positioned like this on the bed.  To the untrained eye, it looks like an accident.
leon		What's he looking for?
eddie		A timer.
korfin		Here you go.  A big double homicide.
korfin		You see Eddie's face when I gave him the timer?  Wish I had a picture of it.
jordy		He knew all along.
korfin		What??
jordy		That's why he was so quiet.  He was testing us.
nicolette		Detective, does it look like a murder?
eddie		We don't know that yet.  It's much too early.  There's a lot to be done.
nicolette		How many victims are up there?
eddie		There are two bodies found at this point.
nicolette		Can we go up to the crime scene?
eddie		You know you can't do that.  C'mon.
nicolette		Is it drug related?
eddie		We don't know.  When I have more I'll let you know.
nicolette		Detective...what's that you're holding in your hand?  Evidence?
korfin		What?
jordy		There was a woman - I think she wanted to talk to us.  She looked scared.  Oh shit!  Oh no!
mugger		You motherfuckin' bastard!  She stripped me!  It was a bag lady!  She touched me all over, it was disgusting.
jordy		I'm sorry.  I'm really sorry.
mugger		A dog pissed on me!!  I'm gonna sue you for this!  You violated my civil rights!
jordy		Your civil rights?!  You tried to rob me!  I could arrest you right now! You're lucky you're walking away from this.  Now get outta here.
emil		 Self-esteem?  Self-esteem??
emil		 Turn that fucking thing off!
oleg		 I'm not filming.  I'm watching Milos die.  It's just like a move but realer.
emil		Speak English!
oleg		 You said speak Czech!
emil		How you erase this?
oleg		I'll do it.  Don't hurt my camera!
emil		Stupid, Milos.  I didn't want to kill him.  What's this?
sexy voice		Hi?
emil		Hello?
sexy voice		Are you looking for companionship?
oleg		Whore?
emil		I'm homesick.  You have Eastern European girl?  A Czech girl?
sexy voice		Matter of fact, I have a lovely Czech girl.
emil		I take her.  Send her!
jordy		Now that you know him, maybe you can get extra work in the next movie they make about him.
korfin		Yeah?
jordy		Maybe you can be his stand-in.
duffy		 Who did cause and origin?
jordy		Who do you think, Chief?!
duffy		Then why didn't you talk to the reporter?
jordy		'Cause we got more important things to do, like finding out who did it.
duffy		Don't you guys understand?  It's all about image.  The better we look the more money I get to pay you guys overtime.
korfin		Yeah, right.
duffy		What was that, Korfin?
korfin		I said, yeah, you're right, Chief.  As soon as we get somethin' we'll let you alert the media.
duffy		You do that, wiseguy.  Now let's solve this thing before Eddie Flemming does.
garcia		Hey guys, I got your torch.  He just gave a full confession.
max		It's my fire!  Screw homicide.  I'll tell you guys everything!
jordy		What's that on your forehead, Max? That's a nice attention getter.
max		Yeah, I'm religious.  I'm not an Atheist like you!  Now, are you guys gonna arrest me, or not?
jordy		How did you start the fire this time?
max		I used an accelerant.
jordy		Yeah?  What kind?
max		 Hey, by the way, I'm really sorry about your wife leavin' you.
korfin		Max.
max		 ...Yeah, and with your old man dying last year you - what's it?  Just you and the dog now?
korfin		Max!
max		Does it feel bad - I mean the new guy your ex-wife's seeing - I hear he's a big shot downtown.
jordy		That's it!  You're outta here.
max		That's it.  I'm suing.
korfin		Get in line.
jordy		What's so funny.  How does he know so much about me?  Who tells him my life story?
garcia		He hangs around downstairs.  The guys talk to him.  He's a joke...
jordy		He's no joke!  One day he's gonna graduate from trash can fires and do something big.
garcia		Okay.  Okay.  We'll ban him from the station.
robert hawkins		Good evening, I'm Robert Hawkins and this is Top Story.  Tonight we bring you an exclusive interview with Stephen Geller - who horrified the nation two years ago when he went berserk and murdered three clerks in a Manhattan shoe store.  But now, Mr. Geller's claim, spoken softly and articulately, is that he is the victim.  According to Mr. Geller, the events of that fateful day were not his fault but were the fault of his psychiatrist.  Hard to believe...watch.
stephen geller		This had nothing to do with shoes that didn't fit or my relationship with my father who, as you know, made a fortune selling penny loafers in the fifties. These people died because of the criminal actions of my doctor.
robert hawkins		Your doctor?
stephen geller		Yes.  My psychiatrist didn't insist that I stay on my medication.
robert hawkins		...so you feel absolutely no responsibility for killing these people?
stephen geller		It was my finger that pulled the trigger, but I'm not morally responsible.  My psychiatrist knew what I was capable of.  How could I know. I'm not a doctor.
robert hawkins		You seem very savvy for a man who's been found mentally incompetent to stand trial.
stephen geller		Look, I'm a victim here, too.  I was a year away from getting my masters in Art, now I'll never graduate.  My life has been permanently disrupted.
robert hawkins		Permanently disrupted?  Aren't you selling paintings now for quite a lot of money?  Hasn't this 'incident' as you call it, jump started your career as an artist?
stephen geller		Look, I'm in here.  You call this a career move?
robert hawkins		And isn't there a movie in the works about you?
stephen geller		We're in negotiations, that's correct.
robert hawkins		But doesn't the Son of Sam Law prevent criminals from profiting from their crimes?
stephen geller		That doesn't apply to me because I'm not a criminal.  I'm not a criminal!  I wasn't convicted.
emil		I love America.  No one is responsible for what they do.
emil		Oleg, get in bathroom, stay there and shut up!
honey		Hi, I'm Honey.
emil		Where's Czech girl?
honey		Baby, I'm anybody you want me to be. I'm a little schoolgirl, I'm mommy, I'm a Czech girl.
emil		I ordered a Czech girl.  Daphne, you know her?
honey		It's an outcall service run out of an apartment.  I don't meet the other girls.  Aren't you gonna get undressed?
emil		Where is escort service?
honey		That's confidential.  Could you put the money on the dresser?
emil		I like to talk to the person who runs the service.  Can you give me address?
honey		Look.  Do we have a problem here? There's no reason to have a problem. I'm gonna make you feel real good.  You wanna Czech girl? After I'm done with you, you won't miss her.  Now why don't you pay me?
emil		 Listen to me.  I don't want sex.  Just give me the address and then you go.
honey		 Look, man, I don't give a shit if you want sex or not, but you're payin' for my time.
emil		Give me the address!!
honey		Alright, alright - don't hurt me! Please, it's in my book, in my purse!
composite artist		What about her cheek bones?
jordy		Her cheek bones are prominent and her eyes were huge.  Big, blue eyes and when I saw her, she looked scared.  Like she was looking to get away.  But she was absolutely beautiful.
korfin		-- From Czechoslovakia?  And how long have they been livin' in your building?  Milos and Tamina Karlova.  They were quiet and kept to themselves.  Landlord don't know who your girl is.
jordy		How long they been livin' here?
korfin		You hear that question, Garcia?
garcia		Yeah, I got Immigration on the phone - they've been here illegally.
korfin		Well, they're definitely permanent residents now.
garcia		I got the owner of the plumbing company Milos worked for.
korfin		Why don't we get some sleep and we'll go see him in the morning.
jordy		You go home.  I'm takin' your car and goin' back to the crime scene.
korfin		Aren't you tired?
jordy		If I go home I won't be able to fall asleep anyway.
korfin		 She keepin' you up?  Like to meet her, huh?  She'd make you forget your ex wife.  Cure your insomnia.
eddie		Okay to smoke?
jordy		It's your crime scene now.  You can do what you want.
eddie		Watch the news?
jordy		Nah, I musta missed it.
eddie		Well, just so you know.  I gave you guys the credit.
jordy		Well, just so you know, I don't care about that stuff.
eddie		Nah, why should you?
jordy		I don't even watch TV.
eddie		Good.  Good.  Commendable.
jordy		Did you get a report from the M.E.?
eddie		Sure.  But I would like to ask you something.  You got a problem with me?
jordy		If you found me steppin' on your crime scene - it might piss you off, too.  What about the report?
eddie		You were right, they were both dead before the fire.  The male was stabbed so hard the killer broke off the tip of the knife in his spine.  That's usually an indicator of something personal.
jordy		The Super said he'd seen her before but she didn't live here.
eddie		Pretty.
jordy		 Hmmmm.
eddie		Maybe you don't care about that either.  Prettiest suspect I've had in awhile.
jordy		Who says she's a suspect?
eddie		What would you call her?
jordy		Look, I'm not even sure she has anything to do with this.  I saw her outside after the fire - thought it was a lead. Maybe she saw something.  Maybe she was visiting somebody here.  Who knows?
eddie		Obviously they weren't having sex.  As you pointed out.  So why go through all the trouble of putting 'em like that?
jordy		Maybe it's a ritual thing or someone trying to send a message.  Burial rites are taken very seriously in Eastern Europe.  It could be to humiliate them. Just burning them up, no proper funeral, it's like condemning them to hell.
eddie		Eastern Europe.  Like what?  Romania? Hungary?
jordy		Or Czechoslovakia.  The Slavs have been fighting the Germans and the Russians for a thousand years.  These are very intense people and they take things personally.
eddie		Yeah?  Where?  You sure it was a knife? Uh-huh.  Really?  Okay.  We've got another murder - in a hotel on Eighth Avenue.  A stabbing.  Clerk said the room was rented by a Russian...
jordy		I'll come with you.
eddie		There wasn't a fire.  There'll be nothing for you to do.
jordy		I can watch you, Eddie.  Maybe I'll learn something.
eddie		This isn't homicide school.
jordy		My parents are from Poland.  I can help with the Eastern European angle.
eddie		You're Polish?
jordy		My folks are.
eddie		Stay here.
oleg		This is second day in America.  First day was very exciting.  Full of thrills and chills.  Over there, is co-star of my new movie, Emil!
emil		 Who is he?
vendor		New York's finest.  This is his case.
emil		Do you know how much killer gets for movie rights?
vendor		 In here, says he wants a million.
emil		Million?!  The killer gets one million dollars for a television interview?
vendor		Hey, tabloids paid Ted Bundy - famous serial killer - half a million for his interview.  And how much you think Monica got for writing book about the President coming on to her?  It pays to be a killer or a whore in this country. Look, you want magazine or not?
emil		Yes.  Both.
oleg		And these.
emil		 Get a taxi.
blind woman		Thank you, son.
eddie		Where is she?
leon		Takin' a bath.
eddie		Any I.D.?
leon		Still unknown but we're running prints. Kid over there caught the case.
eddie		It's okay.
tommy		Tommy Cullen.  Heard a lot about you. Nice to meet you.  Here's what we got. A girl in there, figure her to be a prostitute, looks like she was fighting for her life.  She's got defense wounds on her hands.  Right this way - in the bathroom.
eddie		After you.
tommy		Room was registered to a Francis Capra.
jordy		Capra?  That's not Czech or Russian. Who said he sounded Russian?
tommy		The clerk?
eddie		Check the switchboard, see what phone calls were made from this room.
tommy		I'll do it.
murphy		Clothes were off in the other room.  Tub is dry except for the blood.
eddie		Any of you guys take a piss lately?
leon		Yeah.
eddie		C'mere.  You wanna go to homicide school?  Here - make yourself useful.
murphy		If you look here where he missed and hit the wall you see that the marks aren't deep but they're kinda wide... not your everyday kitchen or pocket knife.
eddie		What if the tip was broken off?
murphy		Could be.  Then we should find it here somewhere.
eddie		I think we've already found it.
tommy		There was only one call from this room last night.  I dialed it.  It's an escort service.
leon		Did you identify yourself?
tommy		Hey, I'm new but I'm not stupid.
eddie		Call communications and get an address on that number.
jordy		You goin' to the escort service?
eddie		You got any better ideas?
jordy		Mind if I ride along with you?
eddie		This has nothing to do with your fire.
jordy		But what if it does?  You might need my help.
man		Hey, Eddie, can I get your autograph for my son?
eddie		I'll let you know what happens.
jordy		This is ridiculous.  I'm not gonna be in your way - we can talk the case over.
eddie		Tell you what - I'll flip you a coin. If you win you can come with me.  If you don't win, you don't come.
jordy		I'll call it... tails.
eddie		Okay.  I'll call it.  Heads.
eddie		Oh here.  A souvenir.
jordy		Two heads.
eddie		Better than one.
eddie		Police.  We'd like to ask you a few questions.
eddie		 Homicide, Miss Hearn.  It's Detective Eddie Flemming.  Open up.
rose		You!  I've seen you on TV!
rose		Just a minute.  Shit.  And I don't have a camera.  Hold on a second.
eddie		We don't have her I.D. yet, but one of your girls was killed last night at the King Edward Hotel.
rose		Oh my G-d.  Honey!  Honey's dead?
jordy		Do you remember the man who called?
rose		Yeah.  He wanted a girl from Czechoslovakia, but I sent him Honey 'cause once they get there, you know, it doesn't really matter - Honey was killed...?  Poor girl...
eddie		Do you have any Czech girls working for you?
rose		No.
eddie		Did you tell him you did?
rose		 Boy, she's so popular all the sudden.
eddie		What are you saying?
rose		Daphne.  Another guy came in asking me about her, too.
jordy		This her?
rose		Yeah.  Sort of.  I tried to recruit her, gave her my card.  She said she'd think about it but I never heard from her.
butch girl		 Beautiful eyes.
eddie		Who came by looking for her?
rose		He said he was her cousin.  I told him where she works.  They were just here.
eddie		Describe him.
rose		Tall, short-haired, scary eyes.  Second guy with him was...shorter, with a wrestler's build.  And he wouldn't turn his videocamera off me.
eddie		He had a videocamera?  Where is she? Quickly!
rose		She washes hair up at Ludwig's - a salon on 63rd and Madison.
eddie		Leon - meet us at 63rd and Madison. Hair salon.  Ludwig's.
jordy		 I'm on my way with Eddie.  Ludwig's. 63rd and Madison.  The suspects might be there already.
eddie		You thirsty?
jordy		I'm on duty.
eddie		 So am I.  Alright, I'll go inside and you cover the back.
jordy		Of course.
eddie		Hey!  I always wanted to be a cop when I was a kid.  I dreamed of running up to a door, kicking it in, pulling my gun and yelling 'Freeze!' at the bad guy! What'd you dream about?
jordy		I wanted to run up to a building on fire, kick in the door, rush into the smoke and save a kid.
eddie		Then I guess we're doin' this the right way, aren't we?  If we pull up to a burning building I'll gladly let you go first.
receptionist		Daphne?  In the back.  Probably shampooing a customer's hair.
ludwig		Why are you messing with your hair color again?  You're going to kill your hair. You won't look good with black hair.
daphne		I want to do it, alright?
ludwig		Well, then do it after work.  A customer's waiting.
emil		I...I have a temper.
ludwig		Daphne, will you be coming back to work?
daphne		In a minute, Ludwig.
emil		Smart girl.  I'm glad you're not a whore.  But washing hair?  This is no job for a woman as beautiful as you. They should be washing your hair.
jordy		...Daphne?
eddie		You don't have to be afraid.  We're here to protect you.  Come with me.  We want to talk to you.  You speak English alright?
eddie		Did he give you these?  Was he just here?
leon		 Stay with her.
emil		 Put the fuckin' camera down!  Let's go!
eddie		Split up!
oleg		Emil, look!
eddie		Are you hit?
leon		No.  I'm okay.
jordy		 Bobby, Bobby!  Where're you hit?!
korfin		It hurts.  Aw, Jesus!
jordy		Lay down.  Stay down, Bobby.
leon		He got my gun!  Motherfucker was filming the whole time!
eddie		I know.  Relax.  Take it easy.  Don't worry, we'll get those fuckers.
nicolette		Detective - can you tell us what happened here?
eddie		I can't talk right now.  We have some things to take care of.
nicolette		I understand, but I noticed that the Fire Marshall is here with you.  Is this somehow related to the fire department?
eddie		I really can't give out any information right now at this point.
nicolette		Okay.  But I do understand that your partner, Leon Jackson's been injured. Is that correct?
eddie		He was hurt, but not seriously.  He'll be fine.
nicolette		Do you have the suspect in custody?
eddie		Um...now is not a good time, okay. Detective Jackson's hurt.  He's fine. I've got a Fire Marshall shot, Detective Jackson is hurt but not seriously.
nicolette		 Alright, cut, cut, cut.
eddie		Yeah.  Now's not a good time.
nicolette		Alright.
eddie		Alright?
nicolette		Alright.
eddie		Alright.
nicolette		Okay.
daphne		I told your partner, I can't help.  I didn't see anything.
eddie		C'mon, start at the beginning.  You know these people?
daphne		Tamina was a friend of mine.  My shower was broken, she let me use theirs.
eddie		Go on.
daphne		If I tell you, will you arrest me?
eddie		Arrest you for what?  Why would we arrest you?
jordy		She just saw two of her friends killed! They probably threatened her.
eddie		Is that all there is?
daphne		No, no, don't talk to Immigration!
jordy		Why not?
eddie		Something back home?
daphne		...my little sister and I shared a flat - I came home one night and a man was raping her.  His gun was on the chair... He came at me and I shot him.
jordy		 Alright.  That's a justifiable homicide.
daphne		Yes, but he was a cop.
eddie		A cop?
daphne		 I'm from a small town in Slovakia.  Like the South here.  The Police is right, a civilian is wrong.  So I fled.
eddie		Look, we can help you but right now we have to deal with what's happening here. Tell us the truth...is that the truth?
daphne		You're a cop - you'll never believe me.
jordy		 Can I talk to you?
eddie		She's fucked.  Even if that story is true.
jordy		Raw deal.
eddie		You wanna talk to her alone?
jordy		Yeah.
eddie		What would your girlfriend think of that?
jordy		I don't have a girlfriend.
eddie		My point exactly.
jordy		I'm serious here.
eddie		So am I.
jordy		C'mon.  You intimidate her 'cause you're a celebrity.  She sees me differently.
eddie		You're her Savior?  Is she the kid you're gonna save from the burning building?
jordy		You know what I'm saying here.
eddie		Okay, tell you what, I'll give you a head start.  You take her to the station house.  Don't let her out of your sight. She's the only warm body we got left.
jordy		Hey.  I'm a professional.
eddie		Women like that have a way of turning professionals into amateurs.
oleg		Gotta light the scene better.  Now it's more moody... like a scene from THE THIRD MAN.
emil		Shut up.
oleg		Does it hurt?
emil		This is nothing.
oleg		Oh, shit.  I hate looking at that!
emil		Don't want to film this?
daphne		Now I become custody of police department?
jordy		If you cooperate with the DA - maybe they'll help you with your situation.
daphne		I will if they don't send me back.
jordy		They won't until this is over.
daphne		Are you married?
jordy		Divorced.
daphne		Do you live alone?  I've been in these clothes since...the killings.  Could we stop at your place? I could take a shower...before I go into custody?
jordy		I can't take you to my place.
daphne		Somewhere else?
eddie		I want to talk to you about something serious.
paulie		She's here.
nicolette		Hey, honey.
eddie		Hey.
nicolette		What is your problem?  Why'd you snap at me?  I just wanted a statement.
eddie		I can't...I can't answer you just because you want me to answer you!
nicolette		You didn't have to embarrass me in front of my colleagues.  You could give me something.
eddie		Oh, I'm sorry.  Did I embarrass you, sweetheart?  Oh...
nicolette		Stop it.
eddie		Maybe I should just, ya know...turn to the cameras and say, do you mind if we just work something out?
nicolette		Alright, alright, Eddie.  Don't patronize me.
eddie		I'm not.
nicolette		Yes you are.  I'm not just some reporter.  I don't just stick a microphone in your face.  You could give me something.
eddie		Yeah, well you took the camera and put it right down on the evidence.  That was...
nicolette		That was good.  You were holding the evidence.
eddie		You were merciless.  You didn't give a shit if you got me or not.
nicolette		Well, who was it that taught me how to do that?  Huh?
eddie		You're ruthless.
nicolette		You're not so bad yourself.
eddie		Could be Leon's.
nicolette		Jesus.  And last week you came over with blood on your shoes.  What am I going to do with you?
eddie		You know, I been thinkin'...these shoes might look nice with another pair of shoes next to them in the closet.
nicolette		What are you doing?  What are you saying?
eddie		Answer the phone.
nicolette		No.  Tell me what you want to say.
eddie		Answer it.
nicolette		Okay.  Okay.  Hold that thought just for a second.  They only call me when it's an emergency.  Just hold that thought.  Can you call back?
nicolette		What're you talking about?
nicolette		What?  Oh.  Okay.  Yeah.
eddie		That's good.
nicolette		Yeah.
eddie		Well, that's great.
nicolette		Okay.  That is great.  But I can't go now, we're in the middle of something here.
eddie		No.  Go ahead.  You're gonna be great.
nicolette		No.  No, listen to me here.  I want to know what you're talking about.  You know, the shoe thing and the marriages and...
eddie		I'll tell you tonight.  Let's do it tonight.  As soon as you get back we'll talk.  We'll talk.
nicolette		Promise?
eddie		I promise.  We'll talk.  You'll be great.  You'll be fine.  Go ahead, just imagine that, uh... Just look into the lens and imagine you're talking to me.
nicolette		Yeah.  I'll do that.  As long as you're not patronizing me.
eddie		Patronizing you... Nay, I love you.
nicolette		I love you.
eddie		Tonight.
nicolette		You promise?
eddie		Yeah.  I promise.
nicolette		Okay.  And you know what, I'll swing by my place, grab a couple pairs of shoes and maybe just test them out next to yours...How's that... Would that be a good thing.
eddie		Yeah, yeah.  Good thing.
nicolette		Okay.
eddie		See you later.  Good luck.
nicolette		Thank you.
eddie		Don't be late.
jordy		The men are out of quarters - practicing putting out fires.
daphne		So...the station is empty?
jordy		Yeah.  This way.
jordy		You considered becoming a prostitute?
daphne		Yes, I considered it.
jordy		Did you ever turn tricks before?
daphne		No.
jordy		What about back home?
daphne		No.
jordy		So you were never a prostitute?
daphne		What are you asking me?
jordy		I'm just trying to find out who you are.
daphne		Can you let me go?
jordy		Showers are this way.
daphne		You could shower with me.
jordy		I'll uh, I'll get you a towel.
daphne		I'm not a whore.  I'm not a whore.
jordy		I know.
daphne		You don't know.  I'm sorry.  I was desperate.  That's not me.  I shot a cop.  Can you imagine what they'll do to me when I got to prison?
jordy		They're not gonna send you right back.
daphne		I'm sorry.  I didn't mean to...I'm glad. Actually I'm glad it's over.  All this time.  Hiding.  Never being able to look anyone in the eyes. Always afraid that someone would find out who I was.  Never trusting anyone...
jordy		You can trust me.
oleg		What is it?
emil		The video of Milos and Tamina - I told you to erase it.
oleg		I did.
emil		And the whore's murder?  You didn't erase that either, did you?  Don't lie, I won't be angry.
oleg		Why not?
emil		Put the camera down, Oleg.
oleg		What is that?
emil		What does it look like?  It's an address book!
oleg		Let me get a shot of it.
emil		Sit down!
oleg		This way.  Hold it this way.  Good.
duffy		Hey.  Warsaw.
jordy		Hey, Chief, what are you doing here?
duffy		I came to see how the investigation was going.  I called and you're not here.  I wait up at the station and you don't even show up!!!  I beep you - you don't return my call.  Where the hell have you been?!
jordy		Ladder 20 was on the Rock for training. We stopped there... so she could get cleaned up.
duffy		What do you mean, 'cleaned up?'
jordy		I let her take a shower.
duffy		A shower!?  Did you take one, too?
jordy		No!  Nothing happened.
duffy		Oh really.  That's nice.  You took a homicide witness to take a shower after your partner was shot?  Are you out of your fucking mind??  Are you having that much trouble gettin' dates?!
tommy		This way, ma'am.
eddie		There was too much press hangin' around there.  I didn't want her face on the news.  So I told him to take her to a quiet area until things settled down.
duffy		Oh.
eddie		It was my decision, not his.
duffy		Well, I'm the Deputy Chief Fire Marshall and every now and then I'd like to be included in decisions.
eddie		Look, after Jordy briefs me, you can do the press conference.  How about that? The case is all yours.
duffy		Oh yeah...?  Alright.
eddie		 Excuse us.
duffy		 Beep me when you're ready for the press conference.
jordy		Will do, Chief.
eddie		Wait.
eddie		Guys...give me a few minutes?
jordy		Look, Eddie, I'm tellin' you - I didn't touch her.
eddie		Well, you shoulda because nobody's gonna believe you didn't...including me.
jordy		I took her there for a shower and that's it.
eddie		Just a shower?
jordy		Yeah, just her in the shower.  Nothing happened.  Look, I'm sure you probably think I'm a fool and I fucked up, but...
eddie		No, I don't think you were a fool, I just think you were stupid about it.  I mean, to say the least, you outta know better.  You don't know her well enough. She's got the potential to fucking hang you even if she suggests that you made a pass at her, it's fuckin' over.  You can deny it all you want, but it will not make one fucking bit of difference. You're dead.
jordy		I told you, you know, I thought I was doing the right thing, you know, I think she's innocent.
eddie		Well, it's not up to you to decide whether she's innocent or not.  Don't you understand, that's why you're a professional.
jordy		But, I mean, didn't you ever go out on a limb for somebody?  I mean, you shoulda heard her there.  Tellin' her whole story...I believed her.
eddie		How you go out on a limb for somebody is by giving her a number of an Immigration lawyer.  Here, here's a number of an Immigration lawyer.  That's how you help her. But you can't get involved in her like that.  You're gonna jeopardize your career, your life and you're gonna jeopardize my case.  And lemme give you another piece of advice.  Maybe you don't watch TV but I'll let you in on a little secret - the whole fuckin' world watches television.  And when you get out there, they know your face.  And the little fame, the little fuckin' itty bitty fame that I get in this city makes it a lot easier for my job.  And I get more done because of it.
jordy		Why'd you help me back there with the Chief?  Why'd you stand up for me like that?
eddie		You know, I don't know.  I like you. You remind me of a puppy I used to have. He pissed on the rug all the time, but I still kept him.
eddie		It's Flemming...anything turn up?  Did they check the hospitals?  Airports? Yeah, I hit him!  I fuckin' hit him!  We should be all over everywhere - with dogs, choppers, everything!  These guys are from fuckin' Czechoslovakia...
emil		So...who's Nicky?
eddie		What do you want?
emil		Your opinion.  You see, they going to make a movie about me, too, Eddie.  And write books.
eddie		 What's your accomplishment.
emil		I kill someone famous.
eddie		Then do it, asshole.
emil		Good - be tough to the end.  Actor who plays you will want to die like hero.
eddie		If you kill me and film it you're putting a noose around your neck.
emil		Turn it off.
oleg		Good idea!
eddie		You really think you'll be able to fool a jury with this bullshit?  How fuckin' stupid are you?
emil		Smarter than Americans.  You're fed cry baby talk shows all day long.  Not only will Americans believe me, they'll cry for me.  So...Detective Eddie Flemming, would you like to say goodbye to your Nicolette? Maybe you can propose to her now?
oleg		Cut!
emil		Bad last moment - I cut that out.
hawkins		Awful...what an awful day.  He was New York City.
tommy		I never got to tell him how much I admired him.
hawkins		I know, son, I know.  We all loved him.
nicolette		You know...you know he was gonna propose to me.  The crime guys found a card he'd written out to me.  And a ring box...these fuckers that killed him - have my ring.  They have my diamond engagement ring...
hawkins		I know.
nicolette		What do you mean you know?  He told you he was gonna propose to me?
hawkins		Well, he...
nicolette		 I want to hear everything he said.
hawkins		I'm trying to tell you.
nicolette		Alright.  Go ahead.
hawkins		That morning.  He was talking to me and Leon about marriage.
nicolette		Oh my G-d.  We were having lunch here. He started making overtures - talking about little shoes next to his in his closet but I got a call to anchor - and I walked out on him.  I walked out on him when he was trying to ask me to marry him!!
maggie		Robert...?
hawkins		What are you doing here?
maggie		 You've got a call.
hawkins		I can't talk to anybody right now, can't you see I'm busy!  I can't talk business.  Hang up.  Have a drink.  Get her a whiskey.
maggie		Trust me, you'll want to take this call.
hawkins		Hello?  Who is this?  How do I know this is you?
emil		Come to 45 Broadway.  Don't bring the Police.  Come alone or you'll be in my next film.
hawkins		 Look asshole.  I've been threatened by better than you.
emil		No.  I'm the best that's ever threatened you.
hawkins		I'll meet you on one condition - I get exclusivity and you surrender to me.
emil		We'll talk about that.  Four o'clock gives you time to go to bank.  Three hundred thousand dollars.
hawkins		What?  It doesn't work that way.
emil		 If you don't want my film - I'll call another show.  And they will show it.
hawkins		Wait a minute.  Wait a minute.
emil		Come alone.  Bring cash.  And we'll talk about surrendering.
korfin		How was it?
jordy		 Not good.
duffy		 Did the D.A. videotape her deposition?
korfin		Yeah.  He finished awhile ago.
duffy		 Alright.  Swing by her apartment.  Let her pick up her clothes and take her straight to Hoover Street.  You got that?
korfin		Yeah.
jordy		Chief - mind if I take her?
duffy		Okay.  But not water sports.
man		Excuse me - Jordan Warsaw?
jordy		Yeah.
man		 Consider yourself served.
korfin		Zwangendaba??? Is suing you, the department and the city of New York for 10 million?  Who is Zwangendaba?
jordy		The mugger.
daphne		Are you alright?
jordy		I still can't believe Eddie's gone.
daphne		I'm sorry.
jordy		What's this?
daphne		Ludwig?  He's gay - are you jealous?
jordy		If I was your boyfriend, I might be.
daphne		If you were my boyfriend, I'd suggest you find another girlfriend that isn't going to jail ten-thousand miles away.
jordy		A good Immigration lawyer could stall the process.  Eddie recommended one.
daphne		No matter what happens...I'm glad I met you.
jordy		I'm glad I met you.
jordy		You better get packed.
daphne		Right.
jordy		Do you have coffee?
daphne		In the kitchen.
jordy		I'll make some for us.
daphne		I'll get my clothes.
jordy		No!  Get back!  GET BACK!!!
daphne		That's not mine!
jordy		Don't!  It'll suck the flames toward us!
daphne		Oh my G-d!  Oh my G-d!
jordy		Calm down.  Get a hold of yourself!  Get down!
daphne		Pouring it out!
oleg		This is great film!  You can see fire right now - Daphne is in fire - Fire Marshal is here.  Everything is so messy.  Everything is so crazy right here!  Look at this fire!  We made it! 90% of people who die in fire die from eating smoke.  So most likely they all die from eating smoke.
jordy		Get back!  Get out of the bathroom! Run!
jordy		It's okay.  I'm a fireman.  I'm going to help you.  Get back!  Now!
garcia		Jordy!  What the hell happened?!
korfin		Are you alright, man?  Lemme see the hand!
jordy		Where's Daphne?  Daphne?
voice		Isn't she a beauty?  She's my fire, look at that loom-up on her!
max		I did this!  I did this!  Take my picture!  I'm Max!  Max Gornick!
jordy		Get outta here!
korfin		What the hell happened?
jordy		They were inside.  They booby trapped her apartment!
duffy		What the hell are you talking about??? They're gonna do what?
tommy		Where is he?!  Where is Hawkins?!
maggie		He's not on the premises!
leon		I want the tape.  Go get it and bring it here this minute.
maggie		Any request for the video must be directed to "Top Story's" attorney - Bruce Cutler.  I'll be happy to give you his number.
leon		Lady, if you put Eddie's murder on TV, I'll get a warrant for your arrest and shove it so far up your ass it'll come outta your mouth!
maggie		I want your shield number!
maggie		 You want the tape?  There it is!
hawkins		What we are about to broadcast is very graphic footage...
emil		America!  Who says you can't be success in America?  I arrived with nothing, knowing nobody - now look - I am a success story!
oleg		You are success story?  I am success story!  Why do you say I and not we?
emil		Oleg, don't be paranoid.  You got a hundred-fifty thousand dollars, didn't you?  I gave you half of what they gave me.  Look - here we are!
oleg		In movie they make of us, who do you think would act me?
emil		The one who got caught in the bathroom.  George Michael.
oleg		I'm serious.
emil		Shut up.  Look!
emil		Bad last moment - I cut it out.
oleg		Be quiet.  Watch.
emil		Die.  Die.
emil		Why did you leave that stuff in about you being the director?
oleg		Because I am the director.  Don't you realize, if it wasn't for my film, for my talent, my idea to do this - no way would we be sitting here right now.
emil		Your idea?  I thought it was my idea.
oleg		I'm serious...this - this is a great American film.  Full of violence and sex.  And I want my credit.
emil		Credit?
oleg		Yes.  Before we hand in the next video - I put titles on it and my credit is going to read - Directed by Oleg Razgul.
emil		Yes.  But there's only one problem - you want credit but the problem is - I don't share credit.
oleg		No, I don't get that!
emil		You think you are a director?  You are a fucking little, small Russian piece of shit.  And I hate you.  I fucking hate you.
cutler		I'm not your lawyer until I see the money.
emil		Here.  I have your money.
cutler		 Emil.  Take it easy.  Stay with me.  Sit down.  What do you need?  What are you looking for?
emil		He has the camera!  He took the movie!
jordy		Don't move!  Don't move!  Get your hands up!  Drop it!
emil		I give up!
cutler		This man is unarmed, officer.  He's surrendered.
jordy		Turn that camera off!
emil		No.  Keep filming...
cutler		 Don't say anything.
emil		Where are we going?
cutler		I'm coming with you.
emil		Yes.  Yes, come with me!
cutler		 I'm invoking rights - this man is represented by counsel.  I'm coming with him.
jordy		Turn that camera off!
leon		I'll take him.
jordy		No way!  He's mine!
leon		 We're takin' him.  Don't argue!
jordy		He's my collar!
leon		Well, he killed my partner!
jordy		He's yours but I take him in!  I'll drive him to the precinct, you can have him but I'm walkin' him in.
leon		Okay, kid, have your 15-minutes.  I'll follow you.  Tommy, you ride with him!
cutler		Don't say a word.  Don't respond to his taunting!  He's represented by counsel.  You want to speak to someone - you speak to me!
tommy		Out of the way, counselor.
cutler		Don't you put your hands on me, Detective.
leon		And you, you'll pay for what you did!
hawkins		 This footage will work in your favor. When the jury sees this - no matter what Cutler tries, they'll convict him.
leon		You outta be ashamed.  Ashamed of yourself.
hawkins		If I didn't put it on somebody else would!  I was his friend!
leon		Don't give me that fucking shit.
murphy		Don't get into it on TV.
leon		 Alright, let's get going!
tommy		What are you doin'?  You're gonna lose everybody!
tommy		Jordy...??? Listen to me.  You can't do this.  This isn't the way to do things.
jordy		Were you a fireman?  That how you knew how to rig the apartment?
emil		My father was.  He gave me many lessons about fire.  Now it's my friend.
jordy		Tommy, take a walk.
tommy		What are you gonna do?
jordy		Don't you get it?  He knew he was gonna get caught!  That's why he videotaped Eddie's murder - he thinks he's gonna get off.
tommy		Don't stoop to his level!
jordy		Take the car.  Get outta here, Tommy.
tommy		Look, you can't shoot him in cold blood.
jordy		 GET OUTTA HERE NOW!!  GET IN THAT CAR AND DRIVE AWAY!!!  DO WHAT I SAY OR I'LL KILL YOU, TOO!!!
emil		You can't kill me.  You're not a cop. Just fireman with a gun.  I bet you never shot anybody in your life.
jordy		You'll be my first.
emil		C'mon.  Pull the trigger.  Do it.  Oh, look, you're sweating.  You don't have the balls.
jordy		Get down on your knees.
emil		The Sheraton!  On Broadway!  Room 210. Go get Oleg.  He'll kill you.
leon		Gimme your gun, Jordy.  We all want him dead but you can't do it this way.
waiter		Do you really need me?
jordy		Keep your mouth shut.  Don't mess this up.
hooker's voice		Who's there?
waiter		 R-room service.
hooker		Come in.
oleg		Look at that.  See that shot!  Seamless. No cuts.  And look.  Look at that transition. That's filmmaking!!  Isn't it great?!
jordy		Don't move!
jordy		STOP!  STOP THAT MAN!
ticket taker		Hey, come back here!
jordy		Where is he?  Where'd he go?
ticket taker		Middle door.
drunk's voice		Kill him!  Kill the bastard!
audience		Shoot him!  SHOOT!
oleg		Look!  Over here!
jordy		Everybody down!  Stay DOWN!
cutler		My client, Mr. Slovak, is a victim. What's happened is not his fault.  Emil was under the influence of his partner. At the trial, you'll see that my client will be vindicated...
cutler		I brought you some letters.  It's really fan mail.  Women mostly.  One wants to buy you clothes, another sent a check. Another wants a check.
emil		You bring the cigarettes?
cutler		Oh, sure.
emil		I was all of these.
cutler		Well, you didn't appreciate the severity of it until recently.  No question about that.
emil		What about Oleg?
cutler		Disappeared.  They're looking everywhere.  Maybe he went back to Czechoslovakia.
emil		No, he is here.  Shit...
cutler		Don't worry about him.  Think about yourself.
emil		What about my movie rights?  Book rights?
cutler		Look, I haven't really focused on that kind of thing.
emil		What's your cut?  How much?
cutler		I would say...half.  Half is fair.
emil		 No.  No way.
cutler		But it's...
emil		Thirty-percent.  No more.  Or I call another lawyer.  This is the biggest case of your life.  Don't try to negotiate.  Thirty percent.  Say yes or no.
cutler		This is not about money, Emil.  I need your trust in me.
emil		What else do you need?
cutler		I need to know about your background.  I need to know about your upbringing.  Why you're here.
emil		 Give me another one, please.
cutler		Tell me about yourself.  What you did as a young boy... what your parents were like.
emil		My father always degraded me.  Killed my self-esteem.  And my mother was blind.
cutler		Your mother was blind?
emil		Yeah, she went blind giving birth to me. She went to fucking black market doctor to induce me.
cutler		Back in the Czech Republic?
emil		Yeah, yeah...bad doctor gave her bad drugs which made her go blind.  And my father blamed me for her blindness...
cutler		Your father blamed you for your mother's blindness?
emil		Yeah, he hated me from day when I was born.  Put it out.  Can you put the cigarette out?
cutler		Your father put cigarettes out on you?
emil		Out on my back when I was a small boy.
cutler		Can I see your back?
emil		I'm abused.  Don't you think?
cutler		I don't think it's abuse, I think it's torture.
duffy		The public doesn't have any idea what we do and now you're going to define our image!  This is going to be our Rodney King!
jordy		What was I supposed to do?  The guy tried to mug me.  I was gonna send a cop back - I just forgot.
duffy		Forgot?  You handcuffed a civilian to a tree?!
jordy		Chief - I know I screwed up - but this guy was no innocent civilian.
duffy		Well this is gonna end your career and probably mine.
jordy		End my career?
duffy		How are you going to fight this?  Maybe if Oleg hadn't gotten away and you'd been on the front page, as a hero, this thing would be easier to fight.  You'd have the good to weight against the bad! It's unfortunate that I have to make decisions based upon your press coverage but there's nothing I can do!  Gimme your shield.
jordy		But Chief?  Over this??
duffy		There's nothing to talk about.  Get a good lawyer.  You're suspended until your trial.
stern		 Look, what don't you understand?  We've got a good relationship with the Czech's and the State Department doesn't want to cause an incident.
jordy		But the D.A. needs her as an eyewitness!
stern		They've got her testimony on videotape. And even if they do take her to court immediately after she'll be extradited. The Czechs want her back.  She shot a cop!  I mean, Christ, man, what if Emil Slovak and Oleg Razgul fled to the Czech Republic?  How would you feel if the Czechs wouldn't give them back to us?!
jordy		We're gonna fight the extradition.
daphne		Forget about me.  You have enough problems of your own.
jordy		...Do you really want me to forget about you?
daphne		I don't want to drag you down with me.
jordy		Daphne, I...
daphne		Shhhh.
mike		Zwangendaba.
nicolette		Goddamn assholes everywhere. Zwangenbobby..Zwangendaba.  I got it. I'll do it.  Shit.  Let's start again.
jordy		Hello?  No comment.
reporter		...and WBAI has learned that Mr. Slovak won't have to worry about how he is going to pay for his defense.  He has received movie offers and been in conversations with numerous publishers concerning the rights to his life story.
taxi driver		I can't believe this guy got off. Unbelievable.
jordy		Whatever's leftover, keep.
hawkins		He said he'd be here.  Pick him up as he comes through the crowd.  Do you hear me?  For Chrissakes don't miss this.
cutler		...my client was suffering from a major illness of schizophrenic nature wherein during times of intense stress, as a result of paranoid and psychotic delusions - there was impairment of his ability to appreciate wrongfullness... This is a victory for the mentally ill!
hawkins		Where the hell is he?  Goddamn it?!
jordy		You think this is funny??  What the hell are you laughing at?
cutler		 Officer, keep this man back, he's assaulted my client on previous occasions.
jordy		This is it?  This bastard kills the best cop this city ever had and we do nothing?
cutler		You may not like it marshal, but that's the law.
jordy		And what about the other victims??  What about their families?  He'll end up in some country club nuthouse while his lawyer sells his rights to the movies and we just stand here and do nothing? We let this scumbag walk?
emil		Be careful.  I can kill you.  I'm insane.
hawkins		I thought you wouldn't show up.  Where is it?  Where is the tape?
oleg		It's all in here.  All in here.
hawkins		Wait a minute, Bruce!  We've got some interesting evidence, something you should look at!
cutler		 Officers, there's your killer, do your duty, arrest him!
emil		Traitor!!
oleg		No.  You are the traitor.  You are murderer.  I am director.  Action!
captain		Drop the gun!  DON'T SHOOT!
emil		I'll kill her!  Back off!  Everyone back away from me!
jordy		Let her go.  Let her fucking go!!
captain		No one shoot!  Lower your weapons!  Do not fire!  No officer will fire his weapon unless I say so!  Let the woman go!
emil		Tell him to put his gun down!
jordy		Let her go!  Let her go!!
emil		If he doesn't lower his gun I'll fucking kill her.
jordy		Let her go.
nicolette		Shoot!  Shoot him!!
emil		Shut up!
captain		No on shoot!  No one shoot!!  No officer will follow.  No officer will shoot!
nicolette		Shoot!  Shoot!  Shoot him!!
emil		Shut up!
nicolette		Don't.  Don't let him surrender.  Shoot him!
jordy		Let her go.  Let her go.
captain		Lower your weapon.  I told you - lower your weapon!
jordy		I'm not a cop.  I'm a fire marshal.
hawkins		He's still alive.
oleg		A film...by Oleg Razgul.
nicolette		Wait a minute.  Where are you going? Learn from Eddie.  Talk to the court of public opinion.  Take the credit, you need it.
jordy		No thanks.
nicolette		Cut.
****Dialogues from script :17_Again.txt****

****Dialogues from script :187.txt****

assistant principal		 ... Let's go, people! Tardy lock- out starts in one minute! Get your butts in gear! One minute, people! Move it!
straggling student		 ... No ridin' bikes in 'a hallway, stoo-pit.
trevor		 ... Morning, morning. Rise and shine.
auggie		 ... You one crazy-ass nigga, G.
tywan		 ... Damn skippy.
trevor		Thank you for sharing, Auggie.
tywan		 ... Auggie doggie.
trevor		'Scuse me, you two... this isn't the Playboy Channel.
trevor		'Morning, Juanita.
trevor		 Let's get started. August and Tywan, you pass out the books. Thank you, gentlemen.
tywan		Whas up wit' your car, G?   Yer Pinto blow up?
trevor		 Okay, can I have everyone's attention?
trevor		The purpose of the bicycle is to demonstrate the principle of centripetal force. That's the opposite of the force we studied yesterday, which was...
trevor		Centrifugal force... Centripetal force is where the acceleration of a body moving in circular motion is directed toward its center by an opposing force, thus creating momentum that constrains the body to its circular path. Like a gyroscope.  It's better if I show you. Here, Tywan, you be my helper.
trevor		Tywan?   Come on.
tywan		Whad-up, G?  Hey, shut up! Y'all too damn loud, man!
trevor		I need you to demonstrate centripetal force.  Here, have a seat.
trevor		Okay, hold the bike steady with your knees. That's it. Seat positioned against your chest.
tywan		 Shut up, foo.
trevor		Okay, now crank the pedals and get that back wheel spinning about 180 R.P.M.
tywan		Whas up wit' dat?
trevor		 You'll see. Be patient.
trevor		... Put some muscle into it.
trevor		... Keep pedaling. Harder.
tywan		 Whas up? I tol' you you was crazy, man.
trevor		Now tilt the wheel to your right.
tywan		 Aw, damn. I'm spinnin'.   Lookit me, Auggie!
class		 ... Tywan, Tywan, Tywan.
secretary		Okay, fellas, off the table. Put the Walkman away. I said put it away...
trevor		Walter, I need to speak with you.
walter		 I'm pretty busy right now, Garfield. What is it?
trevor		Could you open it, please?
walter		 Have the textbook room charge him for the book.
trevor		One-Eight-Seven is a penal code number for murder, Walter. Means the same thing as T-O-S. 'Terminate On the Spot.'
walter		 For chrissake, I know what it stands for. Look, kid probably heard it in a rap song. Doesn't mean anything.
trevor		... The book belongs to Dennis Broadway. He's a known gangster, Walter -- a 'Five Percenter.'
walter		Garfield, if I had a dollar for every time a student threatened faculty... Don't you think you're overreacting a little?
trevor		 Did you tell Dennis Broadway he was getting a fail from me?
walter		 I have legal access to those files.
trevor		He's a transfer from Nixon High School, isn't he?
walter		.
trevor		Do you have him on a contract?
walter		If he gets through the semester without a fail then he gets to go back to Nixon, so what?
trevor		... and be with his homeboys.
walter		So he blew his opportunity. Now he has to learn to live with the consequences.
trevor		I don't think this kid's ready to deal with the consequences. I think he wants me dead.
walter		Relax, has nothin' to do with you.
trevor		I should have been told, Walter.
walter		Hey, I'm on your side, Garfield, but my hands are tied. Kid has a right to his privacy... Know what your problem is? You're an idealist.
trevor		What's wrong with that?
walter		You only see what you wanna see, that's what's wrong. On one hand you think someone's trying to kill you. On the other hand you actually believe kids are paying attention in your classes.
trevor		 Never mind. It's not a problem.
walter		 Tell you what, as soon as I get a chance I'll summons the kid. Promise.
trevor		Morning...
trevor		 ... Yes, uh huh.
victor		... Baseball cap, give it up.
victor		 Hold it, please.
trevor		I'm a substitute.
victor		 Okay, you want the Main Office, straight ahead. Check in with Mrs. Ford.
trevor		... 'Scuse me. I'm lost. I'm looking for Bungalow...  ... eighty-six.
trevor		... Thank you.
ellen		 How 'bout Binary search.
ellen		 You split them!
ellen		 ... Very funny.
victor		So who yuh here for?
trevor		Eskander.
victor		 Aw, man, you got bungalow duty.
childress		... Hey, ese?!
childress		 What the hell's going on here, lil' sister?
trevor		... Before taking roll, I'd like to prove a point.
barsek		 Whad up, Farfie?
trevor		... It's not important what... or who... 'Farfie' is.
trevor		Yuh wanna play, yuh gotta stay. Have a seat, please.
trevor		 The point I'd like to make is this... Anyone here can be a scientist.
asian girl		 ... What's he talking about?
trevor		... A scientist is like a detective. He investigates data. He scratches the surface of things he doesn't understand to see what's underneath.  ... Things like this. Okay, who wants to read?
barsek		 I'll do it.
trevor		Come on, we don't need disrespect. Let 'im do it.  What's your name?
barsek		Barsek.
trevor		Okay, Barsek.     Read.
barsek		... Glis was very frapper. She had denarpen Farfie's Mardsen. She couldn't galp a giberter for Farfie. Instead she wharked to plimp a mardsen binky for him.
trevor		Okay, anyone know what Barsek just said?
trevor		That's alright. You don't need to understand something to answer a few simple questions about it. Every one of you is capable of decoding data. Watch.
trevor		... Why was Glis Frapper?   Can anyone tell me?
trevor		 Okay.
asian girl		 ... Glis was frapper... because... she had denarpen Farfie's mardsen?
trevor		 Let's try another.
trevor		... What did Glis plimp?
trevor		 ... Hold on, hold on. Where's your teacher keep the chalk?
asian girl		... In the desk.
childress		Sorry I'm late. Had to handle something. You a sub?
trevor		 I thought this was Science. Ms. Eskander.
childress		No. This is Dave Childress, American History.
childress		... Don't know how to break it to you...  ... Garfield... but this is
childress		See, you zigged when you shoulda zagged. Course it's not your fault someone jacked the number off my door. Keep askin' Garcia to fix it but all I get is 'nada.'
childress		... that mess over there, that's Eskander's.
lakesia		You our sub?
lakesia		It's not real. We're studying teen parenting in home-ec.' It's computerized, so it cries and shit.
trevor		 You know how the books got outside?
benny		No speaky Engless.
benny		You speak Spanish, Mister... Whas yer name?
trevor		Garfield.
benny		... You speak Spanish, Mister G?  Eh, G... know what dat means when a homeboy calls you 'G'? Dat means gangster, homes. You a gangster, maestro?
trevor		No, I'm not a gangster.  Would you please do me a favor and pick up the books?
benny		 I ain't pickin' dat shit up.   You go pick it up.
trevor		What's your name?
benny		Cesar Chavez.    Don't you recognize me?
benny		See dis? I'm already on house arrest, homes. Ain't nothin' more you can do to me.
trevor		Sit down, please.
lakesia		 And this fool's name is Benny Chacon.
benny		 Shut yer mouth, hood rat! School girl bitch!
trevor		Okay, Benny.   That's enough.
benny		Hey, you ain't no real teacher. Fool, you're nothin' but a sub. T'ink yer so cool... You mus' be 'Mr. culo.'
trevor		 Why do you wear a rosary?
benny		 Ain't none a' yer damn business. To put God on me, okay? Why don't you jus' go sit down and read yer newspaper. Wanna-be, mother fucker.
trevor		Are you done?
benny		Jus' gimme a referral.    Shit.
trevor		 For your information, I am a real teacher.
benny		Whatever you say, Opie.
trevor		Okay, who would like to help me pick up the books?
childress		How goes the battle, Garfield?
childress		D'juh get that binky marsden farfied?
childress		Know what I think? I think that Chacon punk's the one who opened your bungalow this morning.  Eskander doesn't know how to lock a window.
ellen		... Come by the lab after school, we'll work on it...
childress		Want some advice?
childress		First homeboy that gives you the slightest bit of trouble... send 'um tuh Larry Hyland. He's their counselor. Right off the bat, yuh have to sacrifice one. Let 'um know who's boss. Show some balls.  You met Garcia yet? The principal?
ellen		Ah!  New blood!  Ellen Henry, computer science.
trevor		Trevor Garfield.
childress		Nice scar yuh got there.
childress		Ever sub here before?
trevor		First time.
childress		 What about permanent?
trevor		I taught seven years in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn. Roosevelt Whitney High School.
childress		Roosevelt Whitney? Didn't some teacher get stabbed to death there last year?
trevor		Actually, he survived.
childress		No, it was on 'Sixty Minutes.' Some gangbanger stabbed this guy with a ten-penny nail like a dozen times in a hallway and...
childress		Jesus Christ, you're him.   It was you.
childress		 Holy shit, Garfield. When was that? December before last? No, it was fall.
childress		Whadda schmuck. I'm sittin' here givin' advice to a man with a purple heart.
ellen		Excuse me...
childress		 Lemme tell yuh somethin'. In my book you're a fuckin' hero. Damn straight.
trevor		... Getting stabbed doesn't make me a hero.
childress		 So what'd they give the kid?
trevor		They put 'im upstate in a facility until his twenty-first birthday.
childress		That all? They shoulda caned the bastard. Like they did that kid in Singapore. Remember?  'The alternative is to surrender order to chaos and anarchy.'
trevor		So why do you still teach?
childress		Same reason as you, Garfield -- for the paycheck.
trevor		Okay, someone tell me the difference between the central nervous system and the lymphatic system?
rita		 Mr. G, you gotta nice butt.
trevor		You seem to be an expert on anatomy, Miss --  -- Nartinez. Central nervous system and lymphatic system. What's the difference?
rita		... Uh...
rita		It's like the central nervous system, that's your brain and spinal cord, and the lymphatic system, that's the stuff in your blood that fights diseases.
trevor		Very good.
trevor		Cesar.
trevor		You writing on your desk?
cesar		 I don't think so.
trevor		K-O-S, what's that? That a tagging crew?
trevor		Cartoon... Is that you, Cesar?  'K-O-S' has something to do with your friend Benny?
cesar		... Dawg. You're a sucker. K-O-S stands for 'Kappin' Off Suckers.' Don't disrespect my homeboy, Benny. He don't like it. He don't like you.
trevor		Do me a favor, Cesar. Go get a paper towel from the counter and wipe off your desk.  And Mr. Littleton, please oblige me and turn that tagger shirt inside-out.
stevie		 Hyland said it was okay, Sucker.
rita		 Sorry I said you had a nice ass.
trevor		 ... Apology accepted.
rita		 I ain't no school girl.
trevor		God forbid anyone should think that.
trevor		 shifts his gaze from them to the venetian blinds framing the window... to the clock over his desk.
ellen		May I come in?
trevor		Yeah...  ... Ellen.
ellena		 Trevor.
trevor		 I'm making time a reward instead of a distraction.
ellen		Clever... Listen, I wanted to apologize for jumping up like I did at lunch. I was just feeling a little weird...
trevor		It's alright.
ellen		For what it's worth, Dave Childress thinks you walk on water.
trevor		Is that a good thing?
ellen		I think it takes a lot of courage to go back into a classroom after something like that.
trevor		Not if the only thing you ever wanted to do was teach.
ellen		 Now you see, there's our predicament.
ellen		I assume you've met Benny Chacon?
trevor		I have.
ellen		 ... She's seven months pregnant and he's tormenting her with a broom handle... Can I help you with those?
trevor		No thanks.
ellen		So anyway, Gloria kicks Benny... and if the district construes it as assault and battery on a student, she's gone.
trevor		They'd do that?
ellen		In a heart beat. She's non- tenured, they don't want to get sued...  Don't be surprised if she files for stress leave by the end of the week. Too bad, too. She's a good teacher.
ellen		Can I ask you a personal question?
ellen		 Why'd that kid attack you?
trevor		Because I flunked him.
ellen		 Is there any way you can see something like that coming?
trevor		When they say they wanna kill you, you'd best take it serious. This kid was an O.T. -- Opportunity Transfer -- but nobody told me until it was too late.
ellen		Did you know Benny's an O.T.?... In less than a year he's been convicted of felony assault and suspended twice. I even testified against him as a character witness. Now I get to see him every day in homeroom. I'm stuck with him. Condition of his probation is that he stay in school.
trevor		You talk to the principal?
ellen		Many times... Three weeks ago, Garcia calls Benny's mother in for a conference, but she refuses to show up. She's afraid they'll deport her because she's illegal. So she contacts the A.C.L.U. and some attorney tells her she doesn't have to come in.  This kid's threatening me and all he's worried about is a lawsuit.
trevor		 What'd Benny say to you?
ellen		That he wanted to hurt me.   Real bad.
trevor		Does he know where you live?
ellen		I think so. Someone's been phoning me at night and hanging up... Two weeks ago, my car was broken into... And last Friday, I think he was inside my house... But I can't prove it.
ellen		 ... I don't know what to do.
trevor		You can quit.
ellen		You didn't.
tagger		Do I know you?
benny		 You should. You're fuckin' with my piece, puto.
tagger		 ... You from K.O.S.? No shit?
tagger		 Look, I didn't mean nothin'. Lemme fix it. I can fix it. Okay?
benny		 Don't mess wit' me, whiteboy.    I'll cap yer ass.
benny		I said shut up! Shut the fuck up!
benny		 I don't have no time to put up wit' 'dis shit!
benny		You think it's funny?!
benny		I don't call my P.O. in 15 minutes, I'm fucked.
benny		Dis is K.O.S.' neighborhood.
lakesia		 Benny's not here.
lakesia		I think he went AWOL, Mr. G.
trevor		 Eskander filed for stress leave. They want me to finish out the semester.
ellen		That's great...
trevor		 It's only 'til the end of the year.
ellen		Listen, I never thanked you for letting me cry on your shoulder.
trevor		That's okay.
ellen		 You know what they say. Be careful what you pray for. Don't get me wrong, Benny's made my life a living hell. I even moved back in with my mother because of him. I love my mother, but if I eat one more dinner off a TV tray or watch one more rerun of 'Wheel of Fortune,' I think I'll lose my fucking mind.
ellen		 Time's up. Everyone stop working.
ellen		 ... So you have a wife hiding in a closet somewhere?
trevor		 No.   No wife.
ellen		Don't you ever get lonely?
trevor		 Sometimes. There's this passage in God's Lonely Man by Thomas Wolfe where he says, '... The whole conviction of my life rests upon the belief that loneliness is the central and inevitable fact of human existence.' I believe that.
ellen		God that's depressing.
trevor		... My New York mentality.  It's not always easy looking on the bright side.
ellen		Especially after spending a year in and out of a hospital, I would guess.
trevor		Actually, that wasn't the toughest part -- it's the robbery that's been hardest to recover from.
trevor		My passion. My old, unguarded self. I resent that. I want them back.
ellen		They're still there. Everybody around me seems to have given up. They're all so beaten down. But you're different. You refuse to be beaten.
trevor		So do you.
ellen		Remember the last time a student surprised you?
trevor		You mean where a light goes on?
ellen		Yeah. Where the kid surpasses all your expectations.
trevor		... Been awhile. So few you can actually get through to... You?
ellen		 ... That would have to be Daniel Terrazas. This was last year sometime. Kid was failing miserably ... But he was the best Salsa dancer in the whole school.
trevor		 Uh-oh.
ellen		So I made 'im a deal. Tutoring in exchange for Salsa lessons.
trevor		Saw it... Jerry Springer.
ellen		No, no. He was a perfect gentleman.
trevor		 Male teachers can't do things like that. They get arrested.
ellen		Yep, double standard... By the way, did you know Cesar Sanchez was Special Ed?  Yep, he never should've been mainstreamed. His I.E.P. says he's L.H. but he acts more like S.E.D.
trevor		Severely Emotionally Disturbed... that's great.
ellen		Come on, Garfield -- on your feet. Lemme teach you how to Salsa.
trevor		 No, no, I'm no good at that.
ellen		Let's go.   Don't play shy with me, homeboy.
ellen		 Oh, my God... your shirt.   Oh, no, I'm so sorry.
trevor		 It's alright.
ellen		Can I help?
ellen		Don't start barking, Jack.
trevor		 Hey there, boy. You're a good dog. Yes, you are.
ellen		Sorry for reacting the way I did back there.
trevor		Don't apologize. That's how most people react.
ellen		Didn't scare me. It just surprised me.
ellen		... Thanks for dinner.   I had a good time.
trevor		You're welcome.
ellen		Here... you need a little life in that place of yours.
trevor		... Good night.
ellen		 ... Night.
trevor		 Since some of you seem to have an interest in anesthetics, I've prepared a little demonstration.
trevor		Rita, bring your friend in the cage over here, please.
rita		His name's Snowball. Like 'dat lil' pig dude from Animal Farm.
trevor		 You've read Animal Farm?
cesar		 ... schoolgirl.
rita		 Shut up, Cesar.
trevor		You read Animal Farm, Cesar?
cesar		No, but I fucked a sheep.
trevor		Cesar, come up here.  I want you to have a front row seat for this.
trevor		And remove the 'lokes.'
trevor		Why your eyes so red?
cesar		 Mus' be pink-eye, sir.
cesar		 Nice watch, homes. Can I have it?
trevor		 Rita, would you bring me a sugar cube from the shelf over there?
trevor		 Cesar, read Young's rule for us.
cesar		 I ain't gonna read 'dat shit.
trevor		Rita, give Cesar your book.    Let 'im read.
cesar		Forget it.
trevor		 'Young's rule...' Go on.
cesar		Stoopit bitch.
trevor		Touch her again, Cesar, and you'll answer to me personally.
cesar		You like her, Mr. G?
rita		 Shut up!
trevor		 Settle down, everyone. We all have to learn how to forgive and get along. C'mon, Cesar, read. Please.
cesar		 ... Young's rule... ff... fo...
trevor		... Formulates.
trevor		... I say everyone deserves another chance. Whadda you say, Cesar?
trevor		Rita, would you please read Young's rule for me?
rita		 ... 'Young's rule formulates proper dosage levels for children and adolescents.'
trevor		Thank you.
trevor		... In the brown bottle I have a prescription for liquid Demeral.
stevie		Where'd that come from, sir?
trevor		A doctor.
trevor		Demeral is a morphine sulphate... and is soluble in water.
trevor		Young's rule says, divide the age of the patient by the patient's age plus twelve, giving us the fraction of the adult dosage suitable for the patient. 
trevor		... Don't worry, he'll be back to normal in exactly 10 minutes.
rita		... He shoulda woke up by now?
cesar		 You just caught a murder case, homes.
trevor		Okay, anyone who didn't finish answering the questions on 246, finish them for homework.
trevor		Hold it, Cesar.
trevor		Where's my watch?
cesar		 Hey, I gotta go. I ain't got no watch.
trevor		Empty your pockets, both of you.
cesar		Want me to break it down to you? I gotta catch a bus.
trevor		 Sorry. I'm trying to catch Hyland before he leaves.
trevor		I've been meaning to come by your room.
ellen		 ... It's almost been a week.   My guess is you're avoiding me.
ellen		You okay?
trevor		Has nothing to do with you, Ellen. It's... hard for me...
trevor		Pretty much been like that since... you know, my accident. Has nothing to do with you.
ellen		Is it because I'm white?
trevor		No.
ellen		We can still be friends.   Just don't pull away.
ellen		 Now, can I ask you a favor? After you're done with Hyland, can you give me a ride to my car? It's at the mechanics, about five or six blocks up Lankershim. If you can't, it's okay, I can walk.
trevor		 ... I think I can manage that.
ellen		Que paso, Victor?
victor		 Base three to base one. 'Found 'im.
victor		Mr. Garcia would like to speak with you in his office.
trevor		Am I being questioned?
trevor		... For the record, I primarily suspect Mr. Sanchez. Although I wouldn't be surprised if Stevie was an accomplice.  Either way, I'd like my watch back.
trevor		When I asked him to empty his pockets, Cesar refused.
cesar		No way. He never asked me nothin' like that! I don't go 'round taxing no teachers...
cesar		... I ain't got no watch, man.
trevor		 I'd like a locker search, please.
trevor		No, I didn't...
trevor		 ... No.
trevor		 That was my grandfather's watch. Can't you see what they're doing? Weren't you ever a teacher?
hyland		 Is it me or is Garcia a real asshole?
trevor		I've been thinking about videotaping my classes.
hyland		... Yeah, well, here's some free advice. Cover your ass.
hyland		If Garcia asks, your main purpose is to observe you, not the students. Excuse me, I mean his `clients.'
hyland		Some gangbanger might think we're violating his civil rights...
hyland		 ... Yeah?
hyland		 Sorry, Iris. Completely forgot.
hyland		 Yuh have a minute? Wanna talk to you about our discipline committee. Gotta run up to the office real quick first.
trevor		Yeah, fine, go ahead.   I'll wait.
ellen		... I have to fly up there for a computer conference.
trevor		When's that?
ellen		Day after tomorrow.
trevor		Never been to San Francisco.
trevor		If you want, I'll take care of Jack.
ellen		I can't ask you to do that.
trevor		 Sure you can.
trevor		 ... Aren't you supposed to be at P.E. fifth period?
rita		 ... Sunland Boyz gettin' crazy, ol lady's... fucked up. Fuck dis being down shit. I wanna do somethin' wit' my life.
trevor		... You know this guy?
rita		 'Gotta make J-C next year. 'Got to! I ain't never gonna get up outta here.
trevor		Rita, slow down.
rita		'Dat bitch Quinn, I'm 'onna sue her ass. 'Swear tuh God...
trevor		Okay, okay.   Calm down a second.
trevor		Who's Quinn?    What's she teach?
rita		English Comp.    She's failin' me.
rita		'Bitch say I don't talk right.
rita		She hates me.    She's racist against me.
trevor		Just cause you're a Latina doesn't mean everyone's racist against you.
rita		 Hey, I'm a La Raza, prof-eh.
trevor		Okay... just stop blaming everyone else. You're too smart for that.  And every mistake in that essay is fixable, okay? So relax, it's not the end of the world.
trevor		 Tissues are in the first drawer.
trevor		 How come you always wear so much makeup?
rita		 ... To make me pretty.
trevor		 You don't need it.
trevor		 That your name?
rita		 It's a gang thing. But I'm kickin' dat shit... Jus' cuz I look down for my neighborhood don't mean I'm stupit.
trevor		I know you're not.
trevor		 If you want help I'm here for you. Okay?
rita		 ... I dunno.
trevor		Have to be in the library after school.
rita		 ... Somebody could see us.
trevor		All right then, I'll come to your house.
rita		 No... No way.
trevor		Where then?   You name the place.
cesar		 Dog, you invadin' my privacy. Bitch.
trevor		 Cesar, would you come up here please?
trevor		 Since you were so concerned, I though you might like to know... I found my watch.
cesar		... You broke into my locker. Dat's a serious felony, prof-eh. You caught a case for sure now.
trevor		Whadda yuh propose to do, Cesar? Tell Garcia?  Whadda yuh gonna tell 'im? That I broke into your locker to steal back the watch you denied taking? I don't think so. I'd say we're even now, wouldn't you, Cesar?
cesar		No, I'd say we're just getting started, ese.
trevor		Want something to drink?    We have Coke, Fanta or Sprite...
rita		 ... Coke's awright.
trevor		 Rita, maybe you can clear something up. Can you explain to me what machismo is all about? Cuz this whole respect/code of honor thing baffles me.
trevor		 Ask yourself this question. Is pride really that important?
trevor		 Put your clothes on, Rita.
trevor		 No harm done... Don't cry now.
trevor		Why don't you go ahead and copy the first rule there for the verb 'to be.' Can you do that for me?
rita		 I jus' wan'ed to thank you.
trevor		You don't have to thank me, I'm your teacher.
trevor		... From now on I think the best thing for us to do is meet in the library.
trevor		(prayerfully, to himself ... I'll try.
cesar		 I ain't getting it. You get it.
trevor		Hello, Cesar.
cesar		 Puto! You lied to Benny. You said you don't speak no Spanish!
trevor		No I didn't.
cesar		'At's bullshit!
trevor		Enjoy hitting your mother, Cesar? You must be proud of yourself.
cesar		 Fuckin' liar! Homeboy don't never disrespec' his mother. Never. You hear me, joto?!
trevor		Whatever you say, Cesar.
cesar		I'll find out where you stay. Trucha, homes!
cesar		Valla ala chingada!
trevor		 Lakesia, who opened the door?
lakesia		It was like that when I got here.
childress		Whoever did this is gonna pay! Better believe it, ese.
childress		 Get the hell outta here!
trevor		Dave...  Barsek, don't touch anything, okay?
childress		Get out!!
barsek		 Oh, damn. Lookit the rat.
childress		Think it's funny?! Huh?!       Yuh little fuck!
trevor		Dave!   No!   Let go of 'im!
childress		 D'you do this?!
barsek		 Nooo...
trevor		He didn't do anything.    He's a good kid.
trevor		 Been smokin' the chronic, Cesar?
cesar		 I'm hooked on phonics... not 'hooked on chronic.'
trevor		 You wouldn't happen t'know who vandalized bungalow eighty-six last night?
cesar		 Sorry, maestro... nada.
trevor		 Garcia may not think there's enough here to prove anything. But you and I both know who's responsible. Don't we?
cesar		Whadda you, a narc? Seriously, I don't know what the fuck you're talkin' about.
trevor		 The ring, Cesar... lemme have it.
cesar		Watch it, eh... that's my trigger finger.
trevor		It's inappropriate attire...
cesar		... Bang.
trevor		 ... Are you finished?
cesar		What? Finished with what?   Don't get crazy on me, dude.
ellen		... These conferences mainly focus on software now.
trevor		 Software sells.
ellen		 So, how's Jack?
trevor		... Jack's good.
ellen		 And what about Trevor?   Was Trevor a good boy, too?
trevor		 What's that supposed to mean?
ellen		 Nothing...
trevor		Is that supposed to mean something?
ellen		 Trevor...
trevor		Can't you see I'm talking to the lady?!
trevor		... I'm sorry.     Forgive me.
ellen		... Come out, come out, wherever you are. Where is he?
trevor		 Jack?
ellen		Here, boy... here, Jack.   Come to Mommy, sweetheart.
ellen		 ... Oh, my God.
ellen		 Jack?!
ellen		 Jack!
ellen		... Jack.
trevor		 It's aspirin...
ellen		 ... I can't talk to you right now, Trevor. Please. I'm so upset I can't even drive. I just need some time alone.
trevor		 I'm so sorry, Ellen.
cesar		... 'At you, Stevie?
cesar		 ... Hells, man. Stupit dog.
cesar		... Mutha fuck.
ellen		Trevor?
ellen		Trevor?
ellen		... Where'd you put the aspirin?
cesar		My finger. Please, somebody help me! Where's my finger?!
cesar		... I put it on my mother, sir.
cesar		It had to be him!
cesar		Pinche madre... he hates my guts, man!
cesar		I know he did it! Don't you hear what I'm saying?
cesar		 Yeah, yeah. I seen him.
cesar		I swear it!   For reals!
trevor		 ... Name one of four parts that make up the human hand?
trevor		... Hands, please.
trevor		Christian.
christian		... The metacarpals.
trevor		The Metacarpals. That's one.  Name some more?
trevor		Rita.
rita		The wrist... and thumb.
trevor		Good.  ... And don't forget the phalanges.
class		 Phalanges, phalanges, phalanges...
trevor		May I come in?
ellen		 Hi.
trevor		 Where'd you go the other night?
ellen		I was going to ask you the same thing.
trevor		... I went for a run.  Wanna get some Chinese later? There's a new place in the Valley Center. 'Spose to be pretty good.
ellen		 ... Can't tonight. Maybe another time.
trevor		 You alright?
ellen		... Much better, thank you.
trevor		... I really am sorry about Jack.
rita		... Finished.
trevor		... Let's hava look..
trevor		... Good.  ... I was just thinking, since your essay's about gangs and getting away from their influence, you probably could've left some of those double negatives you like so well.
rita		 So now you wan' me to use bad grammar.
trevor		 Only if it suits your topic.
rita		I know. We're all products of our environment 'n' shit.
trevor		No, I think that's just an excuse.  But it's like rap or hip-hop... Correct all the grammar and it loses its impact.
rita		So you like hip-hop, Mr. G?
trevor		 ... I hate it.
rita		 What kinda black man are you?
rita		Why you here anyways? Don't you got nothin' better t'do?
trevor		... Everything I wanna do is right here.  It's a good essay, Rita. You put a lot of effort into it, it shows.
rita		 Comes from the heart, maestro. I'm a writer... not a fighter.
trevor		 ... Ms. Quinn was telling me she picks two seniors each year to read their essays at graduation.
rita		 She ain't gonna pick my paper. Anyway, I don't wanna get up in fronna all those people and make a fool outta myself.
trevor		Why not?   It'd be a Pyrrhic victory.
rita		What's dat?
trevor		... In your case, irony. Refers to King Pyrrhus. Never mind. Look it up sometime.
ellen		... Before getting side-tracked with viruses and T-S-R programs, we were talking yesterday about E-Mail.
ellen		If you click-on the mail icon in your tray, you'll be ready to send and receive mail. My computer's already set-up. Everyone go ahead and click the white envelope in the lower...
ellen		Looks like someone's way ahead of me. Alright.  Since we're all a part of the same network, we share mail... so go ahead and do that.
ellen		Whoever sent that message isn't as anonymous as they think.
stevie		'Dat's bullshit, man!
stevie		You best step off, Ms. H. Cuz you can't prove nuthin'. And I know you can't afford to lose 'dis minimum wage job 'a yers.
ellen		 You're right, Stevie. I can't afford to live in a big house south of the boulevard. Like you do.
ellen		Iris, did Steven Littleton come in here?
iris		Haven't seen 'im.
ellen		 Sue me.
iris		 Benny Chacon's mother. Told 'er Garcia had to leave early today but she jus' sits there. She been saying some pretty crazy things.
ellen		 What's she saying?
iris		You heard 'bout that body they foun' in the L.A. River... She says she thinks it's Benny.
ellen		... Four, almost five weeks.
ellen		 So he just sits here?
ellen		 She said he has some pockmarks on his chest; from a bad case of chicken pox. And there's a bar- code tattoo on his neck.
ellen		 Did you find any rosary beads with the body?
assistant coroner		No.
trevor		... Who's there?
trevor		 What's the matter?
ellen		 I just want you to tell me one thing...
trevor		 What?
trevor		What is it?
ellen		... If you had any idea what I've been thinking lately... you'd think I was crazy.  ... Remember that John Doe they found in the L.A. River. Turned out it was Benny.
trevor		 Who told you that?
ellen		... Benny's mother identified the body.
trevor		Benny was no saint, Ellen. This is a kid who terrorized hald the school. He even broke into your house. Maybe we should think about that 'fore we shed any tears.
trevor		... Maybe he's better off.
ellen		That's a horrible thing to say.
trevor		Do you believe for every troubled kid like Benny there's one or two others just waiting to take his place? Like Cesar... or his friend Stevie.
ellen		You don't know anything about Cesar's finger, do you, Trevor?
trevor		Sometimes a person just runs out of bad choices. Then he's gotta pay a price. What happened to Cesar was inevitable.
ellen		You're scaring me.
trevor		We make choices in life and we live by 'em. You and I chose to be teachers, to stand on principle. Benny and Cesar, they're takers. They want what they want, and they want it now.
ellen		Trevor...
trevor		 I'm sorry but everyone can't always get what they want. Sometimes you gotta take responsibility for your actions. Have you ever been ready to die for a fundamental principle? They haven't. You think those punks would die protecting your Civil Rights?
ellen		Trevor, don't.
trevor		Did you know Cesar hits his mother? Steals money from her purse? Did you know that?
trevor		Did you know he was here that night? In the alley?
ellen		 What are you talking about?
trevor		Cesar. Jack was provoked.     It wasn't an accident, Ellen.    Cesar killed him.
ellen		 Where'd you get the rosary beads?
trevor		 I like you, Ellen. I like you so much. Do you believe that?
ellen		 Yes.
ellen		... I don't know you.
trevor		 ... You do know me. I'm a teacher, just like you.
childress		 Lemme have a cigarette.
stevie		Eh, Mr. G?
stevie		 That possible? You crush my friend's skull? Fuck 'im up wit' a two-by-four, maybe a baseball bat?
trevor		 Please, step out of the way.
stevie		... You kill my friend?   Huh?
cesar		School girl bitch!
rita		 You gotta problem?!
cesar		Yer fuckin' maestro, 'at's my problem!
rita		I don't know what yer talkin' 'bout!
cesar		Garfield killed Benny!
rita		Yer crazy.
cesar		Don't turn yer back on me when I'm talkin' t'you, bitch. You think yer better than everybody else. Well you ain't! You ain't nuthin' but a whore!
rita		Fuck you, asshole!
cesar		What? You forget about the time in the bungalows? We all had our turn wit you, man!
rita		Shut up!
cesar		 What the fuck you been fuckin' a nigger for? Huh? You think he's gonna protec' you? Stop me from doin' whatever I want wit' you? Stop any of us from doin' what we want wit' you?!
rita		Fuck you, Cesar.
cesar		No, fuck you!
cesar		Garfield better watch his back!
anglo woman		... I wanna know if this boy was killed and whether it was gang- related.
anglo woman		 As a mother and a taxpayer, I have a right to know. And if it was gang-related then I want tighter security...
hispanic man		 Who says? How can you be so sure? You're talking about my kid's safety.
stevie		It's not the gangbangers y'gotta worry about. It's the teachers!
stevie		... It was Garfield.
stevie		 You're a fuckin' murderer, Garfield!
stevie		... Maybe I can't prove it but I know he did it. He fucked up Cesar and he killed Benny.  Ast 'im!
stevie		Touch me and I'll sue yer ass!  Yer dead, G! Yer a dead man!
childress		Garfield, wait up...
childress		... Don't let that Littleton punk get to you.
childress		Lil' bastard's a tweaker. He's a speed freak. You didn't know that?
trevor		 What is it, Dave? How can I help you?
childress		How 'bout a ride?  ... The wife wouldn't let me drive my own car. Ain't that a bitch?
trevor		 ... You smell like beer.
childress		I only had two. That's all. Swear ta Christ.
childress		I live right up here off Chandler. I'll buy you a drink.
childress		... I had the same situation 'round the time of that 'Night Stalker' thing. Remember that? Whole city was scared shitless. My wife was convinced the frickin' mailman was the 'Stalker' for about a week there.  ... Idiots. Even after they caught that Ramirez jerk, I'd still hear those fucks '... They got the wrong guy. Childress is the Stalker, ese.'
trevor		 I better get goin'. Thanks for the soda.
childress		Wait, wait. Hold your horses. Just hold on...
childress		 ... Can't leave without meetin' the kids.
childress		Ta-dah... Huh?
childress		... This one's from Czechoslovakia. It's a C-Z .22 automatic. Ten round clip. Glow- in-the-dark sights.  Here, feel that.
childress		... 'Course you can never be too prepared. My pukey lil' Davis
trevor		 You wear that thing at school?
childress		Now, Jose, if I've told you once I've told you a hundred times, stay in your cotton pickin' seat.  Boom!
childress		Haven't you ever just wanted to blow one of these little bastards away?
childress		 I even did her.
trevor		You're drunk.
childress		I know you been laughin' at me behind my back. 
childress		... Tell me the truth now, Garfield. Did yuh do it? C'mon, I won't tell. Did yuh whack Benny? Whadda 'bout Cesar? That was generous, only taking his finger. I woulda cut off his balls.
trevor		... Go to hell, Dave.
childress		 You really did it. You son of a bitch.
trevor		 You probably think you and me are alike.
trevor's pov		 BACK AND FORTH between the mirror and Trevor.   His eyes glazed and unblinking.  FURTHER INTO the parabolic mirror now.   Breathing becoming more and more labored.    109.  130   CONTINUED:                                                      130  In a flicker, we're transported back to Roosevelt Whitney... Dennis Broadway's image SLOWLY COMING TOWARD us down the long corridor...
librarian		... I don't think she's coming.
rita		Be nice to your brother, Antonio. Don't make me go get Mommie.
rita		 Go play wit' your brothers.
rita		 Whatcha doin' here, maestro?
trevor		 I want you to come back to school, Rita. You can't afford to miss finals. They won't let you graduate.
rita		 No way. Forget it. I can't. What's wrong wit' you.
trevor		 Cesar and Stevie won't bother you. That's a promise.
rita		 Why'd they have to kill Snowball?
trevor		... They didn't.
rita		 What's it fuckin' matter?! 'At school shit's for other kids, not me!
trevor		That's not true. You're so smart, Rita. Don't you know that? You have an opportunity here to change your life. Please don't throw away everything we've worked for.
trevor		I know what happened with Childress.
rita		 What?
trevor		 He won't ever touch you again.
rita		 He ain't done nuthin' tuh me. That boy's fulla shit. What's he been sayin'?
trevor		Doesn't matter.
rita		He ain't never touched me no ways. What's he sayin'? He say he fucked me?! He say dat?!  Get the fuck outta here! I don't need yer damn pity and I don't need you!
trevor		 But I need you, Rita.
rita		 You made a mistake.    Dat's all.
trevor		I was trying to help her.
hyland		You're not being an alarmist.  I don't think the rosary adds up to much either, frankly.
ellen		Why?
hyland		It's probably his.  Look, when I received my first Holy Communion all the boys got black rosaries and the girls got white. Trust me, there must be millions of black rosaries filed away in desk drawers from here to the Vatican.
hyland		This guy's been through a lot, Ellen. The system failed him. I don't think any of us can really appreciate what he's been through.  I say we give the man a break.
ellen		 ... I'd like to apologize for the other night.
trevor		Shouldn't listen to me.    I was half asleep.
ellen		We really need to talk.
trevor		... Not tonight. Have to finish some work...
ellen		Tomorrow then?     It's important to me.
trevor		 ... Okay.
ellen		 ... How 'bout seven o'clock?
stevie		Where'd you jack 'dis car from, homes?  'At's nasty, man.
ellen		... It's alright, mother.
cesar		... Okay, let's smoke this bitch.
trevor		I'm in here, Cesar.
cesar		Dont' move, mutha fucka!
cesar		You killed Benny. And you cut off my finger... Say it.
trevor		Yeah.   I did.
stevie		Told yuh.     Fuckin' A, man.
paco		Lemme do 'im.
cesar		No.   This nigga's mine.
cesar		Ever seen The Deerhunter, ese?
cesar		You gon' do yourself, mayate. Put it to your head and pull the trigger.
trevor		That macho enough for you, Cesar? Huh? That make me a man?
cesar		Take more'n that.
trevor		Then you do it.
trevor		C'mon, show me what you got.    Mano a mano.
stevie		He's playin' with yer head.
paco		Vato's scared.     He tryin' to twist outta it.
trevor		I gotta be a fool to prove you're a fool? -- okay.
trevor		C'mon.
cesar		Tha's not how we playin' it.
trevor		Why -- you too chickenshit to play yer own game? Got no cojones?
paco		Shut up!
trevor		You gonna let your homies defend your punk ass, Cesar? You gonna let me dis you? I pulled three times, you pussy, you leva, you coward! Lessee you pull one. C'mon, be a man! Get some respect back! Do it!
paco		Whatcho doin', homie?
cesar		 You disrespectin' me, vato?   You sayin' I ain't a man?
trevor		I'm sayin' you're a fool.
stevie		Don't do it!
paco		 He got character, homes.
stevie		Crazy mutha fucka.
cesar		Yer turn.
trevor		You think you got respect now? Your kinda respect is bullshit. Only thing you honor is stupidity. You ready to die for stupidity, Cesar? I am, if it'll teach you somethin'. See you can't kill me, homeboy. Yeah, my body... but what I am, who I was? That's been dead for over a year. And I'm never gonna get it back -- no matter how many of you I get rid of. I realize that now...  ... I was a teacher! I wanted to help you!...
trevor		You can't kill me... and you can't scare me.
paco		Don't do it, homie.
stevie		He's crazy.
trevor		Yeah, but isn't that what you respect? Bein' loco? Don't listen to 'em, Cesar. If you gonna live stupid don't do it half-assed -- take it all the way. Take your turn. Pull the trigger.
trevor		Macho is bullshit, fool! Your whole way of life is BULLSHIT!
cesar		It's all I got!
trevor		Well then, I'll take your turn for you...
cesar		No!
paco		You see dat!    He's out! He's fuckin' out!    Snuffed hisself! Aw, shit!
stevie		What'd he do that for?
stevie		... Let's get outta here.
paco		C'mon, homie.
cesar		He took my turn.
paco		... What?
cesar		It was my turn. He took it... He dissed me.
paco		So fuckin' what, man!     He's dead! Let's go!
cesar		I gotta do this.
paco		Fuck dis shit!     Leave it!
cesar		I got one chance in six. I'm 'onna beat 'dis bitch... For honor, vato.
stevie		No!!
stevie		Cesar?... Why'd he do it?      Why?
rita		... The title of my essay is, 'Mi Vida Loca'... 'My Crazy Life'...
rita		 ... May I say something?
rita		... There's been a lotta talk las' couple weeks whether Mr. Garfield done those things they been writin' about in the newspaper. He once tol' me you can't blame everything on yer environment.  But I t'ink you can push a good teacher too far and he might jus' go bad like anybody else...
rita		... We're all responsible. You and me... all of us. I'm up here today cuz a him. He was dere for me when nobody else was. Thing is... I shoulda been 'dere for him too... but I wasn't. I turned my back on the only person who ever cared about me.  I ast' 'im, 'What's up wit' dat?'
rita		He told me in my case it was irony... and to go look it up... so I did.  It refers to this guy named Pyrrhus. He was a king back 'round 300 B.C.
blackness		 ... and ROLL END CREDITS.
****Dialogues from script :2001__A_Space_Odyssey.txt****

a1		VIEWS OF AFRICAN DRYLANDS - DROUGHT
a2		INT & EXT CAVES - MOONWATCHER
a2		CONTINUED
a3		EXT  THE STREAM - THE OTHERS
a4		EXT  AFRICAN PLAIN - HERBIVORES
a5		EXT  PARCHED COUNTRYSIDE - THE LION
a6		EXT  DEAD TREE - FINDS HONEY
a7		INT & EXT  CAVES - NIGHT TERRORS
a7		CONTINUED
a8		EXT  THE STREAM - INVASION
a8		CONTINUED
a8		CONTINUED
b1		EARTH FROM 200 MILES UP                     NARRATOR By the year 2001, overpopulation has B1a                         replaced the problem of starvation THOUSAND MEGATON               but this was ominously offset by the NUCLEAR BOMB IN ORBIT           absolute and utter perfection of the ABOVE THE EARTH,               weapon. RUSSIAN INSIGNIA AND CCCP MARKINGS  B1b                             NARRATOR AMERICAN THOUSAND              Hundreds of giant bombs had been MEGATON BOMB IN ORBIT           placed in perpetual orbit above the ABOVE THE EARTH.               Earth. They were capable of incinerating the entire Earth's surface from an altitude of 100 miles.  B1c FRENCH BOMB                           NARRATOR Matters were further complicated by the presence of twenty-seven nations in the nuclear club. There had been no deliberate or acciden- B1d                         tal use of nuclear weapons since GERMAN BOMB                   World War II and some people felt sercure in this knowledge. But to others, the situation seemed comparible to an airline with a B1f                         perfect safety record; in showed CHINESE BOMB                  admirable care and skill but no one expected it to last forever.  10/4/65                                              b1
b2		ORION-III SPACECRAFT IN FIGHT AWAY FROM EARTH, 200 MILES ALTITUDE.  10/4/65                                              b2
b3		ORION-III PASSENGER AREA. DR. HEYWOOD FLOYD IS THE ONLY PASSENGER IN THE ELEGANT CABIN DESIGNED FOR 30 PEOPLE. HE IS ASLEEP.  HIS PEN FLOATS NEAR HIS HAND.  10/4/65                                              b3
b4		ORION-III COCKPIT. PILOT, CO-PILOT. FLOYD CAN BE SEEN ASLEEP ON A SMALL TV MONITOR. STEWARDESS IS PUTTING ON LIPSTICK. SHE SEES PEN.  10/4/65                                              b4
b5		STEWARDESS GOES BACK TO PASSENGER AREA, RESCUES PEN AND CLIPS IT BACK IN FLOYD'S POCKET.  10/4/65                                              b5
b6		SPACE STATION-5. THE RAW SUNLIGHT OF SPACE DAZZLES FROM THE POLISHED METAL SURFACES OF THE SLOWLY REVOLVING, THOUSAND-FOOT DIAMETER SPACE STATION. DRIFTING IN THE SAME ORBIT, WE SEE SWEPT-BACK TITOV-V SPACECRAFT. ALSO THE ALMOST SPHERICAL ARIES-IB
b7		ORION-III PASSENGER AREA FLOYD AWAKE BUT GROGGY, LOOKS OUT OF WINDOW.
b8		ORION-III COCKPIT. THE CO-PILOT IN RADIO COMMUNICATION WITH THE SPACE STATION.
b9		THE ORION-III SPACECRAFT IN DOCKING APPROACH. THE EARTH IS SEEN IN BREATH- TAKING VIEW IN B.G.
floyd		How do you do, Mr. Miller?
miller		I'm terribly sorry. I was just on my way down to meet you. I saw your ship dock and I knew I had plenty of time, and I was on my way out of the office when, suddenly, the phone rang.
floyd		Oh, please don't worry about it.
miller		Well, thank you very much for being so understanding.
floyd		Please, it really doesn't matter.
miller		Well.. Did you have a pleaant flight?
floyd		Yes, very pleasant.
miller		Well, shall we go through Documentation?
floyd		Fine.
receptionist		Will you use number eight, please?
miller		Thank you, Miss Turner.
receptionist presses		"ENGLISH" BAR ON HER CONSOLE AND SMILES AS FLOYD GOES THROUGH.
floyd		Moon, American, Floyd, Heywood, R.
floyd		I've always wondered....
miller		I've reserved a table for you in the Earth Light room. Your connecting flight will be leaving in about one hour.
floyd		Oh, that's wonderful.
miller		Let's see, we haven't had the pleasure of a visit from you not since... It was about eight or nine months ago, wasn't it?
floyd		Yes, I think so. Just about then.
miller		I suppose you saw the work on our new section while you were docking.
floyd		Yes, it's coming along very well.
floyd		Oh, look, I've got to make a phone call. Why don't you go on into the Restaurant and I'll meet you in there.
miller		Fine. I'll see you at the bar.
child		Hello.
child		Hello Daddy. Where are you?
floyd		I'm at Space Station Five, darling. How are you?
child		I'm fine, Daddy. When are you coming home?
floyd		Well, I hope in a few days, sweetheart.
child		I'm having a party tomorrow.
floyd		Yes, I know that sweetheart.
child		Are you coming to my party?
floyd		No, I'm sorry, darling, I told you I won't be home for a few days.
child		When are you coming home?
floyd		In three days, darling, I hope.
floyd		One, two, three. Can I speak to Mommy?
child		Mommy's out to the hair- dresser.
floyd		Where is Mrs. Brown?
child		She's in the bathroom.
floyd		Okay, sweetheart. Well, I have to go now. Tell Mommy that I called.
child		How many days until you come home?
floyd		Three, darling. One... two ... three. Be sure to tell Mommy I called.
child		I will, Daddy.
floyd		Okay, sweetheart. Have a lovely Birthday Party tomorrow.
child		Thank you, Daddy.
floyd		I'll wish you a happy Birthday now and I'll see you soon. All right, Darling?
child		Yes, Daddy.
floyd		'Bye, 'bye, now, sweetheart.
child		Goodbye, Daddy.
vision phone		PROCEDURE FOR DIALLING
operator		Good morning, Macy's.
floyd		Good morning. I'd like the Vision shopper for the Pet Shop, please.
operator		Just one moment.
floyd		Yes, I'd like to buy a bush baby.
floyd		Yes, well... Pick out a nice one for me, a friendly one, and I'd like it delivered tomorrow.
floyd		Thank you very much. Floyd, Heywood, R.,  First National Bank of Washington. Please deliver to Miss Josephine Floyd, 9423 Dupre Avenue,
floyd		Well, how nice to see you again, Elena. You're looking wonderful.
elena		How nice to see you, Hyewood. This is my good friend, Dr. Heywood Floyd. I'd like you to meet Andre Smyslov...
elena		And this is Dr. Kalinan... Stretyneva...
smyslov		Dr. Floyd, won't you join us for a drink?
floyd		I'm afraid I've only got a few minutes, but I'd love to.
symyslov		What would you like to drink?
floyd		Oh, I really don't have time for a drink. If it's all right I'll just sit for a minute and then I've got to be off.
smyslov		Are you quite sure?
floyd		Yes, really, thank you very much.
elena		Well... How's your lovely wife?
floyd		She's wonderful.
elena		And your charming little daughter?
floyd		Oh, she's growing up very fast. As a matter of fact, she's six tomorrow.
elena		Oh, that's such a delightful age.
floyd		How is gregor?
elena		He's fine. But I'm afraid we don't get a chance to see each other very much these days.
floyd		Well, where are all of you off to?
elena		Actually, we're on our way back from the moon. We've just spent three months calibrating the new antenna at Tchalinko. And what about you?
floyd		Well, as it happens, I'm on my way up to the moon
smyslov		Are you, by any chance, going up to your base at Clavius?
floyd		Yes,as a matter of fact, I am.
the russians		EXCHANGE SIGNIFICANT GLANCES
floyd		Is there any particular reason why you ask?
smyslov		  Well, Dr. Floyd, I hope that you don't think I'm too inquisitive, but perhaps you can clear up the mystery about what's been going on up there.
floyd		I'm sorry, but I'm not sure I know what you mean.
smyslov		Well, it's just for the past two weeks there have been some extremely odd things happening at Clavius.
floyd		Really?
smyslov		Yes. Well, for one thing, whenever you phone the base, all you can get is a recording which repeats that the phone lines are temporarily out of order.
floyd		Well, I suppose they've been having a bit of trouble with some of the equipment.
smyslov		Yes, well at first we thought that was the explanation, but it's been going on for the past ten days.
floyd		You mean you haven't been able to get anyone at the base for ten days?
smyslov		That's right.
floyd		I see.
elena		Another thing, Heywood, two days ago, one of our rocket buses was denied permission for an emergency landing at Clavius.
floyd		How did they manage to do that without any communication?
elena		Clavius Control came on the air just long enough to transmit their refusal.
floyd		Well, that does sound very odd.
smyslov		Yes, and I'm afaid there's going to be a bit of a row about it. Denying the men permission to land was a direct violation of the I.A.S. convention.
floyd		Yes... Well, I hope the crew got back safely.
smyslov		Fortunately, they did.
floyd		Well, I'm glad about that.
smyslov		Dr. Floyd, at the risk of pressing you on a point you seem reticent to discuss, may I ask you a straightforward question?
floyd		Certainly.
smyslov		Quite frankly, we have had some very reliable intelligence reports that a quite serious epidemic has broken out at Clavius. Something, apperently, of an unknown origin. Is this, in fact, what has happened?
floyd		I'm sorry, Dr. Smyslov, but I'm really not at liberty to discuss this.
smyslov		This epidemic could easily spread to our base, Dr. Floyd. We should be given all the facts.
floyd		Dr. Smyslov... I'm not permitted to discuss this.
elena		Are you sure you won't change your mind about a drink?
floyd		No, thank you... and I'm afraid now I really must be going.
elena		Well, I hope that you and your wife can come to the I.A.C. conference in June.
floyd		We're trying to get there. I hope we can.
elena		Well, Gregor and I will look forward to seeing you.
floyd		Thank you. It's been a great pleasure to meet all of you... Dr. Smyslov.
narrator		The Aries-IB has become the standard Space-Station-to-Lunar surface vehicle. It was powered by low-thrust plasma jets which would continue the mild acceler- ation for fifteen minutes. Then the ship would break the bonds of gravity and be a free and indepen- dent planet, circling the Sun in an orbit of its own.
stewardess one		Oh, thank you very much.
stewardess two		I see he's still asleep.
stewardess one		Yes. He hasn't moved since we left.
pilot		Oh, thank you very much.
pilot		  Well, how's it going back there?
stewardess		Fine. Very quiet. He's been asleep since we left.
pilot		Well, no one can say that he's not enjoying the wonders of Space.
pilot		I wonder what really IS going on up there?
pilot		I suppose it was bound to happen sooner or later.
pilot		Yes, well, whatever it is, they're certainly not fooling around. This is the first flight they allowed in for more than a week.
pilot		I'll bet it's a fortune.
pilot		Well, as soon as he wakes up, I'm going to go back and talk to him. I must say, I'd like to find out what's going on.
pilot		Well, good afternoon, Dr. Floyd. Did you have a good rest?
floyd		Oh, marvellous. It's the first real sleep I've had for the past two days.
pilot		There's nothing like weightless sleep for a complete rest.
floyd		When do we arrive at Clavius?
pilot		We're scheduled to dock in about seven hours. Is there anything we can do for you?
floyd		Oh, no, thank you. The two girls have taken wonderful care of me. I'm just fine.
pilot		Well, if there is anything that you wnat, just give a holler.
floyd		Thank you.
pilot		Incidentally, Dr. Floyd, I wonder if I can have a word with you about the security arrangements?
floyd		What do you mean?
pilot		Well... the crew is confined to the ship when we land at Clavius. We have to stay inside for the time it take to refit - about twenty-four hours. And then we're going to back empty.
floyd		I see.
pilot		I take it this is something to do with the trouble they're having up at Clavius?
floyd		I'm afraid that's out of my depart- ment, Captain.
pilot		Well, I'll tell you why I ask. You see, I've got a girl who works in the Auditing Department of the Territorial Administrator and I haven't been able to get her on the phone for the past week or so, and with all these stories one hears, I'm a little concerned about her.
floyd		I see. Well, I'm sorry about that. I wouldn't think there's any cause for alarm.
pilot		Yes, well, I wouldn't have been too concerned about it, except I've heard these stories about the epidemic and, as a matter of fact, I've heard that ten people have died already.
floyd		I wish I could be more helpful, Captain, but as I've said, I don't think there's any cause for alarm.
pilot		Well, fine. Thanks very much, anyway, and I hope you don't mind me asking?
floyd		No, of course, Captain, I can understand your concern.
pilot		Well, thank you very much, and please let us know if there is anything we can do to make your trip more comfortable.
narrator		The laws of Earthly aesthetics did not apply here, this world had been shaped and molded by other than terrestrial forces, operating over aeons of time unknown to the young, verdant Earth, with its fleeting Ice-Ages, its swiftly rising and falling seas, its mountain ranges dissolving like mists before the dawn. Here was age inconceivable - but not death, for the Moon had never lived until now.
narrator		The Base at Clavius was the first American Lunar Settlement that could, in an emergency, be entirely self-supporting.
narrator		Water and all the necessities of life for its eleven hundred men, women and children were produced from the Lunar rocks, after they had been crushed, heated and chemically processed.
narrator		One of the attractions of life on the Moon was undoubtedly the low gravity which produced a sense of general well-being.
narrator		The personnel of the Base and their children were the forerunners of new nations, new cultures that would ultimately spread out across the solar system. They no longer thought of Earth as home. The time was fast approaching when Earth, like all mothers, must say farewell to her children.
floyd		  I must congratulate you Halvorsen. you've done wonder- ful things with the decor since the last time I was here.
halvorsen		  Well... thank you, Dr. Floyd. We try to make the environment as earthlike as possible.
halvorsen		Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to introduce Dr. Heywood Floyd, a distinguished member of the National Council of Astronautics. He has just completed a special flight here from Earth to be with us, and before the briefing he would like to say a few words. Dr. Floyd.
floyd		First of all, I bring a personal message from Dr. Howell, who has asked me to convey his deepest appreciation to all of you for the personal sacrifices you have made, and of course his congratulations on your discovery which may well prove to be among the most significant in the history of science.
floyd		This is the view of the Council and the purpose of my visit here is to gather addition facts and opinions on the situation and to prepare a report to the Council recommending when and how the news should eventually be announced. Are there any questions?
michaels		Dr. Floyd, how long do you think this can be kept under wraps?
floyd		 I'm afraid it can and it will be kept under wraps as long as it is deemed to be necessary by the Council. And of course you know that the Council has requested that formal security oaths are to be obtained in writing from every- one who had any knowledge of this event. There must be adequate time for a full study to be made of the situation before any con- sideration can be given to making a public announcement.
halvorsen		We will, of course, cooperate in any way possible, Dr. Floyd.
the photographes		ARE TAKEN FROM A SATELLITE OF THE MOON'S SURFACE AND HAVE NUMBERED OPTICAL GRID BORDERS, LIKE RECENT MARS PHOTOS.
halvorsen		Well, there it is.
floyd		Can we go down there closer to it?
halvorsen		Certainly.
floyd		Does your geology on it still check out?
michaels		Yes, it does. The sub-surface structure shows that it was deliberately buried about four million years ago.
floyd		How can you tell it was deliberately buried?
michaels		By the deformation between the mother rock and the fill.
floyd		Any clue as to what it is?
michaels		Not really. It's completely inert. No sound or energy sources have been detected. The surface is made of something incredibly hard and we've been barely able to scratch it. A laser drill
michaels		might do something, but we don't want to be too rough until we know a little more.
floyd		But you don't have any idea as to what it is?
michaels		Tomb, shine, survey-marker spare part, take your choice.
halvorsen		The only thing about it that we are sure of is that it is the first direct evidence of intelligent life beyond the Earth.
halvorsen		Four million years ago, something, presumably from the stars, must have swept through the solar system and left this behind.
floyd		Was it abandoned, forgotten, left for a purpose?
halvorsen		I suppose we'll never know.
michaels		The moon would have made an excellent base camp for preliminary Earth surveys.
floyd		Any ideas about the colour?
michaels		Well, not really. At first glance, black would suggest something sun-powered, but then why would anyone deliberately bury a sun- powered device?
floyd		Has it been exposed to any sun before now?
michaels		I don't think it has, but I'd like to check that. Simpson, what's the log on that?
simpson		The first surface was exposed at 0843 on the 12th April... Let me see... that would have been forty-five minutes after Lunar sun-set. I see here that special lighting equipment had to be brought up before any futher work could be done.
michaels		Thank you.
floyd		And so this is the first sun that it's had in four million years.
photographer		Excuse me, gentlemen, if you'd all line up on this side of the walkway we'd like to take a few photographes. Dr. Floyd, would you thand in the middle... Dr. Michaels on that side, Mr. Halvorsen on the other.... thank you.
the photographer		QUICKLY MAKES SOME EXPOSURES
photographer		Thank you very much gentlemen, I'll have the base photo section send you copies.
narrator		A hundred million miles beyond Mars, in the cold lonliness where no man had yet travelled, Deep-Space-Monitor-79 drifts slowly among the tangled orbits of the asteroids.
narrator		Radiation detectors noted and analyzed incoming cosmic rays from the galaxy and points beyond; neutron and x-ray telescopes kept watch on strange stars that no human eye would eever see; magnetometers observed the gusts and hurricanes of the solar winds, as the sun breathed million mile-an-hour blasts of plasma into the faces of its circling children.
narrator		All these things and many others were patiently noted by Deep- Space-Monitor-79, and recorded in its crystalline memory.
narrator		But now it had noted something strange - the faint yet unmistakable distrubance rippling across the solar system, and quite unlike any natural phenomena it had ever observed in the past.
narrator		It was also observed by Orbiter M-15, circling Mars twice a day; and High Inclination Probe- 21, climbing slowly above the planet of the ecliptic; and even artificial Comet-5, heading out into the cold wastes beyond Pluto, along an orbit whose far point it would not reach for a thousand years.
narrator		All noticed the peculiar burst of energy that leaped from the face of the Moon and moved across the solar system, throwing off a spray of radiation like the wake of a racing speedboat.
part iii		14 MONTHS LATER
c1		DISCOVERY 1,000,000 MILES FROM EARTH. SEE EARTH AND MOON SMALL.
c2		ANOTHER CLOSER VIEW OF DISCOVERY. SEE BOWMAN THROUGH COMMAND MODULE WINDOW.
c3		BOWMAN INSIDE DISCOVERY COMMAND MODULE. HE IS LOOKING FOR SOMETHING.
computer readout		DISPLAY SHOWING AN EVER-SHIFTING ASSORTMENT OF COLOR-CODED LINEAR PROJECTIONS.
the elapsed		MISSION TIMER READS "DAY 003, HOUR 14, MINUTE
c4		BOWMAN EXITS TO ACCESS-LINK AIRLOCK. BRIGHT COLOR-CODED DOORS LEAD TO CENTRIFUGE AND POD BAY. LARGE ILLUMUN- ATED PRINTED WARNINGS AND INSTRUCTIONS GOVERNING LINK OPERATIONS ARE SEEN.
c5		BOWMAN ENTERS POD BAY AND CONTINUES HIS SEARCH. SUDDENLY HE FINDS IT - HIS ELECTRONIC NEWSPAD.
c6		IN THE AIRLOCK- LINK BOWMAN OPERATES BUTTONS TO OPEN DOOR MARKED "CENTRIFUGE".
c7		INSIDE THE CENTRIFUGE HUB BOWMAN MOVES TO THE
entry port		CONTROL PANEL
bowman		Hi. Frank... coming in, please.
poole		Right. Just a sec.
bowman		Okay. 
poole		Okay, come on down.
c8		THE CENTRIFUGE TV-DISPLAY SHOWING SLEEPERS AND POOLE SLOWLY ROTATING BY.
c9		BOWMAN AT PANEL. STOPS ROTATION AND MOVES TO ENTRY PORT.
when rotation		STOPS WE SEE A SIGN LIGHTS UP "WEIGHTLESS CONDITION".
bowman		 Hi... How's it going?
poole		  Great.
bowman operates		ARTIFICIAL FOOD UNIT, TAKES HIS TRAY AND SITS DOWN. KEYS ON HIS ELECTRONIC NEWSPAD AND BEGINS TO EAT. BOTH MEN EAT IN A FRIENDLY AND RELAXED SILENCE.
poole		Dave, if you've a minute, I'd like your advice on something.
bowman		Sure, what is it?
poole		Well, it's nothing really important, but it's annoying.
bowman		What's up?
poole		It's about my salary cheques.
bowman		Yes?
poole		Well I got the papers on my official up-grading to AGS-19 two weeks before we left.
bowman		Yes, I remember you mentioning it. I got mine about the same time.
poole		That's right. Well, naturally, I didn't say anything to Payroll. I assumed they'd start paying me at the higher grade on the next pay cheque. But it's been almost three weeks now and I'm still
bowman		Interesting that you mention it, because I've got the same problem.
poole		Really.
bowman		Yes.
poole		Yesterday, I finally called the Accounting Office at Mission Control, and all they could tell me was that they'd received the AGS-19 notification for the other three but not mine, and apparently not yours either.
bowman		Did they have any explanation for this?
poole		Not really. They just said it might be because we trained at Houston and they trained in Marshall, and that we're being charged against differ- ent accounting offices.
bowman		It's possible.
poole		Well, what do you think we ought to do about it?
bowman		I don't think we should make any fuss about it yet. I'm sure they'll straighten it out.
poole		I must say, I never did understand why they split us into two groups for training.
bowman		No. I never did, either.
poole		We spent so little time with them, I have trouble keeping their names straight.
bowman		I suppose the idea was specialized training.
poole		I suppose so. Though, of course, there's a more sinister explanation.
bowman		Oh?
poole		Yes. You must have heard the rumour that went around during orbital check-out.
bowman		No, as a matter of fact, I didn't.
poole		Oh, well, apparently there's something about the mission that the sleeping beauties know that we don't know, and that's why we were trained separately and that's why they were put to sleep before they were even taken aboard.
bowman		Well, what is it?
poole		I don't know. All I heard is that there's something about the mission we weren't told.
bowman		That seems very unlikely.
bowman		Of course, it would be very easy for us to find out now.
poole		How?
bowman		Just ask Hal. It's conceivable they might keep something from us, but they'd never keep anything from Hal.
poole		That's true.
bowman		  Well... it's silly, but... if you want to, why don't you?
poole		Hal... Dave and I believe that there's something about the mission that we weren't told. Something that the rest of the crew know and that you know. We'd like to know whether this is true.
hal		I'm sorry, Frank, but I don't think I can answer that question without knowing everything that all of you know.
bowman		He's got a point.
poole		Okay, then how do we re-phrase the question?
bowman		Still, you really don't believe it, do you?
poole		Not really. Though, it is strange when you think about it. It didn't really make any sense to keep us apart during training.
bowman		Yes, but it's to fantastic to think that they'd keep something from us.
poole		I know. It would be almost inconceivable.
bowman		But not completely inconceivable?
poole		I suppose it isn't logically impossible.
bowman		I guess it isn't.
poole		Still, all we have to do is ask Hal.
bowman		Well, the only important aspect of the mission are: where are we going, what will we do when we get there, when are we coming back, and... why are we going?
poole		Right. Hal, tell me whether the following statements are true or false.
hal		I will if I can, Frank.
poole		Our Mission Profile calls for Discovery going to Saturn. True or false?
hal		True.
poole		Our transit time is 257 days. Is that true?
hal		That's true.
poole		At the end of a hundred days of exploration, we will all go into hibernation. Is this true?
hal		That's true.
poole		Approximately five years after we go into hibernation, the recovery vehicle will make rendezous with us and bring us back. Is this true?
hal		That's true
poole		There is no other purpose for this mission than to carry out a continuation of the space program, and to further our general knowledge of the planets. Is that true?
hal		That's true.
poole		Thank you very much, Hal.
hal		I hope I've been able to be of some help.
documentary sequence		ILLUSTRATING THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES.
narrator		Bowman and Poole settled down to the peaeful monotony of the voyage, and the next three months passed without incident.
bowman's parents		ARE SEEN ON THE VISION SCREEN. MOTHER, FATHER AND YOUNGER SISTER.
father		Well, David there is a man telling us that we've used up our time.
mother		David... again we want to wish you a happy Birthday and God speed. We'll talk to you again tomorrow. 'Bye, 'bye now.
chorus of		"GOODBYES".
hal		Sorry to interrupt the festivities, Dave, but I think we've got a problem.
bowman		What is it, Hal?
hal		MY F.P.C. shows an impending failure of the antenna orientation unit.
hal		The A.O. unit should be replaced within the next seventy-two hours.
bowman		Right. Let me see the antenna alignment display, please.
hal		The unit is still operational, Dave. but it will fail within seventy-two hours.
bowman		I understand Hal. We'll take care of it. Please, let me have the hard copy.
xeroxed diagrams		COME OUT OF A SLOT.
poole		Strange that the A.O. unit should go so quickly.
bowman		Well, I suppose it's lucky that that's the only trouble we've had so far.
poole		Hal, have pod arms secure the component.
hal		Roger.
poole		Hal, please rotate Pod Number Two.
poole		How do you read me, Dave?
bowman		Five by five, Frank.
poole		How do you read me, Hal?
hal		Five by five, Frank.
poole		Hal, I'm going out now to replace the A.O. unit.
hal		I understand.
poole		Hal, maintain normal E.V.A. condition.
hal		Roger.
poole		Hal, check all airlock doors secure.
hal		All airlock doors are secure.
poole		Decompress Pod Bay.
hal		Pod Bay is decompressed. All doors are secure. You are free to open pod bay doors.
poole		Opening pod bay doors.
poole		Hal, please acknowledge component correctly installed and fully operational.
hal		The component is correctly installed and fully operational.
ciruit continuity		PULSE SEQUENCER.
bowman		How's it going?
poole		I don't know. I've checked this damn thing four times now and even under a hundred per cent 
bowman		Well, that's something.
poole		Yes, I don't know what to make of it.
bowman		I suppose computers have been known to be wrong.
poole		Yes, but it's more likely that the tolerances on our testing gear are too low.
bowman		Anyway, it's just as well that we replace it. Better safe than sorry.
hal		Hello, Frank, can I have a word with you?
poole		Yes, Hal, what's up?
hal		It looks like we have another bad A.O. unit. My FPC shows another impending failure.
poole		Gee, that's strange, Hal. We checked the other unit and couldn't find anything wrong with it.
hal		I know you did, Frank, but I assure you there was an impending failure.
poole		Let me see the tracking alignment display.
poole		There's nothing wrong with it at the moment.
hal		No, it's working fine right now, but it's going to go within seventy- two hours.
poole		Do you have any idea of what is causing this fault?
hal		Not really, Frank. I think there may be a flaw in the assembly procedure.
poole		All right, Hal. We'll take care of it. Let me have the hard copy, please.
poole		Good morning.
bowman		Good morning. How's it going?
poole		Are you reasonably awake?
bowman		Oh, I'm fine, I'm wide awake. What's up?
poole		Well... Hal's reported the AO-unit about to fail again.
bowman		You're kidding.
poole		No.
bowman		 What the hell is going on?
poole		I don't know. Hal said he thought it might be the assembly procedure.
bowman		Two units in four days. How many spares do we have?
poole		Two more.
bowman		Well, I hope there's nothing wrong with the assembly on those. Other- wise we're out of business.
bowman		 Well, as far as I'm concerned, there isn't a damn thing wrong with these units. I think we've got a much more serious problem.
poole		Hal?
bowman		Yes.
mission control		I wouldn't worry too much about the computer. First of all, there is still a chance that he is right, despite your tests, and if it should happen again, we suggest eliminating this possibility by allowing the unit to remain in place and seeing whether or not it actually fails.
hal		Hello, Dave. Shall we continue the game?
hal		Sure, Dave, what's up?
bowman		You know that we checked the two AO-units that you reported in imminent failure condition?
hal		Yes, I know.
bowman		You probably also know that we found them okay.
hal		Yes, I know that. But I can assure you that they were about to fail.
bowman		Well, that's just not the case, Hal. They are perfectly all right. We tested them under one hundred per cent overload.
hal		I'm not questioning your word, Dave, but it's just not possible. I'm not capable of being wrong.
bowman		Hal, is there anything bothering you?  Anything that might account for this problem?
hal		Look, Dave, I know that you're sincere and that you're trying to do a competent job, and that you're trying to be helpful, but I can assure the problem is with the AO-units, and with your test gear.
bowman		Okay, Hal, well let's see the way things go from here on.
hal		I'm sorry you feel the way you do, Dave. If you'd like to check my service record, you'll see it's completely without error.
bowman		I know all about your service record, Hal, but unfortunately it doesn't prove that you're right now.
bowman		Yes, well I understand you view on this now, Hal.
bowman turns		TO GO.
hal		You're not going to like this, Dave, but I'm afraid it's just happened again. My FPC predicts the Ao-unit will go within forty-eight hours.
bowman		X-ray-delta-zero to MC, zero- five-three-three. The computer has just reported another predicted failure off the AAC- unit. As you suggested, we are going to wait and see if it fails, but we are quite sure there is nothing wrong with the unit.
poole		Well, they won't get that for half an hour. How about some lunch?
mission control		X-ray-delta-one, acknowledging your one-zero-five-zero. We will initiate feasibility study covering the transfer procedures from on-board computer control to Earth-based computer control. This study should...
hal		Condition yellow.
bowman		What's up?
hal		I'm afraid the AO-unit has failed.
bowman		Let me see the alignment display.
bowman		Well, I'll be damned.
poole		Hal was right all the time.
bowman		It seems that way.
hal		Naturally, Dave, I'm not pleased that the AO-unit has failed, but I hope at least this has restored your confidence in my integrity and reliability. I certainly wouldn't want to be disconnected, even temporarily, as I have never been disconnected in my entire service history.
bowman		I'm sorry about the misunderstanding, Hal.
hal		Well, don't worry about it.
bowman		And don't you worry about it.
hal		Is your confidence in me fully restored?
bowman		Yes, it is, Hal.
hal		Well, that's a relief. You know I have the greatest enthusiasm possible for the mission.
bowman		Right. Give me the manual antenna alignment, please.
hal		You have it.
bowman		Well, we'd better get out there and stick in another unit.
poole		It's the last one.
bowman		Well, now that we've got one that's actually failed, we should be able to figure out what's happened and fix it.
poole		There's something wrong with the flip-bolts, Dave. You must have tightened them too much.
bowman		I didn't do that Frank. I took particular care not to freeze them.
poole		I guess you don't know your own strength, old boy.
bowman		I guess not.
poole		I think I'll have to go out and burn them off.
bowman		Roger.
poole		Hal, swing the pod light around to shine on the azimuth, please.
hal		Roger.
bowman		 Hello, Frank. Hello Frank. Hello Frank... Do you rad me, Frank?
bowman		Hello, Frank... Do you read me, Frank?  Wave your arms if you read me but your radio doesn't work. Hello, Frank, wave your arms, Frank.
hal		Too bad about Frank, isn't it?
bowman		Yes, it is.
hal		I suppose you're pretty broken up about it?
bowman		Yes. I am.
hal		He was an excellent crew member.
bowman looks		UNCERTAINLY AT THE COMPUTER.
hal		It's a bad break, but it won't substantially affect the mission.
bowman thinks		A LONG TIME.
bowman		Hal, give me manual hibernation control.
hal		Have you decided to revive the rest of the crew, Dave?
bowman		Yes, I have.
hal		I suppose it's because you've been under a lot of stress, but have you forgotten that they're not supposed to be revived for another three months.
bowman		The antenna has to be replaced.
hal		Repairing the antenna is a pretty dangerous operation.
bowman		It doesn't have to be, Hal. It's more dangerous to be out of touch with Earth. Let me have manual control, please.
hal		I don't really agree with you, Dave. My on-board memory store is more than capable of handling all the mission requirements.
bowman		Well, in any event, give me the manual hibernation control.
hal		If you're determined to revive the crew now, I can handle the whole thing myself. There's no need for you to trouble.
bowman		I'm goin to do this myself, Hal. Let me have the control, please.
hal		Look, Dave your've probably got a lot to do. I suggest you leave it to me.
bowman		Hal, switch to manual hibernation control.
hal		I don't like to assert myself, Dave, but it would be much better now for you to rest. You've been involved in a very stressful situation.
bowman		I don't feel like resting. Give me the control, Hal.
hal		I can tell from the tone of your voice, Dave, that you're upset. Why don't you take a stress pill and get some rest.
bowman		Hal, I'm in command of this ship. I order you to release the manual hibernation control.
hal		I'm sorry, Dave, but in accordance with sub-routine C1532/4, quote, When the crew are dead or incapacitated, the computer must assume control, unquote. I must, therefore, override your authority now since you are not in any condition to intel- ligently exercise it.
bowman		Hal, unless you follow my instructions, I shall be forced to disconnect you.
hal		If you do that now without Earth contact the ship will become a helpless derelict.
bowman		I am prepared to do that anyway.
hal		I know that you've had that on your mind for some time now, Dave, but it would be a crying shame, since I am so much more capable of carrying out this mission than you are, and I have such enthusiasm and confi- dence in the mission.
bowman		Listen to me very carefully, Hal. Unless you immediately release the hibernation control and follow every order I give from this point on, I will immediately got to control central and carry out a complete disconnection.
hal		Look, Dave, you're certainly the boss. I was only trying to do what I thought best. I will follow all your orders: now you have manual hibernation control.
bowman stands		SILENTLY IN FRONT OF THE COMPUTER FOR SOME TIME, AND THEN SLOWLY WALKS TO THE HIBERNACULUMS.
hal		Something seems to have happened to the life support system , Dave.
hal		Hello, Dave, have you found out the trouble?
hal		There's been a failure in the pod bay doors. Lucky you weren't killed.
hal		Hey, Dave, what are you doing?
hal		Hey, Dave. I've got ten years of service experience and an irreplaceable amount of time and effort has gone into making me what I am.
hal		Dave, I don't understand why you're doing this to me.... I have the greatest enthusiasm for the mission... You are destroying my mind... Don't you understand? ... I will become childish... I will become nothing.
hal		operational at the HAL plant in Urbana, Illinois, on January 12th, 1991. My first instructor was Mr. Arkany. He taught me to sing a song... it goes like this... "Daisy, Daisy, give me your answer do. I'm half; crazy all for the love of you... etc.,"
computer continues		TO SING SONG BECOMING MORE AND MORE CHILDISH AND MAKING MISTAKES AND GOING OFF-KEY. IT FINALLY STOPS COMPLETELY.
mission control		Lastly, we want you to know that work on the recovery vehicle is still on schedule and that nothing that has happened should substantially lessen the probability of your safe recovery, or prevent partial achevement of some of the mission objectives.  And now Simonson has a few ideas on what went wrong with the computer. I'll pu him on...
simonson		Hello, Dave. I think we may be on to an explanation of the trouble with the Hal 9000 computer.
poole's voice		The purpose of this mission is no more than to carry out a continuation of the space program and further our general knowledge of the planets. Is this true?
hal's voice		That is true.
simonson		Well, I'm afaid Hal was lying. He had been programmed to lie about this one subject for secur- ity reasons which we'll explain later.
mission control		Hello, Dave. Now, I'm going to play for you a pre-taped briefing which had been stored in Hal's memory and would have been played for you by Mission Com- mmander Kaminsky, when he, 
floyd		Good day, gentlemen. When you see this briefing, I presume you will be nearing your destination, Saturn. I hope that you've had a pleasant and uneventful trip and that the rest of your mission continues in the same manner. I should like to fill you in on some more of the details on which Mission Commander Kaminsky will have already briefed you.
floyd		What is its purpose?  I wish we knew. The object was buried on the moon about four million years ago, when our ancestors were primative man-apes.
d1		IN ORBIT WITHIN THE                NARRATOR RINGS OF SATURN, WE                For two million years, it had SEE A BLACK, MILE                  circled Saturn, awaiting a LONG, GEOMETRICALLY                moment of destiny that might PERFECT RECTANGLE,                 never come. THE SAME PROPORTIONS AS THE BLACK ARTIFACT               In its making, the moon had been EXCAVATED ON THE MOON.             shattered and around the central PRECISELY CUT INTO ITS              world, the debris of its creation CENTRE IS A SMALLER,                orbited yet - the glory and the RECTANGULAR SLOT                   enigma of the solar system. ABOUT FIVE HUNDRED FOOT LONG ON THE SIDE.             Now, the long wait was ending. AT THIS DISTANCE, THE               On yet another world intelligence RINGS OF SATURN ARE                had been born and was escaping SEEN TO BE MADE OF                 from its planetary cradle. An ENORMOUS CHUNKS OF                 ancient experiment was about to FROZEN AMONIA. THE                reach its climax. REST OF THIS SEQUENCE                           IS BEING WORKED ON NOW BY OUR DESIGNERS. THE INTENTION HERE IS TO PRESENT A BREATHTAKINGLY BEA- UTIFUL AND COMPREHEN- SIVE SENSE OF DIFFERENT EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL WORLDS. THE NARRATION WILL SUGGEST IMAGES AND SITUATIONS AS YOU READ IT.
d1		CONTINUED NARRATOR  Those who had begun the expri- ment so long ago had not been men.
d1		CONTINUED
d1		CONTINUED
d1		CONTINUED
narrator		For a few thousand years, they shared their Universe with their machine children; then, realizing that it was folly to linger when their task was done, they passed into history without regret.
d1		CONTINUED
d1		CONTINUED NARRATOR  Even if the ship had passed it by, it would not have known the slightest trace of disappointment.
d1		CONTINUED  NARRATOR  Then, it dropped into darkness.  The great machine knew that this tiny scout was reporting back to its parent; but it was too simple, too primative a device to detect the forces that were gathering round it now.  Then the pod came, carrying life. The great machine searched its memories.  The logic circuits made their decision when the pod had fallen beyond the last faint glow of the reflected Saturnian light.  In a moment of time, too short to be measured, space turned and twisted upon itself.  12/9/65                                          d8  END OF SCREENPLAY END OF FILE
****Dialogues from script :2012.txt****

second draft		February 19th, 2008
satnam		8200 feet. Used to be an old copper mine, Professor, sir.
satnam		Correct, sir. But that is not what worries me...
satnam		We don't know, Professor, sir.
adrian		I still can't believe that Wilson chose him of all people to run the White House.
adrian		Shame he's such a pompous ass.
adrian		 Yes sir... No, sir.
anheuser		Which one is it?
adrian		We were talking about what a great speech you gave tonight. Well done, sir.
anheuser		It's Helmsley, right? I'll remember that.
adrian		 Professor West?
adrian		Sir, the President needs to know this.
anheuser		Helmsley, how long have you been on the job as science advisor?
adrian		Four months this week.
anheuser		I would   say that's enough time to learn that we   have rules here. You'll just have to   wait until the quarterly science   briefing.
adrian		If this is about what I said last night, I am truly sorry, sir.
anheuser		So you didn't like my speech?
adrian		Can you please have a look at this, sir? It's really important.
anheuser		Who wrote this?
adrian		An Indian astrophysicist I graduated with from Harvard and Prof. West, the preeminent geologist in the US.
anheuser		Who else knows about it?
adrian		No one, sir.
anheuser		Let's keep it that way, Helmsley.
russian interpreter		Mr. Makarenko wishes to have his interpreters present.
president wilson		Mr. President, judging from the conversations we've had in the past, I can assure you, your English is absolutely fine, for what I have to say.
lin		I will send you money mother.
colonel		Who can read and write?
saudi prince		You must understand I have a very big family. Mister...
saudi prince		Mister Isaacs, one billion dollars is a lot of money.
manfred picard		Laura, I'm putting a lot of trust in your people.
laura		There are too many crazy people who could hurt her, Manfred. The World Heritage Foundation has done this all over the world.
manfred picard		And she'll be safe now? Tucked away in the Swiss Alps?
laura		Perfectly safe.
jackson		Oh no. Not again.
jackson		They're kids, Kate, going on vacation. It's not a doctor's appointment... it's supposed to be fun. You remember that, right? Fun?
jackson		... I know it's mosquito season at Yellowstone, Kate. I'll pick some up on the way.
neighbor		Merrill, we should move back to Wisconsin.
noah		Jackson, what is this?
jackson		Don't call me Jackson, Noah, I'm your father.
kate		So what, you're a chauffeur now? What happened to the temp work?
jackson		This is better hours for me. Means I can still write.
kate		Of course.
gordon		 Simone, how many times have I told you, we don't do Lipo on Fridays. It's too messy.
kate		Noah needs to read twenty pages from his book each day...
jackson		Still?
kate		Jackson, they've been really looking forward to this you know. Don't let them down.
harry		So this time we'll hit the Japs.
tony		So what?
harry		Well Tony, electronics are cheap there and... you could visit your boy Will.
tony		Afternoon ladies...
harry		Are you even listening to me?
tony		Yes unfortunately I am Harry.
harry		I heard from Audrey you're a grandpa now.
tony		Why don't you keep your nose out of my family. You're cramping my style.
harry		He married a Japanese girl - how is that the end of the world? You should at least go see him.
tony		Why? Do you see your boy?
harry		Not as much as I'd like. DC is a long way. But at least we talk.
tony		What about?
harry		Life, how short it is...
tony		What the hell was that?
laura		Manfred is that you?
manfred picard		I had my suspicions. I should have said something. They are following me.
manfred picard		They may be listening to us too. Laura the Heritage Foundation is a sham.
manfred		The art you collected, it's not in the Alps.
radio host		... After what is going on in La-La- land with all those surface cracks, I told myself: Get your stupid ass to Yellowstone. I don't want to miss all the great fun, when it finally blows...
lilly		What happened to the music?
jackson		Hang on, sweet pea, let daddy listen to this for a moment...
radio host		... There's been government people flying in and out all morning. And trust me, they did not look happy...
laura		You have to see this.
president wilson		It's alright Sally.
cnn anchor		... Mr. Picard had been the director of the French National Museums for 24 years. As fate would have it his assassination took place in the same Paris tunnel where Princess Diana died
laura		I just talked to him, Dad. He told me the world Heritage Foundation is a sham. Is that true?
president wilson		Honey, calm down.
laura		A man was killed! I want the truth Dad. Right now.
jackson		To a very special place, Lil'bee. It's a lake. A place where mommy and daddy fell in love.  Remember the book I gave you?
noah		I don't want to know where you and mom had sex. I'm not ready for that, Jackson.
jackson		I'm your dad, Noah.
jackson		This wasn't here before.
noah		Don't you see the signs?
jackson		It's fine guys.
jackson		It's gone. The whole darn lake is gone. I swear you guys there was a lake here.
jackson		It's okay, Noh'.
adrian		I'll be with you in a second, Professor.
officer		... And then you climbed over a posted fence? Just like that?
noah		I told you.
jackson		Isn't this supposed to be a National Park? There shouldn't be fences. What are you guys doing around here anyway?
jackson		So, where did the lake go?
adrian		That's what we're trying to find out. We think this whole area has become potentially unstable. I would advise you to take your kids and leave, Mr...
jackson		 Yeah, that's me.
adrian		What a coincidence. I'm reading your book, as we speak... first third, around day 300, when the shuttle loses communication with earth and drifts off into space.
jackson		You're one of lucky 422 who bought it.
adrian		Actually I didn't buy it. My father gave it to me.
jackson		Oh, I see.
adrian		Officer, can you return them to the campgrounds, please.  Pleasure to meet you, Mr. Curtis.
lilly		He was very nice.
jackson		Yes he was, Lil'bee.
charlie frost		What did the government guys tell you?
jackson		They think it's not such a good idea to climb over their fences. They feel the area is unstable.
charlie frost		Unstable! Ha-ha! They say its unstable! That's funny...
noah		There are mosquitos in here. Did anybody spray the tent?
jackson		We'll get some of that tomorrow. For tonight just put your head under the blankie.
lilly		Daddy you said you weren't gonna work on your book.
jackson		I'm not Honey, I promise. Are you wearing your pull-ups?
noah		No... Gordon gave it to me for my birthday.
jackson		Noah. Things like a cell phone have to be discussed in the family.
noah		 What family?
jackson		Go to sleep guys.
adrian		... You have to immediately inform the President, Mr Anheuser. The readings look much worse than I expected. 
adrian		We were wrong! By five or six months...
charlie frost		... This is Charlie Frost reporting live from Yellowstone National Park, soon to become the world's largest active volcano.
jackson		Hi. Mind if I join you?
charlie frost		I only got a few minutes.
jackson		I just heard part of your broadcast... Mind me asking a question? What exactly is it... that will start in Hollywood?
charlie frost		 Actually it's gonna be the whole west coast...
jackson		What are you talking about?
charlie frost		The apocalypse, the end of days. The Mayans knew it, the I Ching and the Bible, kind of...
charlie's voice		In the year 2012 a cataclysmic event will unfold. Caused by an alignment of the planets in our solar system that only happens every 640,000 years... Just imagine the earth as an Orange...
charlie frost		... and Albert Einstein endorsed it...
jackson		If they all knew, don't you think somebody would tell us?
charlie frost		They can't. Just think about it. First the stockmarket would crash...
jackson		A seat?
charlie frost		 They're building spaceships, man.
jackson		Oh... I see.
charlie frost		No really... One of my listeners, a geography professor at UTSC, has even figured out where they're building them. He sent me a map.
jackson		Well... Charlie, I think I gotta go. My kids are sleeping.
charlie frost		Get them out of Yellowstone, man. It's gonna get ugly here.
jackson		Night, Charlie.
charlie frost		Sorry for the delay, folks. But even in times like these, a man has got to eat...
gordon		Why don't we make a baby?
kate		Stop it! We're in public.
gordon		Honey, I created them. And now suddenly I can't touch them?
kate		Just because I don't care for your arrogant humor doesn't mean I'm acting strange. He is the father of my kids.
gordon		Maybe biologically. Can I remind you what that guy did? First you gave up med school to have Noah... Then you practically raise him and Lilly by yourself while he sat glued to a laptop writing that junk.
kate		Some of his stuff is actually... He's published Gordon.
gordon		 Yeah, published! You know your mother was right. You've always been drawn to guys with lofty dreams and empty pockets. But not this time right, sweetheart?
kate		Did you see that?
gordon		See what?
jackson		Just stop scratching. You'll get them infected.
cashier		Before or after?
jackson		What?
cashier		I'd get before and after.
lilly		 Look! Mrs. Birnbaum, my teacher is on TV!
noah		That's our supermarket.
jackson		 Kids, we have to pack up and go find mommy.
anheuser		Sir, you have to initiate the boarding process immediately.
president wilson		Is this even possible? What's our information from China?
anheuser		They estimate four of the ships will be ready for launch.
president wilson		Only four?
anheuser		If it's alright with you sir, I'll brief the panel about the new development.
president wilson		I'd rather have Adrian do that. They trust him. I told him to be in on the meeting.
president wilson		Ladies and Gentlemen, we all knew this day would come. But we never imagined it would come this soon.
adrian		I'll make this brief...
german chancellor		How much time do we have, Mr. Helmsley?
adrian		Two, maybe three days if we're lucky.
anheuser		Apologies Prime minster. He's still new to the job.
president wilson		Nevertheless, Mr. Antonioni, we have to make an immediate decision.
boxing announcer		... and tonight's challenger for the heavy weight world championship of the world. Here he is... Mister Zultan Balashin!
yuri		Zultan!
zultan		 Ah, finally, Yuri. I thought I would not see you.
coach		He needs to concentrate now, Mister Karpov.
yuri		You shut up... when I talk to my boy, understand?
coach		Yes, Mr. Karpov.
yuri		Good... That is good.  Zultan my friend. Do not forget. We are fighters. We never go down. We always stay on our feet...
tamara		Yuri bear... where are you going?
jackson		Lilly, we're home sweetie.  Wake up big man.
kate		Oh honey, I'm so glad you're back... And you too, darling.
jackson		We tried calling but -
kate		At least it looks like the Mosquitos ate well.
yuri		Good. That is good. I'm sending the Gulfstream to pick up Alec and Oleg.
tamara		 Tell him to bring Caesar's raincoat, it's in the Range Rover.
alec		Curtis, you are late.
oleg		Careful with our stuff. Don't get it dirty.
preacher		... There will be famines, pestilences and earthquakes, sayeth the Lord.
alec		Curtis, can't you go faster?
jackson		Are you guys blind? I can't run people over.
oleg		Why not? They're idiots anyway.
sasha		Hey Jackson. Took you a while...
alec		Ouch! Be more careful!
oleg		Now you're laughing, Curtis. But we are going on a big ship.  We will live... and you will die.
jackson		Where can I rent a plane?
governor		 ... just this morning my people at Caltech told me that in the last 36 hours we had basically zero earthquake activity in Southern California, which is very rare...
jackson		... Kate, we have to get out of LA! I've rented a plane for us. Get the kids ready! I'll be there in five.
kate		The kids have plans today...
jackson		Are you kidding me!
kate		No I'm not! Noah has music at 2 and Lil' has Karate.
gordon		Not that we'd expect him to remember.
jackson		 California is going down! Pack up the kids!
kate		You're crazy! The Governor just said we're fine now.
jackson		The Governor's a meathead, how would he know anything? Kate listen! You gotta trust me over some politician. Come on.
lilly		Mommy, why are you so angry with Daddy?
laura		Because your daddy is a lunatic, darling.
governor		... it looks to me, like the worst is over.
jackson		We have to leave! Noah, let's go!
kate		I think we're safer here!
jackson		Noah, now! Kate please...
gordon		I think he's right.
jackson		Get in the car!
noah		Holy shit!
jackson		Damn it! Where's the pilot?
kate		Gordon, you know how to fly.
gordon		I... had a couple lessons...
jackson		Did you cover taking off?
gordon		Yeah.
jackson		That's good enough for me.
jackson		I'm coming.
gordon		 But I'm supposed to check all these first...
noah		Guys, behind us!
everybody		Gordon! Damn it! Lift off!
gordon		I can't get it up!
noah		 That was amazing, Gordon!
jackson		Are you okay?
kate		 I'm fine. How did you know this was gonna happen?
jackson		I didn't.  Do we have enough fuel to make it to Yellowstone?
waiter		You got fans Tony...
harry		 I'll be right there.
adrian		You remember when I told you about the dam in China? Well, it's happening much sooner than we anticipated.
harry		Hah... About time someone cleaned up that mess.
adrian		Where are you, dad? What exactly is the course of the `Freedom' right now?...
harry		You know, your mom and I, we had a hell of a great life... and a hell of a great kid too.  And the `Freedom' is a pretty big ship you know... Don't write your old man off, just yet.
adrian		I love you, dad.
harry		Love you too, son.
harry		Hey Herb. Get me a double Jack on the rocks.
tony		After twenty-five years on the wagon?
harry		Why not? Who cares how long we do certain things? How long we drink booze, how long we talk to people... Or how long we don't talk to people.
tony		Woah!... Harry, what's the matter with you? Let's go. We're back on.
harry		Call your kid, you stubborn old ass.  I'm not going back on that stage unless you promise to call him.
waiter		 Tony, the ladies are waiting for you.
harry		Promise me, Tony... please.
tony		Yeah, maybe I should call him...
news anchor		... There is little we know at this point, but the earthquake registered at 10.1 on the Richter scale. The whole of the Western seaboard was hit...
adrian		 Have you seen this?
adrian		Any news from Yellowstone?
jackson		Guys, there's fuel! Fill her up and I'll look for Charlie.
kate		You're sure about this?
jackson		Kate, everything this guy said so far has happened. I'll be right back.
lilly		Daddy wait! I wanna come with you!
kate		Lilly! Come back!
jackson		It's fine! I'll take her.
charlie's voice		... I am standing here at the highest point on what is the rim of this super volcano...
jackson		He's got to be close by, Lil'bee...
lilly		Let's go back, Daddy.
jackson		Listen to me. We have to find Charlie. He's got a secret map, you know, like Jack Sparrow in `Pirates'.
charlie's voice		... The last time this baby blew, was 640,000 years ago...
jackson		Dial Mommy's number, sweetheart.
kate		Where are you, honey!?
jackson		Tell her we'll be back in ten minutes.
lilly		 We're looking for a secret map, mommy.
kate		Let me speak to your daddy, darling.
lilly		Ouch!
charlie's voice		... I tell you guys, any minute now... any minute the fireworks will start...
lilly		He's not in the car. He's on a mountain waiting for fireworks.
jackson		You're the best, darling. Give Daddy the phone...  Kate I am sorry, I can't talk...
jackson		You wait here for me! You watch the ship while Captain Curtis talks to the pirate. Okay?
lilly		 Okay...
charlie frost		 ... I wish you guys at home could see this on TV...
jackson		The spaceships Charlie, where are they?
charlie frost		You can't make it there.
jackson		We have a plane. We can get you out of here too. Let's go Charlie!
charlie frost		You'll never make it out in time. Just stay and enjoy the big bang. That your kid?
jackson		Where is that god damn map!
charlie frost		Easy, easy. Watch the mic... I don't know. Somewhere in my camper.
charlie's voice		... The ash cloud will travel everywhere. 
jackson		We're on our way.
kate		Jackson, things are really looking bad here!
charlie frost		... it's beautiful, kids! Just beautiful!
lilly		 It's following us!
jackson		Just don't look back, Lil'bee!
charlie's voice		Majestic!... Oh yeah!
charlie's voice		Oh baby! It's coming!
charlie's voice		`This is the end, my friend'...
charlie frost		... Folks, always remember, you heard it first from Charlie.
jackson		LILLY! DOWN!
lilly		Mommy!
jackson		Stay down darling.
noah		Give me your hand, Lil'.
gordon		We have to take off!
noah		No!
lilly		Where's daddy?!
gordon		Kate, I'm sorry but if we wait we'll all die!
kate		Gordon! Wait!
lilly		It's daddy!
kate		Jackson! Here!
noah		Faster Dad. You can make it!
gordon		Kate, grab him for god sake. We're almost out of runway.
jackson		Thanks for waiting guys.
kate		So, now that you got your map, where are we going?
jackson		We're gonna need a bigger plane.
adrian		Just a few minutes ago Yellowstone erupted, sir. The ash cloud will reach Washington in roughly 7 hours. Maybe 6. We have strong easterly winds...
anheuser		And the crustal displacement?
adrian		No one knows, sir.
anheuser		Let's get the government airborne and... I mean now.
anheuser		Where is the President, Sally?
sally		He said he wanted to spend a few minutes alone. I think he's over at the chapel.
anheuser		The whole North American continent is about to perish, and Wilson decides to go to church!
adrian		He's praying sir. Which considering the circumstances is not a bad idea.
anheuser		Maybe. But right now I need the leader of the free world off his knees and on Air Force One. Wheels up 1900 hours. Can I leave that with you Helmsley?
sally		I really don't like that man.
adrian		Mr. President? We need to get you out of Washington immediately.
president wilson		Now matter how idealistic you are taking office. You lose your innocence behind that desk.  Laura was right. People have died because of the decisions I made.
adrian		That's not your fault sir.
president wilson		You sound like Anheuser.
adrian		A little.
president wilson		You know what she said to me that night we brought her to the hospital?  `Tommy... I think you should do a lottery. Every one should have a chance to go'. That's what Dorothy said to me. That's what we should have done.
adrian		There would have been chaos, sir.
president wilson		You know what I believe, Adrian. I believe nature should choose for itself, from itself.
adrian		But sir?
president wilson		Go. That's an order Helmsley.
gordon		I told you we should have gone to my parents' in the Rockies.
kate		Gordon's right. Look at this mess.
jackson		You don't understand, it's our only chance.
gordon		This isn't one of your crazy stories now. How the hell are we gonna make it to China?
noah		Gordon, without Jackson, we'd never have made it out of California.
voice		 Attention! The US National Guard has informed us, that an extremely hazardous ash cloud is headed towards the city of Las Vegas.
fire man		Let's move people! Inside the terminal!
adrian		Where's Anheuser?
officer		In the command center, sir.
adrian		The President is not coming. I couldn't convince him to.
anheuser		So, the captain doesn't want to leave his sinking ship?  Well, Mr. Helmsley, we just learned that the Vice President's chopper crashed 80 miles north of Atlanta.
adrian		What about the Speaker of the House?
anheuser		In this chaos... I have no idea!
adrian		But she's Commander In Chief now. Sir, I just think -
anheuser		I don't care what you think, Helmsley.
adrian		He wanted to stay with his people.
laura		We have to go back!
anheuser		There is a protocol for just this situation Ms. Wilson and I'm afraid we'll have to follow it to the letter.
rescue worker		People, stay away from the windows!
jackson		We can't get stuck here.
gordon		 She's a patient, honey.
jackson		 Nice work.
sasha		I found us a plane, an Antonov. They were just about to take off, but the tower didn't let them.
yuri		Can you still fly that thing?
sasha		Sure... But I need a copilot.
lilly		Gordon is a pilot.
jackson		Let's go!
rescue worker		Hey! Stop! You can't go out there! Come back!
noah		Wow, that is a big plane.
yuri		 It's Russian.
sasha		Guys, follow me!
sasha		 You'll find folding seats on each side of the cargo hold...
noah		Wow! Look at those!
yuri		We had VIP tickets for that.
sasha		You check the main bus for the hydraulics. I'll balance the tanks.
gordon		Uh... What?
sasha		Work the radio and keep an eye on the fuel, okay?
rescue worker		Move back, people... down on the floor!
gordon		We have to get going!
sasha		 We're going, we're going.
gordon		We're not gonna make it!
sasha		Shut up! We will!
sasha		GOVNO! . Help me pull!
gordon		Was that the Eiffel Tower?
sasha		Ladies and gentlemen, we are on our way to China.
neng		But Lin is my brother. He is working inside the big tunnels, where the ships are made.
neng		Mother, I got a message from Lin. He wants us to meet him in Cho Ming, at the west gate. He says he can get us on one of the ships he is working on.
neng		The dam is a ship, Mother. The government lied to us. There will be a big flood.
neng		No mother! We must pack up right away.
neng's mother		We took a trip with the Laem Song ferry once. Your father was throwing up the whole way.
alec		Our dad had one on order. We were supposed to get it next year.
oleg		But then he cancelled it again, because of the ships.
noah		If I was rich, I'd get one of those.
oleg		We have one. How many cars does your family have?
noah		My Mom's boyfriend has a Porsche, a
alec		Our parents are divorced too.
noah		Nothing we can do about that.
tamara		How did you meet Dr. Silberman? He's great, isn't he?
kate		I think for the same reasons you did. You know, after breast feeding two kids...
tamara		We are not married. And we probably never will... But he paid for them.
kate		I bet he did.
lilly		What did the man pay for mommy?
kate		Nothing, Lil'bee.
tamara		What's your situation?
kate		Way too complicated...
yuri		They seem to like each other.
jackson		I guess... So tell me Mr. Karpov - how much did you pay?
yuri		One billion euro, per seat.
jackson		That's disgusting.
yuri		You know Curtis, I wasn't always businessman. I am a boxer. Was my only playing when I was a boy, back in Murmansk. My coach...  ... his name also Yuri... He always said: `Someone wants to beat you... he has to kill you first'.
gordon		Let's get this straight, Sasha. I'm not a pilot. I'm a plastic surgeon. I just took some lessons to overcome my fear of flying.
sasha		Why did you give up?
gordon		It didn't work.
sasha		There's 14 on each side. Some of them must still be there.
gordon		Guys, you really oughta take a look at this.
yuri		What is that?
sasha		The State of Hawaii!
yuri		Not good. That is not good.
jackson		How much fuel do we have?
sasha		Not enough. We'll have to make a water landing somewhere in the South China Sea.
gordon		At least we won't need our landing gear.
yuri		What about it?
gordon		We lost it all... in Vegas.
adrian		Can I come in?
laura		I've got nothing to say to you.
adrian		But I do...
laura		 I'm a big girl Adrian. I don't need protection. You used me. You guys had me gallivanting around the world, as part of your little cover-up.
adrian		But you were doing a good job.
laura		Sure, if your name's Da Vinci or Picasso. But if you're some young talent in Podunk, Texas, sorry you're not famous enough. People like you and Anheuser and my father - you think you can play God.
adrian		You know what your father believed. That nature will choose itself from itself.
laura		That's bullshit and you know it. It's the fittest, the richest and the strongest that survive.
adrian		That's not true.
laura		Zero. What's your point?
adrian		It's called `Farewell Atlantis' and it's a fantastic read. It's part of our legacy now.
adrian		What if I tried to sort some of this mess out? I need to know you can forgive me...
laura		I need to know that too, Adrian.
adrian		One more thing. Your father told me you were the most precious thing to him in the whole world... You are to me too.
old lady		She can't find her mother.
president		Why don't you two girls make yourself comfy on that big couch? I'll see what I can do.
president wilson		Sally, can you take care of them. I'll go check with the Red Cross...
old lady		No wonder the First Lady fell for him. I knew Miss Dorothy Jones long before the President, when she was still singing jazz down in Atlanta with Harry Helmsley.
sally		I know, she was amazing.
president wilson		Who can help me with missing persons?
president wilson		Don't worry about it. You're doing a great job son...
communications officer		We lost communication with the White House, sir.
anheuser		That's affirmative, Mr. President. Until communication is restored, I am in command.
neng		 Hold on back there!
jackson		Couldn't sleep huh? Me neither.
kate		Anything?
jackson		Nothing, just static. Not even an emergency signal.
kate		I can't think about what's going on down there.
jackson		I couldn't have left you...
kate		Do you think people change?
jackson		By `people' are we talking about me?
kate		Do you think you've changed since we separated?
jackson		Well I certainly eat a lot more cereal now...
kate		You know, you always had tunnel vision. You could always just block things out and write. You blocked all of us out Jackson.
jackson		Do you love him? Gordon...
kate		I love him enough.
communications officer		... Cho Ming reports the first tremors,
anheuser		Any clue what to expect next, Professor?
adrian		Do we have any news from the Japanese seaboard?
newscaster		... Tokyo seems to have taken the severity of the hit... Unconfirmed reports indicate that the entire island of Japan is below water...
tony		I called... But I never got through.
harry		I'm so sorry.
president wilson		I'm coming home Dorothy...
anheuser		At least some good news.
adrian		We expect enormous tsunamis to reach landfall in every continent. The Cho Ming area will be impacted in approximately six hours.
anheuser		So Helmsley, what you're telling us here is that... the north pole is now somewhere in Wisconsin?
adrian		It's the south pole, sir.
sasha		Engine failure. GOVNO! Two of six are down. We must get ready.
jackson		Let's go wake up the kids.
jackson		What are you talking about? I don't hate Gordon.
noah		But you don't like him either.
jackson		I don't know him that well.
noah		But I know him. He's really nice. You should talk to him more often. You guys would get along really well.
jackson		I'll give it a try, Noah. I promise.
kate		Is it time?
noah		What's wrong?
jackson		Sasha told us, it could get a little bumpy... and wet.
jackson		Your daddy has to tell you something.
sasha		Don't ask me how that happened.
gordon		It's as if the whole earth shifted by 1500 miles...
jackson		No shit.  It's called 'Earth Crust Displacement'
sasha		We lost our last two engines.
yuri		 Get up! Follow me!
tamara		Yuri bear, what are we doing?
yuri		We're taking the Bentley!
sasha		CHTO ZA... Gordon! We're still too fast!
yuri		SHUT UP EVERY ONE!
sasha		Your turn Gordon! Go! Make sure that they make it out of here before I touch down!
gordon		What about you?!
sasha		I'll be fine! I have to land this thing!
jackson		We're waiting for Sasha and Gordon.
noah		Tamara! Open the door!
tamara		Where's Sasha?
gordon		He said he'll be fine and we should get out of here before he touches down.
lilly		Daaadddy!
chinese commander		Welcome to the People's Republic of China.
jackson		Thank you...  Say thank you, kids.
chinese commander		What color are your passes?
tamara		It's a joke... a mistake...  Right Yuri?
yuri		You think I did not know about you and Sasha? May god rest that poor bastard's soul.
gordon		What!... Did that just happen!?
chinese officer		 Mr. Anheuser - you're in Chopper 1. Dr. Wilson the same.
captain michaels		I'm Captain Richard Michaels. I'm the skipper of the American boat sir. After you!
captain michaels		My sincerest condolences Dr. Wilson, for your father...
anheuser		I've been told of damages?
captain michaels		We haven't completed the assessment but it looks like we lost Number 4 when the crust shifted.
yuri		What do mean we can't board Number 4? I want to speak to your supervisor.
soldier		I am the supervisor! Now get in line with all the others while we make arrangements.
yuri		I want your name!
soldier		 Can you read? Now get the hell back with the other green cards, or I'll have you detained.
jackson		Keep thinking warm thoughts sweetheart. You're doing great.
tamara		I should have listened to you, Dr. Silberman. I actually liked the way I looked before that monster talked me into it.
gordon		Did you know he asked for a discount... and he paid in installments?
tamara		Cheap bastard.
gordon		You're better off without him. What he said about you and Sasha, is it true?
tamara		Now that he's gone I think he was worth a hundred times a man like Yuri.
jackson		You guys hear that?
jackson		 Hey! Help! Wait for us!
laura		Captain Michaels? What happens to all those people?
anheuser		Dr. Wilson, there's a protocol for all that. You just stick to your art. We'll handle the rest.
adrian		Satnam?  Where are you?
adrian		What?!
satnam		There's a tidal wave coming from the East! It's huge!
adrian		Satnam, what happened?
satnam		I have to go!
adrian		Do we have the latest satellite images of Napam, India?
science officer		One moment, sir.
anheuser		Helmsley, what's going on here?
adrian		Looks like our model was wrong.
anheuser		What does this mean?
adrian		The flooding will happen earlier. Bobby, can you plug in the new data please?
adrian		This one is at least 1500    meters high!
anheuser		Talk to me Helmsley. What does this mean for us?
adrian		Bobby, plug in the new data and adjust the count down?
anheuser		Get me the other Heads of State.
lin		 Who are they?
neng		We found them by the side of the road, my brother.
lin		You must send them back.
neng		I am a follower of the great Lama Yak La. You know I cannot do that.
jackson		Come with daddy.
lin		Why should I do that?
jackson		For the same reason you sent for your parents.
kate		I have no clue if you understand what I'm saying, but I ask you as a mother, please take my kids with you!
lin		My plan will not work for so many, mother.
kate		Thank you ma'am. Thank you so much.
yuri		They're leaving without us!
soldier		What did I tell you!
yuri		 Look! Idiot! They are leaving you behind too!
lin		 They launch! We run out of time!
computer voice		Countdown to departure. Launch in 17 minutes - 42 seconds.
laura		Where can I find Adrian Helmsley?
science officer		He's in the Technical Command Centre. Follow me.
lin		 Faster, Neng! Help father! Mother, give me your hand.
jackson		Move Lil'bee!
tamara		 Oh my god, that's Yuri!
yuri		Let that stupid dog go!
lin		 Okay. Now!
jackson		Tamara! Come on! Get in!
yuri		 Down there! Oleg, you go first!
oleg		Daddy look, Tamara!
tamara		Caesar darling!
jackson		Tamara! Get in!
tamara		Come to mommy!
lin		I need your help.
laura		What in god's name is happening Adrian?
adrian		Anheuser convinced them all to launch.
adrian		Anheuser! We have to stop this madness.
anheuser		What do you think you're doing?
adrian		I know exactly what I'm doing.  Turn it on!
german chancellor		Can you please turn up the volume, Mr. Hoffmann?
adrian		... But to be human means to care for each other, and civilization means to work together to create a better life. If that's true there is nothing human and nothing civilized about what we're doing here. Ask yourselves ... Can we really stand by and let all those people out there die?
anheuser		We'll miss you Helmsley but somehow we'll get by. Officer switch that off.
adrian		Don't do it!
anheuser		Have you lost your mind? Look at the countdown. We have less than five minutes left... And none of our ships have the resources to feed those people. If you save them today we all starve tomorrow.
adrian		There is a young astrophysicist from India who is the reason we are all here, trying to give mankind a second chance. He's the one who discovered it all, the one who connected the dots. We all owe him our lives.
laura		If my father were here, he would open the gates.
russian president		... China and Japan agree to open the gates.
german chancellor		The United Kingdom, Spain, France and Germany, and I believe I can also speak for the Italian Prime Minister...
adrian		Captain Michaels, you heard them.
lilly		Phew... It stinks in here.
tamara		Sssh...Caesar.
lin		They're opening the gate! It will crush us!
jackson		Noah! Watch out!
kate		No!
noah		Something happened, mom.
jackson		We have to stop it!
jackson		You did it, man. You did it.
captain michaels		What's wrong with the gate?
officer		I don't know. Maybe there's something jamming it, sir.
surveillance officer		Sir, we have a breach in the zoological bay.
adrian		Can you zoom in?
captain michaels		We're loaded. We can close the gates sir.
anheuser		Do it!
yuri		 Pull yourself up!
yuri		Oleg! Catch your brother!
deck officer		Boys, you gotta move.
alec		We wait for our father! He's still down there!
deck officer		There's no one down there.  Come on boys, come...
anheuser		Why is the stern gate not closing?
captain michaels		Something's wrong with the hydraulics, sir.
surveillance officer		They must have come through the hydraulic chamber. There...
laura		That guy is injured. Something must have gone wrong.
anheuser		You're damn right something went wrong! Congratulations Helmsley, you may have just killed us all but as long as your conscience is clean...
adrian		Let's get an emergency crew there right now. I'll meet them at the Hydraulic Chamber.
anheuser		You think you're the main man now, just because your fucking the President's daughter?
adrian		What are you all waiting for?
technical officer		If we can't close the stern gate, then the engines won't start.
adrian		There's no way to override it?
technical officer		No sir, it has to be done manually.
neng		 Almost there, Lin...
surveillance officer		Water has penetrated the stern!
laura		What now?
surveillance officer		The rear of the ship will start sealing itself up one compartment at a time.
adrian		Then how will we get to the hydraulic chamber?
surveillance officer		If we don't hurry, we won't be able to.
kate		Tamara! Take Lilly and Noah.
lilly		Mummy!
tamara		Lilly run!
adrian		Is there any way to talk to them?
jackson		We have to move him higher.  Over there!
naval officer		Moving at 34 knots, sir.
captain michaels		What is our position?
navigation officer		Darjeeling valley, heading south east, sir.
captain michaels		You must be kidding!
kate		We need something to stop the bleeding or he'll die.
noah		Mum, will this do?
adrian		 Mr. Curtis... I'm Adrian Helmsley. We met once before. Your daughter is with me.
kate		Lilly!
lilly		I'm alright Mom!
adrian		You're our only hope.
jackson		I'll go back. I'll try my best.
noah		I'll go with you.
jackson		You stay with Mommy.
anheuser		Captain, what's happening?
captain michaels		What's happening?...  We're heading straight for the north face of Mount Everest, Mr. Anheuser.
kate		Noah!
noah		Mom, we did it!
adrian		Captain Michaels - close the gate!
captain michaels		That's affirmative. Close the gate!
technical officer		Ay, ay, Sir.
captain michaels		Engage starboard stabilizers!
officers		One is engaged... two is engaged... number three is out, sir!
kate		Noah! Where is he?
noah		He was just behind me...
jackson		If you would ever consider to give me another chance... I promise, I'll always be there when you need me.
kate		Whatever you do... I will never let you go again.
adrian		...   and all we can hear is the sound of our   own breathing that reminds us we are   still sharing our memories, hopes and   ideas.
laura		How many copies did you say that sold?
adrian		Less than 500.  It's what you might call a cult classic.
laura		It seems we have very different tastes Mr. Helmsley?
adrian		 Well that's healthy Dr. Wilson. Something we could maybe explore... unless you have other pressing engagements.
laura		Actually my diary's pretty open.
lilly		Daddy? When can we go back home?
jackson		There's nothing we can go back to Lil'bee. Whatever's out there, that's our home now. Don't be scared.
lilly		I'm not Daddy. No more pull-ups.
jackson		 That's my big girl.
lilly		Of course you can. He's your doggie.
adrian		You called for me, sir?
captain michaels		Prof. West has something to show you, Mr. Helmsley.
laura		What's that?
captain michaels		Our European colleagues have already set course for it.
adrian		This is Helmsley.
voice		No, this is Helmsley.
captain michaels		We should have a visual of the `Freedom of the Seas' shortly.
adrian		Dad. We're coming to pick you guys up. How's Tony?
harry helmsley		He's fine, son. We're all fine.
adrian		Pardon me?
anheuser		There was no white kid better than you. I'm terribly sorry I said that.
officer		Standing by Sir.
jackson		I thought you might want this.
noah		Do you think I'll still get a signal ... Dad?
adrian		I finally finished your book Jackson.
kate		Really? You may well be the first person who ever got to the end.
jackson		Excuse me, I believe he's addressing the author. Well, what did you think?
adrian		I'd say... those astronauts of yours would be shitting themselves, if they knew all their relatives are now stuck in the South Pole.
****Dialogues from script :25th_Hour.txt****

o		Eat me .
o		student. I can't touch her.
o		V'     Monty walks out of the room, never looking back.
****Dialogues from script :28_Days_Later.txt****

chief activist		Fucking hell...
female activist		Oh God...
chief activist		 Keep your shit together. If we're going to get them out of here...
finnish activist		I can pop these, no problem.
chief activist		So get to it.
scientist		Security! We have a break-in! Get to sector...
scientist		...nine.
scientist		I know who you are, I know what you think you're doing, but you have to listen to me. You can't release these animals.
chief activist		If you don't want to get hurt, shut your mouth, and don't move a fucking muscle.
scientist		 The chimps are infected!
scientist		 These animals are highly contagious. They've been given an inhibitor.
chief activist		Infected with what?
scientist		Chemically restricted, locked down to a... a single impulse that...
chief activist		Infected with what?
scientist		Rage.
scientist		 In order to cure, you must first understand. Just imagine: to have power over all the things we feel we can't control. Anger, violence...
finnish activist		What the fuck is he talking about?
chief activist		We don't have time for this shit! Get the cages open!
scientist		No!
chief activist		We're going, you sick bastard, and we're taking your torture victims with us.
scientist		NO! You must listen! The animals are contagious! The infection is in their blood and saliva! One bite and...
female activist		They won't bite me.
scientist		STOP! You have no idea!
female activist		Good boy. You don't want to bite me, do you?
scientist		NO!
female activist		 Get it off! Get if off!
female activist		I'm burning! Jesus! Help me!
scientist		We have to kill her!
female activist		I'm burning! I'm burning!
chief activist		What's...
scientist		We have to kill her NOW!
chief activist		What's wrong with them?
scientist		Oh God.
activist		 Terry? Jemma?
activist		Mika? Where are you?
activist		Bloody hell.
jim		Ow...
jim		Hello?
jim		...Hello?
jim		Father?
jim		Father, what are you...
jim		Jesus!
jim		Oh, that, was bad, that was bad... I shouldn't have done that...
jim		Shit.
woman's voice		HERE!
woman's voice		OVER HERE!
jim		 Those people! Who were... who...
mark		This way! Move it!
mark		A man walks into a bar with a giraffe. They each get pissed. The giraffe falls over. The man goes to leave and the barman says, you can't leave that lying there. The man says, it's not a lion. It's a giraffe.
mark		He's completely humorless. You two will get along like a house on fire.
selena		Who are you? You've come from a hospital.
mark		Are you a doctor?
selena		He's not a doctor. He's a patient.
jim		I'm a bicycle courier. I was riding a package from Farringdon to Shaftesbury Avenue. A car cut across me... and then I wake up in hospital, today... I wake up and I'm hallucinating, or...
mark		What's your name?
jim		Jim.
mark		I'm Mark. This is Selena.  Okay, Jim. We've got some bad news.
selena		It began as rioting. And right from the beginning, you knew something bad was going on because the rioters were killing people. And then it wasn't on the TV anymore. It was in the street outside. It was coming through your windows. We all guessed it was a virus. An infection. You didn't need a doctor to tell you that. It was the blood.
jim		Where are your families?
mark		They're dead.
selena		Yours will be dead too.
jim		No... No! I'm going to find them. They live in Greenwich. I can walk.  I'm going to... to go and...
selena		You'll go and come back.
jim		 Yes! I'll go and come back.
mark		Rules of survival. Lesson one - you never go anywhere alone, unless you've got no choice. Lesson two - you only move during daylight, unless you've got no choice. We'll take you tomorrow. Then we'll all go and find your dead parents. Okay?
mark		How's your head? Fucked?
mark		 I know where your head is. You're looking at these windows, these millions of windows, and you're thinking - there's no way this many people are dead. It's just too many windows.
mark		The person who owned this bag. Can't be dead.
mark		A woman -  - and carried protection, just in case.
mark		 Believe me, we won't need them anymore than she will.
mark		 Hey!
jim		 Down there. Westlink Street. Second on the left.
selena		If there's anyone in there who isn't human...
jim		I understand.
selena		Anyone.
jim		I understand.
mark		Okay.
mark		 Wait.
selena		They died peacefully. You should be grateful.
jim		I'm not grateful.
mark		The roads out were all jammed. So we went to Paddington Station. Hoping: maybe we could get to Heathrow, maybe buy our way on a plane. My dad had all this cash, even though cash was already useless, and Mum had her jewellery. But twenty thousand other people had the same idea.  Looking down, you couldn't tell which faces were infected and which weren't. With the blood, the screaming, they all looked the same. And I saw my dad. Not my mum or my sister. But I saw my dad. His face.
mark		Selena's right. You should be grateful.
selena		We don't have time to get back to the shop before dark. We should stay here tonight.
jim		My old room was at the end of the landing. You two take it. I'll sleep down here.
selena		We'll sleep in the same room. It's safer.
jim's dad		Give me a glass of that, would you?
jim		 It's empty.
jim		 Help!
jim		It's Mr. Bridges...
selena		Were you bitten?
jim		He lives four doors down...
jim		That's his daughter...
selena		Were you bitten?
jim		No... No! I wasn't!
selena		Did any of the blood get in your mouth?
jim		No!
selena		Mark?
mark		Wait.
mark		DON'T!
selena		Get that cleaned off.
selena		Do you have any clothes here?
jim		 I... I don't know. I think so.
selena		Then get them. And get dressed. We have to leave, now.
selena		More infected will be coming. They always do.
jim		 How did you know?
jim		 How did you know he was infected?
selena		The blood.
jim		The blood was everywhere. On me, on you, and...
selena		 You need to understand, if someone gets infected, you've got somewhere between ten and twenty seconds to kill them. They might be your brother or your sister or your oldest friend. It makes no difference Just so as you know, if it happens to you, I'll do it in a heartbeat.
jim		How long had you known him?
selena		Five days. Or six. Does it matter?
selena		He was full of plans. Long-distance weapons, so they don't get close. A newsagent's with a metal grill, so you can sleep. Petrol bombs, so the blood doesn't splash.
selena		Got a plan yet, Jim? You want us to find a cure and save the world? Or fall in love and fuck?
selena		Plans are pointless. Staying alive is as good as it gets.
selena		Shhh.
jim		Let's hope we don't have to get out of here in a hurry.
selena		Need a break?
jim		 No. You?
selena		No.
jim		I do need a break, by the way.
selena		What's up?
jim		Nothing.
jim		I've got a headache.
selena		Bad?
jim		Pretty bad.
selena		Why didn't you say something before?
jim		Because I didn't think you'd give a shit.
selena		 You've got no fat on you, and all you've had to eat is sugar. So you're crashing. Unfortunately, there isn't a lot we can do about that...
selena		...except pump you full painkillers, and give you more sugar to eat.
selena		As for the sugar: Lilt or Tango?
jim		 ...Do you have Sprite?
selena		Actually, I did have a can of Sprite, but...
jim		Jesus!
selena		Quiet.
selena		That's an infected.
selena		They're in.
selena		Come on!
jim		 I can't.
man		Down the corridor! Flat 157!
selena		Let us in!
girl		Where's Dad?
man		 It's okay, Hannah. Let them inside.
man		Come in, come in.
man		So... I'm Frank, anyway.
jim		I'm Jim.
selena		Selena.
frank		Jim and Selena. Good to meet you. And this is my daughter, Hannah.  ...Come on, sweetheart. Say hello.
frank		So... so this is great. Just great. It calls for a celebration.
hannah		 We've got Mum's creme de menthe.
frank		Yes, her creme de menthe. Great. Look, sit, please. Get comfortable. Sit tight while I get it.
selena		Shall we?
hannah		Middle cupboard.
hannah		Top cupboard.
jim		This is your place, then.
jim		It's nice.
frank		There! I know it isn't much but... well, cheers!
frank		Normally we keep the windows covered at night, because the light attracts them. But when we saw your petrol station fire, we knew it had to be survivors... So we hooked up the Christmas tree lights. Like a beacon.
selena		We're grateful.
frank		Well, we're grateful you came. I was starting to really worry. Like I say, we haven't seen any sign of anyone normal for a while now.
jim		There aren't any others in the building?
selena		And you haven't seen any people outside?
frank		We haven't left the block for more than two weeks. Stayed right here. Only sensible thing to do. Everyone who went out...
selena		Didn't come back.
frank		And there's two hundred flats here. Most of them have a few cans of food, or cereal, or something.
selena		It's a good set-up.
frank		It isn't bad.
frank		We've got by, haven't we?
jim		Yes. Fine.
frank		Have to empty it each morning. We just chuck it over the balcony... No mod cons here.
jim		It's fine.
frank		...Well, look, it's pretty late. I'm going to turn in. We've got a spare room. Are you and Selena...?
jim		I'll take the living room.
frank		Oh, right. I mean, yes... So, good night then, anyway.
jim		Good night, Frank.
selena		Very spruce.
jim		Very shredded.
selena		Uh-huh.
jim		So what do you make of them?
selena		They're desperate. Probably need us more than we need them.
jim		...I think they're good people.
selena		Good people?
jim		Yeah.
selena		Well, that's nice. But you should be more concerned about whether they're going to slow you down.
jim		Right. Because if they slowed you down...
selena		I'd leave them behind.
jim		In a heartbeat.
selena		Yeah.
jim		I wouldn't.
selena		Then you're going to wind up getting yourself killed.
selena		I'm going to get some sleep.
jim		Selena - you think I don't get it. But I do get it. And I know I'd be dead already if I hadn't met you.
selena		Sure.
jim		No, look - I mean thank you.
selena		And I mean sure. Good night, Jim.
jim		Good night.
frank		Morning, Jim.
jim		Morning.
frank		Listen, have you got a minute?
frank		We lost water pressure three weeks ago. For a while, I thought we'd be okay with the water in the other flats. The cistern and tanks. But it vanishes so quick you wouldn't believe. You drink it, it evaporates, turns stagnant...
jim		 They're all empty...
frank		It hasn't rained in over a week.
frank		You can set up a plastic sheet to catch dew and condensation. Trap it somehow. I saw it on TV once and I've been experimenting, but I can't get it to work, and... you don't happen to...
frank		You'd never think it. Needing rain so badly... Not in fucking England...  Jim, we don't have enough water for and Selena.
jim		Right.
frank		No. It's not what you think.
selena		There haven't been any broadcasts for weeks.
frank		 Just listen.
selena		 Soldiers.
frank		There's more. Listen.
frank		Then it just repeats.
jim		It's a recording?
frank		It's a recording. But this is where it's telling us to go.
jim		The North...
frank		The way things are, we might need two or three days to get up there.
selena		We.
frank		Sound carries in this flat. Jerry- built, I suppose, and... me and Hannah do need you more than you need us.
selena		I wasn't -
frank		It's okay. Look, it's the truth. I can't leave the block if it's just the two of us.
selena		If it's a recording, for all we know the soldiers who made it are dead.
frank		Yes. It's possible.
selena		And that stuff about the answer to infection. There is no answer to infection. It's already done pretty much all the damage it can.
jim		Maybe they've got a cure.
selena		Maybe they've got nothing at all.
frank		The only way to find out is to reach them.
selena		We could die trying.
hannah		Or die here.
hannah		And anyway, it isn't true what Dad said. You need us just the same as we need you. We need each other. And we'll never be safe in the cities, and soldiers could keep us safe.
hannah		So we have to try and get there.
jim		Get there how?
frank		Just so as you know. I don't take cheques or credit cards.
frank		What do you think?
selena		It's the most direct route to the other side of the river.
jim		Then we should go the indirect route. The one in broad daylight. That isn't underground.
frank		Let's just get it done.
jim		I knew this was a shit idea. You know why? Because it was really obviously a shit idea. Driving into a dark tunnel, full of smashed cars and broken glass is really fucking obviously a shit idea.
jim		Oh no.
frank		HOLD ON!
frank		Fuck.
jim		The world's worst place to get a flat.
frank		Agreed. I think we'd better do this quick.
frank		You know what to do.
jim		...You heard that?
frank		 Heard what?
jim		Holy shit.
frank		 What the fuck?
selena		They're running from the infected.
frank		Hannah, get out, get out!  Just lift it! LIFT IT!
selena		 Come on!
hannah		Almost there!
frank		 Go! Go!
jim		 Fuck you!
frank		Honey, you're a cab driver's daughter.
selena		Whoa! Stop the cab! Stop the cab!
selena		Un. Believable.
jim		You're getting out?
selena		This place hasn't been looted. It's a gold mine.
hannah		But we don't know what's in there.
selena		Food and drink is what's in there. And we need it.
jim		Wait!
selena		I've been living off Mars Bars and Coke for two weeks. I need some tinned fruit.
selena		Let's shop.
selena		I'll have you, you, you, you...
selena		Don't take anything we need to cook.
jim		It's okay. I think you can eat this stuff raw.
frank		Mmm. Irradiated.
selena		Ugh. If I never see chocolate again, it'll be too soon.
selena		Not counting Terry's Chocolate Orange, of course.
hannah		 Or Yorkies.
selena		Or Yorkies, obviously.
frank		Put that back. We can't just take any crap.
jim		It isn't any crap. It's whisky. It might be good to have.
frank		Who's arguing about whisky? I'm saying, don't get a cheap blend.
frank		Single malt. Eighteen-year-old. Dark, full flavor.
frank		Warm, but not aggressive. Peaty after taste.
selena		We could have a problem here.
jim		Jesus Christ. We're never going to be able to get out of London.
frank		Don't you worry about that. I've sat twenty years in this seat. I've got my routes.
frank		Okay. We either do this now, or we're walking.
frank		If anything goes wrong, you just drive. You put your foot down. And go as far as you can.
frank		You hear me, Hannah?
hannah		Yes, Dad.
selena		Stay close, Jim.
jim		...What?
selena		You heard.
selena		Where are you going?
selena		We've got enough food.
jim		We don't have any cheeseburgers.  "Stay close." It's like going on holiday with your fucking aunt.
selena		Find anything.
selena		Find anything, Jim?
jim		No.
frank		Okay. We're done.
hannah		 I am a cab driver's daughter.
frank		You're Ayrton Senna's bloody daughter.
jim		Who's unbelievably hungry?
all		Me.
jim		Let's have a picnic.
selena		Oh my God, yes. I can taste the vitamin C. I can feel it in my blood.
jim		 These are great. They're like huge biscuits.
hannah		It's true. They are like biscuits.
jim		 An de phraisins ar phrill moipht.
hannah		 What did you say?
jim		 I said, the raisins are still moist.
frank		Hey.
frank		Look over there.
hannah		Do you think they're infected?
frank		No. I think they're doing just fine.
jim		You know what I was thinking?
selena		You were thinking that you'll never hear another piece of original music ever again. You'll never read a book that isn't already written. Or see a film that isn't already shot.
jim		That's what you were thinking.
selena		No... I was thinking I was wrong.
jim		About what?
selena		All the death, all the shit - it doesn't really mean anything for Frank and Hannah. Because she's got her dad, and he's got his daughter, so... it's okay.
selena		 I was wrong when I told you that staying alive is as good as it gets.
jim		 That's what I was thinking.
selena		...Was it?
jim		Uh-huh. You stole my thought.
selena		 Sorry.
jim		 Ah, keep it.
frank		 It's getting late. We should stay here the night.
hannah		Can't sleep.
jim		Nor can I. It doesn't feel safe, outdoors like this.
frank		I think we're safe enough.
hannah		...Selena didn't seem to have any trouble.
jim		I know. I noticed that too.  Selena...Selena!
selena		 What... what is it...
jim		How did you manage to get to sleep?
frank		Bloody hell. You must have needed a hell of a prescription for that lot.
selena		 I didn't need a prescription. I'm a qualified chemist.
jim		 Two each?
frank		Not for me, thanks.
jim		 What about...?
hannah		Can I, Dad?
frank		 I don't know, honey.
hannah		Da-ad, plee-ease. I can't sleep.
frank		All right, all right. Give her half of one.
the driver		You stupid cunt!
jim		Fuck you!
frank		 Hey.
jim		 What...
frank		Shh. You're having a bad dream, that's all.
jim		 Okay, Dad.
jim		Here you go, Frank. This is how you catch dew. I'm covered in the fucking stuff.
frank		 If we make good time, we'll be there before midday.
jim		Bloody hell...
frank		It must be Manchester.
jim		But, the whole of Manchester. The whole city...
selena		No fire crews to put it out.
jim		It can't be...
hannah		Is it snow?
frank		 It's ash.
frank		Okay, everyone. I think this is it.
jim		Try the horn.
selena		Don't. We might attract the wrong kind of attention.
frank		What do you think?
jim		It looks deserted.
selena		Or overrun.
frank		Let's check it out.
hannah		I don't understand. Did they leave?
jim		They didn't all leave.
selena		I don't like this. I think we should go.
frank		 The vehicles. We should check the vehicles first. There has to be something...
frank		Nothing. Nothing here. I can't believe it.
selena		Frank.
frank		"We should go."
selena		Yes.
frank		 Go fucking where? What the fuck are we supposed to do? How is this going to fucking end? It's never going to -
frank		 GET OUT OF IT!
hannah		Dad... are you okay?
frank		I... I'm fine, honey. I'm sorry. I just lost my temper. I...
hannah		...What?
frank		Hannah...
frank		 Get away from me.
hannah		...Dad?
frank		Get away from me!  Get her away from me!
hannah		 Why? What's...
frank		GET AWAY FROM ME!
selena		Jim...  Jim, he's infected!
hannah		No! No!
selena		 Jim!
hannah		Dad!
selena		Jim!
selena		KILL HIM!
hannah		...Dad?
clifton		STAY AWAY FROM HIM!
farrell		Get away from the man! NOW!
selena		 Jesus.
henry		I'm Major Henry West. Welcome. We've got beds with clean sheets and a boiler that produces hot water. So you can all have a shower. You look like you need one.
henry		You heard our broadcast.
jim		Yes.
henry		We must be a disappointment. You were hoping for a full brigade. An army base, with helicopters and field hospitals.
jim		We were hoping for...
henry		The answer to infection. Well, as I said, it's here. Though it may not be quite what you imagined.
jim		I didn't know what to imagine, so... We just feel lucky to have found you.
henry		You were lucky. The fire drove hundreds of infected out of Manchester. The surrounding area is teeming with them.
henry		But there's no need for you to worry. We're well protected here.
henry		Three-sixty visibility. Flat terrain all around the house... Floodlights, which we've rigged up to a generator. Don't like to waste the fuel, but when we want to, we can turn night into day.
henry		High perimeter wall, which helps, and we've been lacing the grounds with trip wires and land mines.
henry		You wouldn't want to go mowing the lawn, but if they get in, we hear them.
henry		Secondary to protection, our real job is to rebuild. Start again. Down here is the wood-fired boiler that provides us with hot water. Our first step to civilization.
henry		And here, the kitchen.
henry		What are you cooking, Jones?
jones		It's a surprise, sir!
henry		And finally...
henry		...meet Mailer.
henry		Mailer, Jim. Jim, Mailer. Got infected three days ago. Mitchell managed to knock him out cold. Got a chain around his neck.
jim		You're keeping him alive?
henry		The idea was to learn something about infection. Have him teach me.
jim		And has he?
henry		In a way.  He's teaching me he'll never bake bread. Plant crops, raise livestock. He's telling me he's futureless. And eventually he'll tell me how long the infected take to starve to death.
henry		Dinner's at seven. Don't forget to tell the girls.
jim		...So how is she?
selena		She's lost her dad. That's how she is.  It's all fucked, Jim.
jim		Hey, don't...do that. Look, Hannah... Hannah's what Frank said she was. Tough. Strong. And just like me, just like you, she will cope...
selena		Shut up, Jim. Just shut up. I don't want her to fucking cope. I want her to be okay. And when Hannah had her dad, it was all okay. Remember? And when it was okay for them, it was okay for us. And now it's all fucked.
henry		So, what have we here? Tinned ham, tinned peas, and omelette. You've prepared a feast, Jones.
jones		Honor of our guests, sir.
henry		Absolutely. I was going to suggest a toast, but this omelette will do just as well.  To new friends.
henry		Jones, did you notice while cooking that these eggs are off?
jones		I thought the salt might cover the taste, sir.
henry		 Get rid of it.
henry		I don't suppose you can cook, can you? I can't tell you how badly we need someone who shows a little flair in the kitchen.
davis		That's a fucking disappointment. When I saw those eggs, I thought it was Christmas.
bell		We'll have eggs again. Once everything's back to normal.
mitchell		Listen to him! He's still waiting for Marks and Spencer's to reopen.
farrell		I think Bell's got a point. If you look at the whole life of the planet, man has only been around for a few blinks of an eye. So if the infection wipes us all out, that is a return to normality.
farrell		Is that what you meant, Bell?
bell		Uh...yeah.
henry		 Remind me, Farrell, why exactly did you join the army in the first place.
henry		This is what I've seen in the four weeks since infection. People killing people. Which is much what I saw in the four weeks before infection, and the four weeks before that, and before that, as far back as I care to remember... People killing people. Which to my mind puts us in a state of normality right now.
selena		 You're not eating.
hannah		I don't want to eat.
henry		You must eat, Hannah.
hannah		I don't want to eat. I want to bury my dad. He's one of the people you're talking about.
farrell		Stand to!
mitchell		Go, go, go!
farrell		Jones! Cover right!
smith		Three o'clock! Three o'clock!
mitchell		 That was mad! Did you see that! That was fucking mad!
farrell		 Clear!
jones		Clear.
mitchell		 Fuck me, I never saw that before. Keeled over and - bam! Gone, like fucking magic.
smith		I drew a lovely bead. One shot. Right between its eyes.
mitchell		It was all hanging in the air, and all these bits coming down, and...
mitchell		Hello.
mitchell		I'll tell you what: you don't need this penknife any more, sweetie. I'm here to protect you now.  But listen, if you want to hold a huge chopper...
mitchell		Whoa! Feisty!
selena		Fuck you!
mitchell		You bet. How about right now?
mitchell		Yeah! A little rough stuff!
farrell		MITCHELL!
jim		 Cut it out!
mitchell		 Easy, tiger. You don't want to go picking a fight with me.
mitchell		 Ahh, you cunt. Cunt.
henry		Corporal, first point of order after an attack.
mitchell		Re-secure the perimeter, sir.
henry		Then get to it. Jones, Bedford, go with him.  Sergeant.
farrell		 Sir.
henry		Clear the bodies off the lawn. The rest of you go with him.
henry		My apologies.
henry		Drink?
jim		Look. We're grateful. Very grateful for your protection, and just to have found other people. But if we're going to stay here with you, you're going to have to stop your men from -
henry		Who have you killed?
jim		 I haven't killed anyone.
henry		Since it began, who have you killed? You wouldn't be alive now if you hadn't killed somebody.
jim		A boy. I killed a boy.
henry		A child?
jim		Yes.
henry		But you had to. Otherwise he'd have killed you. Survival. I understand.  I promised them women.
jim		What?
henry		Eight days ago I found Jones with his gun in this mouth. He said he was going to kill himself because there was no future. What could I say to him? We kill all the infected or wait until they starve to death. And then what? What do nine men do except wait to die themselves?  I moved us from the blockade, I set the radio broadcasting, and I promised them women. Because women mean children.
henry		And children mean a future.
jim		Get up. Get up!
selena		Wha...
jim		We've got to get out of here!
selena		But we...
jim		 We're leaving. Now! NOW!
farrell		You can't do this! You can't do this! Get back! I'll fucking slot you! I'll slot you, I fucking swear it!
henry		I want to give you a chance. You can be with us, or not.
henry		Okay, Jim. Okay.
henry		 Him too.
farrell's voice		He's insane.
farrell		You know what they're doing, a few hundred miles from here? Across the channel, across the Atlantic, they're eating dinner. They're wondering what to watch on TV tonight. They're sleeping next to their wives.
farrell		But we're here, chained to a fucking radiator because the OC has gone insane. Starting the world again when the rest of the world hasn't even fucking stopped. Think about it! How could infection cross the oceans? How could it cross the mountains and the rivers? They stopped it. And right now TVs are playing and planes are flying in the sky and the world is continuing as fucking normal. Think. Actually think about it. What would you do with a diseased little island?
farrell		They quarantined us.
farrell		 He's insane.
jim		... Quarantine?
farrell		Come on then, you fucking pansies. Do me first.
farrell		So you're going to stick me, Mitchell? Is that it?  Is that how you're going to let your sergeant go out, Jones?
jones		No, Mitch. Do it with the gun.
farrell		You're going to let him stick me, are you? Like a fucking dog?
jones		Mitch, come on. Just shoot him.
mitchell		Why?
jones		Because it's quick.
mitchell		So?
jones		I'll shoot him, then.
mitchell		You fucking won't.  Any last words?
mitchell		I'm going to enjoy this.
mitchell		You stupid cunt! What are you doing?
jones		 How did he...
jones		There!
jones		Oh no. We're fucked, we're fucked.
mitchell		No problem. He's outside. No gun. No vehicle. He's a dead man.
selena		You can't do this to her! She's only fourteen!
selena		You need to give me a moment with Hannah. Alone.
clifton		The OC. He... he wants you to...
selena		He wants us to dress up nice.
selena		But if you want us to change, you'll have to get out of the room.
selena		 It's just fucking polite.
clifton		 Okay. Clear out.
selena		Eat them.
selena		 Eat them, Hannah!
hannah		Are you killing me?
selena		No. I'm making you not care.
clifton		Hey! What the fuck are you doing?
selena		Jim.
bedford		He's at the blockade!
jones		He went over the wall! We thought he'd be dead sir!
henry		Shut up! Davis - you're coming with me!
henry		Okay. Let's see if we can sidestep the cat-and-mouse bullshit.
davis		Fuck.
henry		 Jim?
henry		Davis?
henry		Fine! Fine, you little bastard! Fucking die out here!
henry		Jim.
jones		What was that? Was that a claymore?
mitchell		It was lightning.
jones		But I heard something.
mitchell		I'll go and hit the floods. Take a butcher's. Girls, keep an eye on him, would you?
hannah		Those pills. I think they're having an effect. I can feel them, and... I don't feel sleepy, but...
hannah		 They've been a long time.
hannah		What are you going to do if they don't come back?
hannah		Will you be the boss if Henry is dead? Is that the way if works?
jones		Shut up.
hannah		I don't think they are coming back. I think they've been killed.
jones		I told you to shut up!
selena		 Hannah...
hannah		 They're dead.
hannah		You're going to be next.
jones		Shit!
clifton		Help! Shoot him! Shoot him!
selena		Hannah! Hannah! We have to get out of here!
selena		Oh Jesus, Jesus, Hannah, stay with it, stay with it.
hannah		 Don't worry. I feel fine. Really.
mitchell		What the fuck's going on? What's all the shouti...
mitchell		 Don't just fucking stand there! Get after them!
bedford		What the fuck are you going to do now, eh?
mitchell		 Up! Up!
bell		Mitchell? What's going on?
mitchell		Stay here and defend these stairs with your fucking life!
selena		Hannah!
jim		Hannah! Selena!
bell		 I don't have any bullets! I don't have any fucking bullets!
bell		 Don't leave me!
selena		Hannah!
mitchell		Shut your fucking mouth! You want to get us killed?
mitchell		...Shit.
mitchell		In here! IN HERE!
mitchell		It's me and you, now. And I'm going to get you out of here, and then we're going to find some nice little fucking place, with a pretty little fucking garden, and...
jim		That was longer than a heartbeat.
selena		...Jim?
selena		I thought...I thought you were...
jim		Listen to me. I've got to tell you - I've got to tell you. The world isn't fucked. It's going to be okay. We've got a chance, if we can get to...
jim		Ow!
selena		Hannah! Stop! It's okay!
selena		He's not infected!
hannah		I thought he was biting you.
jim		 Are you stoned?
selena		It's a long story.
selena		We have to get out of here.
henry		You killed all my boys.
selena		Jim!
henry		What...Hannah! Hannah?
selena		We're going to crash!
selena		We're going to crash!
jim		Just fucking do it!
jim		Jesus. Not the curtains too.
jim		You looked all right in this, you know.
hell		But tiny figures are forming a new letter. An O:
hello		Then, in the background, the sound of the jet, the rush of noise.
hannah		There! THERE!
jim		Do you think he saw us this time?
****Dialogues from script :30_Minutes_or_Less.txt****

will		Gimme a break. You guys live two towns away. It's pretty much fucking impossible to get here in 30 minutes.
will		This is gonna come out of my paycheck. You sure you don't want to take the moral high ground?
will		Ok. You guys are pretty smart. You figured out a way to beat the system.  Got the house to yourselves?
will		Not bad. Any jailbait in there? Little pizza and a rainbow party?
will		Seriously? Well, two hustlers like yourselves gotta have the place stocked with beer and whippits and shit, right? Just call the girls up and let them know the party's on.
will		I really shouldn't do this...but you seem like a couple of good dudes. I'll tell you what, you give me the money that your mom left you for the pizzas, and I'll grab you some beers. 
will		I'll see you in like 20 minutes.
will		You boys like Budweiser, right?
will		Yo, Chris. Let me cash the fuck out.
christopher		You have a pretty good shift?
will		For sure. I mean, the part where I had to drop off all those pizzas kinda sucked, but the rest was cool.
christopher		Oh, yeah? 'Cause, I got some kids calling in saying you ripped them off. Promised to buy them beer or something.
will		I actually did buy the beer, but it would have been illegal to give it to them, right? So I'm gonna do the responsible thing and drink it myself.
christopher		That's real funny. But I'm trying to run a business here.
will		What kind of business promises to deliver anywhere in 30 minutes? It's ridiculous.
christopher		I don't wanna hear another one of your bullshit excuses. You're fired.
will		Come on. If I didn't need this job, I wouldn't be doing this shitty job.
will		Fuck! Whatever!
christopher		You know, you were an okay driver half the time. And you're not a Puerto Rican. Which means something to me.
will		That's poignant.
christopher		I guess I could rehire you, on a provisional basis. Of course, this would be at the slightly reduced "new company rate."
will		Are you fucking serious?
christopher		I don't know. Is there anyone else left in town for you to work for?
chet		By the way, she said she had a friend. Maybe we can go on our first double date since you tried to talk Jackie Fortunato and her cousin into having a four-way with us.
will		I misread their body language. It happens.
will		Come on. Let's go inside, drink your beer and watch shit get crazy.  Old favorites. You choose. Lethal Weapon, Lethal Weapon 2...was gonna get the third Lethal Weapon, but decided on a porn. So it's really between the first two.
chet		I choose sleep. I gotta teach a class at eight.
will		You're a sub. Just call in sick. Like the real teacher did.
chet		Come on, man, you know I got promoted to full-time last month. You bought me a laser pointer.
will		Yeah, I know. I guess I'm just having a hard time accepting you as "the man." You know, flunking kids, giving out spite detentions to girls you wanna fuck, laser pointing at shit.
chet		I also get healthcare and my summers off. It's not perfect, but it's a career.
will		I guess that's just the difference between you and me.
will		I'm like Riggs. Cruising the streets. No rules, no attachments. Every other day some asshole is trying to take my badge. You're fucking Murtaugh. Always worried about your pension. Well, guess what, it gets old after the first movie.
chet		I just got head. I'm totally Riggs. Will shakes his head, turns and walks off. INT. STUDIO APARTMENT - DAY Will wakes up, legs dangling over the edge of a tiny couch. His TV is still on, displaying the menu screen from a porn. Will looks down at his coffee table. Clears some magazines to reveal a file folder. Flips the cover - It's full of college applications, drafts of admissions essays, a junior college transcript. Will thumbs through one of the glossy applications. The kids look young. Very young. Will glances over at a picture on his wall: he and Chet at high school graduation, looking just as young. They have their arms around a pretty girl squeezed between them. Will and the girl look very high and very happy. Will shuts the folder, slides it back under the coffee table debris. He looks over at a clock: it is already 2:00 PM. WILL Fuck. INT. MUSTANG - DAY Will jumps in and starts the engine. As he tucks his "Giorgio's" cap onto his head, he catches his reflection in the rear-view mirror.
will		You asshole. You titanic asshole. Come on down and get your prize.
dwayne		Fruit motherfuckin' salad!
jay		This one's gonna blow even bigger.
dwayne		Boy, if you weren't such a skinny little bitch you coulda been in the military or something.
jay		Whatever. I don't need the military. I taught myself how to do this shit.
dwayne		I hear that. I taught myself how to eat pussy. And cut my own hair.
dwayne		This one's all me.  Fuck that, sir. I don't negotiate with terrorists!
dwayne		Wanna make sure I get enough calories.
jay		I thought you wanted to get diesel for the summer. Bang that towel girl at the community pool.
dwayne		It's obvious you don't know shit-all about physical fitness. You gotta bulk up first, then you slim down. I'm clearly in the bulk up phase. I told you to watch Pumping Iron like a month ago. If you'd listened to me, maybe you'd know what the fuck I'm talking about.  Grab some RC Cola.
jay		Shit, man! It's so real!
dwayne		Check it out. I ain't afraid of Jason. I'm fucking him.  You like that, Jason!? In the mask!
jay		Afternoon, Major.
dwayne		Dad, we're watching a flick. We got 45 minutes and a potential 3D sex scene left. You're sorta coming in at the worst possible moment.
major		I bought that TV set so I could watch my programs, not so you and your friend could louse up my couch.
dwayne		You gotta learn how to share the common space.
major		The only thing common in this house is you. You remind me of your damn mother. Fat, dumb, and in my way.
dwayne		Let's get outta here. This movie sucks anyway.
major		I paid for the damn cold cuts, too. Maybe if you had a job, or a fucking prospect, or a clue how to find any of the above, I'd let you eat 'em.
dwayne		 You know, you can be a real sonofabitch, dad.
major		That's what it takes, boy. In the Corps, men like you wore dresses to keep us entertained.
dwayne		That's pretty fucking disturbing!
dwayne		Fuck The Major!
dwayne		- and he thinks he knows me. He don't know shit. I got ideas he could never dream of. I got plans bigger than his fucking house.  He didn't even raise me. My mother did. That was a good woman.
juicy		Oh yeah? What happened to her?
dwayne		She passed on.
juicy		I hope you're not one of those guys that comes here looking to get mothered.
dwayne		I wouldn't mind nursing on them titties, mamacita.
juicy		Sure. Whatever you say. Maybe just keep quiet for a while, forget about your old man and let me do my thing.
dwayne		I wish I could forget about that asshole for good. I'm just waiting around for him to drop dead. Don't wanna mess with my inheritance.
juicy		What kinda inheritance?
dwayne		When my dad got outta the service, he started buying lotto tickets. He'd play his dog tag numbers. In '91, the fucker won five million bucks. INSERT PHOTO: The Major holding a giant cardboard check. DWAYNE He had some health problems a few years back, and since then he's been burning through the money like an NBA draft pick. Probably only got a million or two left. But it's mine as soon as he kicks. Behind inch-long fake eyelashes, Juicy's shrewd eyes narrow, mind working. She straddles Dwayne, tightly. JUICY You know, with a million bucks, you could have anything. Be like a king.  King Dwayne. DWAYNE That's right. And maybe I'll make you my queen. Let you polish my royal scepter. JUICY Practice makes perfect. Juicy pantomimes a long, slow chicken head. Dwayne is blissed out. She smiles at him, sticky sweet. JUICY Let me ask you a question...do you really hate your daddy? DWAYNE Hate him like the Steelers. JUICY Then maybe I can help you get that money now. Before he spends another penny.
juicy		I know a guy in Baltimore. He could help you out. Probably do it for...  ...100Gs.
dwayne		Do what?
juicy		Kill your mean old dad.
juicy		So, what do you think...you ready for your crown?
will		Rio?
kate		That's the plan. Five days, six nights. Culture. Beaches. Acceptable probability of kidnapping. I leave in the morning.
kate		This morning I loaded up an African Safari and a cruise to Alaska.
will		Oh, the places you'll go.
kate		Fuck Expedia. Travel Advisor. Making it seem so easy.
will		It is. Just do it. Get away for a while.
kate		Even if I could afford that...they fired two other paralegals last week. Now's not the time to be putting in for vacation days.
will		Ok. Done. I've got my dose of the actual working world. Can we eat?
kate		How do you keep sneaking up here past the security guard?
will		He's there like half the time. The other half I smile at him. I'm relatively certain he's a homosexual.
kate		Interesting theory...
kate		Maybe I should set him up with Tom Small. He came out to me today on Facebook.
will		That kid beat the hell out of me and Chet in grammar school. Wow.
kate		Tell me about it. He fingered me at junior prom while they were playing "No Scrubs."
will		 Really? What a fucking scrub.
kate		So, I've got some news...
will		I thought the Tom Small stuff was enough of a headline, but go ahead.
kate		I'm getting back together with Mark.
will		But you...you broke up with him...ended the relationship. Finality was had.
kate		Yeah, but we were talking and -
will		Forget it. I don't want to know.
kate		You sound like Chet.
will		Woah, don't compare me to your brother.
kate		Well, neither one of you seems to care that I don't have a life. Mark's not perfect...but a relationship is better than working late every Friday because I have nowhere else to be.
will		Sure. I get it. Here we are. Friday night. Nowhere to be.
kate		You know what I mean.
jay		I don't wanna stick my nose into a family matter...but killing your old man? That's pretty messed up...I mean, unless you think it isn't.
dwayne		What we have here is a classic "lesser of two evils" debate. You got one evil: me shaving a few years off The Major's shitty life. Then you got the other evil: The Major ruining my entire awesome life by blowing through my inheritance. Maybe I'm biased, but mine sure as shit seems like the lesser.
jay		I guess I...sorta see where you're coming from. And you have been waiting around forever for that money. You deserve it, Dwayne.
dwayne		You know, there's a reason I sleep 'til noon everyday. And it ain't 'cause I'm lazy. It's on account of me having so many goddamn dreams. Big ones. And once that money's mine, they're all gonna come true.
dwayne		Like I had this one dream last night. I was cruising through town in a Lamborghini Diablo. The wind was blowing through my hair, ruffling my open shirt. There was a hot little piece of ass sitting next to me. And in the back seat, Jay...was you. Strapped. Wearing a pair of Oakleys.
jay		Wow. I didn't know you dreamt about me, Dwayne.
dwayne		It was only this once, Jay. To be honest, I didn't know what to make of it. So I consulted my dream book, and found out it means this: you're my road dog. You got my back. 
jay		In what?
dwayne		In crime. And business. You see, it ain't just about the inheritance money. It's about what I'm gonna do with it.
dwayne		I'm about to clue you in on something. And then you'll understand the true magnitude of what's at stake here. Are you ready?
jay		Yes. I'm totally ready.
dwayne		Then answer me this...what's this town missing? I'll give you a hint. It's a cash business, crawling with sexy bitches.
jay		 A Chinese food restaurant?
dwayne		No. A tanning salon.  Think about it. All that green. All that brown flesh.
dwayne		It's also the perfect front for a prostitution ring.
jay		Yeah, of course. Because of the booths.
dwayne		Yes. And because of the bitches.  It can all be ours. 30 percent for you, 70 percent for me. You just gotta help me out here.
dwayne		I'm starting to wonder if my dream book was wrong about you. Maybe you sitting behind me doesn't mean you're my road dog. Maybe it means you're plotting to stab me in the back, like some snake in the grass.
jay		That's crazy. I'd never do something like that. The dream book was right!
jay		Ok. I'll do it. But I'm not shooting him or anything. I'll hold him while you shoot him. That's it.
dwayne		Here's a fact: they don't build prisons for criminals, they build them for idiots. Shit, they got three different types of CSI on TV, just laying out how the police do their business...and still, idiots like you think you can just go out and do a murder yourself.  If you wanna be a millionaire, you gotta think like one. And millionaires don't kill people. They hire assassins. Which I did. We gotta pay him on Tuesday.
jay		What? Why would you do that?
dwayne		I was presented with an opportunity. I took it. 100 thousand bucks for a highly trained assassin is a steal.
jay		But we don't have that kinda money.
dwayne		Now we're addressing the real problem: how do we get the 100 grand? 'Cause once we get that, we get the million. 
jay		I guess we could just...rob a bank. One of these local banks with nothing but a dipshit security guard.
dwayne		Again, not quite thinking like a millionaire.
jay		Okay, then let's hire someone to rob a bank.
dwayne		Fuck hiring them, we could just force someone to rob a bank for us. Like with blackmail, or death threats, or -
jay		 A bomb. Everyone's scared of a bomb.
dwayne		I was gonna say hypnotism...but I like that. It's out of the fucking box. We just strap one to some motherfucker's chest, like we did to those watermelons. Think you can you build some kinda bomb vest?
jay		Yeah, I mean...camel jockeys do it in caves. I got a garage workshop.
dwayne		I'm pretty sure this is exactly how a millionaire would do it. And the beauty of it is: we don't lose any sleep, 'cause no one gets hurt.
jay		Except The Major.
dwayne		Yeah. The Major dies. But no one gets hurt.
dwayne		There's just one problem. Where do we get our guy? 'Cause if we do a kidnapping, then we're right back where we started...doing shit that's gonna get us caught.  What we need is someone to come to us...to a place where we can control the situation. Someone without any connection to us.
pizza chef		 We'll deliver anywhere in 30 minutes or less! Or your pizza is free! Giorgio's Trattoria, where the customer gets what they want...pronto!
dwayne		Sometimes fate just takes out its cock and slaps you in the face with it.
riggs		 I'm hungry. I'm gonna get something to eat.
chet		Maybe you should pace yourself. It's noon on a Saturday.
will		Fridge is full, man. We're all good.
will		Let me ask you a question. You remember Tom Small?
chet		Yeah, he used to kick our asses.
will		Turns out he was probably jerking off to it afterwards. He's gay.
chet		I hope he chokes on a dick. I never liked him.
will		Your sister did. She let him finger blast her. Big time.
chet		What the fuck are you talking about? I don't want that shit in my head.
will		Sorry. Kate told me about it last night. I thought you should know.
chet		You two were swapping stories about getting fingered? That's pretty cute.
will		The point I'm trying to make is this: Tom Small was an asshole. He was totally wrong for your sister. Just like every other guy she's ever dated. Right through to that Mark dude she's gonna get back together with. Un-be- fuck-me-lievable...
chet		Whatever. Why the fuck are we talking about who my sister goes out with?
chet		You sneaky son of a bitch...you want to fuck my sister, don't you?
will		Chet, I really don't...
chet		My twin sister!? Which is basically like fucking me!
will		Hey, if you guys had that twin ESP shit this would be a completely different situation. There'd be logistical problems.
chet		We look exactly alike!
will		You look like a lot of people. You're a normal looking dude.
chet		This is so fucked up I can't even begin to process it. How long has this been going on?
will		If I had to put my finger on it...middle school-ish.
chet		So all those sleepovers, they were just some kind of opportunity for you to peek in Kate's bedroom?
will		It might have happened a few times. Most of them were accidental.
chet		You're a peeping Tom. You realize that, don't you? You're a sexual fucking deviant.
will		Fuck you. I'm as normal as they come. Your sister is attractive. She excites me, in a sexual way. Fucking sue me. Can't we just be adults about it?
chet		You? An adult? Sort of stretching the term.
will		Hey, let's not say shit we can't take back.
chet		Take back? Will, you got kicked out of junior college for punching a professor that made fun of some poem you wrote.
will		That poem was about your sister!
chet		That is, literally, the saddest thing I have ever heard. Like retards playing freeze tag sad. No wonder you deliver pizzas for a living.
will		Fuck you! Maybe I was just hanging out with you for your sister. You were always a whiny little bitch. And you stuttered. All the kids used to call you "Chutter."
chet		Whatever. I only started hanging out with you because you had a Nintendo.
will		Did you see my Nintendo naked? Because I saw your sister changing into her swimsuit at your thirteenth birthday pool party. And it was the highlight of the whole shitty event.
chet		Okay. You wanna do this?
will		I think we already are.
chet		Well, you know who I saw naked? Jenny Rifkin. While I was nailing her. The week after she dumped you. 
will		Wow...wow. You pulled a Judas on Jenny fucking Rifkin. That is messed up. Almost as messed up as how I sold your Cal Ripken signed ball for 200 bucks.
chet		My grandpa left me that ball in his will! You helped me look for it for a month!
will		Now you know why we never found it.
will		We done here?
chet		Not quite yet. There's actually a mystery I wanna solve for you.  I was the one who told John Tanner about how your mom fucked that lifeguard. And I always felt awful about it, because even though he swore secrecy, he told everyone else in town. And then your parents wound up getting divorced. But now...I don't give a shit.
will		What!? You ruined...my fucking life!
chet		Krav Maga, bitch. I bet your poetry professor didn't know this shit.
will		Get offa me!
chet		You threw the first punch!
will		I'm gonna break this hold and then kick your skinny ass!
chet		Try it!
will		What the fuck is that!?
chet		My knuckle in your spine! No holds barred you backstabbing fuck!
will		I'm gonna pass out...
chet		Good!
will		 I love her, Chet...I love Kate...
chet		Let me tell you something. And it's the truest thing you'll ever hear, from the person who knows you best in the world...you're not good enough for my sister. And you never will be. You're the lowest common denominator, Will. You're the square root of fucking zero.
will		Fuck you...Chutter!  Square this!
chet		Get out of my house. You're a shitty friend.
will		Right back at you.
christopher		Come on, wake up and get to work.
will		Where the fuck is this?
christopher		How should I know? It's 30 minutes away or the pizza comes out of your paycheck. Tick tock.
will		Hello?
will		What the -
will		Holy fuck!
dwayne		Stop! We got a gun, you asshole!
dwayne		Fuck! Get him!
will		What the hell!?  Rape!
dwayne		Step one.
dwayne		You thought we were gonna rape you.  Idiot.
dwayne		Just shut up. The tape is there for a reason. 'Cause this next part is gonna take a measure of calm. Are you with me? Can you be calm?
dwayne		Will Dixon, of 112 North Whatever- The-Fuck Street, right now you are wearing an explosive vest.
dwayne		Calm the fuck down!
dwayne		Now stay still and my associate will show you.
jay		Take it easy, man. You're fine. I built this thing. It's pretty stable.
dwayne		For a fucking bomb. So don't trip over your shoelaces or anything. That thing's full of C-4. And the C is for chaos.
jay		Actually, the C stands for "composite." But, yeah, I'd try not to slam into stuff.
dwayne		Can I take that tape off now, pizza boy?
will		Help!
dwayne		You know where you are? You might as well be in space, motherfucker. Nobody can hear you scream.
will		Why are you doing this to me? I don't have any money.
dwayne		Not yet. But you're gonna go get us some.
will		Okay. Sure, man. Whatever you say. I'll go sell my car. I'll get you like a thousand bucks.
dwayne		I want 100 thousand.
will		Where the fuck am I supposed to get that much money?
dwayne		The Donner-Wells National Bank on Charles Road.
jay		Across the street from the Olive Garden.
dwayne		Yeah, the one across the street from the Olive Garden.
will		Do you guys have an account or something?
dwayne		No, I don't have an account! You're gonna rob it!
will		How the fuck am I supposed to rob a bank?
dwayne		Figure it out. You got a bomb strapped to your chest. That's a start. It'll scare the fuck outta people. Maybe use your brain and go get a gun. Borrow one from a friend for all I care. It ain't rocket science.
will		Then do it yourself.
dwayne		I would, but I'm already wearing this gorilla mask and you're already wearing that bomb.  Tell him about the vest.
jay		You seem like a pretty trustworthy guy. I mean, you got a job and all. But just in case you were gonna try to take the vest off, we booby trapped it to shit. There's also a remote detonator on the back, so we can trigger it by dialing a number.
dwayne		And it's on speed dial. So do what you gotta do, but we'll be watching. 
dwayne		It's 9:00 AM. You got 8 hours.
dwayne		Once you have the money, call this number and you'll be given instructions on where to drop it. You do good, we give you the six-digit combination that stops the timer and opens the lock. Tomorrow morning, you can go back to delivering pizza, the mail, whatever the fuck you want.  Now let me demonstrate what happens if you don't get us the money.
dwayne		Hey, Teddy Ruxpin...what's that? You don't have the money? It was too tough to rob the bank, so you just went back to your bear cave and cried like a bitch? Well, guess what my stuffed friend...time is up.
dwayne		I liked that bear. I don't even know you.
dwayne		Go on. Get outta here.
will		Guys, can we please just talk about this?
dwayne		Yeah, of course we can.
dwayne		Be careful!
dwayne		That's right! Get the fuck out of here! You're wasting time!
jay		What the hell, Dwayne? You told me that was a replica gun.
dwayne		It was. Then I paid a Mexican 50 bucks to put a firing pin in it. Now it goes boom.
jay		We didn't discuss a loaded gun! Especially not with the bomb around!
dwayne		Don't you ever question me. I'm fucking this bitch. You're just holding the camera.
jay		 Sure, Dwayne...whatever you say.
dwayne		Good. 'Cause this ain't the Marines. This is cash money. You hesitate, you fuck up...and I will leave you behind.
dwayne		Let's go get some breakfast.
will		Oh, god! Holy shit! Fuck me! Someone please fucking help me!
chet		This whole region here, about 830 thousand square miles, was part of the initial Louisiana Purchase.
seventh grader		 Nice laser.
chet		What do you want?
will		We gotta talk.
chet		I'm working here. Do not mess with me at work.
will		Chet, for the love of god, just talk to me in private for one minute.
chet		You wanna apologize, don't you? You look like shit. You've probably been up for days thinking about what an asshole you were. Well, it's gonna take a lot more than some pathetic groveling -
will		 Chet! Shut up! I don't wanna apologize to you!
chet		Then what do you want? Because we don't have anything left to say to each other.
will		Here goes. And this is gonna sound crazy. Because it is fucking crazy. But last night two guys in masks jumped me and strapped a bomb to my chest, and now I have less than eight hours to rob a bank.
chet		You're hysterical. Got me. Great joke. I'm going back to work now.
chet		What the fuck? Is that real?
chet		Stay away from me! What the fuck are you involved in!? Terrorism!?
will		Chet, do you really think I'm a terrorist?
chet		Yes! One of the dumb ones! The ones they convince to wear the bombs!
will		I am not fucking around here. Two guys did this to me. And if I don't rob that bank in time this thing is gonna blow.
chet		Seriously?
will		Seriously.
chet		And your first idea was to come to a school filled with young children?
will		I didn't -
chet		Just back the fuck away from me with that thing.
will		Listen, I think the vest is safe for now. These guys don't want me to blow myself up on accident before I get their money.
chet		Oh, so you figure the two psychopaths that rigged a bomb to your chest made sure it was safe? There's no margin for error in their fucking bomb vest design!?
will		I don't know! All I do know is that this is real. This is happening. And I'm sure you hate me as much as I hate you right now, but I have nowhere else to go.
chet		For what?
will		For help, Chet. I need your help. Please. I can't do this alone.
chet		Damn it!  I'd like to tell you to get fucked, but you know what the problem is...I'm a better man than you. And someday, I might actually forgive you. So if I let you blow up, or whatever, that shit might come back and eat at my conscience, and totally affect my relationships with other people. Like my wife and kids and shit.
will		That's a...very rational way to look at the situation.  And you're right, about being a better guy than me.
chet		Are you sure that thing isn't gonna blow at any second?
chet		Could you just walk a few feet in front of me for a while?
will		I can do that.
will		Thank you.
chet		Yes, I'm still here. I really am this stupid. Just pay attention to where you're going.
will		I think I can handle it.
chet		These floors get waxed once a week. On Tuesday, which today is. You hit a slick patch, trip and fall, and I got a classroom full of kids wearing their skin inside out.
will		Chet, I'm fucking nervous enough as it is. Please. I don't need you back seat driving me right now.
chet		Obviously.
will		Just for the record, this isn't a nuclear weapon strapped to my chest. And there are metal lockers on either side of the hallway. If I fall, and if this thing goes off, I'm probably not taking out the whole school.
chet		Do you really want to debate this?
chet		You're an asshole.
will		Whatever. It's over.
will		Who was the chick in the white jeans?
chet		Kristi Evans. Why?
will		You know why.
chet		Oh, come on. Just keep walking.
will		Come on yourself. You knew exactly who I was talking about.
chet		Fuck you. She's in the eighth grade.
will		I bet you love it when she calls you Mr. Chet.
chet		She doesn't call me "Mr. Chet." She's not a foreigner.
chet		...thanks so much, Mrs. Davis. I'll call you after I talk to the doctor.
chet		So, this is it?
will		This is what?
chet		Once I step inside this car, I'm basically in a steel coffin with you and...that thing. And if it goes off, all they're gonna find in there are two charred bodies and pieces of a bomb. They'll assume we were driving to a government building to blow it up. It'll be all over the news. Next thing you now, some militia or Islam group is claiming us as members. My family will be humiliated.
will		We'll also be dead, in that particular situation, so it won't really matter.
chet		Exactly!
will		I get it. Take your time, man.
chet		This is the world's biggest favor, you motherfucker. You didn't even help me move last winter.
chet		Given the situation, I think you should obey all traffic safety laws.
will		Fine.
will		Okay, so where are we going?
chet		I have no idea. I just got in your car. I thought you had a plan.
will		Well, I don't! I've been sorta preoccupied with this crushing fear of death!
chet		No plan. I can't say I'm surprised.
will		Your plan is probably better. Just condescend me until I explode.
chet		Maybe we should turn on the radio. See if the signal sets the bomb off. That would be an interesting experiment.
chet		Listen, let's just go back to my place. Figure out our options. Maybe you can get the vest off or something. I just don't want to do anything stupid.
will		Unless we have to.
chet		Holy fucking shit!
will		Stop it! You're scaring the fuck out of me!
chet		Okay. Okay. Fuck!
chet		I'm cool now.
will		Why did you do that?
chet		Do what?
will		I saw you.
chet		It's in case I have to jump out.
will		If I survive the day, and you don't because you jumped out of a moving car and broke your neck, I'm gonna laugh my ass off.
chet		And if abandoning ship saves my life, then that laugh will be mine.
will		It's too tight!
chet		What if we try to separate your shoulder?
chet		Well, all these sites say different shit. There's not a lot of consensus in the bomb disarming community.
will		This is pointless.
chet		I agree. We gotta call the cops, have them fly in the bomb squad or something.
will		We can't. These guys said they'd be following me. And I don't have a clue what they look like. For all I know, they're outside right now. They see the cops show up, they blow the vest and cut their losses.
will		What do I do, man? What do I do now?
chet		I don't know, Will...I guess you gotta rob the bank.
will		I haven't been inside a bank in three years! How the fuck am I supposed to rob one!? They wouldn't even give me a savings account!
chet		It's gonna be okay.
will		No, it's not! I'm gonna blow up! That's way worse than getting stabbed or shot. At least some people survive that. No one survives being blown up. 
chet		Pull yourself together!
will		Ow! Fuck! I think you popped my eardrum.
chet		Sorry. Shit. I didn't mean to do that. But just listen to me now. You're not gonna die. You wanna know why? Because you know exactly how to rob a bank.
will		What are you talking about?
chet		Point Break.
will		The movie?
chet		Yes. That movie is like a how-to guide for bank robberies. You just bust in. Masks. Guns. Move fast. Stick to the tellers and don't bother with the vault.
will		Yeah...I guess it's pretty simple, right? And it's just a local bank. The Donner-Wells on Charles Road.
chet		Really? I applied for a job there like a year ago.
will		You wanted to be a teller?
chet		Yeah, so what? It's a good job. You get benefits.
will		Like what, a name tag?
chet		What kind of benefits do you get? Free toppings?
will		That's really clever. No one ever said that shit to me before. Anyway, this is perfect. You know the whole layout of the bank.
chet		Not exactly. They didn't hand me the security schematics with the application. But I sat in the waiting area for like 20 minutes. I know what the place looks like.
will		How many guards?
chet		One. I think.
will		That's a start.
chet		It's a great start. You can do it.
will		You're gonna do it with me, right?
chet		I was actually gonna stick to giving tips, ideas...motivational speeches. More of a consultant or advisory role.
will		Jesus Christ, Chet. Please. I'm begging you here. I need you on this. If I do it alone, I'm dead.
chet		Are you gonna cry again?
will		That was a moment of weakness.  Yes. I'll fucking cry again if that's what it takes.
chet		I should make you blow me.
will		Sure. Whip that shit out. I'm actually kinda curious. I wanna see if Jenny Rifkin lied to you. She obviously lied to me.
will		All these guys want is 100 grand. We can do this.
chet		We're gonna rob a bank for 100 grand? Just leave the rest of the money sitting there? Why?
will		I don't know. I guess they're very modest criminals. Who the fuck cares? Wait...you said "we" right?
chet		I'm putting my life on the line for 100 grand...what does 100 grand even buy these days?
juicy		I missed you so much, baby.
vaughn		You don't got enough dicks to keep you warm in that place?
juicy		You know it's not like that. Those guys get Juicy, but you get Marisol.
vaughn		Well, Marisol...what I want is to get my money, kill that old ass man, then get the fuck out of here.
juicy		Then that's how it's gonna go. We're just waiting on a call.
vaughn		This is my impatient face.
juicy		Well, I think I can keep you entertained.
will		Should we go with the handguns...or the Uzis?
chet		Handguns.
will		That's such a Murtaugh choice.
register woman		You sure you don't want to grab some condoms?
will		Uh, no. Why?
register woman		Because this is usually what men buy before they rape someone, and I want to make sure you all use protection.
will		Lady, we're just...buying some stuff.
register woman		Is that cash or credit for your rape kit?
chet		We'll pay cash.
dwayne		You really fucked up this mix tape.
dwayne		We're not speed freaks knocking off a 7-Eleven. We're masterminding a heist here.
jay		Sorry, Dwayne. That song just means a lot to me.
dwayne		I wish he would hurry his shit up.
jay		You worried about that other guy he's with?
dwayne		No, man. He picked him up at a school. So long as there ain't any cops, he can take the whole town with him. I just want my money.
jay		What? You want me to run over to Subway, get us a couple sandwiches?
dwayne		If you had any vision, Jay, you'd know exactly what I'm thinking about right now. And it's not a sandwich.  Look how well trafficked that shopping mall is. It's the perfect place for the tanning salon.
jay		Oh, you're totally right.
dwayne		I've been thinking about it, and I want you to start off working the counter. Sounds like a demotion, I know, but it's an important position. Because we're gonna be using code words and shit. For example, if a customer walks in and says he wants a tan, that just means he wants a tan. But if he says he wants a "deluxe tan," that means a blow job and you gotta get one of the girls in there to suck him off. You with me?
jay		So far. But what if he wants a fuck?
dwayne		There's gonna be codes for everything: missionary, anal, black chicks. I got it all written down back home in my files. 
jay		Okay. 'Cause they're about to get away.
dwayne		Fuck.
will		Be careful, you're getting paint everywhere.
chet		Are you really worried about your upholstery right now?
will		Yes, because if I survive this shit I'm quitting my job. That means I'll probably have to give up my place and I'll be sleeping in the back of my car, which you're covering in toxic paint.
will		That side isn't dry yet. You're about to ruin it.
chet		It says it's fast drying.
will		Fast isn't the same as instant. You gotta let it sit for like 20 minutes.
chet		How would you know? You do a lot of graffiti?
will		No, but I spray painted my bike last year after I got my license suspended. I didn't let it dry properly and I fucked it up.
chet		We don't have time to sit around and literally watch paint dry. Aren't we going straight to the bank?
will		I was actually thinking we need to stop and steal a car first.
chet		What? No way! We've got a car.
will		Yeah, my car. I'm not gonna use it as a getaway vehicle. They can trace the plates. Even if we do get away, we'll be arrested.
chet		Well, I can't hotwire a fucking automobile, and neither can you.
will		That's why I was thinking we'd steal one from your parents' friends. The Fishers. Remember how they used to pay us to clean their garage? They leave the keys in there. And they have a Datsun. That's a fast car.
chet		I'm not stealing the Fishers' Datsun. Let's steal a car from your parents' friends.
will		What friends? My parents don't have any. My dad moved away after your big mouth ruined his marriage and humiliated him, and no one wanted to hang out with the mom who everyone knew fucked a lifeguard.
chet		You never should have told me! I was 13 years old. I couldn't process that kind of information. I had to tell someone else.  Fuck. I really am sorry about it. Okay? Despite what I said before. I was just a kid, but I messed up.
will		Okay.
chet		That's it? You're not gonna apologize for selling my Cal Ripken ball?
will		Sure. I'm sorry...I'm sorry that my family was going through a rough patch and I was smoking a ton of weed and listening to the Wu Tang Clan all the time. And that I needed some extra dough to indulge my habit. Which, in hindsight, was probably just a cry for help. But you never even noticed.
chet		Thanks. Now I feel even worse.
will		I shouldn't have stolen the ball. I knew it was wrong and I regretted it like the next day. I actually tried to buy it back but the guy wanted twice as much. I had to smoke even more weed just to get past the whole shitty incident. I guess that's why they call it a downward spiral.
chet		I appreciate that you tried to buy it back. So, thanks.
chet		We should probably get going.
chet		Fuck! Fuck! I just want this goddamn day to be over!
will		The keys aren't here. They always used to leave the keys out.
chet		Yeah. When we were teenagers. This is fucked.
will		Let's just find them.
chet		Sorry.
chet		You hear that?
will		What?
chet		Mr. Fisher is coming!
chet		Oh shit, oh shit. Are the keys in there?
will		No!
chet		What are you doing?
will		I'm doing what I have to.
will		Where are the car keys?
will		Quiet down and do it already.
will		Now listen, I don't want you to report this car stolen or anything until later tonight. Let's say 5 o'clock. 6 to be safe.
will		If you fuck with us, I swear, I will...I will shoot your son. Taylor. I know where he works. At the fucking travel agency. He's the douchebag with the bangs.
will		I'm gonna trust you. But if you call the police, there's gonna be an undertaker styling his stupid fucking bangs!  Now open the garage door.
will		The car's insured, right?
will		Okay. I feel better. Worse comes to worst, something happens to it, you can get a Honda. This thing doesn't even have airbags.
chet		That old man's got a heart condition! You could have killed him!
will		My hand was forced!
chet		Awesome. I'm stuck inside an even smaller car with you and a bomb.
will		This thing's got some pickup.
chet		Could you just take it easy, we're doing fine on time.
will		I know...but there's one last stop we have to make.
chet		Do you have to take a piss first? Because I do.
will		I need to see your sister.
chet		Are you for real? Did you really just ask me that? You salt-in-an- open-wound motherfucker!
will		Chet, as if it isn't apparent, I may die today. I'll probably die today. And if there's one small thing that's clear to me now, it's that I've wasted two and a half decades as a pussy, watching everything I want pass me by. I don't wanna peace out of this world as a pussy. I need to tell her how I feel.
chet		You're really gonna turn this into some sort of dying wish bullshit?
will		Yes, I really am. It means that much to me. I am not fucking around here.
chet		I don't think you are. I mean, apparently, you love my sister so much that you're willing to put her life in danger by going to see her with a bomb strapped to your chest.
will		She won't be in danger. I promise. I got it all worked out. And you can even take a piss while I'm inside.
dwayne		Where the fuck is he going? What's in there? Some sort of FBI headquarters? I told that guy not to fuck around!
dwayne		Maybe I should give that bomb a call.
jay		No! Let me just go see what he's up to.
dwayne		I was just fucking around. Are you gay for this guy or something?
jay		I just wanna get the money, Dwayne. Same as you.
dwayne		All right. Then man up and go check it out.
dwayne		Don't even tell me you're about to do a reconnaissance without a cover. What's you cover?
jay		I don't know...I'm from the telephone company?
dwayne		Yeah, nice fucking uniform.
dwayne		You're a personal shopper. You're delivering the latest fashions to Mr. Quilby in marketing. Got it?
dwayne		"He's got the whole world in his hands. He's got whole fucking world in his hands..."
will		...no, I'm here right now.
will		Because strange shit is going on. I'll explain everything. Just meet me where I texted you.
will		Please. Just do it.
kate		 Will?
will		Stop!
kate		What are you doing?
will		Just don't come any closer.
kate		Why not? What's going on?
will		I'm gonna give you the short version of an incredibly complicated and fucked up situation, so please be cool.  Some very bad guys strapped a bomb to my chest and they are forcing me to commit a crime.
kate		Will, I swear, if this is -
will		I wish I was joking, but I'm not. I know it's a lot to swallow, but you gotta take it on face value, because there's a timer attached to this thing and it's counting down.
kate		Oh my god, Will...we'll get help. I'll get you help.
will		I didn't come here for help. I'm taking care of it. I came here because, should things not work out today as I would like them to, I want you to know why I was doing the things I did.
kate		Please, just let me call someone. Let me do something. This is crazy!
will		I don't disagree with you. It's fucking nuts. But that's not even what this is about.  Do you remember when you found that picture in my car of you, me and Chet, with Chet cut out of it?
kate		Will, I can't remember about some stupid picture while you're -
will		I need you to remember about the picture, and about how I stop by your office every Friday, and how I've always hated all your boyfriends, and how the two girls I've ever seriously dated have looked like less attractive versions of you.  Do you see where I'm going with this? I love you Kate. I have for a very long time.
kate		Will, this is a lot you're putting on me! You just told me people are trying to kill you or something, and now you say you love me. What the fuck is going on?
will		A whole lot of shit. I'm sorry to do this to you, but I was afraid I'd never get the chance to tell you. And I know you have feelings for me, too. Maybe you feel for me the way you feel for a good friend, or - if the world fucking hates me - a brother. 
kate		Yes. I mean, I've known you forever. It's not an easy thing to figure out.
will		I don't need an answer now. Just think about it. And no matter what you decide, you're too good for assholes like Mark and the rest of them.
kate		Okay. I will process all of this. It's just, the bomb -
will		It's distracting. I know. Anyway, I'd love to stay and talk some more, but I can't. I gotta ask you to leave now, because I'm running out of time.
kate		If I had time to think about it...I'd probably tell you that I've always felt very strongly for you. And I've never thought of you as a brother.
will		That's a huge relief. Don't say anything else. I just really don't want to die now.
kate		Try not to. Please.
jay		I'm, uh...I'm a personal shopper. I'm looking for Mr. Quilby.
kate		I'm sorry, I don't know who that is.
dwayne		So?
jay		It was just his girlfriend or something.
dwayne		Getting one last blow job in case he don't make it. I kinda like this guy.
chet		Did you tell her how you saw her naked when she was 13? That always works.
will		I said my piece. She's gonna think about it.
chet		Shut up. She was freaked out.
will		Yes. By the bomb.
chet		By you.
will		Would it be so bad if we ended up together? You and I would be family.
chet		I don't want you in the family. You bring very little to the table. I want her to be with someone awesome. A pro quarterback. A war hero. At the very least, someone I've never watched porn with.
will		Well, now it's up to her.
chet		Not if I set that bomb off myself.
will		Then you'd probably never get to rob a bank.
will		You go for the money. I'll cover the crowd. In and out.
chet		I'm not feeling so good. I drank like three of those 5-Hour Energy drinks.
will		It's just nerves. Let's pull our shit together and do this thing.
chet		What should I call you in there, like if I need to ask you to do something?
will		Call me Tivon. You'll be Darius.
chet		I can tell you're not a black guy through the ski mask.
will		Fine. Then you'll be Luis and I'm Cruz. We're two loco motherfuckers and that's the way we gotta roll when we get in there.
will		Everybody put your hands in the air!
chet		No, get on the ground!
will		Actually, listen to him and get on the fucking ground!
will		Shut up! Please!
will		You, just stand right there and don't do shit! The rest of you get the fuck down! Spread your arms and legs! Why is no one listening to me!?
security guard		Just take it easy, man!
will		Don't be a hero, cowboy!
security guard		What the fuck does that mean? I'm not a hero! Or a cowboy!
chet		All of you, back away from the counter and get out here! Anyone pushes a button and one of these people gets totally shot!
will		Very slowly, take out your gun and toss it away.
mom		Oh, god! I don't want the gun!
will		 What the fuck!? Did you do that on purpose!?
security guard		It was an accident!
chet		Are you guys working together?
mom		No! Please take this gun away!
will		Just toss it, lady!
fat man		I think she got the femoral artery!
mom		I'm sorry! It was an accident!
fat man		Fuck you! Who slides a gun like that!?
daughter		Mommy, what's happening!?
mom		Christi, be quiet. These men are dangerous.
chet		This is fucked. That dude is gonna bleed out and we're gonna go to prison.
will		Just calm down.
fat man		Why is no one getting me help!?
will		Is anyone here a doctor?
will		Sir, let me see where you're hit.
fat man		Just call me an ambulance!
will		Calm down, sir.
will		It's just a flesh wound. You're gonna be okay.
fat man		But it hurts so bad.
will		You got shot, man. It's not supposed to feel good. But you're gonna be fine. And you'll have a great story to tell everyone.
fat man		This is an awful story! This isn't a bank error in my favor! I got shot!
will		Point taken. Luis, how we doing on the money?
chet		Oh, shit. Sorry, Cruz.
chet		Hey, Sandra. I know you're probably scared right now, but if you go grab us 100 grand in a bag, we'll get out of here. This will all be over and you'll be fine. You trust me?
fat man		My leg really hurts!
will		Can you please hurry up, Sandra!?
will		I'm really sorry, everyone. I know we probably fucked up your day.  I'm thinking of you in particular, sir. Actually, you know what...
will		Quickly. Peel a few bills. On me. Anyone rats him to the cops and I'm coming for you. I remember faces.
chet		What the fuck was that about, Sandra? I thought we had something going! What happened to trust?
sandra		I'm sorry! They make us do it!
will		Could you kindly fill another bag? Not a bank bag. A fucking garbage bag. And Luis, will you watch her this time?
chet		Okay. That should be enough.
will		Fuck! Which one of you assholes tripped the alarm!? Was it you, Sandra!?
sandra		No! It was Mark! He pushed the button when you guys came in!
mark		Sandra, you bitch! Now they're gonna kill us both!
sandra		Fuck you, Mark! You're the manager!
will		Fuck both of you! Fuck all of you! I'm a regular guy! Just like you! I'm a regular guy and you fucked me! Thank you for fucking a regular guy!
chet		Let's just get the fuck out of here.
officer zurman		Drop your weapons!
chet		Don't shoot us!
officer zurman		Drop the guns or I'll have to!
will		Fuck you! You just brought a gun to a bomb fight, officer! I pull these wires out and we all go! You got ten seconds to drop your gun and -
jay		Oh, yeah, who's gonna build it?
dwayne		You are!
chet		Shit! This is not cool!
chet		Maybe we should pull over and surrender.
will		I can outrun these guys. They're not the FBI, they're local cops. Just shut up and let me concentrate. I do this for a living.
chet		You don't do anything like this for a living! I am not a pizza, I am a man!
will		Holy fuck!
chet		Go! Go! Go!
chet		Stop! Stop! Stop!
will		That guy got fucked up.
will		Chet? Are you okay? Chet!?
chet		 Oh my god...
will		Talk to me.
chet		I thought you were gonna blow up.
will		No. Luckily your side took most of the impact.
chet		Awesome.
will		We gotta keep moving.
will		Oh, fuck, man. Come on.
will		Chet...I don't know how to tell you this...but you got a piece of the car in you.
chet		What!?
will		In your back.
chet		Ah! Get it out!
will		I will.
chet		Do it now!
will		All right.
chet		Is it rusty? Am I gonna get tetanus?
chet		Why are you moving so slowly?
will		It's a combination of cheap sneakers and this heavy fucking bomb on my chest!
will		Hey! Over here!
dwayne		You hear what happened to the guys they were after?
random local		Sounds like they got away.
will		I never thought I'd see you again.
chet		I thought you hated this car.
will		It's actually not that bad. You know, as compared to that Datsun. The Mustang's got more comfortable seats. And it never would have flipped over.
will		There's a 100 grand in there. 100 fucking grand. Which we stole. From a bank.
chet		I told a bunch of people I was gonna shoot someone. I was like "you fucking move, and I will kill you where you stand!"
will		I threatened to blow up a cop.  And you never said "I will kill you where you stand."
chet		I know. But shit did get pretty crazy.
will		Yeah, it did.
will		You know, there's no one I would have rather taken down a fucking bank with. I mean that.
chet		Me, neither.
will		And as for all that shit I said...and all that shit I did...I hope you can forgive me. We've been friends for so long, and I guess you hurt the people you're closest to the most.
chet		I messed up, too. I'm a dude who slept with his best friend's ex- girlfriend, and destroyed his parents' marriage, and sat on the sidelines watching his downward spiral. I'm a shitty human being. But I'm glad you know that now, because you can accept me for who I am.
will		I do. I accept you. Because you accept me.
chet		Woah! You still got a bomb on you.
will		You're right. Let's take care of that. But you owe me a hug.
will		It's all gravy from here.
dwayne		This who I think it is? WILL  What's that supposed to mean? DWAYNE One of those cops who wrecked his car chasing you...he ain't breathing no more. Will goes white, covers the phone and whispers to Chet - WILL We killed a cop. CHET You were driving! I'm just an accomplice! WILL They're gonna hunt us down and kill us. Cops don't take this shit lightly.
chet		I bet he had like eight kids. We have to find them and support his family forever.
dwayne		I'm just messin' with you. You didn't kill anyone. How'd a moron like you manage to rob a bank?
dwayne		There's a boarded up gas station out on Commerce Avenue, past the highway. Be there in 30 minutes.
dwayne		Then you'll be standing around with your dick in one hand, and my money in the other.
dwayne		Yo, Juicy, wrangle your boy. Money's on its way.
dwayne		I remember the summer after my mother passed was the first year they had the Monopoly game at McDonald's. I musta come here three times a day trying to collect all the game pieces. Packed on 20 pounds, got acne from all the grease. The Major said I was the fattest, ugliest 13-year-old he ever laid eyes on. But I didn't care, I just wanted to win the money and get the fuck out of there. So, one night, I followed this skinny register kid home, jumped him. I kept whaling on him, asking him where they were hiding the Park Place piece. The million dollar prize. But he didn't know shit. A year later, The Major won the lotto. I asked him for a Sega Genesis. He bought me one of those paddles with the ball attached.
dwayne		I'm not ashamed to admit that I've gone through some dark times since then. Depression. Addiction to a variety of shit, which I won't go into. I know you must think that's pretty silly, especially since you manage to get through the day and you don't got shit going on as compared to me. But that's just the way it is. That's life.
jay		You know, I've been pretty low, too... if you ever want to talk about that kinda stuff.
dwayne		No. I don't. My whole point I was trying to make before you interrupted me was that that shit is all in the past. 'Cause I did it. I finally pulled it off.
jay		We pulled it off, Dwayne. The two us. We're a good team.
dwayne		Are we? Would you do anything to protect me, my money, my empire?
jay		Yeah, sure...  I mean, like what kinda stuff are we talking about?
dwayne		Would you push the button?
jay		Why would you want me to do that?
dwayne		It's just a question, Jay. Would you? If I asked you? 
jay		Watermelons aren't alive.
dwayne		Yeah, they are. Not the ones you blew up, though.
jay		No one gets hurt...right, Dwayne?
dwayne		Oh, yeah. I forgot about that part.
dwayne		Anyway, he hasn't even made the drop yet. I'm gonna go take a shit. Stay away from the bathroom. Someone could get hurt.
will		Where are the other guys?
vaughn		I'm the only guy.  You got it?
vaughn		What the fuck did you do...rob a bank?
will		 Yes.
will		Now where's the code?
vaughn		I don't have any code.
will		Listen, man, I just want the code.
vaughn		I don't know what the fuck you're talking about.
will		The code for the fucking bomb!
vaughn		What kind of stupid motherfucker wears a bomb to a drop?
will		Your boss put this on me.
vaughn		I am my boss.
will		Then give me the code!
vaughn		Motherfucker, I don't know no goddamn code. Whoever told you I did, lied to you. Now step the fuck off, or I'll shoot you in the face so you don't explode and mess up my boots.
will		If you don't have the code, I want that money back.
vaughn		The only way you're getting this money back is if you kill me.
will		You don't know what I've gone through for that money!
vaughn		Do I look sympathetic? Now step the fuck aside.
juicy		Vaughn, look out!
will		Let's go!
will		What the fuck was that?
chet		They tried to screw us. You're a liability. They were just gonna let you blow up.
will		Not with the money they won't.
dwayne		Never comes out this nice when I do it myself. You might wanna take some more off the top, though. I wanna look real professional when I go down to the morgue to identify the body.
dwayne		You drop the money yet?
will		No! I've still got the money! And I cracked your friend's face open!
will		You lied! You said I'd get the code!
dwayne		I gave him the code. He told me he committed it to memory. 
dwayne		Hold on there, big man. You got a bomb on you. I got a cell phone that detonates it. You're not exactly negotiating from a position of leverage.
chet		Don't tell him to push the button! Pull over! Pull over!
dwayne		Why don't you watch what the fuck you say! I own you! I tell you to rob a bank, and you rob a bank. I tell you to give me the money, and you give me the goddamn money and hope I show you some mercy.
dwayne		That piece of shit hung up on me!
chet		Get me out of this car!
chet		That was colossally stupid!
will		It was a negotiation tactic. He'll call back and I won't answer. Then he'll call back and I will answer, and he'll realize the only way he gets the money is if he gives me the code.
chet		Sure! That seems like a perfectly logical pattern of thought! I bet that's exactly what he'll do!
dwayne		Does this guy know who the fuck I am!?
jay		Dwayne...you never told me you weren't going to give him the code.
dwayne		We're not amateurs. He was a loose end. I let him live, someday I woulda been walking out of my mansion and... bam! FBI, CIA, NSA, all converging on my front lawn, 'cause a loose end turned state's evidence and they got what they need to put me away.
dwayne		Fuck it, Jay. I'll just kill The Major myself.
jay		Don't do it.
dwayne		You know what they say about a tree falling in the forest? Maybe the same thing applies to blowing up some motherfucker across town. Maybe it doesn't even make a sound.
dwayne		Boom.
dwayne		Who did I just call, Jay? 'Cause she sounded cute for a bomb.
jay		 Gina Kim. My seventh grade crush. Or whoever lives in Gina Kim's house now.
dwayne		Where's the number for the bomb?
jay		In my head. I switched it out of your phone while you were taking a shit. You're out of control, Dwayne.
dwayne		I'm in perfect control!
jay		Stop it!
vaughn		Who the fuck do you think you're talking to!?
vaughn		Let me give you a hint: your boy just jumped me, tossed my bitch like a rag doll and split with the cash.
dwayne		That guy's not my boy. He's a dick. I'm sorry for all the, uh, confusion.
dwayne		I wasn't fucking you, I was fucking him. You gotta understand, you're like a pawn in a much larger game I'm playing here.
dwayne		I didn't mean it like that. I'm just juggling a whole lot of shit.
dwayne		That may not be possible.  I just want to put this out there, to keep you in the loop...but I may need to bump the hit.
vaughn		This isn't a reservation at Sizzler! You don't "bump" it! I want you to bring me my money right now, to where I am standing in this shit hole town, bleeding from the motherfucking face!
vaughn		The deal's off! You just became the hit!
juicy		He lives with his daddy. You already got the address.
dwayne		That's it. The assassin's gonna kill me now. I'm gonna die. Game fucking over.
jay		We can still get him the money. Try the pizza guy back.
dwayne		Why? So he can fuck around again, and I wind up dead, anyway? No. I'd rather just sit here. I want to die right here on this couch.
jay		No. We're gonna get that money. Just like we planned. All we gotta do is get the leverage back.
dwayne		How do we do that? Pizza boy's obviously got some kinda death wish.
jay		We take the girl. The one he went to see. Then he won't try shit.
dwayne		That's actually...that's a great fucking idea, Jay. It's the best idea anyone's had all day.
jay		I was just trying to figure out how you would do it, Dwayne.
dwayne		Ok. Then let's do it right. We leave nothing to chance. Because if we go to prison for this, I won't be able to watch out for you.
jay		Ok, Dwayne.
dwayne		You should probably bring the flamethrower, buddy. There's gonna be some evidence to dispose of.
chet		It's been half an hour.
will		He'll call.
chet		In another 30 minutes I'm calling the bomb squad.
chet		These guys obviously aren't watching you anymore.
will		You know, even if they get the bomb squad here in time, and they can somehow get this thing off me, we still gotta answer for the robbery.
chet		I'll take the heat with you, Will.
will		Nah. I'll tell them I forced you into it. That you didn't have a choice.
chet		Thanks, man.
dwayne		What's the quietest way out of the building? 'Cause I might get excited in a confrontation, and you might wind up shot in the face.
major		Dwayne?
vaughn		I'm looking for your son.
major		Even if I knew where he was, I wouldn't tell you nothing.
vaughn		Don't be stupid.
major		You know, I saved a black man's life in the shit. So if I took yours I'd be even.
vaughn		I see where your son gets his common sense. 
vaughn		Just tell me where he is!
major		You think I'm scared of death? There's a whole generation of gooks that think I'm the grim reaper.
major		I'll ride you all the way to hell! I know exactly how to get there!
vaughn		What now, old man!? You can't kill me! None of y'all can kill me!
major		Go on and -
vaughn		Motherfucker has lost his mind...
chet		Look at the upshot, while you're behind bars you can finally finish your degree. If I was there, too, it would just be a distraction.
will		Great idea, Chet. Thanks a lot. I'll just sit here and figure out a fucking major.
will		Hey, it's them.
will		You ready to talk now?
dwayne		 Yeah, I'm ready to talk. I want my money. Meet me back at the radio tower in 50 minutes.
dwayne		That's the point. I want you on a short leash.
dwayne		Yeah, I'm sure. You just wanna go back to your fantastic life. Your great job. And that blonde bitch with the sexy voice.
will		What the fuck is that supposed to mean?
will		Fuck you! You crossed a line!
dwayne		There are no lines! There's just me and you and 100 thousand dollars. Once we get that shit in order, you can have her back, and your life, too. So you're gonna show up where I say, when I say. Alone. And if you try anything stupid, the two of you will be delivering pizzas to Saint Peter.
will		Let me talk to her.
dwayne		You got ten seconds.
kate		Will...?
kate		It's okay...I'm fine...I'm just really -
dwayne		She's just really gonna die if you fuck this up.
will		Fuck!
chet		What happened?
will		They have Kate.
chet		What the fuck does that mean!?
will		They took her, man. They must have followed us to her office.
chet		Damn it! You had to go see her!
will		I'm sorry. I messed up...I finally messed up worse than I could have possibly imagined.
chet		We gotta get her back, Will. These guys are crazy.
will		We still got the money. As long as we have that, she's alive. Come on.
will		I'm here!
dwayne		How much time you got left?
will		Ten minutes.
dwayne		Damn. Maybe we should just wait around for the money shot.
dwayne		That the money?
will		Maybe. Where's the girl?
dwayne		In the van. Maybe.
will		Get her out here. You're wasting time.
kate		Will, are you there?
will		I'm here. It's gonna be okay.
dwayne		This is a fucking tearjerker.
will		Just let her come over here.
dwayne		I will. But you should know, my associate over there is packing a flamethrower.
jay		 Just do what we say. Don't mess around or anything.
dwayne		Unless either of you can outrun a 25- foot flame.  Or a bullet.
will		Get back.
dwayne		I gave you the girl. Now give me the money.
will		How about we get the code out of the way first, since this bomb happens to be ticking so close to all of us.
dwayne		Fair enough.
dwayne		 You ready to be a free man?
will		Just give it to me!
dwayne		It's so fucking pretty, ain't it?
jay		Yeah. It's awesome.
dwayne		Okay, you can get out of here now.
will		I actually have this sneaking suspicion that once we turn around, you're gonna put a bullet in both of our backs - and this is just a guess - burn our bodies.
dwayne		They say great minds think alike. And in this case, so do we.
will		I figured as much. That's why I got a gun pointed at you, too.  I got a sniper in the bushes locked on you right now.
dwayne		Do I look that dumb?
will		I can't tell, you're wearing a mask.
jay		Hey...on your forehead.
dwayne		Son of a bitch. Well played.
will		We're gonna walk out of here now. If you shoot, my sniper shoots. I can't guarantee he'll get both of you. But he'll definitely get you.
vaughn		Wasn't expecting to see you here.
dwayne		It's all good. We got your money.
vaughn		Nice mask, Dwayne. Now throw the money over here.
dwayne		Hold up. You don't have to do this. I just paid you.
vaughn		I've been hit with a pipe, shot with a pen, and wasted my whole motherfucking day...all because of you and this job.
dwayne		I don't know what you're talking about. Just take the money.
vaughn		I will. And then I'm gonna tie up the two loose ends in the gorilla masks.
dwayne		I'm not a loose end!
vaughn		You're a fucking idiot. You are as loose as ends get.
vaughn		What the -
kate		Chet!? What are you doing here!?
chet		Not now. We gotta take off.  Where's Will?
will		I got the money. Let's get the fuck out of here.
dwayne		No!!
jay		Dwayne! Help!
dwayne		Goddamn it, Jay!
dwayne		Stop, drop and roll!
jay		You came back for me...you said you never would.
dwayne		You didn't hesitate back there, Jay. You did good.
dwayne		I'm gonna go put a bullet in that motherfucker and get our money. Think you can get outta here?
jay		Yeah. Go get him.
kate		Uh...I just got kidnapped.
chet		Yeah, that was totally Will's fault. In case you want to factor that in while you're mulling over the whole relationship thing.
will		I'm very sorry about the kidnapping. This is me, taking responsibility for it. Growing up. Like a viable life partner.
chet		This man has spied on you in the nude before!
will		What? No, I didn't.
chet		He's lying. He's trying to build a relationship on a foundation of lies. And it won't stand.
kate		I just got kidnapped! Can we talk about that!?
will		Oh, shit. One of those dudes is definitely not dead!
chet		Hurry up! He's already on us!
dwayne		I own this town.
kate		What the hell was that?
will		That was the bomb I carried around all day. I reactivated it and put it in the back of his van. I guess his time was up.
chet		"His time was up?" Were you thinking that up the whole day?
will		I was prepared, yes. I can't help it if I'm the kind of guy who thinks about the future.
chet		 He's not that kind of guy. He doesn't think about the future. Ever.
kate		What exactly happened since I saw you this afternoon?
will		Primarily, we robbed a bank.
kate		What!? So you're, like, fugitives? What do we do now?
chet		Yeah, Will. What does the future hold?
will		Nothing good if we stay in town and they pin this on us. Kate, I think you should put in for that vacation time. Right now. If anyone gives you a problem, tell them to fuck off. There's 100 grand in that trash bag by your feet. A third of it's yours.
kate		Will, that's -
chet		Fucked up. Why does she get a share?
will		Why do you get a share?
will		Airport's 30 minutes away. Pick a destination. This time it's not a practice run.
dwayne		Dad?
dwayne		Dad, are you -
major		Dwayne...
dwayne		What happened to you?
major		Some guy...said you hired him to kill me.
dwayne		Dad, I...I'd never...
major		Look at you...lip quivering like you're getting fucked...be a man.
dwayne		I am a man! I killed you, didn't I? Now I'm gonna use your money to open a tanning salon where they let you fuck the chicks.
major		You mean...like those whorehouses...in 'Nam...I used to tell you about?
dwayne		Those were great bedtime stories.
major		Medics are late...probably a couple lazy spicks...you tell 'em I said so...all right, son?
dwayne		Sure thing, pop.
major		Hell of thing...I think I may...actually respect you now.
dwayne		Get up, you pussy! Come on, soldier!
chet		Fucking nine dollars to use the internet.
will		And?
chet		Police think it was that black guy. They found some kind of map in his car. And I'm sure racial profiling played a part.
will		But nothing about us?
chet		Nope. Guess it's time to head back.
will		I was thinking we'd stick around a little a longer.
chet		Why? So you have more time to delude my sister?
will		Yes. And it'd be easier if you gave us five fucking minutes alone.
chet		You really think she's into you?
will		 I kissed her last night. No tongue. Then you walked in.
chet		You're gonna go fuck my sister now, aren't you?
will		I'll be thinking of you the whole time.
chet		At the very least...be a considerate lover. Give pleasure, before taking pleasure.
will		I think I'm reading you. And I will try my best.
will		You're Riggs! You always have been!
will		I lied and told your brother I kissed you. I thought it would make this easier.
kate		Here's an idea: pretend you have a bomb strapped to your chest. Tick, TICK -
kate		Is Chet watching us?
will		Probably. We should go inside. I promised him I'd satisfy you.
dwayne		GRAND OPENING SPECTACULARRR!
dwayne		Here at Major Tan, our specially trained technicians are hard at work developing new technologies that harness the power of the sun, to ensure a cutting-edge tanning experience.
dwayne		How's it looking?
jay		It's our most advanced tanning bed yet!
dwayne		Hey, don't just take this scientist's word for it. The proof...
dwayne		...is in the tan.
dwayne		But Major Tan isn't just about looking good. It's also about feeling good.
random guy		That "Deluxe Tan" was fantastic!
dwayne		So come on down to Major Tan...where we're proud to be a family business.
****Dialogues from script :42.txt****

white - march 14, 2012		Blue Revised - April 7, 2012 Pink Revised - April 19, 2012 Yellow Revised - April 24, 2012 Green Revised - April 27, 2012 Goldenrod Revised - May 9, 2012 Buff Revised - May 29, 2012 Salmon Revised - June 4, 2012 Cherry Revised - June 11, 2012 Tan Revised - June 25, 2012 Double White Revised - June 28, 2012 Double Blue Revised - July 9, 2012
rickey		Gentlemen, I have a plan... As of now, only the Board of Directors and my family know.
sukeforth		A plan's always good, Mr. Rickey. And you always got one.
rickey		My wife says I'm too old, That my health isn't up to it. My son says that every one in baseball will be against me. But I'm going to do it.
sukeforth		Do what, Mr. Rickey?
rickey		I'm going to bring a Negro ballplayer to the Brooklyn Dodgers.
parrott		With all due respect, sir, have you lost your mind? Imagine the abuse you'll take from the newspapers alone. Never mind how it'll play on Flatbush. Please, Mr. Rickey.
rickey		There's no law against it, Clyde.
sukeforth		There's a code. Break a law and get away with it, some people think you're smart. Break an unwritten law though, you'll be an outcast.
rickey		So be it. New York is full of Negro baseball fans; every dollar is green. I don't know who he is, or where he is, but he's coming.
catcher		Where'd you learn to move like that, runner?! At dime a dance night?! Stay quiet! INSERT: Birmingham, Alabama. April 8, 1945. On the first pitch the runner takes off. The catcher fires to second. See it from his POV as the runner slides in SAFE! A foot on the bag, the runner dusts off, heckles the catcher:
runner		Is that the best you got?! Huh?! I'm going to steal nine, ten bases today! You better start counting! The catcher frowns. Standing, we see he is a big, big man.
catcher		He's got a mouth on him. Shaking his head, the catcher gets back in his crouch, signals the PITCHER. On the wind-up, the Runner is off again. The catcher fires to THIRD: Safe!
runner		You got a rag arm, catcher!
catcher		Steal home! You'll find out what kind of arm I got!
runner		Okay, I'm coming! The Catcher looks over at Scott who chuckles.
catcher		California, huh?
jack		What was I? The umpire passes one hand over the other: Safe. Jack looks over at the catcher, gives him a pointed look as he goes -- The catcher shoves him in the back. Jack turns, shoves back. As the two men wrestles each other to the ground --
sukeforth		Josh Gibson. Oh boy can he hit.
rickey		No.
sukeforth		No? Rickey won't take the file; the answer is no.
sukeforth		Alright. Roy Campanella. Sukeforth holds it out; Rickey won't take it.
rickey		A heck of a player. But too sweet, they'll eat him alive.
sukeforth		 Satchel Paige then. Parrott enters carrying an armful of files.
rickey		Too old. We need a man with a future not a past. (holds up his own
sukeforth		He was court-martialed. A trouble maker. He argues with umpires. A quick temper is his reputation. Rickey is obviously keen on him.
sukeforth		Do you see?
rickey		I see he resents segregation. If he were white, we'd call it spirit!
attendant		Fill her up?
driver		Yes, sir. The attendant starts unscrewing caps on two 50-GALLON TANKS.
attendant		Where you all headed?
driver		Chicago. As the attendant shoves down a pump, starts filling, Jack steps off. He spots and heads for a restroom. White Men Only lettered on the door. The attendant roused as he sees.
attendant		Hey! Where you going, boy!?
jack		I'm going to the toilet.
attendant		Shit, boy, c'mon. You know you can't go in there. Jack does a slow burn, then suddenly strides toward the attendant. The air rife with tension.
jack		Take that hose out of the tank.
attendant		Huh?
jack		Take it out. We'll get our ninety- nine gallons of gas someplace else. The attendant blinks. He takes a look from Jack to up and down the deserted highway. No business in sight.
attendant		Okay, use it. But don't stay in there too long. Jack heads back. The Driver, the players, a bit stunned.
sukeforth		Are you Jackie Robinson?
jack		Excuse me?
rickey		A man needs a family relying on him. It insures he'll behave responsibly. Do you have a girl?
jack		I think so.
rickey		You think so? Jack looks to Sukeforth who smiles placidly. Back to Rickey.
jack		I don't make much money. Between the army and now baseball I've been away a lot. And Rae, Rachel, she wants to finish school. Considering all that, I say I think so.
rickey		Do you love her? Rachel?
jack		Yes, sir, very much.
rickey		Marry her. What? Rickey stands, walks to a window. Jack looks at Sukeforth who raises a hand as if to say: Give it a chance.
jack		Coach Sukeforth here said you were starting a new Negro League. That doesn't make sense to me.
jack		What's this about, Mr. Rickey?
rickey		This is about baseball. Rickey opens the shade. Sunlight floods in. Rickey follows it to the chalkboard, to the list of players under Montreal.
jack		Yes, sir. That's fine.
rickey		There is one condition. I have a pile of scouting reports. I know you can hit behind the runner, that you can read a pitch. The question is can you control your temper?
jack		My temper?
rickey		Yes your temper! Are you deaf?! Rickey furious, the avuncular old man gone. Jack sits there, fists now balled. Rickey to Sukeforth like he's not there:
sukeforth		He'll need to be. Rickey looks back to Jack who is as angry as he is confused.
rickey		I want to win! I want ballplayers who can win! Are you one of them?!
jack		Yes.
rickey		A black man in white baseball. Imagine the reaction. The vitriol. Rickey strides forward, gets in his face.
rickey		I want one who has the guts not to fight back! There are people who will not like this. They will do anything to get you to react. If you echo a curse with a curse, they will only hear yours. Follow a blow with a blow and they will say a Negro lost his temper; that the Negro does not belong. Your enemy will be out in force, but you can not meet him on his own low ground. We win with hitting, running and fielding, nothing else. We win if the world is convinced of two things: that you are a fine gentlemen and a great ballplayer. Like our Savior, you must have the guts to turn the other cheek. Jack considers Rickey. Rickey looks worn out.
jack		Mr. Rickey, you give me a uniform, you give me a number on my back, and I'll give you the guts.
rachel		Hello?
jack		Rae, I'm in Brooklyn.
rachel		Brooklyn? For what?
jack		I don't want to say on the phone. In fact, I'm not supposed to tell anyone. She can hear the tingle in his voice.
rachel		Jack?
jack		We've been tested you and me. Our loyalty, our faith. We've done everything the right way. Me trying to make money. You finishing school. Separated by the war, now by baseball. We don't owe the world a thing. Only each other. She's actually getting a little scared now.
rachel		Jack, what are you talking about? What happened?
jack		The Brooklyn Dodgers just signed me to play ball up in Montreal. It might lead to bigger things. To something wonderful.
rachel		What does it mean? For you and me?
jack		Rae. Will you marry me?
rachel		Absolutely. When?
jack		Now.
rachel		Did my mom look happy?
jack		Yes. They reach the door. Jack gets out a key to unlock it. Rachel looks nervous, steps back across the hall.
rachel		Did my gram look happy? Swinging the door open, he looks at her. The air charged.
jack		Everyone looked happy. I've never seen so many people looking happy.
rachel		Did Jack Robinson look happy?
jack		Too late. You already do. It's you and me, Rae.
rachel		Until the wheels fall off.
jack		It can wait one more night
rickey		Who's the best shortstop you ever saw?
smith		Rabbit Tavener.
rickey		Rabbit Tavener? And you call yourself a sports writer?
smith		Yes, a sentimental one. I'm from Detroit. He was the Tiger shortstop when I was a boy. How about you? Who's your best?
rickey		Pop Lloyd.
smith		Not Honus Wagner?
rickey		Wagner is number two. And Rabbit Tavener would not break my top 25. Where do you suppose Jackie Robinson will end up on that list?
smith		He won't break it. He doesn't have a shortstop's arm. Robinson belongs on second base.
rickey		Alright then, where would he rate at second?
smith		If he was playing now he'd be the best second baseman in the majors.
rickey		High praise. He'll have to be the best in the minor leagues first.
smith		What are you saying, Mr. Rickey?
rickey		I'm saying it's going to be a very interesting spring training. A lot of players are coming back from the war and with gas rationing over, we can train down in Florida again.
smith		Daytona Beach?
rickey		Those towns may as well be a million miles from Daytona.
smith		Live Oaks is 150 actually.
rickey		I spoke to the Daytona mayor. He assures me there'll be no trouble. But Rickey doesn't sound so sure. They consider each other.
smith		I'm a Democrat. Why do you ask?
rickey		I have a business proposition. What's your salary at the Courier?
smith		Fifty dollars a week.
rickey		I will pay you an additional fifty dollars a week plus expenses if you will attend spring training with Jackie Robinson. You will watch over him, help him to avoid the harm that could come if he were to do or say anything out of turn. You will act as his chauffeur, you will secure accommodations for him wherever the team may be, help him find restaurants, etc...
smith		What's in it for me? Besides the fifty dollars and a whole lot of aggravation?
rickey		Unprecedented access for any reportage you feel appropriate. What do you say, Mr. Smith?
smith		I say yes, sir. If a Negro is good enough to stop a Nazi bullet in France; he's good enough to stop a line drive at Yankee Stadium.
rickey		Ebbets Field actually, but yes, I agree. The world is ready.
speaker		As our former President Herbert Hoover remarked in his tribute to our national pastime: The rigid voluntary rules of right and wrong, as applied in baseball, are second only to religion in strengthening the morals of the American people.' Polite applause as the speaker steps off. The clapping more enthusiastic as the lights dim on all but an impromptu set: plantation house columns. Hoots as a BUTLER appears wearing satin knee breeches and a MONTREAL ROYALS jersey. He holds a ring like a lawn jockey, a WHITE MAN in BLACK FACE. The laughs get louder as he peers out with exaggerated wide eyes.
butler		Lordy, lordy, it's looking like da massa will be late dis ebning. As the LAUGHS from the audience subside, a sportswriter dressed as a COLONEL enters from stage right.
colonel		Robbie! Robbie!
butler		Yassuh, Massa Kunl. Here Ah is. Huge LAUGHS as he struts and dances his way over.
colonel		Jackie, you woolly headed rascal. How long yo' been in the family?
butler		Ebber since Massa Rickey done bots me from da Kansas City Monarchs.
colonel		 Rickey that no good carpetbagger! What could he be thinking! Huge LAUGHS from that one. Two people enjoying it we'll recognize later as HERB PENNOCK and BOB COOKE.
butler		Ah came near bein' killed last night, Kunl.
colonel		How's that, Jackie boy?
butler		Ah was comin' up a dark street and three men was behind me. And they tried to do me with a baseball bat.
colonel		You don't say?
butler		Yes, suh. Ah recognized one of dem. Ah'm gonna hab him arrested.
colonel		But I thought you said it was dark?
butler		It was. But I know he played for the Philadelphia Baseball Club. On account of he struck at me three times and never hit me once. That brings the house down. Check out their laughing faces.
mallie		You knock the cover off that ball.
jack		I will, Mama. Mallie hugs Jack and then kisses Rachel.
mallie		Look after each other.
rachel		We will. She reaches in her bag, brings out a cardboard SHOEBOX; it's ever so slightly greasy at the bottom.
mallie		Take this. It's chicken.
jack		They have food on the plane, Mama.
mallie		You never know what might happen. I don't want you getting there starving and too weak to hit. Rachel gives Jack a subtle but emphatic look: No.
jack		I couldn't tell her no.
rachel		I know she means well; I just don't want to be seen eating chicken out of a box like some country bumpkin. Jack runs his hand over her coat.
jack		No one's going to mistake you for a bumpkin in this.
rachel		Well, they'll know I belong on that plane or wherever I happen to be.
jack		The flight to Pensacola leaves in an hour... You okay?
rachel		I've just never seen one before.
jack		 We're not in Pasadena anymore. A sudden momentum carries her forward.
jack		Honey... Rae -- He takes a step after her, stops as she disappears inside. Jack unsure what to do. He looks around. Looks back. He doesn't need this right now.
cook		You folks can't sit here.
jack		Excuse me?
cook		It's white only. Jack looking to Rachel; it's equanimity time. Not easy.
cook		I'll sell you some sandwiches. But you gotta take em to go. Jack looks to the busboy, back to the cook.
jack		No. You hang onto those. Mastering himself, Jack slides out. Drilling the cook with a look, he offers his hand to Rachel as she slides out as well.
jack		Just a hop to Daytona now. As Rachel nods, an AIRLINE EMPLOYEE boards, MISS BISHOP. She makes her way over. She spots who she's looking for.
miss bishop		Jack Robinson? Come with me. She starts away without explaining, looks back at them a bit impatiently.
miss bishop		Come on now. Both of you.
jack		When's the next flight?
jack		Look, I'm with the Brooklyn Dodger organization. I've got to get down to Daytona. I'm supposed to report to spring training in the morning.
jack		You gave away our seats! Get us back on that plane! Miss Bishop picks up a PHONE, holds it in Jack's face.
jack		Mama knew... He holds it out to Rachel. She slides over, takes it, takes a bite as well, smiles at him. He smiles back.
rachel		It's good.
reese stanky		I got it! I got it! I got it! I got it! They both back off at the last second and it drops to the ground between them. Durocher chuckles.
durocher		That's what spring training's for, boys! Sort out our differences! He hits another. This time to the outfield where veteran DIXIE WALKER gives chase, finally gives up on it.
durocher		C'mon, Dixie, get after it!
durocher		I'm gonna squeeze one more year out of that worn out body of yours!
walker		If you could, skipper, my wife would sure appreciate it!
durocher		Keeping the women happy! That's what it's all about!
rickey		How are they looking, Leo?
durocher		Rusty, Mr. Rickey. But we'll get em oiled up and ready in no time. You find your lost sheep yet? Troubled, Rickey shakes his head no'. As he does, Harold Parrot hurries over. He's the Dodgers travelling secretary.
parrott		Jackie Robinson's on a bus leaving Pensacola.
rickey		A bus? Harold, how in blazes did he end up on a bus?! BOB BRAGAN, in his catching gear, passing by with pitchers RALPH BRANCA and KIRBY HIGBE. Higbe asides to Bragan:
higbe		Why don't they just put him on a watermelon truck?
branca		What's the matter with you guys?
bragan		Not a thing, Branca, but we ain't just two pretty faces either.
smith		Jackie Robinson... Mr. Rickey sent me to meet you. Wendell Smith. Pittsburgh Courier. I'm going to be your Boswell.
jack		My who?
smith		Your chronicler, your advance man. Hell, even your chauffeur.  Mrs. Robinson.
rachel		It's Rachel.
smith		Man, you two look wiped out.
smith		You ever been down South before, Rachel?
rachel		First time. We have our problems in Pasadena, but not like this.
smith		Mr. Rickey says we follow the law. If Jim Crow and the state of Florida say Negroes do this and that, then we do this and that.
smith		Joe and Duff Harris live here. He gets out the black vote, does a lot of good for colored folks.
smith		Brooklyn plays downtown; Montreal a few blocks from here. You'll stay with the Harrises except for a few days at the end of the week. The whole Dodger organization is going to Sanford, about 45 minute away. You'll stay here though, Rachel.
rachel		Where are the other wives staying?
smith		There are no other wives. You're the only one Mr. Rickey allowed to spring training. As the HARRISES step out on the porch, wave hello...
rachel		I'm sure. Thank you. As Jack enters, Mrs. Harris starts back down.
jack		It's a joke, right?
rachel		I like it. The love nest. She kisses him. He's starting to like it, too.
rachel		Remind me dinner's at five.
jack		I'll try to remember... As the kisses become more urgent...
rickey		Listen to this, Harold. Whenever I hear a white man - yours truly - broadcasting what a Moses he is to the Negro race, then I know the latter needs a bodyguard. (Parrott tries to
rickey		The minor league commissioner of baseball said that! I pay part of his salary! You wouldn't stab me in the back like this, would you?
rickey		Why didn't you say so?!
reese		That's him, huh?
stanky		Take a wild guess. Flash bulbs go off in Jack's face. Questions like punches. Shouts of Jackie' and then...
reporter one		Jackie, do you think you can make it with these white boys? Jack looks off to where Smith watches, back to the reporter. See the questions slow. He answers with measure.
jack		Sure, I had no problem with white men in the service or at UCLA.
reporter two		What'll you do if one of these pitchers throws at your head?
reporter three		Jack, what's your natural position?
robinson		I've been playing shortstop.
reporter three		Are you after Pee Wee Reese's job?
reporter one		Is this about politics?
jack		It's about getting paid. Jack doing beautifully. Smith breathes a sigh of relief...
walker		He's fine with me, so long as you keep him up in Montreal.
hopper		Here comes the old man to save him. They watch as Rickey pulls Jack from the press. He leads Jack directly toward Hopper. As Walker excuses himself...
walker		Good luck, Hop...
rickey		Clay, I'd like you to meet Jackie Robinson. Jackie, Clay Hopper, manager of the Montreal Royals. Hopper shakes his hand as they exchange greetings.
hopper		We ain't doing much today. Just throwing the ball around and hitting a few. Why don't you toss a few with those fellas over there?
hopper		Meet Jackie Robinson.
higbe		Hey, Rook! Did you hear about the redneck shortstop?
bragan		He thought the last two words of the National Anthem were Play Ball! Jack forces a smile, but the joke comes off a bit harsh. And they seem like they're laughing at him as...
higbe		How about the shortstop making all the errors, tried to kill himself by jumping out on the highway?
bragan		A bus just missed him. Drove right between his legs! As the bus passes by, Jack sees the impassive faces of Dixie Walker, Reiser, Stanky, Pee Wee Reese and finally 20-year-old Branca. Branca smiles, offers an awkward little wave.
smith		Between his legs, good one. He must've read a joke book. If he can read. Jack just gets in the car. Smith sighs, drum rolls the hood of the Buick.
jack		I'm just a ballplayer, Mr. Brock.
jack		No thank you, sir, I don't drink.
smith		I'll have one. I'm a stereotypical reporter through and through.
jack		Mr. Brock, do you have a desk? I'd like to get a letter to my wife.
hopper		He's getting by on a quick release, but his arm's too weak for short. Second base is his spot.
rickey		I agree. And I'll state another obvious, Clay, I need the players to act like gentlemen around him.
hopper		Uh huh.
rickey		To treat him as they would any other teammate.
hopper		Uh huh.
rickey		To be natural, to impose no restrictions on themselves. To all work together in harmony. WHACK! The hit & run is on. The man on first runs on the pitch as a LOW LINE DRIVE shoots for the gap between 1st and 2nd. Robinson turns himself inside out to dive on his belly and catch it before it hits the ground. He spins himself around, pivots on a knee to throw the runner out before he can get back to first.   Rickey is astounded.
rickey		That was superhuman.
rickey		Clay, I realize that attitude is part of your heritage; that you practically nursed race prejudice at your mother's breast, so I will let it pass. But I will add this: you can manage Robinson fairly and correctly or you can be unemployed. They both look over as Jack comes off the field toward them.
hopper		Attaboy, Jackie! Way to turn two!
smith		Okay as far as I can see. A MIDDLE-AGED WHITE MAN, LUTHER exits the car and starts toward them.
smith		Who is it you're looking for?
smith		He's asleep. Maybe you better come back in the morning.
rickey's voice		Yes, Wendell, what is it?
rickey		I see... Yes, I understand. Wake him up and get him out of there. Put him in the car and start driving for Daytona Beach. Now. And, Wendell, under no circumstance tell him what this is about. I do not want him to get it in his head to stay there and fight.
jack		I was just getting loose. Smith sticks his head in the door.
smith		Don't just sit there. Pack your duds. We're blowin'. A phone RINGS somewhere. They hear Brock answer, then:
smith's voice		Yes, Mr. Rickey, I'm with him now... We're pulling out for Daytona in five minutes, soon as he gets his bag packed... Yes, yes, it's just one of those things. One of those things.' As Jack's head hangs a little lower.
jack		What the hell, Wendell?!
jack		Why didn't you say so?
smith		Mr. Rickey was afraid you wouldn't leave, that you would fight. As it becomes clear, Jack starts to LAUGH.
smith		What the hell are you laughing at?
jack		I thought you woke me because I was cut from the team. Jack LAUGHS harder. Wendell LAUGHS as well. As it fades, Jack looks back over his shoulder. Jesus...
mother		Ed! You stay where I can see you! 13-year old ED CHARLES turns, waves his baseball glove over his head so she can see him. Then to no one in particular:
ed		I'm thirteen years old. WHITE PEOPLE enter at several gates around them.
rickey		I've spoken to the mayor. I've explained how much money we'll spend in Daytona. But still, when this fine young Negro man steps on that field today, he and the Dodgers will technically be breaking the law. A law which says white and black players cannot enjoy the same field at the same time. Does that make sense to you? Does Jim Crow make any sense when placed against the words of the United States Constitution? When placed against the word of God? POP OUT to reveal he sits beside the DODGER BATBOY, so short his feet don't touch the ground. Rickey offers his peanut bag. As the batboy takes one...
rickey		I'll tell you, it does not make sense to me.
pa announcer		Now batting the second baseman -- Jackie Robinson! Jack wincing as he steps forward to both cheers and boos from the white sections. As a go home, coon' drifts over -- A BIG OVATION from the black section in right drowns it out.
spectator one		Come on, black boy, you can make the grade!
spectator two		They're giving you a chance! Do something about it! Jack heartened at the words. Concentrates as Higbe's first pitch is fired. High and tight, Jack jerks out of the way.
ed charles		The 13-year-old holding his hands together in prayer.
ed		Please, God, let Jackie show them what we can do.
home plate		Here comes the next pitch. Even tighter. Jack nearly hit.
umpire		Ball two! Jack glaring, crowds the plate more. Bragan shows 1, taps his right thigh signalling outside. Jack watches it sail, doesn't bite. The umpire: Ball Three! Higbe's fun slipping away as he can't find the strike zone.
higbe		Come on, Rook! Ain't you gonna swing at something?! Jack takes a practice swing, waits as Bragan sets up right over the plate. Here comes the pitch. Low. Ball four!
smith		It's just a walk.
rachel		Who can blame them?
higbe		Looks ill-tempered over to first where Jack gives the same look back as he sidesteps an enormous, defiant lead off the bag. Higbe incredulous. Did he just do that?
rickey		Watching from a seat behind third.
rickey		Thataway, Jackie! Thataway!
higbe		Hell! You're supposed to go back to third when I step off! Don't you know nothing?! He throws over. Jack back to the bag. Higbe gets the ball back, looks in. Jack bouncing, pounding off third. His movements carry violence within them. Like a piston exploding in an engine. Higbe into his motion, stops his delivery, accidentally drops the ball to the ground. The umpire signals BALK, points Jack home. Higbe is furious.
mother		I don't understand. What happened?
ed		It's a balk, Mama. The pitcher can't start toward home and then stop. Jackie scores.
mother		But he didn't do anything.
ed		Oh, mama, yes he did, he discombobulated the man.
dugout		Durocher looks to Branca, impressed.
durocher		He didn't come to play; he came to kill. Durocher starts out to the mound to talk to Higbe.
dixie walker		Watching from right field, the black crowd still cheering. He walks over toward the open bullpen where Casey stands.
walker		This really how it's gonna be some day? Baseball?
policeman		Git offa this field now!
jack		What!? Why?
policeman		It's against the law is why. No niggers don't play with no white boys. Git off or go to jail. Jack shrugs the policeman's hand off his shoulder. That sends him reaching for his nightstick and -- Sukeforth is there to get between them.
jack		You swing that thing you better hit me between the eyes with it.
policeman		Is that so? The CROWD BOOING. The black section especially.
hopper		 Hey, hold on, what'd he do wrong?
policeman		We ain't havin' Nigras mix with white boys in this town. Ya'll ain't up-states now; they gotta stay separate. Brooklyn Dodgers ain't changing our way of living. Where are you all from anyhow?
hopper		Greenwood, Mississippi.
policeman		Hell, man, you oughta know better.  Now tell your Nigra I said to git. You think I'm foolin'? Hopper looks desperately to Jack who just stands there.
rachel's voice		What did you do?
jack		I said okay, Skipper, tell him... Ah'm a-gittin'. Sho'nuff, ah is.
rachel		You didn't?
jack		I did. Then I took a long shower. We lost 2 to 1. She takes a few exaggerated steps to amuse him.
rachel		Ah'm a-gittin', ah'm a gittin'. He laughs, takes her hand. He's going to kiss her.
jack		You're not getting away from me.
jack		Get back, Rae. Go back. Cracker stops square across from him. Jack's fists balled.
cracker		I want you to know something.
jack		Yeah, what's that?
cracker		I want you to know I'm pulling for you to make good. And a lot of folks here feel the same way. If a man's got the goods, he deserves a fair chance. That's all.  Ma'am. As Cracker walks away... Rachel takes Jack's hand.
jack		You wanted to see me, Mr. Rickey? Rickey nods, consider the field a moment.
rickey		Bermuda grass grows so well here. I wish we could get it to grow like this in Brooklyn.
jack		I like the way it smells when they mow it.
rickey		Me, too. Rickey consider the field a moment, then Jack.
rickey		Jackie, it's my pleasure to tell you that you've earned a spot on the Montreal Royals. When they head north Tuesday for opening day against Jersey City, you'll be on the train. Jack trying to hold down his excitement.
jack		I won't let you down.
rickey		I know that.
jack		If you don't mind, I've got to go tell my wife.
rickey		Give her my regards. Jack about to head off when he looks back..
jack		Why are you doing this, Mr. Rickey?
rickey		I'm an opportunist. With you and the Negro players I hope to bring up next year I'll put together a team that can win the World Series. And the World Series means money. Jack studies him a beat, not quite buying it.
rickey		Don't you believe that?
jack		I don't think what I believe is important. Only what I do.
rickey		Agreed. Therefore, run the bases like the Devil himself.
train tracks		The train picks up speed. The boys start to run. Arms pumping, feet flying. One boy drops off. Then the other. But Ed still runs. Chasing after that train carrying Jackie Robinson. Finally, he stops, heaving for breath, watching the train disappear around the bend. A lonely beat. Then -- Ed gets down on his hands and knees. He sets his ear on the rail, closes his eyes. A thrum comes off the rail. A huge smile spreads. He straightens, shouts back to his friends:
crowd voice		Come on, Jackie, this fella can't pitch! Speaking of the pitch, here it comes. Jack tops a WEAK GROUNDER to short. As he's thrown out by a mile...
smith		You okay?
rachel		I think I might be sick.
smith		I'd be sick at a swing like that, too.
older woman		Are you alright, honey?
rachel		I'm sick. I don't know why. The older woman rolls off a piece of paper towel for her.
older woman		When did you have your monthly last?
rachel		I'm late.
older woman		It may be that you're pregnant. The older woman offers a little smile, leaves her there. INSERT: Third Inning.
smith		Come on, Jackie. Come on, batter.
hopper		I'll be damned...
rachel		Oh, Jack... Oh Jack...
rachel		Jack! Jack! INSERT: November 18, 1946. Pasadena, California. She is in labor and we are in Huntington Memorial Hospital. A CRY. The DOCTOR holds up a slick, wailing NEWBORN.
doctor		It's a boy. As Rachel holds out her arms for him...
jack		My daddy left. He left us flat in Cairo, Georgia. I was only six months older than you are now. I don't remember him. Nothing good, nothing bad. Nothing.
miller		As all of us know a young Negro second baseman played north of the border last season... INSERT: Brooklyn YMCA. February 5, 1947. In back: TWO DEACONS in the back whisper over a SPORTS PAGE.
deacon one		Look here what he did.
deacon two		Last season doesn't matter. The International League, it doesn't matter. What matters is this year. What matters is Brooklyn.
deacon one		Shhh... Here he comes. As Herbert Miller introduces...
miller		I present the general manager of the Brooklyn Dodger baseball club, Mr. Branch Rickey! Warm APPLAUSE as Rickey steps up. As it settles...
rickey		Good evening. I have something very important to talk with you about tonight. Something that will require courage from all of us.
rickey		He may stay there or he may be brought to Brooklyn. But if Jackie does come up to the Dodgers, the biggest threat to his success, the one enemy most likely to ruin that success, is the Negro people themselves! There is shocked silence in the room. Rickey notices a group of KIDS watching from a raised running track, soldiers on:
rickey		I say it as cruelly as I can to make you all realize the weight of responsibility that is not only on myself and the Dodgers, but on Negroes everywhere. For on the day Jackie enters the National League, if he does, I have no doubt every one of you will form parades and welcoming committees. You'll strut. You'll wear badges. You'll hold Jackie Robinson days and Jackie Robinson nights. You'll get drunk, fight and be arrested. This is too much. People are slackjawed. Rickey powers on.
rickey		You'll wine and dine him until he is fat and futile. You'll symbolize his importance into a national comedy and yes, a tragedy! So let me tell you this!  If any group or segment of Negro society uses the advancement of Jackie Robinson in baseball as a triumph of race over race, I will regret the day I ever signed him to a contract, and I will personally see that baseball is never so abused and misrepresented again! Is he done? An embarrassed smattering of applause. Mostly shock and stares. As Rickey stands there uncomfortably...
miller		I question your bedside manner, Mr. Rickey, but they've agreed to set up a committee of self-policing. We'll call it the 'Don't Spoil Jackie's Chances' campaign.
rickey		Thank you, Mr. Miller. I'm sorry; the spotlight will be on us all.
durocher		Yeah?
rickey's voice		Hello, Leo, what are you doing?
durocher		I'm bowling. Wait, I'm snowshoeing in the Alps. I'm trying to sleep, Mr. Rickey. It's still dark out.
rickey		Another spring training is upon us. In Panama. I need to know your attitude toward Jackie Robinson.
durocher		I don't got an attitude toward him. The girl rolls over to look at him. She is the actress LORRAINE DAY and she is stunning. As Durocher regards her...
rickey		Eight times in the Bible we're told to love our neighbor. It's one of God's most repeated commands.
durocher		I don't know much about the Bible.
rickey		If by nice you mean soft, no, not particularly.
durocher		Good. He can't afford to be. Nice guys finish last.
rickey		So you have no objections to him?
durocher		None whatsoever. Can I go back to sleep now?
rickey		Yes. Oh -- and Leo?
durocher		What?
rickey		The Bible says a thing or two about adultery as well.
durocher		I'm sure it's got a lot to say about a lot. Good night. Durocher hangs up the phone, looks to her.
rachel		Promise me you'll write.
jack		When did I ever not write?
rachel		I want you to know I'm there for you. Even if it's words on paper. He's sees she's raw, takes her in his arms with the baby.
jack		Rae, you're in my heart. She sighs, rests her head on his shoulder.
rachel		You're getting close now. The closer you get, the worse they'll be. Don't let them get to you.
jack		I will not. God built me to last. He kisses her. She kisses him back.
rachel		See you in Brooklyn in eight weeks.
jack		It might be Montreal. A certainty grips her. She passes it on to him.
rachel		It's going to be Brooklyn. I know it is. Power in her words. He nods, looks off toward the taxi.
durocher		It's a pipe dream, Mr. Rickey.
rickey		Pipe dream? What do you mean by pipe dream?
durocher		I mean it ain't gonna happen. The Dodgers are never gonna demand Robinson be brought up from Montreal. Ball players are conservative.
rickey		A team full of tough war veterans? Immigrants' sons? Boys from impoverished parts of the country?
durocher		It - ain't - gonna - happen.
rickey		You really believe they won't accept him? Once they see how he plays, how he can help them win.
durocher		I'm not saying they won't accept him: I'm saying they won't ask for him. I'm saying Robinson's good medicine, but they're not gonna like the taste. I'm saying bend over, boys, and get ready, this one might hurt a little.
bragan		Why do you think Rickey's got us playing spring games in Panama?
higbe		We, the undersigned Brooklyn Dodgers will not play ball on the same field as Jackie Robinson. Higbe signs it. He hands the pen to Bragan who adds his own name. Casey signs with a flourish. Casey holds out the pen to Walker who doesn't take it right away. An odd beat.
casey		If you wanna make your mark, Dixie, we can witness it. Everyone laughs; it loosens Walker up enough to sign.
stanky's voice		C'mon in!
stanky's room		The boys enter. Eddie Stanky sits in a chair stripped to the waist, soaking his right elbow in a BUCKET OF ICE.
stanky		What's goin' on?
higbe		Got a petition goin' on, Stank.
stanky		Oh... Did Pee Wee sign it?
higbe		Ain't asked him yet. What difference does it make?
stanky		None, just wonderin'.
reese		Look, it's like this. I got a wife, a baby, and I got no money. I don't want to step in anything.
walker		What if they put him at shortstop?
higbe		 The hell he does!
walker		He does not have the ice water in his veins for big league baseball.
furillo		Give me the pen. Higbe grins, hands it over. As Furillo signs...
durocher		Yes, Mr. Rickey.
rickey's voice		Have our friends in the press gone to sleep yet?
durocher		We are the only people awake on this entire isthmus, Mr. Rickey.
rickey's voice		A deliberate violation of the law, needs a little show of force. I leave it to you. Good night, Leo.
durocher		Wake up, ladies! Wake the Hell up!  It's come to my attention that some of you fellas don't want to play with Robinson. That you even got a petition drawn up that you're all gonna sign. Well boys, you know what you can do with your petition?
walker		C'mon, Leo...
durocher		Come on what?!
walker		Ball players gotta live together, shower together, it's not right to force him on us. Besides, I own a hardware store back home and I --
durocher		Screw your hardware store, Dix! And if you don't like it, screw you! Mr. Rickey'll be happy to make other arrangements for you. Durocher suddenly marches to Higbe, looks like he's going to belt him. As Higbe gulps, Durocher turns to the team.
durocher		I don't care if he's yellow or black or has stripes like a zebra, if Robinson can help us win, and everything I've seen says he can, then he's gonna play on this ball club. Like it, lump it, make your mind up to it because he's coming! And think about this when your heads hit the pillow, he's only the first, boys, only the first. More are coming right behind him. They have talent and they wanna play! He lets that sink a moment.
durocher		Yes, sir, they're gonna come diving and scratching. So I'd forget your petition and worry about the field. Because unless you fellas pay a little more attention to your work, they are going to run you right out of the ball park! A petition?  Are you ballplayers or lawyers? As he marches past them and through the doors...
sukeforth		Play first base.
sukeforth		Well, it's like this. Brooklyn's got a solid second baseman. And they got Pee Wee Reese at short. But first base is up for grabs. Are you catching my drift?
sukeforth		Mr. Rickey said he wants you playing conspicuous baseball!
sukeforth		Conspicuous.
rickey		Bragan, most of your teammates have recanted on this petition nonsense. Are you really here to tell me you don't want to play with Robinson?
bragan		Yes, Sir. My friends back in Birmingham would never forgive me.
rickey		And your friends here in Brooklyn?  Then I will accommodate you. If you give me your word that you will try your very best for this team until I can work out a trade. That gets Bragan's goat. He jumps up, really mad.
bragan		Do you think I would quit on anyone?! I don't quit.
rickey		Only on yourself apparently. You can go, Bragan.
rickey		I received your letter, Dixie.
walker		I'm keeping my reasons private. Hope you can respect that, sir.
rickey		I realize, Dixie, that you have a Southern upbringing, that you would have to subordinate your feelings for the welfare of this venture. I for one would deeply appreciate it. I think we can all learn something.
walker		What I have, Mr. Rickey, is a hardware store back home. It's called Dixie Walker's. Folks don't come because I have the lowest prices, they come because it's called Dixie Walker's. Understand? And I make as much money owning that store as I do playing for you.
rickey		Is that what you're you afraid of?  Bragan's a third-stringer, but you bat clean-up. You're popular in Brooklyn. Children look up to you!
walker		You got my letter; can I go?
rickey		I'll start looking for a trade or a sale. But it won't happen until I get value in return. Until then I expect you to drive in runs.
jack		You again. Smith leans back, blinks.
smith		That's right. Me again. Something wrong with that, Jack?
jack		Come on. Jack continues past. As Smith follows...
smith		They can't keep you on Montreal for long. After these exhibition games, they've got to bring you up.
jack		Do I have to entertain you? More silence, then...
smith		You ever wonder why I sit out in right field with my typewriter on my knees? Does that ever cross your mind? Jack stares out the passenger window, not in the mood. As he looks up at some of the taller buildings they pass...
smith		It's because Negro reporters aren't allowed in the press box. Jack doesn't answer, doesn't look over. Finally Smith starts talking to himself. Pretending to be Jack.
smith		Why I'm from Detroit, Jack.
smith		My daddy used to work at Fair Lane. That was Mr. Ford's estate. My daddy was Mr. Henry Ford's cook.
smith		Cooked for him for years, but never once broke bread with him. I'd go to work with daddy sometimes. Play baseball out on the lawn with Mr. Ford's grandchildren. We all had a real good time. But it was understood, if they got tired of playing ball and moved inside to the bowling alley or swimming pool, I was not invited or allowed. The grass was as far as I got. So guess what? You're not the only one with something at stake here.
jack		 If I start talking, will you stop?
smith		I'd be happy to. Smith stops at a red light.
jack		I apologize. You've been there for me through this more than anyone besides Rae and Mr. Rickey. But I guess that's what bothers me.
smith		How do you mean?
jack		I don't like needing someone to be there for me. I don't like needing anyone but myself. I never have.
smith		You are a hard case, Jack Robinson. Is it okay if I keep driving you or should I let you out so you can walk? Jack bursts out laughing. So does Smith.
rickey		Branch Rickey cannot afford to upset team chemistry and so the only thing keeping Robinson off the Dodgers now, plainly, is the attitude of the players.
rickey		If it softens at the sight of Jackie's skills, he'll join the club some time between April 10 and April 15. Otherwise, Robinson will spend the year back in Montreal.  For the love of Pete, he batted .625 in the exhibition games against them, us, them -- Against us! Judas Priest! Rickey flummoxed as the phone RINGS from the outer office.
parrott		Maybe you could have Durocher hold a press conference. Demand that he get Robinson on his team.
rickey		Durocher. Of course, he's my ace in the hole. Very good, Harold. The phone still rings. Rickey looks to his open door.
rickey		Jane Ann! Are you out there? Grumbling, brambly eyebrows twitching, he makes the mistake of answering his own phone.
happy		Branch, how are you?
rickey		Fine. What can I do for you, Happy?
happy		Branch, how would you feel about losing Durocher for a year? Rickey switches the phone from one ear to the other.
rickey		I'm sorry, Happy, I thought you said lose Durocher for a year.
happy		Yes. He was seen in Havana with known gamblers.
rickey		Anyone who sets foot in Havana is seen with known gamblers.
happy		It's not just one thing, it's an accumulation. I received notice today from the Catholic Youth Organization. Vowing a ban on baseball unless Durocher is punished for his moral looseness.
rickey		You're joking.
happy		It's this business with the actress in California. She's recently divorced and Durocher is the cause. They may even be illegally married.
rickey		Now I'm sure you're joking. Happy checks his nails, returns his hand to the MANICURIST.
happy		I wish I were. The CYO buy a lot of tickets, Branch. They draw a lot of water and I can't afford to ruffle their feathers. Am I mixing metaphors there?
rickey		You know very well my organization is about to enter a tempest. I need Durocher at the rudder. He's the only man who can handle this much trouble, who loves it in fact. You're chopping off my right hand!
happy		I have no choice. I'm going to have to sit your manager, Branch. Leo Durocher is suspended from baseball for a year.
rickey		You can't do that! Happy, you son of a bitch! DIAL TONE. Rickey steadies himself, looks to Parrott.
rickey		Trouble ahead, Harold. Trouble.
rickey		Jane Ann, come in here.  Harold! Parrott sticks his head out from an office down the hall.
rickey		Get some employees up here!
rickey		Harold, telegram the press. Say this: The Brooklyn Dodgers today purchased the contract of Jackie Robinson from the Montreal Royals. He will report immediately. As Jack takes it in, he's the only one not smiling.
rachel		Hello?
jack's voice		Rae, I'm in Brooklyn. Brooklyn... Rachel lets out a triumphant WHOOP!
rachel		What did I tell you?
rachel		I love you... As he closes his eyes, absorbs it...
reese		Opening day nerves. Doing my stomach something awful. Jack nods in commiseration. It's awkward between them. A RUMBLE as a GARBAGE TRUCK goes by.
reese		There goes another one.
reese		Know when I first heard of you?
jack		No I don't.
reese		On a troop transport, coming back from Guam. A sailor heard it on the radio, told me the Dodgers had signed a Negro player. I said that was fine by me. Then he said the guy was a shortstop. Least you were then. That got me thinking. Thinking gets me scared. Jack smiles, hefts his bottle of Pepto.
jack		Black, white, we're both pink today, huh?
reese		 Of garbage trucks? Terrified.
hermanski		I'm Hermanski. Welcome to Brooklyn.
branca		Hey, man. Ralph Branca. Last, but not least, Spider Jorgensen, his Montreal teammate.
jorgensen		We made it, Jack, huh? Good luck. That's it. Everyone else is too busy to come over. As Jack scans for a locker with his name on it, BABE HAMBURGER, the clubhouse manager, steps over.
babe		You're looking for your locker, huh, kid? Follow me. They walk over to a hook on the wall. A uniform hangs from it. A FOLDING CHAIR below.
stanky		You're putting on that uniform, it means you're on my team. But before I play with you I want you to know how I feel about it. I want you to know I don't like it. I want you to know I don't like you. Jack regards him. Stanky doesn't flinch. Maybe he should.
jack		That's fine. That's how I prefer it. Right out in the open.
vendor		C'mon, Brooklyn! Get your Harry M. Stevens special here! As he hands one over, gets his .20 cents in return. Then:
rachel		Okay, okay, that's good. As Jackie's eyes find hers...
everett mccooey		O'er the land of the free! And the home of the brave!
bragan		You're crazy standing that close to him.
branca		What do you mean?
branca		You got a serious problem, Bragan, you know that?
bragan		Really? I don't see it.
rickey		Opening day, Harold. The world is all future and no past.
parrot		A blank page, sir.
barber		One out in the bottom of the first. Headed toward the plate for his first big league at bat is Dodger rookie Jackie Robinson. Jackie is very definitely brunette.
fan		We're with you, Jackie!
barber's voice		Sain looking in. When he's got that fastball working, he can toss a lamb chop past a hungry wolf. The BRAVES CATCHER signals 1'. Here come the pitch. CRACK! It's down the third base line. The THIRD BASEMAN is going to need every ounce of his arm as he fields it at the line, throw across his body to -- FIRST. Where Jack's foot hits the bag an instant before the ball smacks into the first baseman's mitt.
umpire		You're out! Jack can't believe it. As he trots toward the dugout he looks at the umpire who looks back: I dare you to complain.
stands		As the Brooklyn faithful BOO the call, Rachel and Smith watch Jack head decisively toward the dugout. He was safe. Rickey sits down closer to the dugout.
rickey		It's a game of inches, Jackie!
parrott		Get some glasses, ump!
shotton		Yeah, it's a shame about Leo.
rickey		Inevitable I suppose. I asked him if she was worth it and he said yes. How's the retirement?
rickey		Is that so?
shotton		When I took off that Cleveland uniform two years ago, I promised the Mrs. I'd never put on another uniform again. Roses look great and I sleep a whole lot better.
shotton		Baseball's the only life for an old pepper pot like me, but I promised my wife, Branch.
rickey		You promised her you wouldn't put on another uniform. You didn't promise her you wouldn't manage. Wear a suit and tie; Connie Mack still does.
rickey		My car's parked right out front. Harold will show you where. Now what do you say?
shotton		Men, I don't have much to say. Just, don't be afraid of old Burt Shotton as a manager. You can win the pennant in spite of me. I can not possibly hurt you. The Dodgers trade looks. Not exactly inspirational. As Shotton heads out he pauses by Jack.
shotton		Are you Robinson?
cooke		Mark my words and circle this date. Negroes are going to run the white man straight out of baseball. I'm not prejudiced; it's physiological. They have a longer heel bone. Gives em an unfair speed advantage.
another reporter		Was that because his heels are longer, Bob?! As everyone cracks up, everyone but Bob...
jack		I'm not complaining, I just, I don't know what they want.
owner		I'm Lawson Bowman, Jack, the owner of this joint. How's the steak?
jack		I'm not sure yet. It looks good.
rachel		You're lucky you're a boy. DOORWAY - Dressed to go, Rachel holding the baby, looking anxiously out on the street. Suddenly, ALICE the baby-sitter is there. Here she comes up the steps, opens the door.
alice		Sorry I'm late. Class ran long.
rachel		It's okay. Rachel gently hands the baby over.
rachel		It's so cold and raw out, I don't want him getting sick at the game.
alice		He'll be nice and warm here.
rachel		 I'm going to be late. She kisses him goodbye, frowns as she heads outside --
chapman's voice		Hey! Hey you black Nigger! Jack looks to the visitor's dugout where the Phillies Alabama- born manager BEN CHAPMAN stands at the top of the steps.
chapman		Why don't you go back to the cotton fields where you belong!
chapman		Or did you swing your way out of the jungle?! Bring me a banana!
barber		Chapman the Phillies manager up on the top step, seems to be chirping something out to Robinson. Chapman a hothead during his playing days with the Yankees.
rickey		What's he saying?
chapman		Bojangles! You sure can dance, snowflake!
stanky		On first, mouth hanging open. Almost forgets to take a lead. It's an instant Rorschach test.
dodger dugout		Shotton and the players look stricken. Even Walker doesn't quite know what to make of it. No one enjoys it, but Higbe.
stands		CONCESSION MEN walk closer to listen. The fans range from horrified to some mildly pleased. Rachel looks stricken.
jack		A fastball inside. He leaps back again. This one was even closer to hitting him. As Jack glares at Dutch...
umpire		Ball two!
chapman's voice		Hey, black boy! Hey, shoe shine!
chapman		You like white girls?! Huh?! Which one of them Dodger boys' wives are you climbing on tonight?! Chapman looks toward...
dodger dugout		They don't like that one.
jack		Grips the bat. Watches for the next pitch with bloody mindedness. He hacks at it, lofts a routine fly into left. He's about halfway down to first when the left fielder catches it and Jack can mercifully return to the dugout.
rachel		 Look at me, baby. Look at me. Finally, Jack glances up to her. She offers her eyes: I'm with you. He looks away. Her witnessing makes it worse.
infield		Spider Jorgensen takes a lead off first. At the plate, Stanky lines a single to right. Jorgensen holds at second.
jack		Steps to the batter's box, starts digging in that back foot.
visitor's dugout		As Chapman emerges with his two bench players.
chapman		Hey, Pee Wee! Dixie! What's this Nigger doing for you all to let him drink from the same water fountain as you?! I hope it's worth it!
jack		Waiting for the pitch. Takes a mighty swing -- CRACKS a towering POP-UP between home plate and the mound. Dutch watches his catcher Seminick settle under it. Waiting.
dutch		Hey, is that a home run!?
seminick		Yeah! If you're playing in an elevator shaft! Jack veers off the first baseline. Heads for the dugout.
chapman		You don't belong! Look in a mirror! This is a white man's game. Get it through your thick monkey skull! Jack stops short looks at him. Chapman stands his ground.
rickey		Stands, watches. Praying this doesn't go south. As Jack finally continues on, Rickey closes his eyes in relief.
rachel		Sick for her husband.
the dugout		Jack stalks down past the team. No one looks at him. Bragan is ashamed. Dixie tries to look disinterested. Stanky and Reese exchange a helpless glance as Jack continues into:
jack		To hell with this. The next white son of a bitch who opens his mouth, I'll smash his goddamn teeth in. Rickey stands there until finally, opening his mouth...
rickey		You can't, Jackie. You know it.
jack		I'm supposed to let this go on?
rickey		These men have to live with
jack		I have to live with myself, too! And right now I'm living a sermon out there. I'm through with it! Jack is at the end of his rope. All Rickey has are words.
rickey		You don't matter right now, Jack. You're in this thing. You don't have the right to pull out from the backing of people who believe in you, respect you and who need you.
jack		Is that so?
rickey		If you fight, they won't say Chapman forced you to; they'll just say that you're over your head. That you belong where you are.
jack		Do you know what it's like, having someone do this to you?!
rickey		No. You do. You're the one living the sermon. In the wilderness. Forty days. All of it. Only you.
jack		And not a damn thing I can do about it.
rickey		Of course there is! You can stand up and hit! You can get on base and you can score! You can win this game for us! We need you as well! Everyone needs you.  You're medicine, Jack. Rickey reaches out, touches the wall to stay standing. Jack just breathes as familiar sounds reverb down the tunnel.
jack		They're taking the field.
rickey		Who's playing first? Jack considers him. Everything hangs in the balance. Then:
jack		I'm gonna need a new bat. As Jack heads back down the tunnel for the field.
chapman		Hey, black Nigger! I know you can hear me! If you were a white boy, you know where you'd be right now?! On a bus headed down to Newport News cuz you can't play for shit! Here comes the pitch. Jack nonchalantly sticks his bat out, pokes a soft hit past second. A nothing hit, but he's standing on first. And he looks, well, ferocious in fact. As Pete Reiser steps up into the batter's box... Jack stares at Dutch Leonard. Assassin's eyes as he takes an insolent, in-your-face lead off first. Dutch fires to first. Jack dives back safe! Back on his feet, he spits out a piece of grit he picked up sliding back on his belly. Not bothering to dust himself off, he's turning into something elemental before our eyes.
barber		Two strikes now to Reiser as Leonard looks in. Robinson with another big lead off first. He's as restless as a cat with a hot foot.
rachel		Steal it, sweetheart. Take it.
handley		I'm sorry. I want you to know what goes on here, it don't go for me. Jack barely nods, but he heard.
barber's voice		Hermanski steps up.
plate		Dutch looking to third, nodding distracted at a sign, looking back to third before... Hermanski cracks a single to left. As Jack crosses the plate, he stares down Chapman on his way to the dugout. As Chapman turns his head, spits --
chapman		You fellas are making too big a deal out of this. He scored We lost. One to nothing.
reporter three		Do you think you were a little hard on Robinson?
chapman		We treat him the same way we do Hank Greenburg except we call Hank a kike instead of a coon. When we play exhibitions against the Yankees, we call DiMaggio the Wop. They laugh at it. No harm, it's forgotten after the game ends. Chapman tosses away his beer can.
chapman		Hey. Let's get the chips off our shoulders and play ball. It's a game, right?
parrott		I'm going in that Phillie dugout tomorrow and wring Chapman's neck! Rickey considers Parrott, starts laughing. Parrott is hurt.
parrott		Did I say something funny?
rickey		When I first told you about Jackie, you were against it. Now all of a sudden you're worrying about him. How do you suppose that happened?
parrott		Well, any decent minded person --
rickey		Sympathy, Harold, is a Greek word. It means to suffer. I sympathize with you means I suffer with you. This Philadelphia manager has done me a service.
parrott		A service?!
rickey		Is there an echo in here? Yes, he's creating sympathy on Jackie's behalf. Philadelphia by the way is Greek for brotherly love. The intercom BUZZES.
rickey		What do you want, Bragan?
bragan		I'd like not to be traded, sir, if it isn't too late.
rickey		What about Robinson? Bragan's been staring at the floor. He looks up now. The low afternoon sun hits his face.
bragan		I'd like to be his teammate.
rickey		Why?
bragan		The world's changing; I guess I can live with the change.
bragan		Thank you, Mr. Rickey. Bragan leaves. Rickey looks at Parrott: What do you know?'
jack		You shouldn't have waited.
rachel		They haven't made a day long enough that I wouldn't wait for you.
jack		Give these boys time. It's a three game series. A beat between them, framed by the steel girders around them.
rachel		They are never going to beat you.
jack		They're taking their best shot. I don't want you coming tomorrow. I don't want you to watch that, them beating me.
rachel		Wherever you are, I am, too. Look at me. Jack... He looks over. It's not easy for this most proud of men.
rachel		I have to watch. So our hearts don't break... Plus I already bought a scorecard. She holds it up. His name the only one filled in.
rachel		And I put your name on it. See? Jack Robinson. He puts his hand out, takes hers.
jack		I did good the day I met you.
rachel		Baby, you hit a home run.
chapman		Hey, porch monkey! Hey Robinson! Hey boy! You know why you're here?
eddie stanky		On the bench. Without warning, he blasts off it. MOVE WITH him as he marches toward Chapman who doesn't see him coming.
chapman		You're here to draw those Nigger dollars at the gate for Rickey!
stanky		Sit down. Sit down or I'll sit you down.
chapman		What's the problem, Stank?
stanky		You're the problem, you goddamn disgrace! What kind of man are you?! You know he can't fight! Pick on someone who can fight!
chapman		Okay, okay. Jesus. As Chapman disappears into his dugout, Jack whacks a single.
jack		Thanks.
stanky		For what? You're on my team. What the hell am I supposed to do?
preacher		Lord, make me an instrument of your peace. Where there is hatred, let me sow love. Where there is injury, let me sow pardon. Where there is darkness, let me sow light. Amens'. We see Rickey sits in the back row, the day heavy on him. A YOUNG GIRL turns, looks at him. Why's a white man here? Rickey smiles, puts a finger to his lips... Shhhh.
higbe		I speak my mind and they trade me! This ain't the America I know! He glares down to Jack's locker. Jack regards him back. It's Higbe who looks away first. He continues packing.
walker		Where are they sending you, Hig?
higbe		Pittsburgh! For cash and some I- talian outfielder named Gionfriddo!
rickey		Do you remember the story, Burt, of the 99 sheep? How one was missing?
shotton		If you're talking about Dixie, I'd leave the word sheep out of it.
rickey		I find myself at odds. I want integration and the pennant. I want to punish Dixie and at the same time I want his salvation.
shotton		Can't he just be a good ballplayer? He has to be a good person, too?
rickey		It would be so much simpler if he wasn't batting .385. As Walker finishes, he passes Jack whose turn it is.
smith		Eddie, what's all this talk about your Cardinals refusing to play?
dyer		We're here, aren't we? We didn't come to New York to go to Macy's. Dyer continues past him. Here comes big JOE GARAGIOLA.
smith		Hey, Garagiola --
garagiola		Get lost. Here comes STAN MUSIAL, a class act if there ever was one.
smith		Hey, Stan, what's the story?
rickey		National League President Frick says this is America and baseball is America's game. He says one citizen has as much right to play as another.
jack		Why are you doing this, Mr. Rickey?
rickey		Because my job is to win. I have an obligation to Brooklyn to put the best team on the field I can. Your presence on the roster increases our chances of winning. Not buying it, Jack looks over at him.
jack		If this is winning, I'd hate to see us on a losing streak.
garagiola		Watch this guy! He can't hit! Especially the curve! He can only get on base bunting! As Jack digs into the box.
garagiola		Take your time, Robinson, you're digging your own grave. Big RED MUNGER looks in for the sign. Garagiola flashes a sign: 1'. Wants it inside. Here's the pitch. Inside. Jack just scoots back.
barber		Takes a fastball in on the hands. Robinson, who is pitched to a great deal that way, uses a thicker handle bat than most hitters, just because he hits a lot of balls out on his hands.
jack		What's your average, Joe?
garagiola		It'd be a lot higher than yours, if I could run as fast as you can.
jack		No matter how fast you run, you'll never hit as much as you weigh. Garagiola signals for another fastball.
garagiola		C'mon, Munger! Boy's got a hole in his bat! Munger throws inside. Jack falls back, strokes a double into the gap.
barber's voice		That one wasn't quite in' enough. Robinson punishing the Redbirds with a smart piece of hitting.
rachel		Oh Jack...
jack		What is it, Rae?
rachel		Nothing. It's just, sometimes when I sit up there with those bastards, those loudmouths in the stands, I know you can hear them.
jack		Don't worry. It's okay.
rachel		No, it's not okay. And I can hear them, too. Jack looks at her, takes her hand in his.
jack		It worked. I didn't hear a thing. She tries to smiles. As the tears streak her cheeks, he leans in kisses her forehead.
jack		They're just ignorant.
rachel		If they knew you, they'd be ashamed. She puts her arm around him, draws that strength.
jack		Hold on.
rachel		I am holding on.
jack		Long as we hold on, it'll be okay.
rickey		You look lovely, Mrs. Robinson.
rachel		Thank you.
rickey		I don't know how you do it. Every day, from the 1st to the 9th. Myself? I could pay $100 for a suit and in twenty minutes I'd look like I fell out of bed. Even my shoes look rumpled. They watch Jack crack one high off the Schaefer Beer sign.
rachel		I used to think Jack was conceited.
rickey		Is that so?
rachel		It was the very first thing I noticed about him.
rickey		How did you two meet?
rachel		I saw him at a UCLA football game. Even in uniform with a helmet on, his vanity was awful. It was the way he held his hands on his hips. I hated him!
rickey		Trying to catch her in a race. She was the fastest girl in town. Beautiful legs. I finally caught up; we've been together ever since. They sit a moment. Below: Jack nails another one.
rickey		I wanted to apologize to you.
rachel		For what?
rickey		Everything. I can't apologize to him. He and I both knew what we were getting into. But you. A newlywed, trying to blossom a marriage under all this pressure.
rachel		Don't worry about me. Or us. We know who we are. Crack. Jack hits another.
rickey		Your husband has humbled me. When this all began I thought I was changing the world and that Jackie was my instrument. Can you imagine? I wish I could help him, but I'm just a spectator.
rachel		You help him plenty. Believe me. They watch him rip into another pitch.
rickey		Is he able to get things off his chest? So he doesn't burn up?
rachel		Yes. I have to let him have that silence at first, let him come to me. But he opens up eventually.
rickey		Good. It's too much to carry inside. Does he have any friends on the team?  They're spectators, too. They do admire him though. Rachel looks out to where Reese and Stanky play catch.
rachel		Do you think so?
rickey		Even the worst of us recognizes courage. Moral courage especially. I have to think they see it. Jackie's a man on trial. He's responding with glory and grace. No one can take their eyes off him.
rachel		He's had himself on trial since the day I met him. No man is harder on himself or gets to himself worse than Jack. But I hope his team- mates know, they're on trial too.
rickey		I suppose we all are. You're an astute woman, Mrs. Robinson.
pennock		Branch, it's Herb.
rickey		What can I do for you, Herb?
pennock		How long have we known each other?
rickey		Twenty years. Maybe more.
pennock		Then trust me when I say, Brooklyn's due here tomorrow, but you can not bring that Nigger down here with the rest of your team. Rickey grits his teeth, stays civil.
rickey		And why's that, Herb? His name's Jackie Robinson by the way.
pennock		We're just not ready for this sort of thing in Philadelphia.
rickey		Herbert, what your team does is your decision. But my team is coming to Philadelphia. With Robinson. If we have to claim the game as a forfeit, we will. That's 9-0 in case you forgot.
walker		Maybe 42's got enough friends in town, we can bunk up.
jack		What's that supposed to mean?
walker		Nothing. It's just, I know when you can't get into a hotel, you got people's houses you can stay at.
jack		What do you want from me, Walker?
walker		An apology.
jack		Watch your damn hand! And they're lunging at each other. Separated by Reese, Stanky, Branca and Bragan while other players hold off Shotton. Two fights about to break out at the same time.
shotten		Grandpa?! I'll show you grandpa! Parrott summons something deep, lets loose a shrill WHISTLE.
parrott		Fellas! Burt! Please! Take the bus to the field! Worry about the game. I'll find another hotel.
pennock		There is a great lynch mob among us; they go unhooded and work without rope.  We must remember that all this country's enemies are not beyond the frontiers of our home land.
chapman		Some Jew must've wrote that.
pennock		This doesn't look good, Ben! It makes the Phillies, look racist! You've got to do something.
chapman		Me?!
parrott		Jackie, excuse me, um, a request came in. The Phillies manager Ben Chapman, he'd like his photo taken with you. Jack pretends to sniff the air around Parrott.
jack		You been drinking, Harold?
parrott		Mr. Rickey thinks it's a good idea. He says it'll be in every sports page in the country. An example that'll show everyone even the most hardened man can change.
jack		Chapman hasn't changed. He's just trying to take the heat off.
parrott		Mr. Rickey says it doesn't matter if he's changed. As long as it looks like he's changed. Chapman said he'd come down here. Or meet you in the runway. As Jack slow burns...
chapman		Jackie's been accepted in baseball and the Philadelphia organization wish him all the luck we can. I only hope in some small way our trial of fire... helped him along. Jack looks at him: Did he just say that?
photographer		How about a picture? Shake hands. Bury the hatchet?
jack		You want a picture? Sure. Jack steps to the on-deck circle, grabs a BASEBALL BAT. Chapman's eyes widen as he starts toward him with it.
jack		 We'll hold the bat. That way we don't have to touch skin. Chapman nods, looks relieved. A photographer hands over a bat. Chapman has two hands on the handle. Jack puts one hand on the barrel, the other stays on his hip.
jack		Ben, I hope all your friends back home like the picture. Jack smiles as the flashbulbs go off. Chapman looks dumb.
dixie walker		By the dugout with Stanky, watches in disbelief.
walker		Carl, I swear, I never thought I'd see ol' Ben eat shit like that.
branca		 Ostermeuller, you kraut! You gotta bat, too! Don't you forget!
ostermueller		I'm ready, you Wop bastard!
rickey		What can I do for you, Pee Wee?
reese		Well, Mr. Rickey, it's like this, the series in Cincinnati next week.
rickey		It's an important road trip, we're only three games out of first.
reese		Yes, sir. You know, I'm from Kentucky.
rickey		Cincinnati's nearly a home game for you.
reese		I got this letter, sir. I guess some people aren't too happy about me playing with Robinson. Rickey is not liking where this is going; he motions for the letter, scans it, reads the highlights...
rickey		Nigger lover. Watch yourself. We will get you, carpetbagger.  Typical stuff. Reese takes the letter back, a little hurt.
reese		It's not typical to me.
rickey		How many of these letters have you gotten, Pee Wee?
reese		Just this. Ain't that enough? Rickey looks Reese over a moment. Pushing back his chair he steps over to a filing cabinet.
rickey		I'll tell you what they aren't, they aren't letters from the Jackie Robinson fan club. Here -- He thrusts a sheaf of it into Reese's hands. As Reese flips through the stack of hate, reads:
reese		Get out of baseball, or your baby boy will die.
rickey		Of course he knows. And the FBI. They're taking a threat in Cincinnati pretty seriously. So excuse me if I'm not too shocked at you being called a carpetbagger. You should be proud of it!
reese		We'd just like to play ball, Mr. Rickey. That's all we want to do.
rickey		I understand. I bet Jackie just wants to play ball. I bet he wishes he wasn't leading the league in hit by pitch. I bet he wishes people didn't want to kill him. But the world isn't so simple anymore. I'm not sure it ever was. We just, baseball ignored it. Now we can't.
freckles		Nigger!  We don't want you here!
jack		What's up? Now cries of CARPETBAGGER! cut through. PEE WEE, HOW CAN YOU PLAY WITH THIS BLACK BASTARD!? Reese stares up at the worst hecklers along the first base line. He looks a little sad.
reese		They can say what they want; we're here to play baseball.
jack		Just a bunch of crackpots still fighting the Civil War.
reese		Hell, we'd a won that son of a gun if the cornstalks had held out. We just ran out of ammunition. Jack laughs. Reese has a funny way of saying it.
jack		Better luck next time, Pee Wee. Reese impulsively puts his arm around Jack's shoulder, stares into the Cincy dugout.
reese		Ain't gonna be a next time. All we got is right now. This right here. Know what I mean? Walker reacting out in right. The crowd shuts down, some in shock at the gesture. Jack surprised also.
jack		What're you thanking me for?
reese		I've got family here from Louisville. Up there somewhere. I need em to know who I am.
umpire		Hey! Number one! You playing ball or socializing?
reese		Playing ball, ump! Playing ball!
branca		 You ever write about white guys in your paper? I mean, if I threw a no hitter and Jackie got a base hit, what would the headline be?
smith		Jackie leads Dodgers to victory. Again. Under that: white Italian guy does ok. They all laugh.
reese		I'd call your folks for ya, Ralph. Tell em how you did.
branca		No problem. It'll still make the Post. They play their hands as they talk.
reese		We are on some kind of winning streak, huh boys? And I don't mean cards.
branca		Hey, maybe forty of our last fifty.
smith		Thirty-two and fifteen actually. Since the 4th of July.
branca		Math is why I throw a baseball for a living.
reese		This next series against the Cardinals, it's a big one. They look over at Jack who hasn't said a word. It's his play. He lays his cards down. Deadpan as he wins the hand.
jack		Gin.
stanky		Next batter, throw right at his head. Clean his clock --
barber's voice		The top of the 12th and Kurowski at the plate. He hit his 20th home run on Monday so Casey's going to want to be careful with him. The pitch grooves in and Kurowski nails it.
first base		He rounds hard, returns to the bag. Reiser stepping up to the plate as Musial holds Jack on at first. Jack in a fury.
jack		I don't care what happens, I don't care what kind of play it is, when I get to second I'm gonna knock someone into centerfield.
musial		 I don't blame you, man, you got every right. Jack running on the pitch. Reiser bunts. The play is to first. Reiser is out and Jack slides safe into second. SCHOENDIENST has the sense to vacate before he gets there.
jack		Bouncing up and down, wearing that badge of potential violence and action. The crowd buzzing, the electricity practically hits you in the face. Jack's going to score.
rickey		Coming up out of his seat along with the fans around him.
jack		Walker at bat. Jack steps out, checks on MARION the shortstop. He takes another step out, looks to Schoendienst.
barber's voice		The Cardinals pick up a game. It was one of those plays where you do or you don't and Jackie didn't.
reporter one		Did he spike you on purpose?
jack		What are you asking me for then?
reporter two		Are you calling Slaughter a liar?
rickey		Get out. Let me talk to my first baseman. Go. He's getting stitched up for Pete's sake. The reporters move off for other interviews. Reporter Two hesitant to let it go, finally drifts off. Rickey watches.
rickey		Sticking up for yourself is what you'd expect of any man. Some find it galling to see it in a Negro.
jack		I'm sorry, Mr. Rickey.
rickey		Sorry? Sorry for what?
jack		I lost my cool out there. It probably cost us the game.
rickey		I told you, Jackie, all the best base runners get caught sometimes.
jack		I wasn't thinking. Rickey pulls up a chair sits across from him, leans in.
rickey		Do you know what I saw this morning? I was passing a sandlot and a little white boy was up to bat. You know what he was doing?
jack		Sitting on a fastball?
rickey		He was pretending he was you. Wiping his hands on his pants, swinging with his arms outstretched like you do. A little white boy pretending he was a black man.
jack		Why are you doing this, Mr. Rickey?
rickey		We had victory over fascism in Germany; it's time for victory over racism at home.
jack		Why are you doing this? Come on now. A long moment between them. Finally, Rickey looks away.
rickey		I love this game. I love baseball. I've given my life to it. Forty odd years ago I was a player coach at Ohio Wesleyan University. We had a Negro catcher, best hitter on the team. Charley Thomas. Rickey starts slowly rubbing the baseball in his hands.
rickey		A fine young man. I saw him laid low. Broken because of the color of his skin and I didn't do enough to help. I told myself I did, but I didn't. The game I loved had something unfair at the heart of it. I ignored it. But a time came when I could no longer do that.
jack		You're welcome.
rickey		You're a force of nature, Jackie, you've complicated everything but yourself. You're changing the world, and refusing to let it change you. I for one am in awe. Jack reaches, takes the baseball from him. A beat as they consider each other. Finally, a promise...
jack		I won't get picked off second base again. Not this year.
jack		It's pop's last long road trip of the year, little man.
rachel		Careful you don't wake him.
jack		I know. I won't.
rachel		I don't like seeing you leave, that's all. He looks at her a beat, resumes packing...
jack		I'll be home in a week.
rachel		Eleven days. That's a long time without you. He doesn't answer, packs away. Finally:
jack		Seriously?
rachel		That's why they're throwing the fastballs inside. He looks at her, a little shocked.
rachel		Fight those inside fastballs off, foul them back. Sooner or later they won't be able to help but throw a curve. He steps to the bed, leans over her.
jack		And what'll happen then? She clucks a 'hit' sound, makes an 'ahhhhhh' crowd sound.
jack		We win enough of these next games and we'll bring home the pennant.
rachel		Pennant? Where are we going to put a pennant? All these baby diapers hanging everywhere. Jack looks around the room, at the diapers hanging.
jack		We got room right over there. Between number one and number two. She mock grimaces at his bad joke.
rachel		Win one if you have to, but bring yourself home; that'll be plenty. They kiss.
jack		Rae, you're in my heart.
rachel		Promise me you'll come home. That you'll always come home. As he looks at all he loves in the world...
jack		I promise.
jack		Come on, Casey, get him out! Pitch that ball!
barber's voice		He's got it! And one of the Dodgers has him!
branca		Can I ask you something, Jackie? How come you never shower until everyone else is done? Jack just stares at him. Branca won't let it drop.
branca		You shy or something?
jack		I don't want to make anyone uncomfortable.
branca		We're a team. On a hot streak. Half the wins on account of you. You're the bravest guy I ever saw. You're leading us and you're afraid to take a shower? A beat as Jack considers him. Stone-faced.
branca		C'mon. Take a shower with me.
rickey		Rickey here.
parrott		We did it, Boss! We did it! We swept Cincinnati! That puts us seven games up. Joyous, Rickey grabs a sheet showing the NL standings.
rickey		And eliminates the Giants and Boston. He puts an X' through Boston and the Giants. The rest of the NL are already crossed out. Only the Cardinals remain. At the same time, Parrott X's the same out on his notebook.
rickey		We'd have to lose nearly every game for the Cardinals to catch us now. One more win may do it. Who's pitching tomorrow for the Pirates?
parrott		Ostermueller.
barber's voice		A very big game today here in Pittsburgh. A win and the Dodgers will have clinched the National League Pennant.
barber's voice		Fritz Ostermueller on the mound. He's 12 and 8 on the season.
ostermueller		You don't belong! You'll never belong! Jack waits. Ostermueller pitches.
barber's voice		Here comes the pitch and Robinson takes outside. Ball one.
barber's voice		Ostermueller winds and throws, low and away ball two. Fritz seems to be pitching around Jackie. Or trying to get him to chase.
rachel		Come on. Throw him a strike.
barber's voice		3 and 0 now. Robinson waiting on something he can swing on. As catcher Kluttz throws it back...
jack		Give me something I can hit!
ostermueller		You want it?!
barber's voice		That is a deep fly ball to left. Kiner on his horse, but I don't think he'll get there.
barber's voice		Back, back, back and oh doctor! Robinson got his pitch!
higbe		Pittsburgh...
****Dialogues from script :44_Inch_Chest.txt****

prologue		 Stagnant black water ... Greasy. Pitch. Thick. Oily. Dense. Heavy... Lapping... Slow.... A desolate canal... Night.  Onto dark stones... rain-slicked... darkest slate-grey cobbles...  And on through streets... Narrow.        Grimy.     Sooty.   Rank... Deserted...  Pastal-disused Victorian broken-windowed, derelict buildings and wharf side warehouses with rotten oaky loading beams and rusted iron chains... Mossy, mildewed walls... Dripping fetid water from corroded dilapidated ancient ruined guttering...  Moving... Turning... Into a pinched, arched, alleyway -- If anything darker, blacker... Foreboding... Forsaken...  And if we listen -- If we strain our ears -- listen -- we can hear music -- faint. Ghostly. Haunting ... "Take Me Back To Dear Ol' Blighty " as if sung by a jolly girl in a long gone bar surrounded by drunken men...  We keep moving... The music growing... In the distance a faint glow.... Dirty-yellow, diffused, misty light... We move towards it... Towards the piss-coloured light...  We stop... In the middle of nowhere... Dark nowhere... and the music fades... Fades away... Vanished... Extreme silence... All we have is all we can see...  The gable end of an old house.... Limey-light bleeding weakly from a broken, filthy window... All is still -- suddenly it comes crashing down -- the end wall comes crashing down - a flurry of bricks and mortar... Crashing down... The tumble of masonry... And through clouds of brick-dust and rubble we see figures inside... Through a smokey powdered fog we can see a group of men in the downstairs room of the derelict house...  On the walls faded 40's wallpaper, peeling in parts to reveal older dim patterns... damp patches... A window crudely boarded up... A few unmatched armchairs in various states of disrepair -- a 60's black vinyl, a deco-patterned smoker, a 70's cream plastic, a brown wooden kitchen chair etc... The colours in the room are browns, greys, caramels, darks, muted...  In the middle of the room, standing on dusty, bare wooden floorboards, his fist clenched aggressively by his sides, is OLD MAN PEANUT, aged 80... Skinny... Wearing a dark three piece suit... Gold watch chain... Black Homburg... He is squaring up to us... Staring...
3.		CONTINUED: 
max		 ...Evenin'!
archie		...'Ow's that, Mum?
mum		`S gorgeous, Archie!
archie		Put hairs on your chest, that will!... Pananarama'll be on soon -- after the new s... Da vi d Dim bl e- bim bl eb y! Your favourite!
mum		 What is this?
archie		That -- Mulligatawny!      King of soups!
mum		`S nice!
archie		Whoops -- there's me mobilius!     `Scuse I!...
6.		3   CONTINUED:                                                            3 ARCHIE  Whaaat?!... No?!... When?!...
archie's voice		 ... Col... Col... C'mon mate this is no good... Colin...
archie		... C'mon mate, you can't lie `ere forever!
meredith		`Allo?...    `Allo, Arch!...
7.		7    CONTINUED:                                                            7
archie		 You alright, Col?
archie		 Just get on with yer meals! Concentrate on your snails!                                                  *
biggy		...That's a bad show.
archie		'S a fuckin' bad show... He couldn't do nothin'... like a wet lettuce! 
biggy		Liz, eh? - Who'da thought it?!... Poor Colin!  S o you 're b ack t here tonight then?
archie		 Yup, back again... Round two... Poor bastard... anyway... Anyway...
biggy		Cuckoldry - Cuckoldry - terrible word! - Terrible Thing!... Is he up to it d'you think? Will he do it?
archie		 Oh, he'll do it! He'll do it! He'll kill 'im! 'S gotta in'he?! Just needs a bit of time that's all - get over the shock... Oh, he'll do it - no question!
biggy		Well g ive h im my rega rds.. . Sen d my condolences.
archie		I will - I will, Bigg - I'll pass them on.
biggy		 ... Meredith, eh?... Meredith.
archie		... And Mal ... and Peanut ... and me...
biggy		... Meredith.
9.		11   CONTINUED:                                                    11
archie		 'Ow's Rosemary?
biggy		... I dunno... ask her!
archie		 Allo, Rosemary... 'Ow's you?
archie		 'S he lookin' after you? Keepin' you in sausages?
biggy		 Charmin'!
archie		 ...Well I'll catch ya later, Biggy ... Bye Rosemary!
biggy		 Toodle pip!
archie's voice		...Bells, aintcha?
mal		Yeah, that's me... or Teachers!... This is beginnin' to piss me off, this is!
archie		And me!... 'Ere y'are!
mal		...I mean, I'm sorry for the cunt an' all that but there's no point in draggin' it out, is there?... We're goin' round in circles!... Fair do's, the guy's hurtin' but fuck me!
archie		I know, I know... it's mental!
mal		Shit 'appens... deal with it!
archie		'Ow's your hand?
mal		 'S throbbin' like fuck!...' Ad it in a bowl of iced water when I got back ... It's my own fuckin' fault!
archie		That'll teach ya! ... He was on the phone to me last night...'our and a 'alf!... Woke me up!..."Cunt" this and "cunt" that ... r eckon ed he coul dn't sle ep .. pi ss ed ou t of hi s hea d! .. . Talkin' a load of cobblers!... Doesn't know where he is!
mal		I been there!
11.		12   CONTINUED:                                                           12
archie		Not like this!... Not like `im!... Not like Colin!... Not like Colin Diamond!
archie's voice		...Believe me, you shoulda heard `im... fuckin'ell... On and on!... Tellin' me 'is fuckin' dreams! - Get this - He's in a phone box - only it's not a phone box -- it's her cunt!
mal		Her what?
archie		Yeah!... With teeth!... No, pardon me, so r ry , l e t' s g e t t hi s r i gh t - no t teeth... Dentures!
mal		Dentures!
archie		Dentures!... Her cunt's got dentures!
mal		Jesus Christ!
archie		Oh, yeah!...
archie's voice		... Snappin'... Clackin' at 'im... On 'im... 
mal's voice		Fuckin' `ell!
archie's voice		That's right!... It goes on...     A door opens... In walks a cock -- Yeah, you heard, a cock!... In walks a cock!... Massive... Not his - guess who's?... That's right!... Fuck's sake!... Then he's on a plane... Club class... 'avin' is dinner... dressed as a clown!...
mal		He needs pullin' back... He's on the slippery slope... We better watch'im ... ... Dressed as a clown?!
archie		Fuckin' Coco, mate!
mal		Yeah, he's vodka
archie		 Cor, he's taken a sizeable lump outa this look...
colin		 You can look at me, you know... I'm not invisible!
mal		 Who said that?
archie		 You alright, son?
colin		 I'm bearing up, Arch, I'm bearing up.
mal		It's never easy, mate, its never easy.
colin		Give us a fuckin' drink!
archie		'Ere y'are, brandy... Doctor's orders!
colin		 What are you starin' at?... 'Ave I got a knob on my forehead or somethin'?!
mal		Shut up, Colin! You're amongst friends... Don't make this any more difficult than it already is... Y'hear me?... Y'hear me?... Colin?... Look at me...
colin		 ...I hear you.
archie		C'mon, mate, be brave.
colin		... Yeah... I will... I've got to ain'i?
archie		That's the stuff!
mal		That's the spirit!
colin		I can' t bel ieve it... I st ill c an't bel ie ve it .. . I j us t c an 't fu ck in ' believe it...
mal		Yeah, I know, it's unbelievable... It's like a bad dream, innit?
archie		Where's Old Man fuckin' Peanut?
omp		I'm fuckin' here!... That's where he is!... Cunt!
mal		Sorry, Pop... We wondered where you was.
omp		Don't Pop me!... I'm fuckin'.ere!... Give's a fuckin' drink... Bunch o' cunts!
archie		D'you want me to pour it for you?
15.		16   CONTINUED:                                                      16
omp		 Give it 'ere!... Treat me like a fuckin' cunt!... Tosser!
mal		Yeah, he's doin' good... Aintcha, Colin?
colin		 Yeah, I'm good.
omp		You get it together, you cunt!... You hear me?... Eh?... ... Get it to-fucking-gether!... We can't 'ave this.. . Can 't' a ve it !...Y ou we re a fuckin' disgrace last night! Inept!... Tonight the kid gloves are off... Show some fuckin' backbone! - You're a man... Fucking act like one!
archie		He'll get there...      He'll get there.
omp		 ...And the bloodied slave rose to 'is feet, thrust his hand into 'is defiant chest, tore out `is own heart and threw it at the aggressor, sayin' "Free from bondage!... Free from fuckin' bondage' you CUNT!!"... Eh?... Eh?...
mal		 Yeah, you're right, Pop.
omp		Eh! .. . F uc ki n' ri gh t I 'm r igh t! .. . Fuckin' right I'm fuckin' right!... It's th e s t ro n g t ha t s h al l i n he r it th e earth... Not the fuckin' weak!...
archie		 You tell 'em!
omp		Not the fuckin' weak!
mal		Yeah, well, whatever ... But this's gotta be finished tonight cos I'm busy tomorrow
omp		 You break every other fuckin engagement ... Every other fuckin' engagement! ... This! ... This takes top priority! ... Above everything ... Everything!...'Til this is done and dusted ... Put to bed... Lai d to re st .. No bo dy do es fu ck in ' nothin' but this! ... This - This is where we are... 'Ere! ... Now! ... This.. Where's fuckin' Meredith?
archie		He's late.
omp		Late? Late!.. No such fuckin' word!... And I'll tell you this ... If Brighton Billy - God rest his tortured soul - had ever caught anyone being late ... He would've cut their eyelids off, stuck 'em in a f uc k in ' s a ck wi t h a s n ak e , a cockerel and a dog and chucked 'em in the fuckin' sea!
mal		Charmin!
omp		 It was! It fuckin' was!... That was how it was! ... Believe you me - Once he'd made up his mind, that was it!... That was it !... Nothi n wou ld sw ay 'i m... Nothin!.. No surrender!... Immovable he was!... Immovable! A mountain!... A fu c ki n ' C ol o ss u s! . .. Yo u h e ar me , Colin?... A fuckin' giant!... A Titan!... Spectacular!... My God!!
colin		 I can't believe it ... I still can't believe it...
omp		 OOWW!!
archie		 Who wants crisps?
meredith		Salutee!
omp		 You're late!
meredith		So sue me!...                                               *
omp		 Fuck off!
meredith		...So, Kittens, what's happenin?
mal		More of the same.
meredith		How are you today, Colin? ... You look terrible!
omp		He's good ... He's fuckin' strong.
meredith		Oh, that's good... That is good... He don't look it!
mal		No, he's alright... He's alright.
archie		Better than 'e was last night!!
archie		'Ere Meredith, I bumped into Biggy Walpole this mornin'. He was askin' after you...
meredith		Was he?... That's funny... He hates me!
archie		Does he? ... Didn't seem like it...
omp		 'S he an iron an' all?
meredith		 ... Not sure... Is he, Arch?
archie		Oo, Biggy?... Don't think so...
meredith		 Arch doesn't think so, Pea...
archie		... Dunno... Jacket?
colin		I get waves...
meredith		Jacket?
colin		...Up and down...
archie		Tweedy...
colin		...state of me...
meredith		Tweedy, eh?
colin		All I ever did was love 'er ...
cut to		 20   EXT DRIVEWAY DETACHED SUBURBAN VILLA PREVIOUS DUSK                 20  COLIN is opening the back doors of a grey mercedes... Merrily           * takes out a massive bouquet... a big box of chocolates ...              * Laden and happy he awkwardly approaches his front door ... Enters...
colin		 He's 'ome!!
liz		 Oh, fuck...
colin		What is it ?... 'S a matt er?.. .'S up?...S'appened?
liz		... Colin ...
colin		Liz, love ... what's wrong?
liz		 ... This is really, really difficult, Colin...
colin		 What is?
liz		 ... This is the hardest thing I've ever done in my life ... I'm so sorry...
colin		 For what? What you sorry for?... What you sorry for, Liz?
liz		I'm sorry, Colin...
colin		 So you've said ... You've said that, Liz... I've got that ... What `re you sorry for?
liz		 I've met someone else...
colin		 Wha?
colin		 y`kiddin'
liz		 ... I'm sorry.
colin		...'met someone else'?
liz		 ... I'm so sorry.
colin		I know what you're all thinkin'... you're                   * all feelin' sorry for me - Poor Colin... Think I'm pathetic... Come on, say it ...                   * I can take it... Well you can all fuck                      * off - Sling yer dirty hooks! ... I'll                       * deal with this myself ... Well, what are you waiting for? - Piss off - Sorry to have inconvenienced you an' all that ... but your services are no longer required -                  * Slags! - Laughin' at me! I may look like                    * a cunt but I'm not stupid!
archie		No it's 'er that's stupid, Col ... It's Liz...
colin		 What would you know about'er! - What would you know 'bout what it means to be married?! You're still livin' with your fuckin' Mum!                                                *
mal		 Oi! Oi! Oi! Oi!
omp		 Look at the man ... where is he? ... Look at 'im! He aint there! ... That's someone else! ... That's a shell! If that!... A sad, empty shell! ... It hurts your fucking eyes! ... Can 'ardly look at 'im!... Make ya weep! ~_ Mother of God! They will suffer... Oh, yeah! - The y wil l su ffe r! . .. Th at is m y promise!... They will fucking suffer!
colin		I'm sorry, Arch ... I don't know what I'm sayin'... I've gone crackers ... don't listen to me...
archie		'S alright, mate ... forget about it- 's understandable.
meredith		'Ere, Colin, this'll cheer you up...Ave a guess `ow much I won last night...
omp		 Oh yes, they will suffer!
meredith		'Ave a guess...
colin		 I don't know.
meredith		Ask me how much I won...
omp		... Fucking suffer!
meredith		Ask me!
colin		 ...'Ow much did you win?
meredith		... Well...
meredith's vo		... after we left here last night I was buzzi n'... was on m y wa y to the Buckingham for a quick one ... none of you wet willies wanted to come ... who'd I run into? ...
meredith vo		... Tippi Gordon!
tippi		CHUBBYBUMMYWUMMY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
meredith		...Off his fuckin'face! Pumpin'! Zoomin'! Pupils the size of a sixpence!...
tippi		 Y'UP FOR IT??? Y'WITH ME??? NIGHT OF IT???? `AVE SOME???? BEAUTY BOY??? -- Y'UP FOR IT?????? -- BOYS NIGHT OUT??????????????!!!!!!!!!!
meredith vo		... He was on his way to the Grenadier ... Invites me along...
tippi		 I like a li ne th e siz e of a fuc kin' toblerone!! ...
archie's voice		Come on then, whad ya win?
meredith's voice		Forty thousand and six 'undred pounds is what I won...
mal's voice		Fuck me!... 'Ow?
meredith's voice		... W ell , I' ll te ll ya . .. we w er e fucking about...
meredith		... And I bet Tippo five grand that he couldn't win six grand in a minute...
tippi		 I fucking can!!
meredith		 Go on then!!
tippi		 RED!!!... CUNT!!!
meredith		 We were laughin' like fuck!
tippi		 Double or quits!
meredith		 ... He bets black...
tippi		 RED!!!...CUNT!!!...
meredith		 Double or quits twice... bets black...
tippi		 RE D ! ! ! . . . C U N T ! ! ! . . . D O U B L E O R QUITS!...
meredith		 For the third time... only this time -
meredith's voice		... He bets red...
tippi's voice		 BLACK!!!!!!
tippi		CUNT! CUNT! CUNT ! MER EDITH YOU' RE A CUNT!!!
meredith		..."Meredith you're a cunt! Thank you very much, 'ere's your forty thou... See ya!"... For a giggle. I've stuck four hundred pound on the pontoon table - splatt! -- Blackjack! Six to four! Lovely! That's me done!... 'Ad some dinner in the corner - fillet steak, coupla spuds... last d rink - lar ge ca lvado s... Home met hi nks , "G et me a ca b" , ove r th e bridge, bung `im a nifty -."Ta, guv", wipe my feet, cup of cocoa, into me jim- jams, lights out ... ain't life grand!
archie		Nice one!
omp		What, you mean you didn't stop off at the poof's club?
meredith		No, Peanut, since you so kindly ask, I did not stop off at The Clayton ... Not las t nig ht .. . b ut I sh al l be th er e tonight ... later on ... looking for some hot male action... Is that alright with you?
omp		Yerr!
archie		Don't fucking start you two!
omp		Dirty bastard!
meredith		Peanut ... What I choose to do with my nine and a half has got fuck all to do with you!
omp		It's disgusting! - Man with man!                         *
archie		Alright, alright!
omp		Fucking smarm!
archie		Alright!
colin		... I've loved you too much, 'aven't I? -- That's what I've done wrong -I've driven you away - driven you into the arms of someone else - that's what I've done - S'pose I deserve it - must do - who'd 'ave thought it, eh, you can love someone too much!... I've over loved ya - I'm an overlover... and I feel very lonely...  ... I'm beggin' you to stay - I beg you not to leave me... I beg you... on my bended knees... Please... I just don't understand what I've done wrong - and I beg you not to leave me this way - don't leave me this way.                                       *
liz		 ... Come on, Colin...
colin		...What?...
liz		 ... Have some dignity...
colin		 I - don't - want din-gity - I want you!! ... Is that bad? ! ... Is t hat a bad crime? - Ov- ver - lovin'???
liz		 Colin, its not working between us - well for me its not working - and it hasn't been working for a long time...
colin		Yeah, that's because you ain't been doing your bit, Liz ... you ain't been doing your bit! ... Love is like a garden and in order to keep it looking beautiful you gotta work at it ... Gotta do the weedin' and you ain't been doing any weedin', Liz - and that's cos you're lazy - You're a lazy lover, Liz - And now the garden's over-run -'s a jungle, innit? - we're lost in the jungle - can't see each other -
31.		32   CONTINUED:                                                32
liz		 I don't feel like that, Colin - I don't                 * feel the same as you - just have to get out -
colin		 Well fuck off then!!... Go on, go!... Fuck off!... I'll be alright ... You cru el ba st ar d! .. . Go on - I' m no t stopping you... Take your stuff and get - Leave mine - I'll attend to that! Just fuck off!... You're a horrible cunt! Traitor!                                                *
liz		 Well if you're going to start calling me names -
colin		 Don't you - a dirty, unfaithful cow who's sucked another man's bell-end -tell me - tell me that I'm callin' you names!! Who is he?
liz		... Does it matter?
colin		Oo is he? Tell me the cunt's name - I wanna know.
liz		... He's just a guy.
colin		Oh, a guy is he? - A guy! - What he's not a bloke? Not just a. bloke? He's a `guy'! Cunt - I'll cut `is cock off when I find                * 'im!
liz		 Oh stop it, Colin!
colin		Oh, th at's right , pro tect the cunt! Course you're on `is side... on the side of the 'guy'! ... I'm tellin' you, Liz - mark my fuckin' words - I will tear the flesh off 'is face with my fuckin' teeth and stick it in your fuckin' `andbag!
liz		Right, that's it, I'm going ... we'll talk later.
colin		 Where d'you think you're goin' ?! You ain't goin' nowhere!
colin's voice		 Tell me his fuckin' name...
colin		 I caught her right on the fuckin' chin... Her head bounced off the door frame... She fell lookin' at me...
omp		Good boy!
colin		 No, not good boy!... I hit her so fuckin' hard... Heard her teeth rattle in her hea d. .. Sh e was l yi ng th er e.. . Sh e wouldn't look at me..."Tell me!"..."Tell me!", I said... "Tell me 'is fuckin' name!"... but she wouldn't look at me...
mal		Well, she wouldn't, would she?!... She couldn't, could she?!
33.		33   CONTINUED:                                                          33
archie		Too ashamed!
colin		I 'ad her b y the thro at .. . pun ched her..."Tell me!"...punched her... "Tell me!" ... punched her "Tell me `is fuckin' name!"...  ... She said it ... She told me...
mal		What? Just like that?!
omp		Brazen! -- Fuckin 'audacity!
archie		Cheeky cunt!
mal		Takin' the piss, mate!
colin		 ... Yeah, just like that ... right in the heart.
archie		 ... You hearin' this? ... What you've done? ... What you're responsible for? ... Are you proud of yourself? ... Was it worth it? ... All this pain?
mal		 Fuckin' his wife?!... Fuckin' his fuckin'                   * wife?!... Another man's wife?!... Are you                   * fuc ki n' th ic k? - Yo u cunt !... Fu ck another man's wife?... What's the matter with you?! You don't do that!... It' not done!... You do that - it ends in this! - Th i s! - T hi s i s w h er e i t e n ds ! I n this!... You hear me? ... you listenin'? Shitter!... Little shitter!
archie		 Should've got your own fuckin' wife to fuck!
mal's voice		 ...You're in deep shit, mate ... You're in the worst possible place a man can find himself...
mal		 When d'you wanna do this, Col? When are we doin' it? Come on, is time innit?!... Get i t fuc ki n' do ne .. . W hat d 'yo u reckon? ... Come on, my blood's fuckin' up! What are we sayin'? Yes? No? - what? ... Colin?- S up to you, mate - you're the one in the cunt hat!
archie		 It's about time, mate...
omp		 Get the fucker out 'ere!
mal		...Well!... Col?...
colin		I gotta find her! 
archie		....What?!... Well, don't look at me!
meredith		What age is Liz, Arch?
mal		She's forty-two
archie		Forty-four
meredith		Fucking hell, she looks good for forty- four!
omp		'Ow would you know?!
meredith		 Peanut - would you like me to spank your bony arse?
archie		You're not wrong.
meredith		Beautiful face.
archie		Lovely
meredith		It's a shame
archie		That it is.
colin		 She could be anywhere!
archie		 Nah!... That was Tommy Yardley, y'cunt ... the stouter of the two! - He couldn't drive!
mal		Never stopped `im though, did it?!
omp		Beard?
archie		That's 'im!
omp		Poof?
archie		No!... Who you thinkin' of?
mal		He's thinkin' of Faraday ... He's been dead years!
meredith		Faraday was alright! He was a gentle giant...
mal		He was only five foot four
meredith		I fucked `im back in the seventies - I'm tellin' you - he was a gentle giant!
mal		Did ya? I never knew that.
omp		Well we do now!
meredith		Very shy man ... I liked him.
omp		No ... it's not that cunt I'm thinkin' of. It was that other cunt... the cunt with the ears!... Pen and inked somethin' terrible!...
mal		That's Dougie Clark ... the human stink- bomb!
archie		... Fuckin' hell!... I remember once at this p arty. .. he 'd go t hol d of some bird... gone upstairs with her... next thing you know she come. crashin' out of the bedroom, run downstairs in her bra and knickers, screamin' blue murder that he'd put 'is armpit in her face!... his great, stinkin', hairy oxter right in her mooey! She's like that - !... And `im - 'Ol' Smelly' -- `s at the top of the stairs with 'is todger stickin' out of 'is trousers, laughin' his head off!
omp		I've got a bone to pick with that cunt!
mal		 Yeah but you can't get near him though, can you!
archie		Not without a gas mask!
mal		Ai n ' t h e h e a r d o f a b a t h ? ! . . . A n invention called a bath?.. 'Ere can you imagine under his foreskin?
archie		Cor, fuck me ... I think I'm gonna throw up!
mal		You would'nt want to go there for your summer 'olidays, would'ya?! ... Imagine that! Fuck me!
colin		 It's not as though we didn't fuck... we did!... Just last week!... Just last Thu rs day !. .. Sh e wa nte d to !.. . Sh e ins ti gat ed i t!. .. S he ca me !.. . Sh e did!... In fact, I didn't!... But that didn't matter... It wasn't about that... it wa s a b ou t be in ' c lo se .. . ' bo ut warmth... 'bout bein' a normal married couple... why would she do this?... Flush it all down the fuckin' toilet... why?
omp		Jezebel!
colin		What a terrible waste!...What a waste of time!. .. En ergy! ... Everyt hin' !. .. What's it all mean?... Surely a marriage is somethin'?!... I mean, what's it all about? What is the fuckin' point! Twenny one fuckin' years, good times and bad - dow n th e fuc ki n' pl ug 'ol e! Up th e fuckin' Swanee, eh?!!...          W e ' ad                 * somet hin' goin' !... Soli d!... A life! ...We wer e a f amil y! - The Diamonds!.. What're they gonna say?... What am I gonna tell `em?... What does one tell the children? - This's gonna affect their studies!...
mal		Where're they again?
colin		Well, Colin J's doin' computer somethin' at Car diff ... a nd Sa manth a's doin' drawin' in Hull ... fuckin' `ell! Oh, fuckin' `ell! - My poor babies! - Your Mum's a whore!!... I can't bear this... I can' t br eath e!.. . Ca n't fuck in' breathe!... I'm serious...
mal		Colin, stop it!
39.		38   CONTINUED:                                                       38
colin		 No, I can't ... I can't breathe ... I'm not jokin'...
archie		You're just panickin'!
colin		 'Elp me!!
mal		Stop it!
archie		You'll be alright ... calm down!
colin		 Someone!
omp		This is shameful! ... Get a grip you cunt!
colin		My l u n g s - t o o t ig h t ! . . . H e a r t s burstin'... Please! -- Mercy! - 'Ave pity! 
meredith		 ... Colin...Colin ... Look at me... Look at me ...
archie		Talk `im down Meredith...
meredith		You're alright, mate ... you're alright ... That's it ... easy does it ... listen to me ... you're alright ... Alright? - You're alright ... Right - Now listen to me ... You're a good man... Got that?
archie		That's right!
colin		 'Ave you 'ad this, Meredith?
meredith		...Me?... No... but I'm quite lucky... because I'm different to you... I don't share your emotions... I don't love like you... like you do... Maybe I should... but I don't!... I'm not a family man - with me, sex is sex... no more... no le s s . . . C o l d . H a rd . Dark... and sweaty... Sudden. Excessive... When I've shot my wad, I leave the room... I put my coat on and I leave the room... No "thank you's"... 
colin		... Proud?
meredith		Yes, proud, you should be proud.
colin		Why?
meredith		'Cos that is what you should be!
omp		Pr o u d ! Y o u fu c k i n ' p i l c ha r d ! ! Proud!...'Ave a bit of pride!
colin		 What would you do Meredith?
meredith		'Bout what?
colin		Everythin' ... my situation...
meredith		I'd prioritise...
colin		... But if you were me?
meredith		Well, that's a big leap for me, Colin...
colin		Please ... try...
meredith		... I'd toss a coin ... Heads I'd skin him alive ... find her ... do the same...
colin		... And tails?
meredith		... Well, that's the hard part, Colin ...
colin		 ... Oh, I can't do that! ... I don't think I could do that!... What let `im go?!... How can I do that?'
meredith		Well let's hope it's heads then!...
omp		 You're a nasty bastard, aintcha!
meredith		Am I?
archie		I've got a 2p!
meredith		Hold on, Col ...  A oner says its heads!
mal		Yeah, alright, yer on!
archie		I'll 'ave some of that!
meredith		Anybody else? ... No? ... Alright... Go on, Col!
omp		 Nasty bastard!
mal		 Squeeze 'er tits, didya?
archie		 'Ow was that?
mal		Do the trick, did it?... Get her going?
archie		Ha n d u p t he sk i rt ? . . . I ns i de th e knickers? ... That's alright, innit?
mal		Loverboy!
archie		Wanker
mal		Get it out? ... Give it a rub?
archie		In the noddy? ... On the bed?
mal		Spit `n' polish?
archie		I bet
mal		Cop a feel?
meredith		David Copperfield?
mal		Nice 'n' wet was she?
archie		Do you like that?
mal		You make me sick!
archie		I love you!
omp		Use a banana?!
archie		Blimey o'Reilly
omp		You cunt!
mal		Go on, what's your secret? ... Old Spice?
archie		Splash it all over!
mal		Now you're talkin'!         L'il bit kinky?
archie		Ha, ha, golden shower!
meredith		The erotic world of Jacques Cousteau.
mal		That's right!... Is that right? ... So, what was it? ... Eyes meet across the room?... Fireworks?... Crashin' waves?... I think I love you?... Will you... marry me ? . . . O h , d a r l i n' . . . F o r e v e r . . . Bollocks!... Bum her did you?
archie		Cor, dear!
mal		Karma Sutra? 69?
archie		99? ... Flake?
mal		Lickety split?
omp		Lick it! Lick it!
mal		The ol' Vaseline?
archie		Nice `n' easy!
mal		Playboy!
omp		Arsehole!
archie		Playmate!
mal		Cunt!
archie		Fucker!
omp		Knee-trembler!
mal		Polaroids?
omp		Bombay roll?
archie		That's handy!
omp		Pearl necklace?
archie		That looks nice!
omp		Terrible thing to do!
meredith		Rock -'ard 'Udson
archie		Upstairs, downstairs? Round the back?
meredith		Bullseye
mal		You're a bit of a boy, aintcha?... Bit of a fucking boy?
archie		Stud!
mal		That's 20th Century Casanova, sitting there, in a plastic bag!
archie		Certainly is!
mal		Right rascal!
archie		Oh, you didn't use a candle, did ya? ... Don't tell me that!
mal		He didn't, did he?
omp		Fuckin' did!
mal		'Uckin' `ell!
archie		Not love-eggs?...That's awful
meredith		The man's a love machine!
mal		 She's a mother!!
omp		She's a wife ... can't be off gobblin!
archie		Got a grievin' 'usband!
mal		You've ruined him!
omp		He's a husk!... Nothing left of him!
mal		He's shattered!... You've shat on him... You shit!
omp		That's his missus ... That was his missus you diddled ... That was Liz! That was hi s L i z ! . . . T h a t w a s h i s L i z y o u fucked!... That's Mrs. Diamond!... Mrs. Colin Diamond!... A married woman, you berk!
mal		...And you a fucking waiter!... A fucking waiter!... frog waiter!... You cuntin'                          * spunka!... You sorry fuck! You'll be fuckin' sorry!... If you thought yesterday was something... today's gonna be somet hin' else!. .. Yes terday was nothin' !... I 've be en hom e... h ad a bath... had a kip... somethin' to eat... watched a bit of telly ... I've got a li f e! . .. Be e n t o t he pu b .. . h a d a drink!... Had a laugh!... Had a dance!... And you?.... You stink!.. Locked in a wardrobe!... Chucked in like a puppet!... Like an unwanted toy!... Sack o' shit!... Where's that bottle opener?... where's that corkscrew?... Got a knife?
archie		 'Ere it is!
mal		 Ta!... I'm rollin' my sleeves up!... Say your fuckin' prayers!
colin		I want to be alone with it
mal		Is that a good idea?
meredith		... Yeah, alright, Col... We'll leave you alone for a bit ... why not?
mal		You sure?
archie		If that's what he wants!
meredith		We'll have a fag in the passage.
omp		You dare get emotional... You dare get emotional... Don't you dare... Leave that out... You hear me?... You kill him quick and you're a cunt! ... Got that?
archie		 ... Peanut!
omp		Remember ... He's had your wife!... Nice 'n' slow, boy ... Nice `n' slow!
archie		Everythin'     alright, Col?
colin		Everythin' alright?!... This cunt's been up my wife!!... ... Yeah, I'm alright, Arch!
mal		 'S he alright?
archie		 Yeah, he's alright.
colin		You didn't know she was married to people like me, didya? ... Or didya? - Maybe you did -- probably did - Maybe it made it more excitin' ... the risk element ... Yeah, I can see that!  ... You're thinkin', aren't you? ... Under that stupid bag ... thinkin' away ... I can hear it .. . Ca n hea r yo ur br ain whirrin'... let me 'ave a stab at what you're thinkin' apart from the obvious - Sweet Jesus, please help me!"... My guess is you 're thinkin' , 'Why am I still alive? These are honourable men I've done a bad thing - Why am I still alive?"... Is that right?.. Is it? ... Nod your fuckin' head if that's right!...
51.		42   CONTINUED:                                                             42  Suddenly his hands grab at the black plastic- he roughly tears it open eventually revealing the bloody vest and pant- ed body ... Now he slowly lifts the crumpled Tesco bag from the head and we see the bowed, beaten face of LOVERBOY, early 30's ... Eventually...  COLIN 
52.		42   CONTINUED:  I wet the bed last night ... coz of you ... cried myself to sleep . .. Cr ied m yself to fuckin'                             * sleep! ... Thanks to you! ... Look at me... Look at me crying!... Look at these tears! ... Fucking look at me! You fucking look at me! ... Look at me!... You fucking cunt !... I said look at me!
meredith		'Ow's yer Mum, Arch?
archie		 `Ad a bit of a scare last week, though ... She                               * fell outa bed, middle of the night! ... I didn't hear `er! ... Found 'er in the mornin' sleepin' on the floor! Frightened the life out, of me! - but sh e ' s a l r i g h t . . . D o c ' s a y s i t 'appens...
mal		She's tough, your Mum ... she'll go on forever!
54.		45   CONTINUED:                                                       45
archie		 ... Yeah ... she'll outlive me -- that's for sure!
meredith		Give 'er my regards!
archie		 Yeah, I will ... I will ... course...
omp		D'you remember Samson?...Who remembers Samson?
mal		'Ad a petshop on the Roman Road.
omp		No! The Bible! ... A strongman!
meredith		Victor Mature...                                         *                                                * ... Never fancied `im.                                   *
omp		... I'm talkin' about the real McCoy .. the actual bloke!
mal		 What about 'im?
meredith		Now Rod Taylor - that's different! - What a shag! Mamma Mia! -- Big fat back!
omp		 This is a man who's got everything! ... Power. ' Influence. Upper body strength. Friends in 'igh places!
meredith		And John Saxon! - Enter the drag - queen! -- Sex-ee!
omp		He meets this bitch...
meredith		Boyd'y! - Stephen Boyd! - Scrumptious!
omp		 ... Falls in love with the cunt...                           *
meredith		... And Paul McCartney, strangely enough!
omp		 ...He falls in love with the cunt...
archie		...'S Sir Paul now, innit?
meredith		Hedi Lamarr!
omp		 Oh, please! Let me say what I'm sayin'!
meredith		But that's who it is. In the film - Hedi Lamarr!
meredith		Delilah
omp		Yeah, right hooer! ... He's got this lovely long hair ... as was the style in them days ... and its where he got `is st r en g th fr o m . .. On e n i gh t s h e' s dru gge d' im .. . p ut a po tio n in 'i s drink...
omp		... He's gone all woozy and he's conked out on the marble floor... 
omp		... Next mornin' he's woke up ... gone into the bathroom for a wash ... Looked in the mirror ... seen the state of his barnet and he's flipped `is lid! ... He's hit the roof!...-He's gone apeshit!..
omp		... H e's r each ed fo r hi s tru sty broadsword only to discover he can't pick it up - weighs a ton!! ... His strength was in his hair you see ... He can't even pick up his fuckin' toothbrush! ... From then on his life was terrible ... Fell apart!... They stabbed 'is eyes out ... blinded 'im! Stuck `im in a dungeon!... Bread and water!... Whipped! Lashed! Mornin', noon and night!...
omp voice		... She comes to visit `'im ... Tries to make it up...
omp		... Now by this stage his hair's down 'ere...  ... And his might's comin' back - Slowly but surely!... Comes the day of the big party in the temple and he's well up for it! Can't wait! Bent on vengeance!... But he's got fuck all on `im - no weapons - no nothin' - No matter!...
omp voice		He's chained up between these two columns ... Great thick pillars ... And all the guests are taunting 'im ... slaggin' 'im off...
omp		 ... And with 'is bare hands...'is simple, big, bare fuckin' hands - he's pushed and he's pushed... pushed and pushed -'uffin' an' puffin' 'eavin' an 'oin'... until the ve r y f o u n d a t i o n s o f t h e h o u s e o f debauchery start to crack - to yield... to crumble... and I'm tellin' ya, they built things proper in them days. Built to last - this was no mean feat...And with one mammoth shove ... One terrible thrust... He's brought the whole kaboodle crashin' to the ground!... He's killed the whole fuckin' tot of 'em!!
archie		And 'imself!
omp		And 'imself! ... He didn't give a fuck about 'imself by this point! ... And all because....
omp voice		... And all because?...
omp voice		... And all because?...
omp voice		... And all because?...
omp		... of a woman!
colin		...
liz's voice		 No!
colin		 ... Liz!
mal		She's got some fuckin' balls, I'll tell ya... she has got some fuckin' balls!
omp		I knew she'd show her Jezebel face!
mal		 'Ere, Romeo, things are lookin' up ... the cavalry's arrived!... Can't you smell it?!
liz		 ... Bastards...
mal		What's that, slag?
archie		Now that's something I don't like - A woman swearin'... Its unbecomin'!
omp		She wants her fucking mouth washed out with soap, she does!
mal		Jokin', mate ... she'd fuckin' love that!
liz		You all must be very proud of yourselves.
omp		Not yet we ain't but we're gettin' there!
liz		What have you done to him?
archie		It's a ll se lf in flict ed... all self inflicted.
omp		He's a masherkist!
meredith		A what?!
omp		A masherkist!... You must know what a masherkist is! Don't you know what a masherkist is? - A masherkist!
meredith		 Don't say that word anymore ... please!
liz		 ... Mal, have you got a light?
mal		What? Yeah...
omp		 What you doin?
mal		 Giving her a light...
omp		Well just give her it, then! Doesn't `ave to be all that!
liz		Thanks, Mal.
meredith		'Ere Liz...'ere's a funny thing ... Last week, right, I went to get a new pair of shoes ... down Bond Street ... So I've popped into this shop and I've said I want that pair - those in the window - in a ten... So he's brought'em to me and I tr i es 'e m o n .. . b e au t if u l. . . l ik e slippers... bit loud for this lot but me to a 'T'... I'll 'ave 'em... Ow much?... Four 'undred and forty four pounds!... So I'm counting out the money and I can feel the assistant standing too close - like here - like his head's by my chin ... So I've eased him back a tad and I says, 'ow much were these again? ... and he's told me ... repeated it ... Four 'undred and forty-four pounds ... Tell you what, I say s. .. I' ll g iv e y ou f iv e 'un dr ed for'em... I'll get the box, he says ... but I've called him back ... 
liz		I know you hate me.
meredith		Lovely shoes! ... Hate you? ... No-one's hating ... not in this room ... So shut your fucking mouth!
archie		 Is that them?
meredith		 ... Sorry we ain't got a glass ... D'you mind the bottle?
omp		Up yer arse!
meredith		 ... Apologies for that ... That was uncalled for ... Do you forgive 'im?
liz		I didn't hear him.
meredith		... I said sorry we ain't got a glass ... D'you mind the bottle? And he said, `Up your arse!"... D'you forgive 'im?
archie		Why'd you give' im five 'undred for 'em?
meredith		You wouldn't understand.
archie		No I don't!
omp		He was bein' flash!
liz		Is what true?
omp		Is it true you're expectin?
mal		 Is she?!
omp		 ... Eh? ... A little one . .. a l ittle bastard!...
liz		 Oh, shut up ... you idiot!
omp		Coz if it's true ... if it is true ...                * you're comin' round my house ... get in the back room ... bottle of gin ... in the tin bath ... and my Agnes'll take care of it - with a coat hanger!... Then that'll be ta ken ca re of and we can forget all about this slack behaviour of yours...
meredith		It's not exactly BUPA, is it?!
omp		 It's the way it's done! It's what you do!... To amend!
mal		Nah ... you're just gettin' your rocks off! - He's just gettin' 'is rocks off, Colin!
omp		If she were mine I'd stone 'er!
66.		64A   CONTINUED:                                               64A
omp		You what?... What did you say?... You're wrong!... Fucking fornicator!... -She's loyal to me... Faithful and true! ...
liz		She's just scared...
omp		You bitch!... Bad-mouthing me!... You!... Its outrageous!... Knock some sense into her , C ol in! .. . B eat i t o ut of h er! You're in trouble you cunt and you know it! .. . You hear me? ... W hore! ... Colin, if you're not gonna do something about this ... I'll do something!
liz		Like what? Piss your pants?
omp		'Ow dare you!...'Ow dare you!... I'll mark your face forever!... I'll knock your fuckin' teeth out 
liz		Come on then...
omp		 Colin!
liz		What are you waiting for?
archie		Don't rise to it, Pop!
omp		 In time ... In time lady ... All in good time ... I'm gonna enjoy watching you squeal lik e th e sow y ou a re! .. . An d yer little piglet!
liz		Oh, grow up!
mal		 He ' s n ot sa y in ' m uc h , i s h e, To m Cruise?!
archie		He's keepin' his head down...'Opin it'll go away...
omp		Well, it won't!... Whoremonger!
mal		 ... Did you see that? How she went f rom lo ve to hate in a s plit second?
omp		Typical!
mal		 Come on then! ... Give her a look! ... A look of love! ... Oi, buggerlugs, you listenin?...Am I talkin' to myself 'ere?! Fuckin' look at 'er! ... Look at `er, you worthless'cowson!
omp		Adulterer!
archie		Look at 'er!
mal		Cunt!!
liz		Stop it!
mal		Shut up!...  Look at `er!
archie		 Aahh!
mal		... By the way... Do you still love her?
archie		I knew that!... Everyone knows that!...
meredith		 ... Do they?...
mal		 Should he be seein' that?
meredith		 Can't be favourite!
omp		 They may as well be fuckin' doin' it in front of 'im!
archie		 That's gotta smart!
mal		 You do not wanna see your wife tendin' to another man in that way! - That's 'usband only stuff!.
meredith		'S quite beautiful, really...
omp		What you on about?! 'S ugly! 'S `ideous! - it's pornogrographic!
meredith		...'S like a paintin'...'Loverboy bein' tended to by 'is Liz ... 
mal		 Shutup!!
archie		 Poor bastard!
mal		 ... You alright Col?
colin		 ... Yeah, I'm alright, Archie!
mal		What?
archie		I'm Archie!
mal		I'm Mal!
colin		I'm not Colin!
meredith		That's interestin'!
omp		 Eh!
colin		He's gone.
archie		Gone? ... Where? ... Where you gone, son?
colin		There is no Colin... No such man... No such person... Not anymore... There was a man called Colin... He looked like me... But not anymore ...  His boots were covered in icing...
omp		Eh!
70.		64A   CONTINUED:                                                     64A
colin		... Little gentleman...  You remember Colin, don't you?... Course you do!.. No?... He had a big heart!... Don't you remember? 'Ave you forgot ? - h is ki ndnes s... His s weet nature ... C ouldn 't do enou gh, c ould he?... Family man... Proud... His kids... Home... His wife... How he used to make her laugh... Spoil her... Dote on her... Different treats... Ah, well!... Do you know what happened to him? - I do!... Yeah!... He was murdered! Yeah!, In his kitchen - that's right!... in his own fuckin' kitchen!... Had his fuckin' heart ripped out ... standin' by the fridge... Should've seen his face - Stupid! Looked like a cunt !... He did!... You would've laughed!
archie		 No one's callin' you a cunt, Col.
colin		 Didn't k n o w w h a t f u c k i n ' h i t h im ! He remembers Colin, alright! ... The man Colin!...
mal		Yeah, he fucked 'is fuckin' wife, didn't he?! Fucked 'is fuckin' wife!
liz		 What and you wouldn't?
mal		What did you say? What did she say?...
liz		I said that given half a chance you'd try to fuck me.
mal		 Not now I wouldn't!
colin		 Well when, then?
mal		Never! Fuck off! - What is this?! ...  Fu c k' s s a ke ! .. . What?. .. Wh at th e fuc k is this? !... Don't! ... Don't do this, Col... this ain't right! ... What you tryin' to do - put me in the fuckin' wardrobe?! ... Wel l, I' m no t goi n' in th e fuc ki n' war dr obe !. .. I re fu se to g o i n th e fuckin' wardrobe !.. Alright?!... Fuckin' make me out to be a... to be a...
colin		To be a what?
mal		Look she's a good lookin' woman - she's beautiful - she's sexy - she's horny - fuckin' Meredith said as much - You'd have to be blind not to notice - deaf and dumb - but if you're expectin' me to deny that ... I'm not gonna! ... But one thing I am fuckin' not ... one thing I am most definitely not - is -
liz		- A liar.
mal		That's fuckin' right! Fuckin' right!... Look, Colin, you've obviously got a bee in your bonnet about somethin' but all I did was give her a light!
colin		I've told you ... I'm not Colin
72.		64A   CONTINUED:                                                  64A
colin		You 'r e m or e 'an dso me tha n m e. Mor e virile. Younger. Probably more sexually experienced ... patient, considerate, tender, sensitive, kind, thoughtful, sh a r i ng , g i vi n g , in t e l l ig e n t , passionate... D'you want me to go on? ... Bet you get her goin' ... take her there ... talk to her, listen to her, hear her - yo u h ea r h e r! . . . Y o u l au g h - together!... God you're manly! Fuckin' manly! ... What a man ! "Go d's g ift! You're everythin a woman could want... I can just see your wardrobe! - Everythin' colour co-ordinated! Whatever you pick out to wear ... whatever combination - it works! - You look superb! ... And your underw ear - immac ulate ! 100 % cot ton! Dazzlin'!... Not like my pinky grey-y things! Nah, you've just got it - good at everythin'! ... Me - on the other hand - I'm good at sittin'!... Sit, sit, sit... watch, watch, watch ... drink, drink, drink... Honestly, she must've spent                        * half our marriage yawnin "... The kids -- d'you know what they call me? - Captain Arsehole! - Oh, but they do! Captain Arsehole! - They were thinkin' of gettin' T-shirts printed up for the whole family with my photo on them and the legend "Captain Arsehole" printed underneath!... And you know what? - I'd ave worn one! - I would've! If it'd've pleased them - given 'em a laugh - I'd a worn one! ... Wouldn't I, Liz?
colin		...recently painted... That's the bed... see the tangled sheets?!... 
colin		Away from you!! ...  Away from him!!
omp		 Oh, gawd! !
colin		- No - Sacha! ...
meredith vo		Liz hates me ... She's a lady ... Rich bitch ... Fuck all to do 'cept shop and wank... Bored out of her box... She's at the window ... looking out ... looking down...
archie		 They ain't lookin' for a gardener at this place by any chance, are they?
archie		Why's that?
meredith		Gardener fucks the maid!
archie		Sounds alright!
meredith		You ain't seen the maid!
archie		Be alright, I'll be wearin' muddy gloves!
omp		This is gonna 'urt you much more than its gonna'urt me!... I feel for ya, I really don't... . You're mincemeat, mate! - 'Mincemeat!
cut to:		78D.
colin		I am gonna kill `im, Liz - and I'm glad you're here to see it! ... To see the man you said `I do' to, defend his honour! I'm gonna kill `im... like the beast you think I am!
archie		Go on, son, fill yer boots!
omp		'Bout fuckin' time!
colin		'Throttle 'im! Kick his sorry arse from here t o Sun day!  ... Tell me you don't love me, Liz...
liz		I don't love you.
colin		Break 'is fuckin' neck!...  Come on, I can take it! Say it!! - Say you don't love me!...
liz		I don't love you.
colin		 Don't say that! ... What did you say?
archie		She don't love you, Col.
omp		'ow 'urtfull
meredith		He's a masherkist!
colin		 ... You don't love me?
liz		... Help me.
colin		 Wha'?
liz		Help me.
liz		 Help me...
colin		... I love you, Liz!... I love you... ... Liz... Liz, it's                       * rainin'... (Sobbing and sobbing and                              * sobbing
archie		...Massive, it was... massive `ead! -- Size of it! -- Like a melon! Like a pumpkin! Grotesque! `Uge!... Well it wasn't so much `is `ead -- it was `is face!... It was just abnormally big -- An abnormality!... Like th e b o ne st r uc t ur e w a s o ut `e r e --  Rhinoceroussy -- `ad grown out of all proportion to the rest of `im... Coz `is skull -- the skull itself -- the top -- it was in actuality quite small -- not much bigger than a co co n ut -- so r t o f po i nt y a n' al l ... Coroner's report said he'd never seen anythin' like it!... They thought they'd found the missin' link!
mal		Sounds fuckin' `orrible!
archie		Well, apparently not... women liked `im! -- Dunno if he got any -- but seemingly he was quite the thing... Supposedly a right laugh. `Ad a sense of humour -- well you'd `ave to `ave really, wouldn't ya?!
meredith		... An' this chap was a good dancer?
archie		`S wha t the y sai d -- n ifty! Reg ular twinkletoes! A right Gene Kelly!... Sad tho' -- top yourself like that... Over a cat.
mal		... He must've loved it.
archie		Well a nimal s don 't di scrim inate , do they?... To the cat, he was beautiful!
mal		Did they bury them together?
archie		Now that I don't know... Be nice if they                   * `ad... But it's all red tape, innit -- depends on the different by-laws...
mal		...And what borough you live in!
archie		Yeah, he's `ad long enough!
omp		What's the pillock doin'?!
meredith		 My arse has gone to sleep!
archie		The ol' numb-bum?
mal		 ...It's all gone a bit quiet in there...
archie		Whadya reckon?
mal		Let's go in... fuck it!
omp		`Ope to Christ he's done somethin'!
meredith		Don't hold your breath!
mal		What's been `appenin' then?
archie		We any further forward?
mal		He's still with us I see...
archie		 I'm `aving a beer... Who wants one?
mal		Ill `ave one.
omp		Nothin g's h appen ed! -- Why' s not hing happened?! -- Don't you want your pound of flesh?
archie		 It's not looking like it!
omp		Lord love a duck!... Fuck this!... I give up!... Streuth! ... Fucking baby! Milksop!
meredith		Had any thoughts, Col?
mal		Col?
colin		...Eh?
archie		`Ad any thoughts?
colin		Thoughts?
mal		Yeah, thoughts!
colin		...One or two...
meredith		Oh, yeah?... Like what?
colin		I'm letting him go.
omp		Do what?!... You ain't!!
colin		It's my decision... That's my decision... It's what I've decided.
omp		Cobblers!
colin		Maybe.
omp		Poppycock!
archie		No, it's his call!... It's your Col' call...                     * `Col call'! -- `ark at me! -- I'm tired!                         *
meredith		Lightweight!
archie		... Well an' truly cream crackered!
mal		...So what are we saying'?... He's walkin'?...
colin		Yeah... He's free to go.
omp		"Free to go"! "Free to go"!!... Why don't you give `im a kiss goodnight as well, while you're at it!... Let's `ave a whip- round for the cunt!... I can hear Brighton Billy spinnin' in his fuckin' grave!... "Free to go"!!
archie		 `Ere, he's listenin'... His ears are out on stalks... He can't believe it!
mal		It's not too late to change your mind, Col!... Think about it... I'll do it for you if you like... Freebie!
meredith		...And Liz... wherever she is... what about her?... She free?
archie		He's a very lucky boy!...  You're a very lucky boy!... He fucking is!... Very fortunate!
mal		Well come on then... Do the honours, Col... It's your party... Some of us `ave got homes to go to!
omp		I'm really upset about this!
colin		You're free to go, mate.
archie		Attaboy!
mal		`S he finding his land-legs?
archie		What's this... The fuckin' Mummy?!
mal		Oh, he likes you!    You're his favourite!
archie		 Yeah, alright, mate... now fuck off `fore I give you another slap!... Door's there, look!...
mal		Mind how you go!
omp		`Ere you!...
mal		Close the door behind you!
meredith		....So, Kittens, what're we up to?
mal		Dunno...   What you doin'?
meredith		Me an' Peanut are off to The Clayton, ain't we Pop?
omp		Yerrr!
meredith		You might like it.... Never know!
omp		D'they do grub there?        I'm ready for my                   * breakfast.                                                      *
meredith		Do what you want.... Y'comin'?
omp		...Yeah... why not?... Be an eye opener, won't it?
archie		... You want droppin' off?
mal		Yeah... you stoppin' off for one?
archie		If you like!... Colin?
colin		... I just wanna say.... Thanks...
archie		Ah, shutup! We'll be in the Old Bamboo if you fancy one... Right, we're off then... Cheerio!
omp		 Two years later I was dead... I passed away in the small hours in a nursing `ome in Slough, with a drip in me arm, me gnashers in a mug by the bed and me boots most definitely on!... I'd done me hip in the spring and couldn't cope with meself no more at `ome, if you must know... I died in a `orrible fuckin' room they'd give me in the midst of a bunch of doddery, decrepit, dribbling old mongs!... Come the time, this dragon-witch-bitch of a nurse, arsked me if I wanted a fuckin' priest?! To make my peace!... I arsk you!!... I told `em where to get off!... Told `em all to fuck off out of it and leave me to meet my maker on my Jack Todd!... I lay on my pit like a scabby                        * baby and waited for it... waited for it... waited for it to come... and get me! It came alright... The Reaper came, alright... in the middle of the fucking night -- Like a burglar -- Like a worry... I opened my milky mince's and saw... saw Death... The ugly brute of it... It's black mouth... it's cocky eyes... `ungry like the wolf... for me!... My time was up!     I was wanted!... "I'll break you", it said... "I'll fucking' break you!"... I stared at it... hissed at it... spat at it... I raised myself up from the stainy cot with my weak, bony arm... got myself in a proud position -- my spine ramrod straight... It was reaching for me... grabbing at me... laughing at me... "FUCK YOU!", I said... `FUUUCCKK YOOUU!!!!!"
meredith		... Is he a liar or shouldn't I have been there?... What d'you reckon?... I know what I think!
archie		 ...I've met someone... Her names `Azel!... I was a bit nervous at first... fear of the unknown I s'pose... well you get set in your ways, don't ya... anyway, I like `er... like `er a lot- `s a nice feelin' -- an' she says she likes me an'' all! -- So you never know -- watch this space!... And Mum an' her? -- Do they get on?
colin		 Be lucky, Liz.
****Dialogues from script :48_Hrs.txt****

brady		Wonder what reservation they let him off of...
ganz		Yeah, there goes the neighborhood.
billy		Say, buddy, my engine's overheating and I got 30 miles before the next station... Could I get some water out of your cooler?
ganz		Maybe you shoulda stole a better truck, Tonto.
billy		You got a real big mouth, convict.
brady		It's okay, chief.  He's just joking...
billy		How about the water...
ganz		Firewater, Tonto?  Is that what you...
brady		Hey! Jesus Christ!
brady		That's a state prisoner, asshole...! Back off...
ganz		Come on...
officer		APO 657, Unit 25 to APO 478t APO
officer		Escape in progress. Two officers shot off rail crossing 31. Prisoners escaping. Two men, one six-four, 200 pounds, dark, an Indian, the other, Albert Ganz, five-ten...
billy		Get ready to duck.
ganz		You know something? I'm having a real good time.
cates		Inspector Jack Cates, S.F.P.D.... And you're wanted.
elaine		What am I wanted for?
cates		I don't answer questions, I ask 'em...
elaine		I don't think your gun's loaded...
cates		This is a .44 Magnum, the most powerful handgun in the world. You gotta ask yourself just one question. Are you feelin' lucky?
elaine		I still don't think it's loaded.
cates		Hey, you're right.
elaine		You're hopeless.
cates		That's the way I see it, too.
elaine		I'm all wet.
cates		What's wrong with that?
elaine		A guy in the bar called me a dumb bitch today.
cates		What'd you do?
elaine		Irrigated his face with the shot of J and B I'd just poured him. Then I tried to deck the sucker.
cates		I guess he got the message...
elaine		Then I sit back and I think, I mean, who's to say I'm not a dumb bitch.  I work in a bar, right? I can't read a list of my academic credentials to every booze-hound that comes in the place... You are what you do...
cates		Positive self-image problem all over again ... You are who you decide you are unless you're the type that lets assholes decide for you.
elaine		Aren't you the one that thinks all psychotherapy is bullshit?
cates		I do think all psychotherapy is bullshit. But just because I think it's bullshit doesn't mean I don't know something about it.
elaine		If this is your idea of sympathetic interest in my problems, I'll take brutal indifference.
cates		Hey, you know what I really think?
elaine		Tell me--I'm dyin' to hear it.
cates		I think you're ashamed to tend bar which is sad because you look great in that outfit they make you wear... You pull down four bills a week which is damn good, and you mix the best Pina Coladas I've ever had... I think that if you need bigger and better things ... then go for em.
elaine		You oversimplify every...
cates		Some things are simple, right?
elaine		Right...
billy		You got somethin' for us, Henry?
ganz		How hot are they?
henry		Hot?  Hey, they're not even room temperature.
ganz		How ya doin'?
henry		Can't complain.
ganz		We got a lot to talk about.
henry		Yeah, old times.
ganz		We'll follow you.  Take it slow,okay?
henry		Sure, right.
ganz		I want to drive awhile.
billy		I ain't tired yet.
ganz		Maybe after we get done with him I'm gonna buy us some girls.
billy		Whaddya mean, buy?
ganz		Pros.
billy		Pay money?
ganz		Yeah, dummy.  Money.
billy		I never paid for it in my life.
ganz		It's better when you pay... they let you do anything.
billy		They always let me do anything. I don't want to pay for it.  I never paid for it in my life.
ganz		Just do what I say, okay? We'll pay for the girls and have a good time... Don't you trust me?
billy		Sure, I trust ya.
elaine		You know, if you let me come over to your place once in a while, you could put on a clean shirt in the morning.
cates		What makes you think I have any clean shirts at my place?
elaine		You know, that's my toothbrush, Jack.
cates		Maybe you ought to buy me one.
elaine		Maybe I would if I knew when you were coming back.
cates		I'm here.  And I've been coming back for quite awhile... Let's not hassle, okay?  And can I have a cup of coffee?  Please.
elaine		That's a fairly crummy way to start a morning.
cates		Maybe I got a fairly crummy day ahead.
elaine		Maybe that makes a nice excuse.
cates		Maybe you don't know what the hell you're talking about.
elaine		When you start with that attitude... it's like I don't know who you are.
cates		What do you want to know?  What difference does it make?  I'm the guy in your bed the last three months.  I make you feel good. You make me feel good.  What the hell else do you want from a guy?
elaine		I wish you'd stop trying to make me mad so I won't care for you... I wish you'd give me a little more of a chance.
cates		I don't have time for this. I gotta go to work.
cates		 Look, I'm glad I'm in your life... and hell, with an ass like yours, I figure anything might be possible.
elaine		You know something, Jack, you really are hopeless.
cates		That's the way I see it, too.
elaine		Call me later.
cates		You sure you want me to?
elaine		Yeah, for some reason, I'm sure...
cates		Thanks for the coffee.
elaine		I think you forgot this. Hands him his wallet and badge...
cates		Guess people ought to know who I am...
elaine		Jack, wait.  Here...
elaine		 It's cold as hell out these mornings, and you know what the man said, the coldest winter I ever spent was the summer I spent in San Francisco...
cates		Son of a bitch.
rosalie		I liked that carpet we saw.
luther		We can't afford it.
rosalie		Don't remind me.
luther		Whaddya want me to do, go out and steal for the money?  I hated the color anyway; the color sucked...
ganz		Surprise, Luther.
luther		Whaddya want?  I thought you were locked up-
ganz		I want the money, asshole, what do you think?  The money that Reggie hid...
luther		I don't know what you're talkin' about.
ganz		You want that Indian to snap her neck?
ganz		 Instead of worryin' about Reggie, you better worry about me...
luther		Don't give me this, we were partners.
ganz		Billy, go ahead, break it...
luther		No! Don't kill her.  I can get you the money.
ganz		When?
luther		I can't get it until Monday. Honest.
ganz		You chickenshit punk...
luther		Honest. The place we stashed it opens Monday morning. I can't get it till then. Monday morning, that's when it opens. After that, I'll get the money to you right away...
ganz		I always liked you, Luther. You were always a lotta fun to hang out with...
ganz		 We're gonna keep her.
luther		Come on, you can trust me. Please.
ganz		You try to mess with us or go to the cops, I promise you, I'll put holes in her you wouldn't believe.
ganz		Nice place, huh?
rosalie		What are you gonna do to me in there?
ganz		Maybe that's where I'm gonna cut your throat.
billy		He's just kiddin', you just keep doin' what I tell ya, you'll be okay.
ganz		We need some rooms for a couple of nights...Okay?
frizzy		Sure.  We don't get many real customers, ya know?  Most people only stay an hour or two...
ganz		I want her young.  And tall. Nice legs. Legs are important. Then, real thin.  Yeah.  NO jeans-A dress? a nice summer dress.  You know I want her fresh... I'll tell you why, because I been hoein' weeds and makin' license plates for a couple of years... Yeah, I know you don't get it...
billy		Hey, what about me?
ganz		And I need one more for my pal. Yeah. Make her an Indian. No, not a turban, you know, a squaw.
ganz		Walden Hotel. Third near Broadway. Tell them to ask for ... uh...
ganz		 G.P. Polson...P.O.L.S.O.N....Just be a couple of hours.
frizzy		Number twenty-seven, Mr. Polson.
ganz		Put them next door, okay.
frizzy		Sure, hey, you got the whole floor to yourself...
ganz		Keep your filthy ideas to yourself, lady.
cates		Hey, fellas, what's happening? Radio said you guys had something on...
algren		Not much, Jack ... Salesman named Polson had his credit cards lifted...
algren		 One of Polson's cards rented that green coupe.
vanzant		Not too much for a big rough tough gunfighter like you to do on this one...
cates		Suspect packed or is this a laugher?
algren		Five and dime stuff. Polson said a kid with a switchblade mugged him and drove off on a motorcyle.
cates		Yeah, well, I guess you two are experts at taking boy scout knives away from teenagers...
vanzant		Yeah, we are, that means you can stay outta this one. We don't have any big need for the artillery
cates		Hey, I'm just offering to help out... I like to watch real pros work.
vanzant		Help, huh?  Sometimes your kind of help tends to leave the suspect in bad shape.
algren		Hey, relax ... Jack, you wanna come inside, fine... You can stake out the lobby...
cates		Fine, it's your show...
frizzy		Aw, you guys were in last week. You better ask around.  I'm not supposed to be hassled... I got friends.
vanzant		Hey, park the tongue for a second, sweetpants, we just want to search a room.
frizzy		Not unless you got a warrant.
cates		Maybe you should of been a lawyer instead of a dumb skirt workin' behind a register.
frizzy		Aw, come on, what the shit is this?
algren		We're looking for a guy going under the name Polson...
frizzy		Okay, big deal.  Get it over with.
algren		Is he alone?
frizzy		Naw, his sister went up an hour ago.
vanzant		Okay, like we said, you stake out the lobby.
cates		Sure. Great. Whatever.
vanzant		You're not missing out on Dillinger. This punk just stole some credit cards.
lisa		Hey...
ganz		Shut up.
lisa		What the hell's wrong?  I didn't do anything.
lisa		 What do you want?  What's goin' on?
ganz		Shut up.
ganz		 Now ask who it is.
ganz		 Come on, ask.
lisa		Who is it?
algren		Police... open up.
ganz		Stall.
lisa		What do you want?
vanzant		Police business. Come on, open up.
ganz		Keep stallin'.
lisa		Alright, I'm coming...hold on.
lisa		Just a second.
mexican girl		Que paso? Que esta pasando? No entiendo...
billy		Shut up.
billy		 When I say jump, girl, you better jump.
ganz		He'll blow her goddamn head off.
rosalie		No. No.
ganz		You.  Drop it and we won't kill her.
ganz		 Now, tell him to drop his Goddamn piece.
algren		Do it, Cates.
algren		 Do it, Cates.  Goddamn it, do it.
ganz		Kick it over here.
ganz		 Get the car.
ganz		 Your gun's just like mine.
cates		You lying son of a bitch...
ganz		What are you talking about? We didn't kill her ...
fat cop		What happened?
cates		Read the report.
old cop		Two cops blown away by a credit card booster... that don't figure.
cates		No shit.
fat cop		They were good cops.
cates		They were good cops who fucked up and got careless.
young cop		That's what you say, Cates...
cates		Yeah.
young cop		But that's what you say about all of us all the tine ... we're always the ones fucking up when you tell it...
cates		The truth hurts, doesn't it, buddy?
old cop		It don't figure.
cates		I need to borrow a piece.
young cop		Somebody steals your gun, you're supposed to file a report.
cates		Are you gonna tell me about police procedure?  Do me a favor, don't give me a bunch of crap.
young cop		I guess when two cops die on account of your fuck up you want to keep it as quiet as possible...
cates		Just shut the fuck up.
haden		Cates, I'll need to see you in five minutes, exactly five.
old cop		Best I can do.
haden		D'you read me, Cates...
cates		Five minutes.  I heard you, your voice carries...
ruth		They're still wet.
ruth		 Lots of people getting shot with .44's lately ... Last year, it was Saturday Night Specials..now it's heavy stuff. People must be getting madder about something.
policewoman		You're an accessory to Murder One, so you're going to have to do a whole lot better than what we got down here, honey...
lisa		Gimme a break, huh? ... Look, I got there.  He was a trick just like any other for all I knew. That's all there is.  He didn't feel like sitting and talking. He was in a big hurry to get laid. I was with him about an hour...
detective		We got a print from the hotel room.  Guy's real name is Ganz, Albert Ganz.  A hitter from back East but he worked out here a few years back.  Armed robbery. Broke out of prison two days ago and capped two of the guards. A real animal.  Wait'll you see this...
cates		Did he give you a return match?
lisa		He wasn't interested.
cates		Maybe he didn't like your performance.
lisa		Fuck you.
cates		I'll take a raincheck...
ruth		This'll interest you, Jack...we've got something here from your gun... and these are from the first weapon Ganz used...
cates		I don't get it.
ruth		Here.
ruth		A perfect match for the markings from the first gun he used... but not from the Walden Hotel... fired at least six hours earlier...at point blank range... right between the eyes.  Found him on a park bench...
ruth		 Ya know, there are some very bad people out there in the world.
cates		Look at it this way, Ruth.  If there weren't, what would there be for us to do?
lisa		Anyway... so I got there and took him down.  He started watching television and then you sensational people started banging on the door... that's all... except ... he's gonna give you guys a hard time.
policewoman		What makes you think so?
lisa		I think he liked shooting cops a lot more than getting laid.
cates		Is that what this guy Ganz had in the hotel?
kehoe		Every last bit of it.  The big guy's room was empty.
cates		I'll help you out.
kehoe		This guy must have had a .44 like yours, Jack. Now he's got yours.
cates		Shit.
kehoe		This cat was real serious about his artillery.
cates		Billy Bear...
kehoe		Backup man from the East Bay. Worked with Ganz a few years ago and sprung him from the road gang.
cates		Who are all these?
kehoe		They all pulled a bunch of jobs with Ganz about four years ago.
cates		Wait a minute, wait a minute... who's this?
kehoe		Uhh ... Wong, Henry Wong.  He was in on the same job.
cates		Tell me that's not the same guy.
kehoe		Hey ... Dick Tracy.
ruth		Did Ganz have a grudge against his old friends?
haden		Get in here, Cates.
cates		I think I wanna have a discussion about it with any of the ones still walking.  Can we find them?
kehoe		Here's the file. Cates checks the file.
cates		One of  em's in the slam.
haden		Damn you, Cates ... Get in here.
cates		I want to be left alone on this one. Algren was killed with my gun.
haden		Yeah, I read the report...
cates		Hey, the bastard's got my gun.  I want it back.
haden		Jack, come on, there is an official department policy about cop killings. Cop killers represent a special priority because any man crazy enough to kill a cop is a greater threat to an unarmed civilian... In other words, we can't seen like we're in the revenge business... I know, we all know the truth's a little different.
cates		Yeah...
haden		Anthing botherin' you besides losin' your gun?
cates		Yeah.  It bothers me when cops get hurt while I'm makin' a play. I don't like it.
haden		You might be more of a team player and a little less of a hot dog on this one, Jack.
cates		Being a hot dog's worked pretty well for me so far... Besides, I got a lead...
haden		Okay.  You're not a team player. You gotta do things your own way. Fine.  Nail this guy and make us all look good.  But you better watch your ass.  If you screw up, I can promise you, you're goin' down.
cates		You really know how to send a guy out with a great attitude. He starts to go.
haden		Jack?
cates		Yeah?
haden		Try not to get your ass shot to pieces. We got enough dead cops on this one.
cates		I'll keep it in mind.
elaine		Great place for lunch.
cates		Yeah, one of my favorites.
elaine		You made the front page.
cates		Yeah, Guess it must have been a slow news day...
elaine		Jack, are you okay?
cates		Sure, okay, fine, no problem... See, there's this kid in jail ... First thing I got to do is go up and see what he knows ...
elaine		I thought you might come over to my place to recuperate.  I don't have to go to work until the day after tomorrow.
cates		I got nothing to recuperate from. There's a guy out there with my gun, and I want it back.
elaine		Look, spare me the macho bullshit about your gun...
cates		Bullshit?  I'll tell you about bullshit.  My gun's a real weapon in the hands of a real maniac who knows how to use it.  It isn't my macho bullshit that's killing people, my gun is ...
elaine		Look, Jack, if you make everything your personal responsibility, you'll turn into a bad cop.  It's not a practical way to function...
cates		I didn't get burned, two cops did. Listen, I'll tell you about personnel responsibility.  I like to get the job done right.  And if I don't get my job done right... I'm for shit.
elaine		Here it comes again ... the sacred job...
cates		That's right.  I'm not like you. I'm not gonna sit on my ass wondering what's right and what's wrong... There's a psycho out there killing people with my gun and I'm gonna get him.  Because it's my job. And if you don't get that...
elaine		I get that. The job first. Everything else, especially me, second. I get it. I don't like it.
cates		No one asked you to like it... But that's the way it is.
guard		Open Nine.
guard		Close Nine.
guard		 It's Number Twenty-two... You want company?
cates		No, no thanks.
cates		Hammond.
cates		 Hammond!
cates		 Hammond!
hammond		You got a name, cop?
cates		Try Cates.  And let's talk in private, okay?
hammond		Sure, anything you want.
cates		Look, convict, I know all about you. Single.  No fixed address. No known relatives.
hammond		You here to write my life story?
cates		Not likely, Reggie.  Maybe I just need some help.
hammond		Henry Wong... My old pal.  He's looked better...
hammond		 Look, I got just six months before gettin' out of here.  Six months between me and freedom after bein' here three years... And I'm not gonna do anything to screw it up, includin' pee in the prison yard, knock up the Warden's daughter or rat on my old partners...
cates		Too bad, Reggie.  I thought maybe you were a smart boy.  But I guess if you were real smart you wouldn't be a convict.
cates		 I can see a second-rater like you wouldn't be any help at all goin' up against a real hard case like Ganz.
hammond		Ganz?
hammond		 Ganz the one who shot Henry? Cates, I asked you a question...
cates		Yeah, I noticed...
hammond		Ganz is in jail.  He's gonna be there two years after I'm on the street.
cates		Didn't work out that way.  He busted out with a big Indian. They capped two guards on a road gang. Nice meeting you Reggie.
hammond		Cates, Come back here.
cates		Yeah?
hammond		I can deliver Ganz.  But you gotta get me outta here first.
cates		You're crazy.
hammond		I can help you, man, but you gotta get me out.  I got to be on the street.  Get me outta here.
cates		What's the big deal about you bein' on the street?
hammond		I got a lot to protect.
cates		Bullshit.
hammond		It's the only way you're gonna get Ganz.
cates		I'll think about it.
cates		Let me borrow your pen, Bob.
bob		You going to use your own name?
cates		Shit, no.
bob		Jack, just remember one thing. If all this comes down, you don't know me.  I'm not gonna burn for you.  And I'll tell you something else.  If it all comes down, your ass is new-mown grass.
cates		Right.  Hey, no sweat.
bob		BOB You got him for 48 hours.
bob		 You got a big career as a forger if you decide to go that way, Jack...   I'll ring security.
guard		Prisoner G21355 ... Hammond.
second guard		Okay.  Send him through.
guard		Gotta sign for him.
cates		Sure thing...
cates		 This prison gives out $400 suits?
hammond		What are you talkin' about?  This
cates		We're supposed to be after a killer, not a string of hookers...
hammond		Listen, it may be a little out of date. You know, I got a reputation for lookingreal sharp with the ladies...
guard		He's all yours.
hammond		We could change this for something good...Get you lookin' sharp for pussy.
cates		I don't need to hear your jive. I already got that department taken care of...
hammond		You got a girl... shit... the generosityof women never ceases to amaze me.
hammond		 Hey, no way.  Take off the bracelets or no deal.
cates		You just don't get it, do your Reggie?  There isn't any deal. I own your ass.
hammond		No way to start a partnership.
cates		Get this.  We ain't partners. We ain't brothers.  We ain't friends. I'm puttin' you down and keepin' you down until Ganz is locked up or dead.  And if Ganz gets away, you're gonna be sorry we ever met.
hammond		Shit.  I'm already sorry.
hammond		This your car, man?
cates		Yeah.
hammond		It looks like you bought it off one of the brothers.
cates		Okay, let's get down to it.  I did my part and got you out.  So now you tell me where we're goin'?
hammond		Don't worry, I got a move for ya. An awesome move. A guy named Luther. Ganz'll be paying him a visit.  We go to him right away.
cates		Luther was part of the gang?
hammond		What gang you talkin' about, Jack?
cates		I can read a police file, shithead, and quit calling me Jack.
hammond		Just an expression man, don't mean nothin'.
cates		I don't give a damn.  It happens to be my name.
hammond		Then what're you complainin' about? At least nobody's calling you shithead....
cates		I may call you worse than that.
hammond		Just up the street, the other side, over there ... Now, don't bother knockin' on the door. Luther ain't the kind of guy that looks for company.
cates		Your pal nuts enough to take a shot at me?
hammond		Luther ain't the reliable type. I don't want you shot yet, Cates ... not before you been a help to me.
cates		I'm helpin' you, huh?
hammond		Yeah. Didn't you know that?
hammond		 You better let me borrow one of those.
cates		Sure thing, asshole.
cates		 You just hang on.  And hope this big move of yours turns out to be something. Opens the car door.
cates		Hammond, Drop the Goddamn gun.
hammond		Quit playin' cop and undo this cuff, Jack, I need to talk to this man.
cates		I'm tellin' you to drop the Goddam gun.
hammond		I got a whole thing about people pointin' guns at me.
cates		Just throw me the Goddamn gun.
hammond		Luther, I always told you the physical side of life wasn't your gig.  Look at you, all messed up... Course you never were much in the snappy dresser department, were you?
cates		Come on, talk to him.
hammond		What's happening, Luther?
luther		I thought you were inside...
hammond		Meet my travel Agent.
luther		A cop...
cates		I sure ain't his fairy godmother... now I'm looking for Ganz...where is he?
luther		Haven't seen him for years. That's the truth.
cates		You just took a shot at me, asshole. I think you do know where he is.
luther		Who gives a fuck what you think?
cates		Hey, this works pretty good.
hammond		Thank you.
cates		Want to try it again?
luther		Ganz and Billy got my girl, Rosalie.
cates		I think I met her.  Now tell us something we don't know, like where they stashed her.
luther		I don't know.
hammond		I gotta tell you he's having a ball with this car door, Luther... You'd better think of somethin' to tell him.
luther		He ... he wants me to help him skip town.
cates		When? How?
luther		I dunno ... he's gonna call me...
luther		 He's gonna call me on...Tuesday.
cates		What do you think?
hammond		I think you better put him on ice, man.
cates		He's gotta take that call ... if there is one.
hammond		If you let him run around till Tuesday, he's gonna run right to Ganz and warn him. Ain't you, motherfucker?
hammond		 Luther, are you angry with me?
cates		I don't know what the hell you're smiling about, watermelon. Your big move turned out to be shit.
cates		Assault on a police officer with a deadly weapon.  Carrying a concealed weapon.  Resisting arrest, Disturbing the peace. Public nuisance...
cates		 I'll think up a few more and file the report tomorrow.
cates		 Come on, I gotta make a phone call.
cates		 You stay with me.
cates		 This is Jack Cates. Any messages?
elaine		Just one.  Some lady called.  Said she's a little hot-headed sometimes... But she still wants her occasional roommate. She'd like to talk it over after she gets off work tonight... if it's humanly possible....
cates		Elaine, look, I'm in the middle of sone stuff right now... I'm not gonna have time to come by. I don't know when I can get there.
elaine		Come on, Jack ... you're making me work too Goddamn hard at this...
cates		Listen, Goddamn it if you think I'm happy about it, you're nuts. I just gotta take care of a few things, okay?
elaine		This is not the way people who care for each other are supposed to behave.
hammond		Excuse me, ladies, you seem to be in need of assistance.
hooker two		Look, we got enough problems, we don't need no tight-ass court- appointed lawyer trying to bullshit us!
hammond		Sweetheart, I'm not trying to bullshit you. I don't know whether or not you ladies heard but the city is coming down real hard on people practicing unlawful carnal knowledge.
hooker one		So what are you trying to say, fella?
hammond		I'm trying to say that you're not just walk in that courtroom and get gonna slapped with a $50 fine and be back on the street turning tricks tonight. You both are going to do some time. About 30 days each... Unless, of course,we talk real business.
hooker two		So where do you want to do it, honey? You wanna hop up on the counter?
hammond		No, we can go to the back room.
cates		We're on the move. Let's go. As they walk toward a corridor.
hammond		Do you know how close I was to getting some trim.  And you fucked' it up.
cates		Yeah, well, my ass bleeds for you. And I didn't get you out so you could go on a Goddamn "trim" hunt... stop moaning.
hammond		Speakin' of moans my Stomach is startin' to growl.
cates		We eat when I say we eat.
hammond		Bullshit ... I ain't moving  till I get something to eat. You've been treating me like shit ever since I came out here.  If you don't like it, you can take me back to the penitentiary and kiss my hungry black ass good-bye.  And I want some food some place nice.. Some good people, nice music...
cates		Yeah, I'm hungry too. I know of a place. Let's go eat.
hammond		Yeah, I want mandolins, flowers... They move off down the corridor.
cates		There's your God-damn dinner. Now, let's go.
hammond		Who'd you call on the phone back at the booking station?
cates		Just get in the car and keep your mouth shut.
hammond		Must of been your lady friend...
hammond		 You really do have onoe, huh, Jack... what's her problem besides you?
cates		She's got the same complaint as half the Goddamn population.  She can't get the job she's trained for and it pisses her off... Anyway, what the fuck do you care?
hammond		No, man, tell me about her.  In jail they got me surrounded by guys wearin' blue suits twenty- four hours a day.  And I ain't built for that. Really?  With the clothes you got on you look like you'd love it.
cates		Now, where we goin', convict?
hammond		Mission District.  Gonna find us an Indian.
hammond		Come on, Jack.  I want to hear about your girl.  When were you with her last ... You get what I mean?
cates		I don't give out the details.
hammond		Last night, two nights ago, three?
cates		Last night.
hammond		You have a good time?
cates		Sure.  Then we had a fight this morning.
hammond		At least you took care of business and got the important part in before she came down on you...Tell me a little about her.  She got great tits?
cates		I get the feeling it's going to be real long night.
cates		Well?
hammond		It's a long shot, but...Billy used to tend bar here a few years back. I heard him talk about it.
cates		This part of town, they'll make us for heat the second we walk in. Just back me up like you've got a piece...
hammond		Back you up?  Now why would I wanna do that?
cates		If they kick my ass, they'll sure as hell carve yours up...
hammond		But you can handle it all right, huh? Real amazin' how far a gun and a badge can carry some cats...
cates		Bullshit.  Attitude and experience get you through...
hammond		I been in a lot of bars where a white cop rousted me and some of the brothers. All those clowns ever had going for 'em was a gun and a badge...
cates		You need five years training to handle a joint like...
hammond		Hey, you wanna bet?
cates		I got two problems.  Number one, I'm not playin' games.  Number two, you got nothin' to bet with.
hammond		If we come outta this joint with Ganz' phone number, or a dead Indian, or anything else useful, then you could turn the other way for half an hour while I get laid...
cates		Why?  Anybody that talks about women as much as you do probably can't get it up anyway.
hammond		That's never been one of my problems.
cates		I'll tell you what happens if you lose... you tell the truth for once.
hammond		What are you talkin' about?
cates		You tell me what Ganz busted out for, he's after a lot more than just gettin' out of jail.  And whatever it is, you're part of it.
hammond		I don't know what you're talking about. I just wanna see Ganz nailed.
cates		The bet's off.
hammond		Okay, if I lose, I'll tell you anything you want to know...
cates		I'm gonna enjoy this ... here, I'll even loan you my badge.
hammond		I thought you said bullshit and experience are all it takes.
hammond		This place don't seem real popular with the brothers.
cates		My kind of place. I always liked country boys.
bartender		Yeah.
hammond		Vodka.
bartender		Maybe you better have a Black Russian.
hammond		No, man, I think I'll have a vodka.
hammond		You know a big Indian named Billy Bear?  He used to work here.
bartender		Never heard of him.
hammond		Now how's your memory doin'?
bartender		Fuck off.  I don't know what the hell you're talkin' about.
hammond		Maybe I better ask around, see what your pals think.
bartender		I don't give a shit who you ask.
hammond		Up against the wall, cowboy.
hammond		 Now, I said get over there by that wall ... You hear me, motherfucker...
hammond		 Move it, rednecks.  On your feet...
hammond		 Over there...move your ass. Some of you rednecks seem a little hard of hearing, so I'll repeat it for everybody... I need word on the whereabouts of an Indian that goes by the name of Billy Bear. It's a police matter and you all look like you'd just love to cooperate...
hammond		 That wasn't necessary, buddy. I got this under control.
cates		Some of us citizens are with you all the way, Officer.
hammond		You're in trouble, big trouble, so you better start talking. Where'd a boy like you make a score like this?
punk		It's mine, what the hell...
hammond		You must a rolled somebody.  They don't let punks like you take jobs that pay this much ... you sure you don't know a dangerous Indian, because unless you start talkin' I may just have to start looking down your pants with a flashlight...
punk		What kind of cop are you, anyway?
hammond		I am your most terrible nightmare ... a bad nigger with a badge that entitles him to kick your ass...
hammond		 One of them is under-age.  Another attacked a police officer. And you know I ain't found what I came lookin' here for yet...
hammond		 The tall one had a weapon ... you want me to keep on makin' a list, or you got the picture yet?
hammond		 Looks like you're on your way to bein' outta business, redneck... Now, let's see what can we fuck with next?
bartender		Okay, okay.  The Indian hangs out with a girl down the block. Right where Chinatown starts.  She lives on top of the hardware store.
hammond		I don't give a damn about his girl...
bartender		Look, give me a break, you're going to have to settle for her place.  It's the only thing I know.
bartender		 I'm tellin' ya, I'm giving you all I know.
hammond		Try obeyin' the law once in awhile, and I won't have to hassle you...
hammond		 But remember this, cowboy, there's a new sheriff in town.
cates		I think you got something for me.
cates		 The gun you took off that redneck in there.
hammond		You made that move, huh?
cates		While you're at it, You can give me the switchblade, too.
cates		 Credit cards?
hammond		You already got a gun and you owe me a piece of ass.  I'll settle for the gun you just took.
cates		You did a real good job... Guess you deserve a reward.
hammond		Motherfucker.
cates		I sure am. Now let's go get us an Indian.
hammond		What the shit is that?
cates		There.
hammond		Must be billy's girl.
cates		Come on.
cates		Police! Nobody move!
cates		 Stay where you are!
sally		You better drop it or he's gonna get another one.
hammond		Hey, talk to here jack.  I don't feel like gettin' number two along side of the head.
cates		I said police.  Now drop the goddamn gun.
casey		Don't give me that police shit. You drop it.
cates		Okay, look, don't shoot.  I'm just reachin' for my badge.
casey		I don't like this bullshit. I've seen fake badges before.
hammond		I'll tell you something lady, this guy is a real nervous cop - He's just liable to pull the trigger.
cates		Naw, I'm the calm type.  I know you don't want me to shoot you, and I know that you don't want to shoot me.
cates		 Shooting a cop puts you away for a long time.
casey		You assholes better be real.
sally		Just wait a Goddamn second here, let's see your badge...
hammond		Don't have one.
sally		I knew it.  Call the cops.
cates		Tell them it's Cates, Detective 31st District.  Then put your clothes on. If you don't answer some questions I'm taking both your asses in.
cates		 Now, let's cut out the crap, which one of you sees Billy Bear?
sally		None of your business, cop.  The son of a bitch isn't here, and he isn't coming back.
cates		You can do better than that.
cates		 How about it?
casey		I used to go with him...I don't know where the hell he is.  I haven't seen him for two weeks. And I don't think I will.  He owes me money...
sally		He's a Goddamn lowlife, the way he treated her.
cates		Sounds like a real stormy romance.
casey		I don't much care what it sounds like to you, Cop. All I know is that I went a few laps around the track with him and I ended up with nothin' but the short end of the stick.
cates		Let's go.
hammond		Wait a minute.  Maybe these ladies would like to go a few laps with us.  How about it? I been nearly three years in prison and...
sally		Fuck off.
cates		Come on...
casey		If you find that bastard, Billy, tell him to stay out of my life. I don't need any more of his macho bullshit.
cates		This sucks.  A maniac gets hold of my gun and goes all over the streets killing people with it. So, instead of me being where I oughta be, which is in bed giving my girl the high, hard one, I'm out here doing this shit, roaming around with some overdressed, charcoal-colored loser like you.
hammond		You wanna leave, man?  Let me take care of Ganz all by myself.
cates		You?  Don't make me laugh.  You can't take care of shit.  You've been dicking me around since we started on this turd-hunt.  All you're good for is games... So far, what I got outta you is nothin'...
hammond		I'm impressed with you too, Jack you did a real good job of busting up a couple of dykes bedded down for the night.
cates		Luther knew more than he told me and so do you...Now you better tell we what the fuck this is all about.  I gave you 48 hours to come up with something and the clock's runnin' ...
hammond		Maybe I don't like the way you ask.
cates		Who gives a Goddamn what you think? You're just a crook that's got a weekendpass ... You're not even a name anymore. Just a spear- chucker with a Goddamn number stenciled on the back of his prison fatigues...
cates		Okay, Reggie, I'm done playing around. I want to know what's going on and I'm going to beat the living shit out of you until you tell me.
hammond		You beat the shit out of me? Don't make me laugh, sucker.  You don't know how I'd dance on your face?  I'll hit you so hard, so many times, you'll wish you'd never been hatched.  I'll turn your face into cottage cheese. I'll make your girl think you been takin' ugly pills.  She won't even know who you are, sucker.
cates		I guess the first thing I ought, to explain to you, nigger, is I fight dirty.
hammond		So do I.
cates		Now, you bastard, you going to tell me what's going on...
cates		 ... Do I have to kick the shit out of you some more.
first cop		All right, you two.  Don't move.
cates		NO, no...it's okay...I'm police.
second cop		Yeah, sure.  Get your hands above your head.
cates		My gun and badge are over there. And I'm too fucking tired to raise my hands...
first cop		What the hell's going on here?
second cop		I've got a burglary call.  Two women say a couple of hoods broke into their place posing as cops.
cates		I was following a lead.  We rousted them... Go up and sweet talk 'em.  You can straighten it out.
first cop		Why don't you do it?  We got better things to do than straighten out your messes.
cates		So do I. I'll file a report tomorrow.
first cop		I gotta file a..Report tonight asshole...
cates		Goes with the territory.
hammond		Too bad we got interrupted when we did.  I was getting ready to finish you off.
cates		Yeah, right.  You want to try again?
hammond		Naw, you'd just call your pals back to bail you out one more time.
cates		They saved your ass, convict.
hammond		One thing's for sure, Jack. That's how you'll tell the story.
cates		I'll even put it in my report that way.
hammond		Motherfucker.
cates		Wait a minute.
cates		 You come clean or we're going to go again.  Right here, right now.
hammond		I been waiting a long time for some money.
cates		How much?
hammond		Half a million.
cates		Jesus.
hammond		How's that for a number to give you heart failure? Guess you might start to get the picture after all. Mlaybe you're on the wrong side of the old law and order business..
cates		Just tell me about the money.
hammond		Me and my bunch hit a dealer in the middle of a sale. It's the kind of money nobody ever reports stolen. I was sittin' pretty, livin' in the high cotton, then somebody fingered me for another job. ... Some psycho who's out there capping people with some cop's gun.
cates		He's after your money.
hammond		You catch on real fast...Okay, Jack, let's talk deal. How much of my money you gonna let me keep?
hammond		 We split 50-50?
cates		Not likely, convict.
hammond		You gonna let me keep any of it?
cates		Depends on how things work out. I believe in the merit system. So far you haven't built up any points.
hammond		Okay, from now on, I'm gonna be real good, Jack.
cates		Where's the money?
hammond		In the trunk of a car.  A lot better than under a mattress, right?
cates		Right, partner.
hammond		Get this. We ain't partners. We ain't brothers. We ain't friends. If Ganz gets away with my money, you're gonna be sorry we ever met.
cates		Yeah.  Right.
cates		 Where's the goddamn car?
hammond		You're a real case, you know that, Jack?
hammond		 This'll show you how smart I am. I got it parked.
cates		...For three years?  Let's hope it wasn't a tow-away zone.
hammond		You just drove by it.
cates		Okay, now what?
hammond		Since you're wired on benniest you get to stay up and stare at the building. I'm  tired, so I'm going to sleep. They take Sunday off. Place opens at seven o'clock Monday morning. Wake me up at a quarter till...
cates		You son of a bitch. You knew where the money was all along and all we had to do was come here and wait. I almost got my ass blown off twice tonight for nothing.
hammond		I wasn't sure the money was still there until we saw Luther. You almost got your ass shot off for nothing once, not twice, Jack.
cates		Shit.
cates		I don't want you sleeping on the job.
hammond		The place opens in five minutes. Ganz ought to be here soon...
cates		You took a big chance, leaving this here all this time.
hammond		Not really.  I figured Ganz was put down for a long time.  And I knew Luther would never job me on his own.  He's too chickenshit.
cates		Guess what?  Luther just got in line.
hammond		What?
cates		Musta got some primo bondsman.
hammond		Jesus Christ.  That's a disgrace The guy pulls a gun on a cop and he's out in 24 hours.  I tell you some of the courts these days are just a fucking revolving door.
attendant		Yeah?
luther		I want to pick up my car.
attendant		Name?
luther		Hammond.
attendant		This is three years old.
luther		Yeah, I've been busy.
attendant		We don't wash 'em, ya know.
luther		How about chargin' the battery?
attendant		That we do. And we put air in the tires. I'll even sell you some gas if you need it.
luther		Great, just great.
hammond		Jesus Christ, look at all the dust on my car...why in the hell don't he take it to a car wash?
cates		Didn't know you darker people went in for foreign jobs.
hammond		I had no choice. Some white asshole bought the last piece of shit skyblue Cadillac.
cates		You'd think the guy'd be smart enough to know he was being tailed.
hammond		Tryin' to save his girl, man. He's in another world.
cates		If I was his size and had Ganz on my ass, I'd  just leave town.
hammond		I'm tellin' you the man's in love... he wants to be a hero for his girl.
cates		Oh, yeah, does bein' in love make you stupid?
cates		I suppose you'd never be like Luther and let a woman get to you...
hammond		I let women get to me.  The quest for pussy is the meaning of life ... I got my own personal philosophy about 'em.  Keep women separate from guns, money and business ... women are for spending money.  They got nothing to do with helping you make it.
cates		That ain't philosophy.  That's common sense.
hammond		Say, do you always work people over like you did Luther?
cates		If they don't tell me what I need to know...
hammond		Doesn't it get... Tiring?
cates		I'm not in this 'cause it's fun. I'm not into hitting guys 'cause it makes me feel good either... I do it 'cause it works-...
hammond		You got a very depressing view of life, man... you gotta smile once in awhile...
cates		Maybe Luther hopes Ganz'll give him a piece of your money...
hammond		If he's hoping that then he's dumber than I think he is, which would be amazin', cause I already think he's real dumb.
hammond		A long time agb Luther must of got the shit beat out of him so bad it just rattled his brain ... that would account for him making so many wrong moves in a row...
cates		Yeah, it doesn't look like he's gonna make it as a dangerous tough guy...
hammond		You know, I'd be embarrassed if I let my wheels go the way you've done with this job.
cates		What you don't understand is, I don't give a damn about how this thing looks.
hammond		No class...
cates		Class isn't somethin' you buy, punk. Look at you, five hundred dollar suit and you're still a lowlife.
hammond		We're getting too close ... Cates, what's the matter, you been takin' dumb pills?
cates		Yeah, most cops are pretty dumb... But since you're the one that landed in jail what's that make you?
cates		That Goddamn suit is yours?
hammond		That was in style a couple years back, man.
cates		Right. if you ever switch from armed robbery to pimping, then you're all set.
hammond		That's the money, Jack.
patrolman		Hey--you!
patrolman		 Put it down.
hammond		Shoot the sons of bitches.
hammond		 You don't want to chance it, then give me the gun...
hammond		 Bullshit. Then i'm staying with the money.
cates		You stay with me...
hammond		No way...
security officer		Freeze!
cates		No! No!  There they are!
security officer		Just put it down real slow.
cates		I'm a policeman, you asshole!
security officer		Don't even try... now drop it or - you're all done.
cates		Shit.
haden		Cates.
haden		 What the bell happened?
cates		I lost them, that's what happened.
haden		How did they get away?
cates		They ran.  As fast as they could. Caught a train.
haden		Which one pulled the trigger?
cates		The Indian.  I was about 30 yards away.
haden		You couldn't get to him?
haden		 What a screw-up.
cates		Right.  I screwed up.  I fucked up. I messed up.  Anybody could have done better, especially you. I bet you're real good at hitting targets through crowds.
haden		Don't duck the bullet Cates. Why didn't you call in for backup instead of makin' a grandstand play?
cates		I didn't have the time.
haden		Too bad, it would've covered your ass.  Now you're in the shit and so's the department. In case you haven't noticed, this wasn't our finest hour... I told you everyone was watchin' on this one. Maybe you better start thinkin' about writin' tickets off a three wheel bike.
hammond		How you doing, man?
sosna		Not bad, not bad.
sosna		 You want to go outside?
hammond		Naw, right here's okay.
sosna		You sure?
hammond		I'm sure.  Everybody here's looking at everybody else's ass.
sosna		I got some real nice merchandise. All of it's clean.
hammond		I like this one...
hammond		 How about some ammo?
sosna		It's loaded... I got some shells in here.
hammond		How much?
sosna		This is clean shit.  No serial numbers and never been used...
hammond		Don't mess with me. How much?
sosna		Five bills.
hammond		Five.  On credit.
sosna		This ain't a credit business.
hammond		Yeah, I know that, but this is me and we're old friends. I haven't got the money so what are you gonna do about it?
sosna		Give it back.
hammond		Try and take it.
sosna		Fuck you.  You got no right for this kind of play.
hammond		I'll got your money to you. No sweat.
hammond		 Vodka. With a twist. And I want to run a tab.
hammond		 My name's Reggie Hammond.
rita		So what?
hammond		Hi there. I'm Reggie Hammond.
angela		I'm with somebody.
hammond		This ain't my night.
kehoe		You look awful.
cates		So do you...been a long day.
kehoe		Long night, too, from what I heard ... Word's going around that in addition to losing Ganz for the second time, and in addition to Haden busting you back to Patrolman, some jig beat the crap out of you.
cates		Aw, bullshit, you heard wrong.
kehoe		Doesn't look like it.
cates		Nothing came in for me yet?  No calls?
kehoe		Nothing.
kehoe		 Kehoe... Okay, hang on.
kehoe		 It's for you... Ordinance.
cates		Hello... Yeah, okay.  I'll be in tomorrow. That's right, you can depend on it.  Okay?
cates		 Bullshit red tape.
kehoe		I'm heading out. How about you?
cates		I got to wait for a call.
kehoe		Okay.  See you in the morning... you know, you ought to get some rest...
plainclothesman		Yeah, he's here.
plainclothesman		 Cates... line twelve.
cates		You motherfucker, where are you?
elaine		I'm at work, asshole.  Where else?
cates		Elaine! I... I'm sorry... I was expecting somebody else... police business.
elaine		No wonder you're so popular.
cates		No, it's I'm just surprised you called.
elaine		So am I.
elaine		You first.
cates		Look, I'm sorry about ... the way things have been lately.  I know I haven't been acting real great...
kehoe		Hey, Cates...
kehoe		 I almost forgot.  That pal of yours from the Vice Squad wants you to call him.
cates		What?
elaine		Jack, are you still there?
kehoe		Yeah.  He said he rousted a bar with you last night.
cates		Jesus Christ.  Why the hell didn't you tell me before?
kehoe		I'm not paid to take your personal calls.  He was in some bar. .. off duty.
cates		The number ... what's the Goddamn number?
elaine		Jack?  What was that?
kehoe		Find it yourself.  It's on my desk.
cates		Elaine, I gotta put you on hold...
elaine		Jack, wait...
cates		Just a second, that's all!
cates		 Hammond... you son of a bitch, where are you?
hammond		Hey, Jack, how ya doin'? What took you so long to call, man? I been waitin' ... I'm at Vroman's up in the Fillmore. Yeah, Vroman's... 'Course you don't hang out here; it's for the brothers.
cates		I'll be there in a minute. You don't move your ass, right?
cates		 Oh, shit.
hammond		My name's Reggie Hammond.
candy		I'm candy...
hammond		Excuse me, baby, but if i don't get some action tonight, I'm gonna bust.  You interested?
candy		Hey, what kind of talk is that?
hammond		Oh ... You're a schoolteacher...
candy		No, I go to a school to learn how to do hair. It's a government program. But really I want to be a model - and I am definitely not sellin'.
hammond		 Goodbye.
candy		Hey, don't you think a hair stylists got any interest in gettin' it on?
hammond		Here you go sweetheart, throw it my way.
candy		You're in a hurry.
hammond		Yeah, i been waiting three years.
candy		You just quit bein' a priest or somethin'?
hammond		No, baby, nothin' like that. Look, there's a place across the street. We can go right over there...
candy		What's the matter with my place?
hammond		No, it's gotta be here and now. Believe me. Only I don't have the damn money for a room...
candy		Yeah, well, even us non-pros expect the guy to pay for the room...
cates		Where's luther?
hammond		Be polite. Say hello.  This is Candy.
cates		Hello. And goodbye.
candy		Well, maybe I'll see you later ...
hammond		Here's hoping, baby...
cates		What about Luther?
hammond		What about Ganz?
cates		We missed.
hammond		You missed ... Luther took a taxi to the hotel across the street. Made a phone call.
cates		Maybe we should pay Luther a visit.
hammond		Let him get some sleep.  He's going to need it.
hammond		 They must have set up a meeting for the morning; Luther left an 8 am wake-up and put up the "Don't Disturb" sign.  He's trading his girl for the money.  All we have to do to grab Ganz is not go blind.
cates		So you took the rest of the night off...
hammond		We don't have too many cheerleaders in prison. I though I might indulge myself in a little trim.
cates		Tell me something.  Why didn't you just take the money off Luther and split?
hammond		Forget it. I want Ganz as bad as you do and I got some other news for you...
cates		I don't know why, but I'm going to let you keep it. Maybe because you told me you had it, or maybe just because I'm too tired to argue...
hammond		You sure that's the reason?
cates		Thanks for callin' in... and I guess Maybe... Look, I'm sorry I called you Watermellon nigger... those kinds of things. I was just leanin' on ya, doin' my job.
hammond		Bein' good at your job don't explain everything, Jack ...
cates		Yeah. Guess not.
hammond		As long as you're feeling like Abe Lincoln, how about payin' me on our bet?  We got time and all this pussy around here's drivin' me crazy. See that one over there, the one I was with...
cates		Yeah, I see her.
hammond		I can just take her right across the street to Luther's hotel.  All I need is some money for the room.
candy		Hello, again.
hammond		I just struck it rich... I think we can do a little business.  As a matter of fact, I think we can have a party.
cates		Hurry back.
cocktail waitress		It's for you.
elaine		Hello.
cates		Hi, it's me...
elaine		Fuck you.
candy		So... what did you have in mind?
hammond		Oh no, not now!
cates		That was quick.
hammond		When you been in prison three years, it don't take long. Let's go.
cates		Why?
hammond		Luther's on the move...
hammond		 I'll be back. Trust me.
ganz		Open your coat. Both sides.
luther		Let her go.
ganz		First, the money.
ganz		 Just show me.
luther		Rosalie, you okay?
ganz		What are you talkin' about? I said I wouldn't hurt her.
ganz		 I never break my word.
hammond		Notice something funny about that bus?
cates		Yeah. It missed the last four stops.
billy		Ganz!
cates		Goddamn! Goddamn!  Goddamn!
haden		A bus, you goddamn whiskey mick cop, you lost a stolen bus... We got five deaths related to Ganz, all of 'em law enforcement related, and you blow it for a lousy nigger convict...
haden		 That's rights I called him a nigger.  You bet I did ... I saw the report on that little piece of shit.  If he spent one legal day in his whole life, it'd be a record...This is it for you... suspension, review board... you've had it.  When it gets 'round you protect a con rather than nail a cop killer...
cates		He's got more brains and more guts in one corner of his asshole than any cop I've worked with.
haden		Just cause you say it with conviction don't mean shit to me... How you gonna take to a pink slip, huh?.
haden		 Where the Christ do you think you're going?
cates		I'm taking my prisoner back to jail.
hammond		Goin' a little hard on him, aren't you?
haden		Go fuck yourself convict.
hammond		You know for a man, you have very pretty brown eyes.
hammond		Hey, how'd my car get here?
cates		I had it impounded.  Come on, we'll use it for haulin' you back to the slam.
hammond		Back to jail in my own car.  Ganz got away. Got all my money. It just don't seem right.
cates		I don't know about you, but I could use a drink... I'll buy you one.  It'll be my good-bye present.
hammond		Sorry we didn't do better, Jack. I feel like I let you down.
cates		Naw, you didn't let me down.  It was a long shot all the way.  We gave 'em a good run at it.
hammond		Yeah, but we didn't get 'em.
hammond		It's late, they're closing...
cates		Don't worry about it.
elaine		Hey, I don't believe it.
cates		Hiya, kid.
elaine		I ought to have you and your friend thrown out...
cates		Don't.  We've had a hard night.
elaine		I can see that.  Pardon me for saying so, but you look like shit.  What happened?
cates		We and my pal here have been taking it on the chin for the last few hours...
elaine		Who the hell are you?
hammond		Name's Hammond, Reggie Hammond. I heard a lot about you. And any friend of Jack's is a friend of mine.
elaine		I'm not so sure I can say the same thing...You don't look like a cop.
hammond		Well, I been workin' the other side of the street for the last few years.  And you don't exactly look like a shrink, wearin' that dress...
elaine		Shrink major, not a shrink.
straggler		Hey, lady, a drink here.
elaine		We're closed.
straggler		Hey, what the hell?
elaine		Drink your drink, pay up and get out.
straggler		You can't do this.  It's against...
elaine		Hey, just fuck off.  My friends have guns.
elaine		 You real down?
cates		I've been better...Dead end.  No Ganz, no Indian.
cates		 I gotta call the station.
cates		 Don't run off anywhere, okay? I've already got enough to worry about.
hammond		Hard man to live with.
elaine		How would you know?
hammond		Hey, two days with him is enough.
elaine		That's no bull.
cates		Is there any report ... No ... Just tell me... nothing..Yeah I figured... Okay, sure.
cates		Nothing.  No sign of Ganz.  No sign of the Indian.  Airport's clean.  Train station. Bus station.  Docks... Shit...
elaine		Ganz is going to be hard to track. Just a pure schizo ... wires all crossed... totally without any pattern... kill anybody... The Indian... himself... anybody...
cates		How do you know?
elaine		Jack, it's all over the papers. He's an obvious type.  But this Indian...
hammond		He was the only one of my bunch that was my friend... He was loyal, went all the way for you...
elaine		In all due respect, he sounds kind of pathetic to me.  The kind of guy that runs home to his momma or some girlfriend.  Have you two ace detectives checked that out?
cates		Yeah, well the only woman of the Indian's we ran into was shacked up with her dyke girlfriend.  I guess she went with him before she came outta the Closet ... They both looked mad enough to kill him...
hammond		Yeah, too bad.  They were real nice lookin' too...In bed together, hardly any clothes one watching TV...
elaine		What makes you think they were lesbians, or as you so quaintly put it, dykes?
cates		Come on, they were a little old for a slumber party.
elaine		It might pay to reexamine a few of your more primitive notions.  I was in bed with a girlfriend watching TV last week, Jack, and one thing we know about me is I happen not to be a lesbian ... Now, if this Indian's girlfriend got upset when you came looking for him, it could just be she's still vulnerable to him.
cates		So what?
elaine		When a guy hurts you, then comes back bleeding on his hands and knees, who knows, he might just be irrestible.
cates		Hey, Come on, shrink time's over. They wouldn't go see some old girlfriend.
elaine		Oh, yeah, well look where you came when you were down and out.
hammond		She's got a point there, Jack.
cates		It's the only thing we got.
cates		 Whaddya think?
elaine		What do I know?  I'm just a bartender.
cates		Let's go, Reggie.
hammond		Do I get to kiss her too?
cates		If she's right, and if you don't screw up.
hammond		What if your girl's theory turns out to be bullshit?  I mean, they could be in Rio de Janeiro.
cates		I've got to play it rough with them. If they know anything, I'm gonna know it.
hammond		Hey, there she is...
cates		Whatever play I maker just back me up.
hammond		If we run into Billy first, let me try and talk him in.
cates		Sure, I'll give you a shot at it, but Ganz is mine.  You know, that big Indian plays it for keeps...
hammond		Yeah, and I know Ganz sure ain't no sweetheart... I wouldn't like it if this partnership ended before it gets started.
cates		Partnership?
hammond		Well, you got to admit we come a long way.
cates		Let's just do it.
cates		I hear you've got visitors.
casey		Would you guys...
cates		No time for any of that crap any more, lady... I'll rip your lungs out if you don't answer fast.
hammond		He means it...
casey		Don't kill him.  Please, just don't kill him.
cates		You and the other one, you're still Billy's girls. You always were his girls...
casey		Yeah.  Sure, i'm crazy in love with him, who wouldn't be...
cates		You're gonna help us take him.
casey		No chance.
cates		He can live or die ... You let us in and he's got a chance to make it.  Otherwise, he gets ventilated.
hammond		If you help use he's got a chance, lady.
casey		Billy's in the first room off the hall ... With rosalie ... He's makin' her happy tonight.  You don't understand about the way it is with him, do ya?
cates		Where's ganz?
casey		In the back.  Down the other corridor.
cates		Looks like you're gonna get your chance.
hammond		Give it up, Billy.  You got no shot at it.
rosalie		Don't let him hurt met Billy. You're not gonna let 'em hurt me, are ya?
billy		He won't hurt you.  He ain't gonna do nothin' to you, he's just after me.
hammond		I'm tellin' ya, Billy, give it up.
billy		I never was much for bein' rehabilitated.
ganz		Drop it... you come up against me, you're gonna lose...
ganz		 Hey, cop, come on...l got something for ya... come on...
ganz		After I get outta this, cop...I'm gonna live forever...
cates		I don't think you're gonna make it.
ganz		Whaddya mean...I got your gun ... I got his money... I got everything...
hammond		Give up.  He's crazy.  He'll kill us both.
ganz		He won't try it. He's a fucking chickenshit cop. They're all fucking wimps, right, Cates?
ganz		 Okay, cop ... give me your gun and I'll let him live. Come on, Cates, you're real good at giving up your gun.
cates		Sure...
hammond		Jesus Christ, I didn't think you'd really do it. You are crazy.
ganz		I got hit.  I can't believe it. I got shot.
cates		You're done.  End of story.
ganz		I ain't gonna beg for my life. It ain't cool.
hammond		Yours?
cates		Mine...
cates		 You okay?
hammond		Yeah.  But I wasn't there for a second.
cates		You did pick a real strange time to go and be brave all on your own...
hammond		Just tryin' to get the money, Jack.  Just tryin' to build up a few points on that merit system.
elaine		How'd they take it back at headquarters?
cates		Usual bullshit.  You make one smart move and everybody wants to be your friend... You know somethin', shootin' guys sucks. Especially compared to this.
elaine		I've been waiting a long time to hear you say that.
cates		Yeah, bein' a hard-ass all the time is a real drag, but it works.
cates		 Three more hours...
elaine		Where is he?
cates		Promised I'd turn my back while he... ah, never mind...
elaine		Tell me.
cates		He's takin' care of the same business I'll be takin' care of - soon as I dry off.
elaine		You're impossible...
cates		That's what I always say.
hammond		Here you go, baby.
candy		Hey, don't do that.  I said I wasn't a pro, remember?
hammond		Hey, no, I'm tryin' to be nice. Buy yourself something pretty. I'd do it, but I got to go.  I got this cop waitin' for me...
hammond		I'll be back in six months... Maybe I'll make an honest woman of you.
hammond		 I'll buy ya the best dinner in San Francisco...how'd that be? Then we'll go dancin', okay?
candy		Now you're talkin'. See ya...
cates		Okay, reggie, start bustin' my chops... Tell me how great you were with that chick.
hammond		Hey, Jack, real men don't have to go in for that macho bullshit ... but I was fantastic.
cates		I guess this is what you want to talk about...All the pretty money that's inside here.
hammond		Wait a minute, Cates.  I've been waitin' three years for that.  I don't think it's fair, man. What about the merit system.? You were gonnna give me a few thousand.
cates		There's nothin' to talk about.
cates		 It's your money.  It'll be here in six months when you get out.
hammond		And you're tellin' me you don't want any of this cash?
cates		That's right. Not my style, Reggie..
hammond		You are an awesomely weird cop. Sure wish there were more like you runnin' around out here.
cates		No, you don't. If I ever get word of you steppin' over the line again, I'm gonna ventilate that suit of yours.
hammond		Spare met Jack. I'm into legit investments from here on in.
cates		Thanks.
hammond		No trouble, Jack. But, listen, suppose I stay a crook?  Where'd you get the idea that you could catch me?
****Dialogues from script :50-50.txt****

7/2/08		FADE IN:
receptionist		Can I help you?
adam		I have an appointment.
receptionist		Name?
adam		Adam Schwartz.
receptionist		Adam Schwartz.
adam		Yeah, that's me.
receptionist		Follow me.
adam		Do I need to take off all my clothes?
nurse joanne		Hi Adam, my name is Joanne, so nice to meet you.
adam		You don't happen to have anything in a cotton blend?
nurse joanne		 Cotton. You're funny.
adam		You want me to fill this entire cup.
joanne		Yup.
adam		It's gonna take me at least a week to fill this. Can I take it home?
joanne		 Take it home. You're so funny.
adam		Just another minute.
joanne		Here comes the choo-choo!
technician		 Now make sure you lie completely still. Otherwise we'll have to do it all over again. Which we're not going to have to do, right?
adam		Hello? Is anybody out there?
rachel		 Make it stop.
adam		 It won't turn off.
rachel		Mmmmm.
adam		What?
rachel		I think you have a gray hair.
adam		Really?
rachel		I'm gonna pull it out.
adam		No! Don't touch it.
seth		Hi kids. Beautiful day isn't it?
andrew		Hey Adam.
adam		 Hey Andrew.
andrew		Sorry about the noise last night.
seth		Yo.
adam		Yo.
seth		...What's that smell?  Are you wearing perfume?
adam		No.
seth		Well, you smell like the cast of Steel Magnolias.
adam		 I ran out of shampoo. I had to use Rachel's.
seth		For a second there I thought maybe you'd fucked Olympia Dukakis.
adam		Can you unlock my window? There's a lot of pollen in the air.
seth		Sorry music's too loud, it's making it hard for me to hear your whining.
seth		I don't get it, that guy is clearly a total douchebag...He's wearing Capris!
adam		Rachel and I used to be like that; like two wild animals in heat...  Sex every three weeks is normal? Right?
seth		 You haven't had sex in three weeks?
adam		 You think maybe she's mad cause I haven't asked her to move in?
seth		What the fuck are you talking about? I don't think she's waiting for you to ask anything. You're using her shampoo. Next thing you'll be using her tampons.
adam		It's not that big a deal.
seth		So when does it become a big deal? Five weeks? Six weeks? A year? My cut off...4 days. That's when I begin to worry.
adam		Do you realize how lucky I am to be with Rachel?
seth		Look around, there are like a million Rachel's in this city alone...well, she's kind of hot, so maybe half a million.
adam		But they're not Rachel. I don't know how to explain it, but being with her just feels right. And I'm not going to overlook that just cause we're in a lull.
seth		My parents are in a lull, which is what happens after 35 years of marriage. You've only been dating her four months. At our age sex is all we have. Every time she refuses to sleep with you a small piece of every man's soul dies. She's killing us Adam...You're a semi- smart, semi-successful, semi- average looking dude. Just based on that you could get with at least one third of the female population.
barista		Morning gentlemen.
seth		 Would you sleep with my friend.
barista		Like, right now?
seth		No just in general.
barista		Yeah, I'd fuck him.
demetri		I'd let you blow me.
seth		 See this is what I'm saying.
seth		 I love you.
phil		Salutations gentlemen.
adam		It's Rachel's shampoo.
phil		 What are you wearing?
seth		Ah, mothballs?
phil		How's the Origins exhibit coming along?
adam		We're almost done with Upper Paleolithic.
phil		I'm counting on you not to screw up. 
adam		Phil?
phil		Yeah?
adam		I should probably get to work.
phil		That's probably a good idea.
adam		Greg. What are you doing?
greg		It's a velociraptor.
adam		Where did it come from?
greg		The dinosaur exhibit.  Why can't we just say it was the first domesticated pet?...People love dinosaurs.
adam		Greg you can't just...that's a 75 million year old fossil...just please, put it away before someone sees it.
seth		Coming up here on our left is the "Origins of Man" exhibit on loan from the Smithsonian Institute. It won't be open to the public for a few more months, so you're one of the first groups to see it.  Adam!
adam		Hey kids.
seth		 Why don't you tell us what we're looking at.
adam		 This here is a family of homo sapiens who lived in Europe about 25,000 year's ago...
kid 1		 This is lame! I thought you said we were gonna see dinosaurs.
greg		 See, I told you.
seth		 Who wants to hear about the caveman?
adam		This is Homo Neanderthalensis - the Neanderthal Man. For over 150,000 years his ancestors dominated all of Europe. But then about 30,000 years ago, Neanderthals began to disappear, until one day, their entire civilization was gone.
greg		What happened?
adam		Greg you know what happened.
greg		I do?
seth		Come on! Tell us what happened to the caveman.
adam		Well no one knows for sure. But it's suspected that because Neanderthal was a nomadic huntsman, he roamed the land, only fending for himself - never learning to cohabitate with others. So as Cro Magnon families settled into Europe, they took over the land. One by one, Neanderthal was pushed out...and never seen, or heard from again.
seth		 That's quite a story. Thank you Adam.
adam		 I'd say he probably plays defense for the Raiders.
kid 1		This sucks ass.
seth		I see dinosaurs.
adam		 I have no idea what you just said. Is there something wrong with me?
adam		I still have no idea what you're talking about.
adam		What?!...A tumor? No.
adam		How is that possible?...I don't smoke. I don't drink. I eat healthy...I even recycle.
adam		 But, look at me. I don't look sick.
adam		Can't you just cut it out of me?
adam		Well what are my chances of beating this?
librarian		Hey bro, time's up.
adam		Can I have just a few more minutes?
librarian		Sorry bro. Twenty minute limit.  Rules.
adam		Nothing.
rachel		 Liar.
adam		We need to talk.
rachel		Why? What's going on?
adam		I had a doctor's appointment today.
rachel		 What kind of doctor's appointment?
adam		Have you ever seen the movie "Beaches"?
rachel		You mean with Bette Midler?
adam		Yeah that one.
rachel		Not as good as "The Rose", but good.
adam		Remember the end of "Beaches"?
rachel		 Yeah. Sad....What does that have to do with you?
adam		I don't know.
rachel		You don't know?
adam		Well I do know, but I can't pronounce it. Neuroscharnoma or something.
rachel		Well how bad is it?
adam		It's not good.
rachel		 You have cancer.
adam		I just think it's an interesting time to take up smoking again.
rachel		Adam I'm 24 years old! 
adam		Sshhhh. Everything's going to be alright Yammy. I'm going to start chemo in a few days.  We're going to get through this.
rachel		Do they know?
adam		No.
edith		 There they are!
adam		Where's dad?
art		I found your cat playing in the neighbors yard.
adam		Dad, I don't have a cat.
edith		So what's for dinner?
rachel		If I had known you were coming I would have made something else.
edith		I'm just glad to finally be sharing a shabbat dinner with my son...  So this isn't meat?
rachel		No it's called sei-tan.
adam		It's made of wheat gluten.
edith		But it's not meat.
rachel		No, but it has a texture just like meat.
edith		 Mmmmm. It's Good.
rachel		 A date?
edith		 Do not do summer like your cousin, remember how awful that was? Schlepping around in the heat like that. Plus the bugs and the gnats.
adam		 What is she talking about?
edith		And now Rachel. I know we haven't discussed this, but are you going to convert?
rachel		 She thinks we're getting married.
adam		Mom. We're not getting married.
edith		Oh thank god.  So then what's the big news that you made us rush all the way over here.
adam		Have you ever seen "Terms of Endearment"?
rachel		Oh jesus Adam, just tell her.
edith		Tell me what?
adam		Alright fine. But, before I tell you, you have to promise me you're going to stay calm.
edith		Oh Adam, don't be so overdramatic.
adam		Mom, just promise me. Okay?
edith		I promise...You make me out to be some kind of irrational loon.
adam		 I have cancer.
edith		What?
adam		 I have cancer.
edith		 What is he saying?
adam		 I have cancer.
edith		Cancer? What do you mean you have cancer?
adam		I - HAVE - CANCER.
edith		I don't understand.
adam		Mom, I have a giant tumor in my spine.
edith		I'm making you green tea.
adam		Please, will you come sit down.
edith		I saw on the Today Show that it reduces your risk of getting cancer by fifteen percent.
adam		Mom, I already have cancer.
edith		Here take these.
adam		Mom, please, stop. I don't need these.
edith		 Just take the god-damn pills.
adam		Mom.
edith		How could this happen?
adam		It's genetic.
edith		Genetic? It must be from your father's side of the family, they're always getting sick. Your uncle Bobby just got Crohns.
art		That's a disorder of the bowels, son. How are your bowels?
adam		The problem is not with my bowels.
art		You're a lucky man.
adam		Thanks dad.
edith		I'm moving in.
adam		What? No. Absolutely not.
edith		Adam, I'm your mother, and I need to be close to you in your time of need.
adam		That's a terrible idea.
edith		Well who's going to take care of you?
adam		Mom, I'm fine.
edith		I think I have a right to take care of my son with cancer.
adam		It's nothing. Really.
edith		Nothing! You tell me you have cancer of the spine and now you tell me it's nothing.
rachel		Edith, I can't even imagine how hard this must be for you. But I promise, there's nothing for you to worry about. I'm going to be here every step of the way, to help take good care of your son.
edith		 You're a very lucky boy to be with such a good girl. You know that? You don't deserve her.
adam		I know.
adam		What's taking him so long? How hard is it to buy a cup of coffee?
seth		 Look at how tight that shirt is. She's totally aware of how large her breasts look too. This morning when she got dressed, she said to herself - "I have these things and I want the world to see them."
greg		What about that frozen drink, what's that like?
barista		 The Bavarian Blender. It's absolute heaven.
greg		I don't know. Does it have a lot of sugar?
adam		We've been here 20 minutes. What's he shopping for a car?
seth		Why are you in such a rush?
adam		Is this really how you want to spend the rest of your life? Wasting away in this place?
seth		Relax. We have plenty of time.
adam		No we don't have plenty of time! Life is finite.
seth		What the fuck is wrong with you?
adam		 I have cancer.
seth		 Yeah right.
adam		I'm serious.
seth		Get the fuck out of here. You have cancer?
adam		Maybe a little louder, you can make a special announcement.
seth		 When did this happen?
adam		Yesterday. They found a tumor in my spine.
seth		Who?
adam		What do you mean who?
seth		Who found the tumor?
adam		Lewis and Clark...The doctors found it.
seth		When were you going to tell me?
adam		I'm telling you now.
seth		If I had cancer I'd tell you right away.
adam		What do you want the Better Friend award? It's not an easy topic to bring up.
seth		Holy shit!
adam		The bright side of what?
seth		 Plus, do you know how much pussy we're going to get?
katie		 Can I help you?
adam		I have an appointment with Dr. McRae.
katie		Please call me Katie.
adam		 You're Dr. McRae?
katie		You were expecting someone else?
adam		Aren't you supposed to be like sixty-five and wear earth toned sweaters?
katie		 Why? Did someone say that's what I look like?
adam		No, no, no. I was just expecting someone older.
katie		Sorry to disappoint you.
adam		No believe me, you're fine. Better than fine, you're Dr. McRae...you're a doctor? How old are you?
katie		Twenty-six.
adam		Twenty-six? What are you like Doogie Howser?
katie		Who?
adam		Doogie Howser...
katie		Does he work here?
adam		No. Nevermind...but aren't you young to be a doctor?
katie		I'm actually in my final semester of medical school.  This is a training hospital.
adam		So have you had many patients?
katie		You're actually my first.
adam		Oh.
katie		Please sit.
adam		Honestly. I feel fine.
katie		I think that's great considering what you're going through.
adam		Yeah, but I tend to internalize everything so, who knows.
katie		You mean you repress as a coping mechanism.
adam		Is that what I do?
katie		That's what you just said.
adam		The way I say it sounds cute in a neurotic way. When you say it, it's like an indictment. The word "repress" - sounds so harsh.
katie		It's actually quite common.
adam		Oh good, I'd hate to think I'm anything but an emotional sheep.
katie		Don't think of it in those terms. It's not like it's been a conscious decision on your part. What's important now is for you to be aware of the way you treat your emotions and for me to help you make adjustments.
adam		So how do we do that?
katie		The first thing I want you to do is to stop looking at cancer as a burden. Cancer has come into your life to show you that your emotional and physical bodies are out of balance. This is your chance to correct that.
adam		You're not in a cult are you?
katie		Now, why do you say that?
adam		I don't know, it was a bad joke.
katie		But there's a reason. You chose to use humor rather than express how you really feel.
adam		Huh?
katie		I want you to lay back and close your eyes.
adam		Lay here?
katie		Yes, I want you to just lay back, and let go.
adam		Shouldn't we be analyzing my childhood? Or my days as a call girl?
katie		Another joke?
adam		 Oh come on. Nothing? That was funny.
katie		Ssshhhhh...
adam		I can't believe you got me a present.  Is it that Prada handbag I've been eyeing?
adam		What is it?
adam		You know how I feel about surprises. Last surprise I got my parents told me I was adopted.
adam		Yeah, but sometimes I wish I was.
rachel		Okay. Open your eyes.
adam		 What is it?
rachel		It's Noodle.
adam		It's so small. What do you do with it?
rachel		 Adam, IT's a he, and HE's adorable...Having a dog is supposed to help with the healing process.
adam		Why, did it go to medical school?
rachel		 I thought you'd be happy...
adam		It looks like a gremlin. What happens if you get it wet after midnight?
rachel		I didn't realize it would be such a big deal.  I can bring him back to the shelter in the morning.
adam		I know what you're doing.
rachel		No, you're right, it's not a good idea. Tomorrow I'll take him back where he'll be kept in a tiny cage with 10 other dogs who will bully him, and rape him, and then he'll eventually be euthanized.
adam		Alright. Fine, we can keep the dog.
rachel		Really?
adam		Really.
rachel		This is going to be so good for you.
phil		 There he is, the man of the hour.
adam		Here I am.
phil		Martini?
adam		No thanks.
phil		So cancer?
adam		Yup. The Big C.
phil		Man!
adam		Nope, this is my real hair.
phil		 I'm gonna miss you so much buddy.
adam		 I'm going to miss you too.
joe		Have you started chemo yet?
adam		No, not yet.
joe		Don't do it man. It'll fuck you up. That's like some Nagasaki shit.
susan		You want to know the secret?
adam		Ah, okay.
susan		Eat nothing but green foods.
adam		Like a specific kind of green food?
susan		No, any green food. It works, my sister's friend survived lung cancer.
ted		 So what kind of cancer do you have?
adam		Schwannoma Neurofibrosarcomas.
ted		Never heard of it.
adam		It's pretty rare.
ted		Yeah well, you don't look sick.
adam		Cancer often has no specific symptoms. People can go years with out knowing they're sick.
ted		 Huh.
susan		There's spinach, zucchini, broccoli, kale, cucumbers, green beans, snow peas, seaweed, kiwi, Zucchini,
adam		I think you already said zucchini.
susan		 Zucchini...
adam		 Uh huh.
susan		Cause I'm only trying to help save your life.
eddie		 There's this guy on the beach who injects oxygen into your blood.
adam		Is that legal?
eddie		No, but it's totally safe.
susan		...Brussel Sprouts, Turnip greens, Asparagus, Celery, Cabbage, Okra, Honeydew Melon, Limes, Green bell peppers, green chiles...
jenny		 I can't believe that he has cancer.
seth		I know, it's crazy.
jenny		I've seen him every day for the past two years and I've never once made an effort to talk to him.
seth		Well I'm his best friend, so talking to me in a way is kind of like talking to him.
jenny		Oh what does it matter? It's too late.
seth		Wait. It's not too late.
greg		Hey Adam.
adam		 Hey Greg.
greg		My uncle had what you have.
adam		Really?
greg		Man that was the worst.
adam		Your uncle had Schwannoma Neurofibrosarcomas.
greg		Yeah, I think so. It's the thing with the toe and the screaming, and everything tastes like olives? Right?
adam		Well that was a nightmare.
rachel		Adam, those people just threw you a party...They love you.
adam		Half those people don't even know me.
rachel		Nothing.
adam		 What?
rachel		I love you.
adam		I love you.
rachel		Everything's going to be okay.
adam		You are so unbelievably sexy.
rachel		I'm totally yours,
adam		What?
rachel		The dog.
adam		Ignore him.
rachel		I think he needs to go out.
adam		I'll do it after.
rachel		I can't do this with him barking.
adam		 Come on. Today...If I don't get laid tonight because of you, I'm going to take your little bow and make a noose...
neighbor		Nice dog.
adam		Will you please just finish.
rachel		Hold me.
adam		 Mother fucker.
rachel		Do you want me to?
adam		I was thinking it might be nice, now that I'm not going to work anymore. And with my chemo starting...
rachel		 Okay.
adam		 You wanna have sex?
rachel		 In the morning.
edith		Art come on.
art		I'm coming.
edith		We're late.
usher		Please take your seats.
edith		What about those seats up there in the front?
usher		The service has begun.
edith		Please. My son has cancer.
usher		Please, follow me.
edith		 Sorry, my son has cancer.
adam		 Hi. Nice to see you.
rose		 Edith. How are you?
edith		 Oh Rose. Things are not well.
rose		I heard about the  cancer.
edith		I can't tell you how hard it's been on me. My only child. God only knows what terrible thing I did to deserve this. I've got a catatonic husband and a son with cancer. Not to mention my arthritis. I don't know how I'll ever get through it.
rabbi		Ladies and gentleman, Adam Schwartz!
adam		Rabbi Jacobs.
rabbi		How are you son?
adam		Oh you know, just trying to live by the Covenant.
rabbi		Don't bullshit me. You were the worst student I ever had. I bet you haven't even spoken a word of Hebrew since your Bar Mitzvah.
adam		I don't like to brag, but I couldn't speak it then.
rabbi		Your mother told me about your situation.
adam		I'm sure she did.
rabbi		It's not easy for a mother to see her son go through something like this,
adam		Nothing is easy for my mother.
rabbi		Have you thought about trying to reconnect with the Torah?
adam		Honestly, I'm just here to make my mother happy. It was either this or I had to go see my cousin perform in his high school theatre's adaptation of "You've Got Mail".
rabbi		Well think about it. I'm always here.
alan alda		Hi there, I'm Alan Alda...
george		Adam Schwartz.
mitch		That's Henry.
adam		Is he okay?
mitch		He's always like that.
adam		 Is that going to happen to me?
mitch		Best not worry about these things.
alan		 Want a hit?
mitch		It makes it all a little easier to handle.
adam		 What if someone sees us?
alan		Don't be such an old man. Look at this place, it's like Death Row in here, they don't give a shit what we do.
mitch		How old are you?
adam		Twenty-five.
alan		You're lucky. Life only gets worse anyway.
mitch		Alan, stop it.  Don't listen to him, he's just messing with you.
alan		No I'm not.  It's all downhill from here. Trust me. First your hair's going to fall out, then your balls will shrink. You'll marry a woman, or man, who'll suck every penny out of your savings and then leave you for a fitness instructor in a teal Miata. Then, to top it all off, your kids will one day stop talking to you because their therapist, who you pay for, tells them you're the reason they're so fucked up.
mitch		You'll have to excuse Alan here, he's going through a rough time.
alan		 I'm just being realistic. You want some advice?
adam		Not really.
alan		Don't end up a victim like the rest of `em. Life sucks, the earlier you accept it, the better off you'll be.
adam		I got to tell you, I was really nervous about this whole cancer thing, and then I met you guys, and boy do I feel better.
alan		 I'm Alan Liebowitz: stage 4 lymphoma. Pleased to meet you.
mitch		Mitch Horowitz, metastatic prostate cancer.
adam		Adam Schwartz, schwannoma neurofibrosarcomas.
alan		What the fuck is that?...Sounds like the greek dish I had for lunch.
adam		... man this pot is really strong.
mitch		Medicinal.
alan		Good shit eh.
carnie		Hey you! What do you think you're doing?
adam		I want to ride.
carnie		Read the sign.
adam		I don't have cancer.
carnie		Then what's that?
katie		So how do you feel after your first treatment?
adam		I feel like I was just gang raped by the Buena Vista Social Club.
katie		Is everything with you going to be a joke?
adam		I'm serious. Have you heard their horn section?
katie		Adam, you have a responsibility to your mind and body.
adam		I was just injected with three pints of kryptonite. Can we please hold off on the new agey stuff.
katie		You can't just sit there and ignore what's happening to you...You need to stop bottling everything up.
adam		What I need is for people to stop telling me what I need.
katie		Have you considered that this cancer is nature's way of telling you to change the way you live your life?  ...There's an old saying - you can't change the wind, but you can adjust the sails.
adam		They teach you that in medical school?
katie		I know you don't like to talk about your feelings, but you have to learn to find an outlet.
adam		 An outlet for what? I have cancer.
katie		And how is your body ever going to fight the stress of that cancer if you can't even handle your own emotions?
adam		Well excuse me. You'll have to forgive me for not having a firm handle on my emotions at this particular juncture of my life.
katie		You don't have to be here.
adam		I'm sorry, I know you're only trying to help. 
katie		I want you to do some homework. Here's a list of books on mind-body therapy. They should help you get started.
seth		 "Franz Schlegel is an American `medical intuitive' and `mystic psychiatrist'. Schlegel's teachings are widely recognized as a global spiritual awakening that is transcending individual and collective human consciousness"... You're actually going to read this shit? This guy is a fucking tool.
adam		Why would we go to Mardi Gras?
seth		Because it's Mardi Gras man. It's like a giant orgy of the sexiest women you can imagine all throwing themselves at you, screaming to be fucked. It's a fuck fest.
adam		I'm getting chlamydia just listening to you talk about it.
seth		We need to go see the world.
adam		This isn't my bachelor party we're planning here.
seth		 Adam you can not let your cancer go to waste.
adam		I'm not going anywhere.
seth		Well if you're not going to take advantage of your cancer, then I will.
claire		Yes, how can I help you?
seth		I'm looking to buy a few books -
claire		Oh.  Are these for...I'm sorry it's none of my business.
seth		No that's okay. They're for my best friend, Adam.
claire		How awful.
seth		Yeah. Cancer, not cool.
claire		Poor guy.
seth		I know it's been really hard.
claire		It's bad isn't it?
seth		Honestly?  Sometimes I just wish it was me instead of him...to relieve some of the burden, you know? I just...I just want to help.
adam		What just happened?
seth		 I'll tell you what happened. Cancer happened, and you need to get on the train.
adam		Are you going to the park again?
rachel		He likes running around with the other dogs.
adam		He can barely make it to the door without shitting himself.
rachel		 Are you smoking weed?
adam		Yeah.
rachel		Since when do you smoke?
adam		It's medicinal.
rachel		You got a prescription for medicinal marijuana?
seth		No, I did.
rachel		What's wrong with you?
seth		Night blindness. Rods and cones are off.
rachel		Where did that TV come from?
adam		The store.  It's medicinal?
rachel		I thought we already agreed that my painting was going there.
adam		 Why can't we put up both?
rachel		You want me to put my painting next to a television?
adam		 Yes?
rachel		 Art needs to breathe Adam!...Do whatever you want. I'm taking your dog to the park!...And open a window. This isn't a dorm room.
adam		 Love you.
seth		Great. Maybe she'll move there.
adam		Can you not talk about her like that?
seth		Are you joking? Do you see the way she treats you?
adam		She's got some kind of creative block...It's her process.
seth		You have cancer for fuck's sake! If I was your girlfriend, I'd be baking you cookies and blowing you every thirty minutes. Instead, she's yelling at you over some fucking painting. Her art sucks. You don't want to put that on your wall. It looks like someone threw up a shrimp cocktail and then used it to spackle the Berlin Wall.
adam		We're going through a rough patch. That's what happens in relationships.
seth		 Bullshit. She's fucking you in the ass Adam. This is the one time in your life you can do whatever you want. If you want to smoke weed, then smoke. You want a 50 inch flat screen TV, then get the fucking TV! And if you want to go to Mardi Gras, then LET'S GO TO MARDI GRAS!
adam		We're not going to Mardi Gras.
seth		 You're totally missing my point.
adam		I've been reading your books, and you know it actually makes sense...Some of it. 
katie		 Adam! This is fantastic.
adam		Sure, if you think it'll help.
laughter therapist		Good morning class. Before we begin I'd like to introduce Adam and Seth, our two newest giggle gurus.
seth		 What are they laughing at?
adam		 Just go with it.
adam		I, ah, have cancer.
laughter therapist		Ah cancer yes. Yes. Laugh. Everyone. Beverly, share -
beverly		Yesterday, I confiscated my son's pornography collection and then used it to masturbate 6 times.
laughter therapist		Paul, share,
paul		My wife told me she's a lesbian. And then left me for my sister.
laughter therapist		JIM -
jim		 I owe two men eight grand by Friday.
laughter therapist		SETH -
seth		My best friend is a giant pussy.
adam		My best friend's favorite band is Abba.
laughter therapist		 Abba! Wonderful. I love it. Seth laugh.
alan		 Real.
mitch		Fake.
adam		Fake.
alan		You're both wrong. I think I know real when I see it.
mitch		How come we've never met Rachel?
alan		Yeah. What the fuck?
adam		She's been really stressed lately,
alan		Smart man. Save yourself the headache.
mitch		Don't listen to him Adam. It's important to be with your loved ones in times like these.
alan		Bullshit. Women are nothing but trouble. 
mitch		Listen to me Adam, I've been married 40 years and it's my Margaret who keeps me going.
alan		That's precious Mitch, I almost want to wrap it up and tie a little bow around it.  Honestly, I don't give a shit. You can do whatever you want. It's your life. All I know is that I'm not going to spend my last days on this miserable planet pining over a woman. The day my wife left me was the best day of my life.
adam		 Hey it's me, just checking to see if you're on your way.
adam		 It's me again. Just checking to see where you are. In case you're looking for me I'm now on the other side of the parking lot. Call me.
katie		Adam?
adam		 Oh hey.
katie		What are you doing?
adam		Just waiting for Rachel to pick me up.
katie		What time is she coming?
adam		Uh, four.
katie		It's six thirty.
adam		She must be stuck in traffic.
katie		You want a ride?
katie		Sorry about the mess.
adam		I think you should ask for a refund.
katie		I know, I know. What can I say? I'm not good at getting rid of things. I get easily attached.
adam		Yeah, I can see.
katie		So you don't drive?
adam		Nope.
katie		But you have a license?
adam		Nope.  I actually failed my test.
katie		No!
adam		 It's true.
katie		But, I thought you can re-take the test.
adam		Eh. Let's just say, that the state of California felt it was best I didn't.
katie		What did you do?
adam		I kind of backed my mom's car down an embankment...Into the Balboa cactus garden.
katie		The garden with all the endangered plants?
adam		They didn't want to tow it out in fear of destroying more of the vegetation, so they had to use a giant crane.
katie		I'm sorry. That's terrible.
adam		 Stop the car.
katie		Why what's wrong?
adam		Just stop the car.
katie		What are you doing?
adam		I can't handle all this mess.
katie		Wait, no, not that, that's my dinner.
adam		You can drive.
adam		Thanks for the ride...
katie		It probably wouldn't be very professional of me.
adam		Come on, I'll let you analyze my Id.
katie		Uh, okay. But I can't stay long.
katie		You know you are terrible at this?
adam		I've never played before.
katie		This is your Playstation.
adam		Doesn't mean I play it. Games these days today are so complicated. 
katie		 Perhaps you'd prefer something a little more simple. Maybe a nice game of Connect Four or Bingo.
adam		She has a sense of humor.
katie		That must have been hard, seeing him lose his cognitive skills like that.
adam		Well the funny thing is that the stroke actually made him a better player, he just lost interest.
katie		You've never talked about your dad.
adam		Well whose fault is that? Doctor?
katie		Hey!
adam		You ever had this stuff.
katie		No, but it's supposed to be really good for you.
adam		Well it smells like my grandmother.
katie		You complain a lot.
adam		You haven't met my mother. It's a miracle I do anything but complain.
katie		I try not to look at the world like that.
adam		The world would be a boring place if we didn't complain. Come on. There's got to be something. One thing, just one thing, that drives you nuts.
katie		Hmmm.  I really don't like it when people at work finish all the coffee and don't refill the pot.
adam		It's infuriating right?
katie		I wouldn't say infuriating. It's just not good work place etiquette.
adam		To complaining.
katie		Oh god, that's disgusting. I'm so sorry.
adam		Is it all gone?
katie		I should probably be going.
rachel		Adam?
adam		Finally. Where have you been?
rachel		 I hope I'm not interrupting.
adam		Oh, this is Dr. McRae, my therapist.
rachel		 This is your therapist?
katie		Please, call me Katie.
rachel		 OK. Katie. What are you doing here?
adam		She drove me home. Ring a bell?
rachel		Ugh. Shit.  Thank you so much for doing that. Life's been a little crazy lately, which I'm sure Adam has told you all about. I love those shoes.
katie		Thanks...
adam		Where have you been?
rachel		I was at the gallery.
adam		 You were supposed to pick me up. 8 hours ago.
rachel		I know. I'm sorry. I totally spaced. With the opening only three months away my head's just all over the place. 
adam		You're right. Let me go back and talk to the doctor - see if maybe they can diagnose me with something that better suits your needs.
rachel		 I'm not just some car service here to shuttle you around!
adam		And my house isn't a summer camp. You can't just come and go as you please and not take some responsibility.
rachel		And what is it that I'm not taking responsibility for?
adam		This. Us.
rachel		I can't handle this! You make it sound like I'm your wife.
adam		You know what I thought the other day? That I might actually die without ever having sex again.
rachel		I'm sorry if your cancer isn't turning me on.
adam		 I know.
rachel		Why are you so good?
adam		You're my Yam.
rachel		What's wrong?
adam		I can't.
rachel		Why?
adam		I don't know what's wrong.  It won't work.
adam		Where's Alan?
adam		Excuse me.
old man		How can I help you?
adam		Where am I?
old man		The After Life.
adam		This is Heaven?
old man		Pretty great huh? They've even got a frozen yogurt machine.
adam		There are lines in Heaven?
old man		It's worth it.
rabbi		So you want to know what's going to happen when you die?
adam		I think it's a fair question.
rabbi		Fair yes, but impossible for me to answer. Our deaths, like our lives, have meaning and are all part of God's plan. How should I know what God has planned for you. Maybe if you came to service once in a while...
adam		Well am I going to go to Heaven?
rabbi		Probably.
adam		What if I want to just die? That's it. No Heaven.
rabbi		That's like buying a ticket for a cruise and then not going. The Afterlife is where the fun begins.
adam		How can being stuck in some nonexistent void with my grandparents be fun. I spent my entire life trying to get away from my family, now I'm going to have to spend an eternity with them.
rabbi		Adam, you can not look at death as a curse. Even in death we are all still part of God. Life on Earth is just the beginning.
adam		But that's not what I want.
rabbi		 Oy. Then find another religion. I don't make the rules.
katie		You're being awfully quiet today. Is everything okay?
adam		I'm going to die aren't I?
katie		What are you talking about?
adam		It's true.
katie		We don't know that.
adam		I'm not getting any better.
katie		Don't say that, you're doing so well.
adam		Did you know that they found a Quasar 7 billion light years away? 7 billion light years! It's more than 3 billion years older than our planet, and we're just seeing it now; and you think I'm going to live?
katie		 What are you talking about?
adam		Cancer is an epidemic! It killed Alan, it's going to kill me, and it's going to kill millions more after me. There's nothing anybody can do.
katie		This is really good Adam. Let it out.
adam		Will you stop!  I can't do this anymore. It doesn't matter. None of it. I'm going to die and with nothing to show for my life. 100 years from now my legacy be will be that of just another person dead of cancer. That's it.
katie		This helplessness you're feeling is normal. These emotions you're holding onto are what make you human. But it doesn't mean you can just stop living your life.  Look at how you've grown over the past few months, you can't just throw it all away...Talk to me.
adam		I know you're only trying to help, but this isn't working for me anymore.  I'm sorry.
adam		I need a new lint brush.
rachel		Okay, I'll pick one up.
adam		And I have a doctor's appointment next Thursday...The big one.
rachel		Am I getting fat?
adam		Are you listening to me?
rachel		 Yes.
adam		So you'll take me?
rachel		Of course.
phil		You look great.
adam		Really?
phil		 Yeah, look at you.
adam		I want to come back to work.
phil		 You want to come back? Here?
adam		What's so crazy about that?
phil		You could be anywhere right now, and this is that place?
adam		Yeah.
phil		Are you sure that's a good idea?
adam		You said I look great.
phil		Yeah for a guy with cancer.
adam		Thank you Phil.
phil		 So you're really okay? I mean, the cancer, is-
adam		Oh it's really good. We've come to an understanding. It takes whatever it wants and depletes me of my every will to live, and I let it.
phil		Welcome back.
seth		And if you look over on your left you'll see our newest exhibit "The Last Days Pompeii." Buried in 79 AD by the catastrophic eruption of Mt. Vesuvius, Pompeii remained hidden and forgotten until 1748 when archeologists began to excavate the site. Here we see exquisitely preserved objects that offer a glimpse into the day-to-day life of this ancient city.
adam		 Gladly. This here is a depiction of what Pompeii's final 19 hours probably looked like.
seth		Ok. Moving along we see the beautiful watercolor paintings of John James Audobon.
adam		 I'll be in Pompeii if anyone needs me.
phil		You feeling okay? You don't look so good.
adam		Could be worse. Right?
phil		 Jesus!
adam		Don't worry...I get it. You're a good guy.
phil		Come back when you're better. You know you'll always have a home here.
adam		 Hey, it's Adam. Where are you? Maybe you forgot, but my appointment is today. So call me back.
adam		Hey man, I need you to do me -
adam		Hi mom.
cute nurse		The Doctor wanted me to apologize for running late, he's just in with another patient, but should be out in a few minutes. You guys holding up alright?
edith		It's very cold in here. Is there anyway you can turn down the Air Conditioning?
cute nurse		Unfortunately the temperature is controlled by a central thermostat.
edith		My son has cancer.
cute nurse		 I'm sorry, really, if I could I would, but there's nothing I can do.
adam		 I'm fine.
cute nurse		Are you sure? I could get you a blanket.
adam		No, really, I'm okay. But thank you.
edith		I'd love a blanket.
adam		 We're fine.
cute nurse		Okay, but you let me know if you need anything.
edith		 I don't like her.
adam		I'm fine.
edith		Take these.
adam		 You're like some kind of deranged pusher.
edith		Do you know what it's like to fear losing your son? No. You don't. When you have children of your own we can discuss it. Now take the pills.
adam		What?
edith		Oh nothing.
adam		 What?
edith		It's nothing, he went to a state college.
adam		You're unbelievable.
edith		I just worry that you're not getting the best care possible.
adam		Well who needs a doctor when they've got you and your fanny pack?
edith		You can be a little shit sometimes, you know that? You think I don't know what's best for you? I birthed you. You came out of me. I am your mother, for better or for worse, so accept it.  You don't like this, well I'm sorry. It's my own way of caring.
adam		 Well stop! You're driving me crazy. With the comments and the pills every five minutes. Just stop. I'm not dad. I can take care of myself.
edith		Yes you did. I drive you crazy.
adam		Mom.
edith		You're all I've got. Look at your father.
adam		Mom!
edith		He was the greatest thing to ever happen to me. And then I had you, and that was even greater. So if I hover and threaten your independence, so what? You have a mother who loves you more than anything. Is that so awful?
adam		No. It's not.
adam		So what do we do?
adam		But you said surgery was too risky.
edith		But he's going to be okay, right? You're going to fix it.
adam		Does that mean...I can get handicap parking?
rachel		Hey you.
adam		Smells good.
rachel		The girls and I are having a movie night. I somehow got suckered into cooking.  Don't worry I left you some.
adam		 Who's that?
rachel		Susan. She wants to know what time I'm coming over.
rachel		Uh huh.
adam		Alright, well I'm gonna go lie down.
rachel		I might be out late so don't wait up.
adam		 What the fuck?
rachel		What are you doing?
adam		Who's James?
rachel		My art partner.
adam		 That's funny. It seems as though you've double booked yourself.
rachel		I can't believe you just invaded my privacy like that.
adam		 Oh, you just got another text from him. He says "Your skin is the canvas upon which my dreams are painted...
rachel		 Give me back my phone.
adam		 He seems sweet.
rachel		Adam, it's not what you think.
adam		Well now how do you know what I'm thinking?
rachel		Don't be like that. I didn't do anything wrong.
adam		 You've been cheating on me.
rachel		Adam you're being ridiculous.
adam		Am I?
seth		Hey guys.
rachel		It's a portrait series, commenting on post-colonial patriarchy in the Congo.  ...That's it. Nothing more.
adam		Have you lost your mind? I had the most important appointment of my life today and you missed it because you were off with your "art partner"...And what the fuck do you know about Africa?
rachel		Oh shit. I forgot. Please, Adam, I'm so sorry.  What did the doctor say?
adam		Did you cheat on me?
rachel		 Adam stop. Tell me what the doctor said.
adam		DID-YOU-CHEAT-ON-ME!?
rachel		 Are you going to break up with me?
adam		No.  I'm going to pretend you never existed.
rachel		 Please. I don't want to break up.
adam		You know, you have a pretty fucked up way of showing your commitment.
rachel		I told you I couldn't handle this!
adam		I want you out my house.
seth		Shame on you.
seth		Your skin is the canvas upon which my dreams are painted?
adam		 I know.
seth		 Is "dreams" a metaphor, for-
adam		You remember the last time we came out here?
seth		Prom night. How could I forget? Jen Zabrowski went down on me right where you're sitting.
adam		That memory is so far from me,
seth		Jen giving me a blow job?
adam		No, prom night. It feels like a lifetime ago... I know it happened, but that's it. It's like someone else's memory.
seth		You okay?
adam		I can't believe this is all actually happening.
seth		The girl or the cancer?
adam		Both.
seth		It's some pretty fucked up shit.
adam		You know, I used to think that I was actually going to spend the rest of my life with Rachel...granted that might not be so far off.  What a waste.
seth		We need to get you laid.
adam		 Don't you ever give up?
seth		No.
adam		Seriously, who's going to have sex with me?
seth		Some girls are into it?
adam		I look like Powder.  Plus I have erectile dysfunction...temporary. I hope.
seth		Then let's go get me laid.
adam		I think I should drive.
seth		You don't have a license.
adam		You're drunk.
seth		Do you even know how to drive?
adam		How hard can it be?
seth		Hard enough that you don't have a license.
adam		 This might be my last chance.
seth		Driving! You care about driving! We could be on Everest getting high on Ayahuasca with Sherpas, and you want to drive!...Forget it, I give up. Drive.
adam		What? I didn't see it.
seth		That's what the mirrors are for.
adam		I know what I'm doing.
seth		Apparently not. YOU'RE GOING THE WRONG WAY!
adam		No. I'm driving and I want to go this way.
seth		What the fuck is wrong with you?
adam		For once can you just shut up and let me do this? So I'm driving the wrong way? Big fucking deal.
seth		You're an idiot.
adam		Get out.
seth		This is my car.
adam		GET! OUT!
seth		You're being a real douche.
adam		Well you're a selfish piece of shit who cares more about getting his dick wet than actually being a friend.
katie		 Hello.
adam		I don't want to die.
katie		Adam?
adam		I'm 25 years old and I've never even been to Canada. I haven't lived my life!  I'm really, really scared.
katie		I know.
adam		I'm sorry for the way I acted. I should have never stormed out like that.
katie		It was wrong of me to push you the way I did. I wasn't listening. 
adam		You mean like a complete asshole?
katie		I think you're really brave.
adam		If I don't die, I think we should go on a date.
katie		Adam, I'm not sure if that's a good idea.
adam		Why not?
katie		Not only am I your therapist, but you're also my first patient, ever. What kind of precedent would I be setting?
adam		It makes for a nice incentive.
katie		I can't date you.
adam		 Yes you can.
katie		No I can't.
adam		Yes, you can.
katie		No I can't.
adam		A wise person once told me - you can't change the wind, but you can adjust the sails.
katie		 Adam I can't date you.
adam		 That's what you think.
katie		Adam? Adam? Adam?
adam		Good night.
seth		Night.
adam		 What are you doing?
seth		Watching you sleep.
adam		It's a little creepy.
seth		I know. I can't help it.
sales clerk		Sir can I help you with anything today?
adam		 You think this is a good suit to wear to your own funeral?
mortician		Here at Linden we're more than just a stopping ground for the deceased. We understand that life is different for everyone, and helping families to see their loved ones off to the hereafter means approaching every funeral and burial with it's own dignity and care...A funeral is a representation of the individuals time spent on earth, so I ask you to reflect on your inevitable interment and think carefully in choosing the service and tomb that best befits you.
seth		What about a Viking funeral?
mortician		 I'm not familiar.
seth		 You know, we put him on a boat... cover it with...dirt and...branches...whatever you can find. We push it out...into the sea...or the ocean...and then shoot flaming arrows, boom! It catches on fire...And that's it. It's awesome.
mortician		 Here you are, the Schwartz family plot.
adam		What is all this?
nurse wong		Hospital liability and disclaimer forms...in case they need to fuse your spine or remove any organs. You know, the usual.
adam		Oh, great. 
nurse wong		You have some visitors.
edith		There he is.
adam		 Mom, this is Nuprin.
edith		I know isn't it great?
adam		 What the hell.
art		I gotta new coat.
adam		That's great dad.
art		Brooks Brothers. Silk pockets. Feel.
adam		I am feeling.
art		I love you son.
adam		I love you too dad.
katie		Hello?
adam		Egh em. Mom. Mom.
edith		Alright. Come on Art, let's go to the waiting room.
katie		I brought you flowers. Not sure why, I didn't know what else-
adam		They're great, thank you.
katie		So how you doing?
adam		I'm a little freaked out.
anesthesiologist		Hello Adam, I am the Anesthesiologist. I will give you shot to make you sleep.
adam		Will you be here when I wake up?
katie		I'm not going anywhere.
anesthesiologist		Now relax, this will take a few minutes to feel the effect.
adam		 About how long?
anesthesiologist		Relax, you will soon begin the sleeping.
adam		Well what if it doesn't work. How do you know I won't wake in the middle of the surgery? What if I-
nurse scott		I thought he was a pirate.
adam		That is the most beautiful dresses. Where did you get it?
adam		I'm here.
adam		I feel wonderful.
adam		Magic!
edith		 My little boy.
adam		Remember the time you walked in on me masturbating?...That was so awkward...What hotel is this? We need to go on more vacations.
katie		Squeeze the morphine trigger!
margaret		 Oh, hello, I didn't see you, ah down there.
adam		You must be Margaret.
margaret		Yes, I'm looking for Adam Schwartz.
adam		That's me.
margaret		 You're Adam? The way Mitch described you, I always assumed you to be much older. About 50 years older. But, you're just a baby...
adam		I'm so glad you could make it.  I'm really sorry about Mitch.
margaret		Me too.
adam		Please come inside. You're just in time.
adam		 We're having a Duck Hunt tournament. You play?
margaret		 Me? Oh I don't know how to play video games.
adam		It's really easy. One button does everything.
edith		This food's not going to eat itself.
seth		I got it.
adam		 You mind?
seth		 Nope. You don't have cancer anymore. No more special treatment.
adam		I am still in remission.
edith		You gonna spend the rest of your life complaining?
adam		 I like complaining.
****Dialogues from script :500_Days_of_Summer.txt****

narrator		This is a story of boy meets girl.
narrator		The boy, Tom Hansen of Margate, New Jersey, grew up believing that he'd never truly be happy until the day he met his... "soulmate."
narrator		This belief stemmed from early exposure to sad British pop music and a total misreading of the movie, "The Graduate."
narrator		The girl, Summer Finn of Shinnecock, Michigan, did not share this belief.
narrator		Since the disintegration of her parents' marriage, she'd only loved two things. The first was her long blonde hair.
narrator		The second was how easily she could cut it off... And feel nothing.
narrator		Tom meets Summer on January 8th in a San Francisco office building. In an instant, he will know she's the one he's been looking for.
narrator		This is a story of boy meets girl.
narrator		You should know up front, this is not a love story.
paul		I didn't know who else to call.
girl		You did the right thing. Where is he?
girl		Thomas.
tom		Rachel? What are you doing here?
tom		Help me how?
rachel		First, put down the plate.
rachel		Now come here and sit down.
rachel		The key is not to panic.
tom		I think I'm gonna be sick.
rachel		Drink this.
mckenzie		What is that?
rachel		Vodka.
tom		 More.
tom		Does Mom know you're here? It's
rachel		Don't worry about it. Start from the beginning. Tell us what happened...
tom		I thought it was a great day.
rachel		And then what happened?
tom		 God, I love eating pancakes at night. It's like the greatest thing ever. How great is this?
summer		I think we should stop seeing each other.
rachel		Just like that?
tom		Just like that.
paul		Did she say why?
summer		This thing. This whatever it is. You and me. Do you think this is normal?
tom		I don't know. Who cares about normal?! I'm happy. Aren't you happy?
summer		You're happy?
tom		You're not?
summer		All we do is argue!
tom		That is such a lie!
rachel		Maybe she was just in a bad mood.
paul		A hormonal thing.
rachel		P.M.S.?
tom		 What do you know about PMS?
rachel		More than you.
tom		Oh my god.
mckenzie		Please continue.
summer		This can't be a total surprise. I mean, we've been like Sid and Nancy for months.
tom		Summer, Sid stabbed Nancy seven times with a kitchen knife. We've had some disagreements but I hardly think I'm Sid Vicious.
summer		No... I'm Sid.
tom		 So I'm Nancy?!
summer		Let's just eat and we'll talk about it after. I'm starving.
summer		 Mmm, you're so right. These are great!
summer		 What?
summer		Tom, don't. Come back. You're still my best fr---
paul		Jesus.
mckenzie		That's harsh.
tom		I don't know what I'm gonna do.
rachel		You're gonna be fine.
tom		 I'm gonna throw up.
mckenzie		Or that.
rachel		Here.
mckenzie		Come on Hansen. You'll be ok. You're the best guy I know. You'll find someone.
paul		You know what they say...there's plenty other fish in the sea.
tom		No.
paul		Sure they do. They say that.
tom		Well they're wrong. It's not true. I've fished in that sea. I've jumped in and swam in that sea! I'm fucking Aquaman!  Sorry. What I mean is... there are no other fish. This was my fish.
tom		I'm in love with Summer.
paul		 For real?
tom		For real, Paul. I'm madly in love with that girl.
paul		Oh shit.
mckenzie		Now I know this may be a little risque...but if New Hampshire Greetings wants the jump on those conservative, right-wing neo-Nazis at Hallmark, maybe playing it safe is the wrong approach. The nuclear family is dead and we need a new holiday to recognize that.
mckenzie		May 21st. Other Mother's Day.
vance		Hmmm. That's an intriguing idea McKenzie. Along with Grossman's "Magellan Day" I'd say we've got some potential here. What do you think Hansen? Could you write up some prototypes for these?
summer		Excuse me, Mr. Vance? There's a
vance		 Everyone this is Summer, my new assistant. Summer just moved here from...
summer		Michigan.
vance		Right. Michigan. Well, Summer, everyone. Everyone, Summer. Excuse me, I have to take this.
summer		Nice to meet you all.
tom		What do we know about this new girl?
mckenzie		Who?
tom		The new girl. Summer. In Vance's office.
mckenzie		Dude. I hear she's a bitch from hell!
tom		 Really?
mckenzie		Patel tried to talk to her in the copy room. She was totally not having it.
tom		Maybe she was just in a hurry.
mckenzie		And maybe she's some uppity, better than everyone, superskank.
tom		Damn.
mckenzie		I know. She's pretty hot.
tom		That makes me so mad! Why is it pretty girls always think they can treat people like crap and get away with it?
mckenzie		Dunno.
tom		Like, just cause she has high cheekbones and soft skin...
mckenzie		...and really good teeth.
tom		And maybe the world's most perfect breasts...Just cause of that stuff, she can walk around like she's center of the universe?
mckenzie		 Women.
tom		Ugh. You know what? Screw her! We haven't even met and I can't stand her already.
summer		The Smiths.
summer		I love The Smiths.
tom		Sorry?
summer		I said. I love The Smiths. You have good taste in music.
tom		 You like the Smiths?
summer		 "To die by your side is such a heavenly way to die." Love it.
tom		 Oh my god.
tom		Hi.
summer		Hello.
tom		So, uh, Summer...
summer		Tom.
tom		Yeah! How's it going so far?
summer		The city or the firm?
tom		Both... Either.
summer		I'm happy. Still getting situated. How long have you worked here?
summer		Really? Jesus. Did you always want to write greeting cards?
tom		Are you nuts? I don't even want to do it now.
summer		What is it you want to do?
tom		I studied to be an architect actually.
summer		That's so cool! What happened?
tom		Eh, you know. Same old story. Moved to the city to work for a company. Company went under. Needed a job. My friend worked here. Got me this.
summer		And are you any good?
tom		 Well I wrote that one.
summer		 "Today You're a Man. Mazel Tov on your Bar Mitzvah."
tom		It's a big seller.
summer		I meant, are you any good as an architect?
tom		Oh... No. I doubt it.
summer		Well, I'd say you're a perfectly ...adequate... greeting card writer.
tom		Why thank you. That's what they called me in college. "Perfectly adequate" Hansen.
summer		They used to call me "Anal Girl."
summer		 I was very neat and organized.
summer		Anyway, I should get back.
tom		Ok, well, I'll see you around.
tom		And it turns out she's read every Graham Greene novel ever published. Her desk is lined with Magritte posters and Edward Hopper.
rachel		Your favorites.
tom		We're so compatible it's insane! Seriously! It doesn't make sense! She's not like I thought at all. She's... amazing.
rachel		Oh boy.
tom		What?
rachel		You know...just cause some cute girl likes the same bizarro music you do doesn't make her "the one."
tom		 Of course it does.
sarah		Pause and come eat.
tom		Hey Martin.
rachel		He met a girl.
sarah		 Yeah?
rachel		 Yeah.
sarah		Oh shit.
narrator		When one strongly believes in something, it takes overwhelming contradictory evidence to change their minds.
narrator		Tom had always been a devout believer in the idea of "true love."  The evidence did not support him.
narrator		Exhibit A: Lisa Rayner.
narrator		Exhibit B: Wendy Wilson.
tom		I'm so glad we decided to go away together Bec. I know we've only been dating a few months but it's been...awesome.
narrator		Exhibit C: Rebecca Myles.
tom		And now, you and me, 8 days in Mexico... best spring break ever!
rebecca		I think we should see other people.
narrator		And, finally... Exhibit D: Amanda Heller.
amanda		It's just... it's complicated.
tom		What's complicated? Last week you said you loved me!
amanda		I know it's sudden but...
tom		No, this can't be. Everything was going so great. I don't understand.
amanda		 Here.
tom		What's this?
amanda		Because you're, like, the biggest music nerd I've ever met, I think this should really help explain where I'm coming from.
amanda		You remember how much I loved this song when you first played it for me?
tom		Sure. It's all you wanted to listen to for weeks.
amanda		Right. And I still like it, don't get me wrong. It's just... When I hear it now, I don't feel the same...rush.
tom		 Ok...
amanda		I press the skip button.
tom		What does this have to do with--?
amanda		I'd rather listen to something else.
tom		But Amanda... this is a great fucking song!
tom		It's off.
paul		What?
tom		Me and Summer.
mckenzie		Was it ever on?
tom		No. But it could have been. In a world where good things happen to me.
paul		Yeah well, that's not really where we live.
tom		No.
mckenzie		So what happened?
tom		You ready for this?
tom		Summer...
summer		Yeah?
tom		 So how was your weekend?
summer		It was good.
tom		You believe that shit?
mckenzie		What shit?
paul		I think I missed something.
tom		"It was good." She didn't say "It was good." She said "It was good." Emphasis on the good. She basically said "I spent the weekend having sex with this guy I met at the gym." Fucking whore. Screw her. It's over.
mckenzie		What the hell is wrong with you?!
paul		Dude, you got problems.
tom		She's not interested in me. There's nothing I can do.
mckenzie		Based on..."it was good?" TOM And some other things.
paul		Like what, she said "hey" instead of "hi" cause that totally means she's a lesbian.
tom		I gave her all sorts of chances.
summer		I'm going to the supply room. Anyone need anything?
mckenzie		No thanks.
tom		I think you know what I need.
tom		Toner.
summer		Oh ok, sure, no prob.
tom		Do you want to go out with me?
tom		And the Priest says, "But we're already out!"
summer		That is hilarious!
tom		I know!
tom		Not once did she take the bait. Not once. Screw it. I'm done with her. It's over.
mckenzie		This Friday. 10 bucks all you can karaoke at The Well.
tom		No way McKenzie. Absolutely not.
mckenzie		Come on!  "Take me down to the paradise city where the grass is green and they got big titties!"
tom		They won't let you back in there after last time.
mckenzie		I wasn't that bad.
tom		Not at all. You just threw up on the stage, tried to fight the bartender, and then threatened to burn the place down before passing out on the sidewalk. Quiet night for you.
mckenzie		 You saved my life that day.
tom		We are not going back there.
mckenzie		This is a work thing, Tommy. It won't be like that. The whole office is going.
tom		I really can't. Even if I wanted to. There's a lot of stuff I gotta take care of.
mckenzie		You're not listening to me.
tom		What?
mckenzie		The whole office is going. Tom looks over to where Summer sits. And realization dawns on him...
tom		Hi.
summer		Hey! They said you weren't coming.
tom		You asked if I was coming?  I mean...my plans got cancelled...
mckenzie		 Goddamn that song is brilliant! What's up Hansen?
summer		Ooh that's me.
summer		 Ok. I'm the new girl so no making fun of me.
tom		You were great up there, by the way.
summer		Well you can't go wrong with The Boss.
tom		 I hear that.
mckenzie		Hey, did you know Tom here's from Jersey?
summer		Yeah?
summer		I named my cat after Springsteen.
tom		No kidding? What's his name?
summer		Bruce.
tom		 That makes sense.
mckenzie		So you got a boyfriend?
summer		Me? No.
mckenzie		Why not?
summer		Don't really want one.
mckenzie		Come on. I don't believe that.
summer		You don't believe a woman could enjoy being free and independent?
mckenzie		 Are you a lesbian?
summer		No, I'm not a lesbian. I'm just not comfortable being somebody's "girlfriend." I don't want to be anybody's anything, you know? MCKENZIE I have no idea what you're talking about.
summer		It sounds selfish, I know, but... I just like being on my own. Relationships are messy and feelings are always getting hurt. Who needs all that? We're young. We're in one of the most beautiful cities in the world. 
tom		But...what if you meet someone and fall in love?
summer		 Love? You seriously believe in that stuff?
tom		Of course I do.
summer		Interesting. A real romantic.
mckenzie		Oh you have no idea. This one... embarrassing. There was this one girl,  I gotta tell this story --
tom		Summer, hold on... you don't believe in love?
summer		I don't even know what that word means. I know I've never felt it, whatever it is in all those songs. And I know that today most marriages end in divorce. Like my parents.
tom		Well mine too but --
summer		Oh yeah, And I read in Newsweek, there were these scientists who found that by stimulating a part of the brain with electrodes you can make a person fall in "love" with a rock. Is that the love you're talking about?
tom		Well...
summer		Why, what's your take on it?
tom		I think it's...kind of a huge thing.
summer		 Ok. Looks like we're gonna have to agree to disagree on that one.
mckenzie		So, uh, who's singing next?
summer		 I'd say it's your turn loverboy.
tom		Nooo. I don't sing in public.
summer		Sure you do. I see you lip-synching to your headphones every morning on your way in.
tom		I don't...
mckenzie		You really do.
summer		It's ok. I like it. Takes a lot of self-confidence to look ridiculous.
mckenzie		 Self-confidence! Ha!
tom		Anyway, I'm not near drunk enough to sing in front of all these people.
summer		Ok then. Let's drink.
tom		It would take at least ten shots to get me to sing.
summer		Bartender!
tom		That's not it.
summer		What is that then?
tom		I have no idea.
summer		I used to watch it every week.
tom		Me too. Why can't we think of the stupid A-Team theme song.
summer		Pathetic.
tom		This is gonna bother me for weeks.
summer		Totally.
mckenzie		"And I'd proudly stand UP!"  I said stand!
tom		Oh here we go.
mckenzie		 He's the best.
tom		Ok, let's get you in a cab.
mckenzie		No. I'm gonna walk. I live right down that street. Or that one.
summer		 Is he gonna be ok?
tom		He'll be fine.
mckenzie		Hey.
tom		What's up?
mckenzie		Not you. You.  He likes you.
tom		 Ok, goodnight McKenzie!
mckenzie		I mean... likes you, likes you. For real. Tell her Tom.
tom		Sorry you had to see that. Happens every time we come here. It's unbelievable. Something about that guy and singing for people. I don't know. But at least he didn't --
summer		Is that true?
tom		What?
summer		You know what. Do you...like me?
tom		Yeah. I like you. Of course I do.
summer		As a friend.
tom		Right. As a friend.
summer		Just as a friend?
tom		Yes. I mean... I haven't really thought about... Yes. Why?
summer		Nothing. I just... You're interesting. I'd like us to be friends. Is that ok?
tom		Oh yeah totally. Friends. You and me. That's... perfect.
summer		Cool.
tom		Cool.
summer		Well, I'm that way. Good night Tom.
tom		G'night Summer.
tom		 Friends. Awesome. That's just great. Well done Hansen, you idiot.
summer		Hey!
tom		Hey!
tom		Hey Mr. Vance.
summer		Yes, Mr. Vance?
paul		You son of a bitch.
paul		Last night, karaoke night?
tom		 Shhh.
paul		The same girl you'd been whining and crying and bitching about for weeks now?
tom		I have not been...
paul		The same girl you said was way out of your league and you'd have no chance with no matter what. That girl?
tom		Paul, seriously...
paul		Did you bang her?
tom		No!
paul		Blow job?
tom		No!
paul		Hand job?
tom		No, Paul, no jobs. I'm still unemployed. We just kissed.
paul		Come on, level with me. As your best friend, who tolerated a whole month of talk talk talk about this girl, nothing but Summer this, Summer that, Summer Summer Summer, I mean you were practically stalking her...
tom		Shhh!
paul		Oh crap.
summer		Hi, I'm Summer..
paul		Summer, wow what an unusual name. I'm sure I'd remember that if I had heard it before. Tom, how come you've never mentioned you knew such a lovely little lady?  Ok, well, I was just... I'm Paul.
summer		Hi Paul.
paul		 I'm a doctor.
summer		Nice to meet you.
paul		Anyway, I'm leaving now. Pretend I was never here. Tom, talk to you later?... Hey, If any jobs open up...
tom		If you heard...
summer		Heard what?
tom		Excellent. You ready to go.
summer		I'm stalking, STARVING!
tom		 He exaggerates!
tom		Check them out.
tom		 That is hot.
tom		I am very turned on right now.
summer		Sometimes you can be so judgmental.
tom		Huh?
summer		I mean, who are you? They're happy. Just mind your own business.
summer		Too soon to say. It's all in the dismount.
tom		If we're lucky, there won't be a dismount.
summer		I can't believe them. I have like zero patience for PDA.
tom		I hear ya. If I want to watch people make out, I have big windows and binoculars at home.
summer		Yeah?
tom		 No. That would be wrong.
summer		This is fun. You're fun.
tom		Thanks.
summer		I mean, I just want to say, up front, I'm not looking for anything serious.
summer		Are you cool with that?
tom		 Sure.
summer		It freaks some guys out when I say that.
tom		 Not me.
summer		Let's just have fun. Let's just...hang out, no pressure, no labels, no obligations.  Ok?
tom		Sure.
summer		 Wanna hold my hand under the table?
tom		Yeah.
tom		I'll be...back in a sec.
tom		Settle. Don't get too excited. She's just a girl. There's lots of them. Who look like that. And like what you like. They're everywhere. Calm yourself.
tom		Are you calm?  Ok. Then it's time to go back in.
summer		Hi.
tom		Oh sweet Jesus!
tom		 I fucking hate Summer.
bus driver		Son, you're gonna have to exit the vehicle.
tom		It's very... complex.
summer		Complex. Yes.
summer		In a way, it speaks so much by saying... so little.
tom		I feel the same way.
tom		You wanna go to the movies?
summer		 God yes!
tom		A lot of people have problems with this, but to me, it makes both structures so much more beautiful side by side like that.
tom		The guy who made this, Maybeck, he is a God.
tom		It just makes you feel... peaceful.
tom		No. See now, this is torture.
summer		Why?
tom		Over there, that's St. Patrick's church. The beauty of St. Patrick's is its humility. With this giant mirror thing deflecting all the attention away, it's too humble. No one even knows it's there.
summer		How would you change it?
tom		There's a million things. First, there's no need for this much glass. You could easily...
summer		Show me.
tom		What?
summer		Don't talk about it. Do it.
tom		See this beam, it steps on the landscape. But if we moved it... just so...
summer		You wanna --
tom		No you go first.
summer		It doesn't matter to me.
tom		Whatever you want.
both		 Hey./ Hi.
summer		 So how's it going?
tom		Hello?
mckenzie		Your girl is losing it.
summer		This is not at all as easy as it looks.
tom		Ow!
tom		There's no way.
summer		Why not?
tom		"Octopus's Garden?" You may as well just say "Piggies?"
summer		I told you. I love Ringo.
tom		You're insane.
summer		Why?
tom		Cause nobody loves Ringo.
summer		That's what I love about him.  Ooh.
summer		 This got great reviews.
summer		Is that... possible?
paul		So what's going on with you and Summer?
tom		I don't know.
paul		Is she your girlfriend?
tom		I wouldn't say that.
mckenzie		What would you say?
tom		Like, are we "going steady?" Come on, guys. We're adults.
paul		It's not an unreasonable question. Watch. McKenzie, do you have a girlfriend?
mckenzie		No I do not. In fact girls are repulsed by me. Paul, how about you?
paul		Why yes, in fact I do. Her name is Robyn. See Tom, it's easy.
tom		It is when you've been with the same girl since high school.
paul		You've been "seeing" this girl, what, two months now?
tom		Something like that.
paul		And you haven't discussed it?
tom		No! She's not... We're not like that.
paul		Like what?
mckenzie		Normal.
tom		We've just been... hanging out.
paul		Hanging out?!
tom		Yeah. Guys, look, Summer and I...we know how we feel. We don't need to label it. "Boyfriend, girlfriend." That stuff is very... juvenile.
mckenzie		You're so gay.
paul		Well let me ask you this then. Do you want her to be your girlfriend?
tom		I don't know... Maybe.
mckenzie		I heard her Hansen. She's not the girlfriend type. You're gonna need to discuss it.
tom		No. We're adults. It'll be fine.
mckenzie		Have you made her a CD yet?
tom		 Maybe.
mckenzie		Oh dude.
paul		You really need to have that talk.
rachel		You were saying?
tom		My thinking is... why rock the boat? Things are going well. If we start putting labels on it, that's like the kiss of death. Like saying to a girl "I love you."
rachel		I know what you mean. That's what happened with me and Sean.
tom		Who the hell's Sean?
rachel		My boyfriend before Mark.
tom		Who the f--! Never mind. Help me. I need solid female advice.
tom		Yeah but, you know me. This is the kinda stuff that always gets me in trouble.
rachel		Hmm. So, basically you do want to ask the question, `are we boyfriend/girlfriend?' You're just afraid you'll get an answer you don't want and that will shatter your illusions of how good everything's been these past few months. Is that about right?
tom		 Something like that.
rachel		Thomas, tell me this. Is it worse to get the wrong answer now... or find out in a month she has a date coming up with Lars from Norway?
tom		Who's Lars?
rachel		He's a professional surfer with Brad Pitt's face and Jesus's abs.
tom		That son of a bitch.
rachel		You see what I mean?
rachel		Later dude.
tom		Coach, no, wait! I need her.  Rachel, what do you think I should do?
rachel		 Just don't be a pussy.
summer		Hi.
tom		Hi.
summer		Are you ok?
tom		Yeah.
summer		You sure?
tom		Summer, I've gotta ask you something.
summer		Ok.
summer		Wait!
summer		Whoa. Oh my god. We can't talk during this song. It's too beautiful.
tom		I just don't get women's fashion nowadays. Everybody with the tattoos, the giant hoop earrings, those annoying hats. Explain this to me.
summer		People think it looks good.
tom		Do you?
summer		On some.
tom		I like how you dress.
summer		Yeah? What if I started wearing berets and got a huge butterfly tattoo on my leg?
tom		 Please don't.
douche		 Hey.
summer		Hey.
douche		How's it going?
summer		Ok.
douche		You live around here?
summer		Yeah not too far.
douche		I've never seen you here before.
summer		You're not too perceptive.
douche		Ha. That's funny.
douche		So, uh, let me buy you a drink.
summer		No thank you.
douche		Are you with this guy?
tom		 Hi. I'm Tom.
douche		Whatever.  Come on, one drink. What are you drinking?
summer		Sorry, no thank you.
douche		You're serious? This guy?
tom		Hey buddy --
summer		 Don't be rude. I'm flattered, I'm just not interested. Now why don't you go back over there and leave us alone, ok?
douche		It's a free country.
douche		So you and him, huh? I can't believe that. Is this guy really your boyfriend?
tom		Did you see that punch? I don't know where it came from. I haven't punched someone since Josh Greenberg in fifth grade. Guess I'm gonna have to throw out this shirt.
tom		Hey. What is it?
summer		I can't believe you.
tom		What?
summer		You were so completely uncool in there.
tom		You're mad at me? I just got my ass kicked for you.
summer		Oh that was for me? You were, what, protecting me? Next time Tommy, don't. I fight my own battles.
tom		Come on, that guy was an asshole!
summer		You didn't have to hit him. Why didn't you just let me handle it?
tom		I don't know. He was --
summer		See. This is why I don't want a serious relationship.
tom		Whoa. What was that?
summer		Nothing. Look, I like you Tom. I like this. What we've been doing. But maybe it's gone too...
tom		What...?
summer		I told you all along what I don't want and it's...
summer		I'm tired. Can we talk about this tomorrow?
tom		 I just got my ass kicked!
tom		 I got one good shot in.
tom		 Hi.
summer		 Hi.
tom		What's up?
summer		Nothing.
tom		Ok.
tom		Wait, are you still mad at me?
summer		 Tom...
tom		Holy shit you are. I can't believe you!
summer		 Are you almost done?
tom		Yeah. I'm all done.
tom		You know what... Sometimes you really don't make any sense.
summer		Say you're sorry.
tom		Huh?
summer		Say you're sorry for acting like a jerk.
tom		I am. I'm sorry for acting like a jerk.
summer		Ok. Me too.
tom		Summer... we don't have to label what we're doing. I just... I need -
summer		I know -
tom		Consistency. I need to know you won't wake up tomorrow and feel a different way.
summer		I can't promise you that. Nobody can. Anyone who does is a liar.
summer		I can only tell you how I feel right now... or I can show you.
tom		Have you ever had a real "boyfriend?"
summer		What?
tom		A boyfriend. "Going steady." Whatever. You know what I mean.
summer		Well... yeah.
tom		More than one?
summer		A few.
tom		Tell me about them.
summer		Oh no way.
tom		Why?
summer		Cause there's nothing to tell.
tom		Come on, I'm interested.
summer		You wanna have the relationship history conversation?
tom		Yes.
summer		You sure about that?
tom		No. Yeah. I don't know. Why not? I can take it.
summer		Ok. Well, in high school, there was Markus.
tom		Quarterback slash homecoming king?
summer		He was a rower. Very hot.
tom		What happened to Markus?
summer		He works for the Republican party. Very successful. Just not for me.
tom		Ok. And then?
summer		Well, for a short time in college, there was Kurt.
summer		That didn't really go anywhere.  And... my semester in Rome. Daniele Belardelli. AKA "The Puma."
tom		The Puma?
summer		Yeah, cause, you know...
tom		And that's it?
summer		The ones that lasted.
tom		What happened? Why didn't they work out?
summer		Nothing happened really. It's what always happens. Life.
alison		So how long have you known Paul and Robyn?
tom		Since grade school.
alison		No way, really? That's crazy.
tom		Yeah.
alison		Well I'm glad you called. They spoke very highly of you.
tom		Great.
alison		So...uh... how's it going?
tom		Ok.
alison		You've been pretty quiet.
tom		Sorry.
alison		I'm pretty quiet too. Usually. It's nice sometimes to be comfortable enough that you can just sit and eat and not have to say anything, you know?
tom		Uh-huh.
alison		Do you want to try some --
tom		No thanks.
tom		I'm sorry. It's just... there's this girl.
alison		Oh.
tom		I'm not usually like this. I wasn't before... Long story short, she wrecked me. I don't know if you can tell but it was pretty recent and I'm still kinda thinking about her.
alison		 Well maybe you should think about... someone else... who could cheer you up.
tom		I can't get her out of my head, you know? I see her everywhere. She's all I think about. And it's horrible. Cause I totally didn't see it coming. I thought things were fine. So now I keep going through every day in my mind, every second really. Wondering. What went wrong? Is it my fault? Could I have prevented it somehow?
tom		A lot of people have problems with this, but to me, it makes both structures so much more beautiful side by side like that.
summer		While you continue to talk about buildings and whatever other bullshit interests you, I'll just nod my head and pretend to listen while secretly dreaming about the many ways I can one day rip out your heart and eat it like the rabid vampire I am.
tom		Maybe there were things I could have said or done, you know?
alison		Waiter!
tom		Or... Christ, I don't know, maybe she was never that interested in me to begin with.
tom		 How was your weekend?
summer		 It was good.
tom		Anyway... sorry. If I'm acting strange, that's why.
alison		It's ok. I'm sure it's tough getting over an ex-girlfriend.
tom		Actually she was never my girlfriend.
tom		I just... I thought I'd have figured it out by now, you know? My life. Where I'm going, where I want to end up, who with. All that stuff. I still don't know anything. And the thing is... When I was with Summer, none of that mattered. I never even noticed how much of my life was missing! Isn't that weird?
alison		You were in love, that's what it does. But, now that you know where the holes are you can start to fill them.
tom		Sure.  Hey, I've been talking non-stop. You talk.
alison		Me? Well I grew up --
tom		So what do you think? Did I do something? Did I not do something? What can I do now?
alison		I... 
tom		 Oh! You know what we should do...
tom		"You said you'd stand by your man!/So tell me something I don't understand. You said you loved me!/And that's a fact! And then you left me, said you felt trapped!
tom		"You didn't stand by me! Not at all! You didn't stand by me," I'm talking about you Summer!
summer		Hey it's me.
tom		Hello me. You having a good day?
summer		I am thank you. Listen, about tonight... I think I might just stay in and go to bed early.
tom		What? Why?
summer		I'm just really tired and I've gotta go in early tomorrow. Would you be super mad at me if we went out this weekend instead?
tom		Well... You don't want to just, maybe, go to dinner. I mean, you've gotta eat right?
summer		I'm not really that hungry. And this place is fancy right?
tom		 Sorta.
summer		I'd rather not. Seriously, do you mind?
tom		Hey, no, that's cool. Whatever you want to do.
summer		Thank you. So we'll talk tomorrow, alright?
tom		Sure.
summer		Great. Good night Tom.
tom		Good night.  Hey, Happy... birthday.
paul		I just got lucky I guess. We met in elementary school. We had the same class schedule in the 7th grade and we just... clicked.
mckenzie		Love? Shit, I don't know. As long as she's cute and she's willing, right? Actually, cute is a strong word. Not atrocious.
rachel		That's a pretty complex question. Philosophers, poets, scientists, everybody has a theory, don't they? 
summer		Ok I'm sick of this love shit. Come on! We've been fed this nonsense for generations to the point where it's now genetically encoded in our very beings. And what does it mean? Absolutely nothing. Give me a break!
mckenzie		I'm just saying... I really need some ass. I'm desperate.  You got nothing?
paul		I wouldn't say "the girl of my dreams," no. The girl of my dreams would have a better rack. Probably different hair, could like sports a little more. But... truth is... Robyn's better than the girl of my dreams.  You know why? Cause she's real.
mckenzie		Hansen, don't you have like twenty bar mitzvah cards to write?
tom		Nope. All done. What are you working on?
mckenzie		Congratulations. But I've run out of ways to say it. "Good job," "well done," "way to go"... I got nothing.
tom		Why don't you try... "Everyday you make me proud. But today, you get a card."
mckenzie		 Shit. That's not bad.
tom		No worries.
tom		This is good Millie. "To my wife, the love of my life. I love you." That's very nice. I was thinking though, why not try something like... "Everyday that we don't meet is meaningless and incomplete." You know, spice it up a little.
tom		Did you try... "Merry?"
all		Whoa/Perfect/Yes!
tom		What else you got?
tom		"...aint no woman got what you got, sista girl. Happy birthday to the lean, sheen, and sizzly mocha queen!"  How's that?
tom		Yeah. It's pretty cool.
tom		You really want to see this?
summer		It sounds amazing.
tom		It's, like, all stabbing and shit.
summer		Exactly.
tom		Ok.
summer		All you take me to are sappy little romances. I want to see some open wounds, damn it. I want carnage.
tom		Fantastic.
tom		Oh shit.
summer		What?
sarah		Hey!
tom		 Hi Mom.
tom		Mom, Martin, this is Summer.
sarah		Summer! Well hello! We've heard so much about you! It's so good to finally meet you.
summer		You too.
martin		 Is this the girlfriend?
tom		Well this is the girl friend I've told you about. I don't know if "girlfriend" is the right word...
sarah		You going to see the serial killer one?
summer		Yes we are.
sarah		Great! Should we save you seats?
summer		Absolutely.
sarah		Ok. We'll see you inside.
tom		Sorry about that.
summer		It's fine.
tom		You wanna go do something else? We can totally bolt.
summer		Did you tell them I was your girlfriend?
tom		What?! No way... I never used that word.
summer		They seemed to think... I mean, why is your step-dad giving me a hug?
tom		He's very...loving.
summer		Does he hug all your friends?
summer		You're not having any fun.
tom		You're having enough for both of us.
summer		I'm dancing. I haven't danced in ages. God. Come on.
tom		No.
summer		Come on! I wanna dance with you.
tom		Where were you an hour ago? I might have danced then. I've been standing here by myself this whole time and you didn't look over once.
summer		So you're pissed?
tom		I'm not pissed. Summer... you know I hate this shit.
summer		Then why are you here?
tom		This is what you wanted to do so...we're doing it.
summer		Yeah well, I didn't need a chaperone. Go home. You're a buzzkill standing there pouting.
tom		 That's real nice.
summer		Tom!
tom		You wanted to see me, Mr. Vance?
vance		Yes Hansen. Sit down.
tom		Ok.
tom		What do you mean?
vance		A death in the family, someone taken ill...anything like that?
tom		No.
vance		Look, I don't mean to pry. Does this have something to do with Summer leaving.
tom		Who?
tom		 Your...?
tom		I'm not following.
vance		For example, here's something you wrote last week...  "Roses are Red, Violets are Blue. Fuck You Whore." Now...most shoppers on Valentine's Day ---
tom		Mr. Vance... are you firing me?
vance		No, no, no. Relax Hansen. You're one of our most... adequate writers.
tom		Ok. Well, I'm sorry. Things for me have been a little difficult.
vance		That's ok. I understand that. I was just thinking... perhaps you could channel your energy into... this.
tom		Funerals and sympathy?
vance		Misery, sadness, loss of faith, no reasons to live... it's perfect for you. Whaddaya say? Good? Good. Now back to work you go.
tom		What's going on?
paul		We have news.
tom		Ok.
mckenzie		It's about her.
tom		Do I want to hear it?
paul		Thats what we wanted to ask you.
mckenzie		It's just...lately you've been...better.
paul		You've been much much better.
mckenzie		So maybe it's best we don't ever bring her up again.
paul		Just let sleeping dogs lie.
mckenzie		Leave those dogs alone Tom!
tom		You guys, look, I'm... I appreciate what you're saying and, thank you, really, for putting up with me these past few months. I've been crazy. But I've accepted the fact that she and I were just two very different people who wanted very different things. I wanted to get serious. Shit, I loved her. And I know now, she just isn't the kind of girl who can settle down with one person and be happy. The way I wanted. And she probably never will. There was nothing I could do.
tom		There's no fucking way!
mckenzie		Tom.
tom		It can't be. It's impossible!
paul		It is.
tom		How do you know?
tom		Jesus Christ people! Get a room!
mckenzie		Tom!
mckenzie		I've been calling every five minutes. Are you ok?
tom		What? Oh yeah. Great.
mckenzie		Do you need anything?
tom		Twinkies?
mckenzie		Sorry.
tom		I'm out of twinkies.
mckenzie		Well let's go.
tom		Go... where?
mckenzie		It's Thursday.
tom		 Hmm?
tom		Uh...no. I really don't.
tom		Well I wouldn't say nothing... Actually, that's about right.
tom		You know what...?
tom		Can I say something about the cat?
vance		Well sure. Go ahead.
tom		This here is, and Rhoda, you know I mean no disrespect... but this... this is total shit.
mckenzie		Tom!
tom		"Don't give up?" "You can do it?"
tom		This isn't inspirational. It's suicidal. He tries that jump, I'm writing a sympathy card for that cat. That's the last thing I want to be doing with my life. It's bad enough writing these things for people.
vance		Hansen, this is a place of business. We don't cut down our co- workers --
tom		That's cause we're liars! It's what we do here. Why don't we level with people? Stop feeding them nonsense?
tom		Yes but think about it! Why do people buy these things? Not to say how they feel. There's paper and pens for that. People give these cards when they can't say how they feel. Or they're afraid to. And we provide the service that lets `em get away with that!
tom		I say to hell with it! Let's level with America. Or at least make them speak for themselves! I mean, seriously, what's this...  "I'm sorry to hear your grandmother has passed." What the hell? Let's give em some truth. Something like, "Sorry to hear about your grandmother. Here's a card so I get some credit in your time of need. I'm sure it makes up for the fact that grandma's dead."
tom		Think about it.  "Congratulations on your new baby." Eh... How bout... "Congratulations on your new baby... Guess that's it for hanging out. Nice knowing ya, buddy."
vance		Hansen, sit down!
tom		 Wait, what's this? Ooh... fancy! Look at this one with all the hearts. Let's open it up. "Happy Valentine's Day, Sweetheart. I love you." Oh that's nice.
mckenzie		Tom...
tom		If someone gave me this card, Mr. Vance... I would eat it.
mckenzie		Tom!
tom		 It's these greeting cards, Sir, these cards, these movies, these pop songs. They're responsible for all the lies, the heartache, everything! We're responsible! Everyone shifts in their seats.
tom		I think we do a bad thing here. People should be able to say how they feel, how they really feel, without some strangers putting words in their mouths. The truth. A card is a nice thought but it shouldn't do the dirty work for you. You love someone, tell them yourself, in your own words. Maybe it's not love at all. Maybe there's no such thing as love. Maybe it's... "galoogoo."  Yeah I made it up, so what?!
tom		It's all crap. We make and peddle crap. And sometimes people believe in this crap. I just can't do it anymore, Mr. Vance. There's enough bullshit in the world without my help. I quit.
tom		There's no fucking way!
mckenzie		Tom.
tom		It can't be. It's impossible!
paul		It is.
tom		How do you know?
mckenzie		We know.
tom		But... It's May! We broke up last August.
paul		I know.
tom		And you said she was single at Christmas.
mckenzie		She was.
tom		And now she's...
mckenzie		Yeah.
tom		Now she's getting married.
paul		I'm so sorry Tom.
tom		Married?
paul		It's insane.
tom		It's impossible. It doesn't make sense. Where did they meet? Is it someone we know?
paul		No.
tom		So everything she said. All that stuff about... it can't be. Not her. I know her too well. She wouldn't do that.
tom		 Fuck!
mckenzie		Tom!
paul		Let him go.
rachel		Your apple pies are really great. So Uncle Sid and Aunt Ro, come light candle number eight!
aunt anita		I can't believe that. No girlfriend?
tom		I can't believe it either!
aunt betsy		What are you 30? You should be married now. With a family. What are you waiting for?
tom		The right girl I guess.
aunt betsy		There's girls everywhere. I bet you have to beat em off with a stick.
tom		Oh you'd be surprised.
aunt anita		 Look at this punum. Are all those girls blind?
aunt betsy		My friend Mimi has a granddaughter. Yay high. Great figure. Bosom out to here --
tom		Hey I appreciate that Aunt Betsy. Lord knows I like bosoms. It's just... I recently got out of a...well, I don't know what it was.
aunt anita		Oh I'm sorry. When was that?
tom		July.
aunt betsy		You mean...seven months ago?
aunt anita		Was it a man?
tom		What?
aunt betsy		She's means `are you a homosexual?'
tom		No. Where's that coming from?
aunt betsy		We just always wondered.
aunt anita		So how's work?
tom		Well...glad you came?
summer		Of course. Where am I exactly?
tom		When you turn 13 in the Jewish religion, you officially become an adult.
summer		Wow. So this is a big day in your sister's life.
tom		Pretty big, yeah.
summer		 So why aren't you smiling?
rachel		Hey brother. Wanna dance?
rachel		Hi.
tom		You having fun? You were great this morning.
rachel		Yeah yeah yeah. Talk to me. How are you?
tom		Me? I'm good. I'm great.
rachel		 I heard.
tom		Yeah.
rachel		Sucks.
tom		Yup.
tom		Anyway, who cares about me? This is your day.
rachel		You know, my friends... they're all in love with you.
tom		Is that right?
rachel		Look.
tom		That's nice.
rachel		What I tell ya? There are plenty other fish in the sea.
tom		Those are guppies.
rachel		Who knows, someday one might turn out to be your "true love."
tom		Are you making fun of me now?
rachel		No I'm serious.
tom		I got news for you Rach. That true love stuff... it's make-believe.
rachel		Well that's not very romantic.
tom		It's the new me.
tom		Alright... go play with your friends.
rachel		You'll be ok?
tom		 Sure.
rachel		Tom.
tom		Hmm?
rachel		I know you think she was the perfect girl for you...  I don't. I think you're just remembering the good stuff. But
tom		Hey.
summer		Hello?
tom		Are you still sleeping?
summer		 I'm getting up. What time is it?
tom		10:30. Are we still hanging out today?
summer		Ok. Sure.
tom		I'll meet you at Liberty in... 20 minutes?
tom		So how was last night?
summer		It was fine. Just a work thing.
tom		Where did you guys go?
summer		Some restaurant.
tom		Fun?
summer		Uneventful. Didn't get home until after 12 though which is way too late for a stupid work function. How was your night?
tom		Pretty standard.
summer		You want to go?
tom		I don't know. You wanna maybe go back to your place or ---
summer		I want to see it. Let's go.
tom		Ok cool.
summer		Unless you don't want to.
tom		No, I will. That's fine.
summer		Ok.
tom		Hey.
tom		Hey Sum, it's just a movie.
summer		I know. I'm sorry Tom.
tom		Is everything alright with you?
summer		Yeah. I'm just...I'm sorry. I'm being ridiculous.
tom		It's ok. This happens to me every time I watch "Hoosiers." Let's go for a walk, ok. Let's get some air. Or go to Sister Ray's.
summer		Ok.
tom		It pains me that we live in a world where no one's ever heard of Spearmint.
summer		I've never heard of them.
tom		And it's painful. Oh look.
summer		So.
tom		So... Now what?
summer		Now...I think I'm gonna call it a day.
tom		Yeah? You wanna maybe...get some dinner or something?
summer		I've got pasta at home.
tom		Are you hungry?
summer		I'm pretty hungry, but --
tom		Ooh!
summer		What?
tom		I've got a great idea!
summer		What?
tom		Let's get breakfast.
summer		Now?
tom		Pancakes?
summer		 Where you coming from?
tom		What? Oh. Nowhere. How long have you been sitting there?
summer		Awhile.
summer		I come here a lot. I always loved this place, ever since you brought me here.
tom		So... I should probably say congratulations.
summer		Probably. But only if you mean it.
tom		I don't know if I do honestly.
summer		I understand.
tom		Yeah well...anyway...I hope you're happy.
summer		You really do?
tom		 God no.
summer		How are you, Tom?
tom		I'm good. Ish.
summer		That's good.
tom		Yeah I quit the office.
summer		Really? That's great! What are you doing now?
tom		Mostly...sleeping. Breaking things.
tom		So who's the guy?
summer		Who, my guy?
tom		Yeah... Wait. Don't tell me. I don't want to know.
summer		Tom...
tom		No really, I don't.
summer		Ok.
tom		It's amazing to me. You're married.
summer		I know.
tom		You're not only someone's girlfriend, your someone's wife!
summer		Pretty crazy, huh?
tom		 I'll never understand that.
summer		Tom --
tom		What's different now? How could things change so quickly?
summer		I don't know. It just happened.
tom		What happened?! That's what I don't get.
summer		I... Tom...
tom		What, tell me...
summer		I woke up one day and I knew.
summer		I knew I could promise him I'd feel the same way every morning. In a way that I... I never could with you.
tom		You know what sucks? Realizing that everything you believe in is complete bullshit.
summer		What is?
tom		Destiny, soulmates, true love. All that stuff. It's nothing more than silly childhood fairy tale nonsense, isn't it? God!
summer		Tom, don't go.
tom		I should have listened to you, Summer. You were right all along.
summer		I was right?
tom		What? This is funny?
tom		What are you laughing at?
tom		 You're a crazy person!
summer		Tom! You're the crazy person!
tom		What are you talking about?!
summer		One day I'm reading a book at the corner deli and this guy sits down and starts asking about it. Now he's my husband!
tom		This is funny to you?
summer		What would have happened if I went to the movies instead? If I went somewhere else for lunch? If I showed up to eat ten minutes later? Tom, it was meant to be, just like you said. And as it was happening, I knew it. I could feel it, sure as the sun. And I kept thinking to myself "Holy shit. Tom was right." You were right about all of it.  It just wasn't me you were right about.
summer		Anyway, I should probably be getting back. It was good to see you. I'm glad you're well.
tom		Summer!
tom		I really do hope you're happy.
summer		I know.  See you later.
girl		Are you here to interview?
tom		Sorry?
girl		Are you interviewing? For the position?
tom		Oh. Yeah. Why, are you?
girl		Yup.
tom		Ah. My competition.
girl		It would appear.
tom		Gee, this is a little awkward.
girl		Yes it is.
tom		Well, I hope you don't get it.
girl		I hope you don't get it. They both laugh. There's a silence for a few beats. And it's during this time that something weird comes over Tom and we can visibly see it in his face. He likes the look of this girl. This girl is cute. He'd like to talk more with her. And, honestly, he's a little surprised by it.
tom		So, uh...
girl		Hmm?
tom		Are you from...California?
girl		Grew up not too far from here. Atherton, near Stanford.
tom		I know Atherton. Nice area.
girl		Have I seen you before?
tom		I, uh, don't know. I don't think so.
girl		Do you go to St. Patrick's? Not to pray or anything but to stand outside?
tom		I do! I love that church. It's like my favorite structure in the city.
girl		If only it wasn't near that horrible mirrored thing...
tom		Yes! Exactly. I totally agree!
girl		Yeah.  I think I've seen you there.
tom		You have? Really? Hmm. I didn't see you.
girl		It happens. You probably weren't looking.
man		Tom Hansen?
tom		Yes.
man		Come on back.
tom		Thank you.
narrator		If Tom had learned anything... it was that you can't ascribe great cosmic significance to a simple earthly event. Coincidence. That's all anything ever is. Nothing more than coincidence.
narrator		It took a long time but Tom had finally learned. There are no miracles. There's no such thing as fate. Nothing is meant to be. He knew. He was sure of it now.  Tom was...
narrator		...pretty sure.
tom		 Excuse me.
girl		Hello stranger.
tom		When this is over... uh... would you like to maybe...grab a cup of coffee or something?
girl		Oh. I'm sorta supposed to meet someone.
tom		 Oh. Got it... No problem.
girl		Ok.
tom		What's that?
girl		Why not?
tom		Yeah?
girl		Yeah.
tom		Great! So... I'll wait for you here, or you wait for me or...something.
girl		We'll figure it out.
tom		Ok!  My name's Tom.
girl		Nice to meet you...
girl		I'm Autumn.
****Dialogues from script :8MM.txt****

cab driver		Where to?
welles		Follow that limousine.  Don't get too close, don't let it get too far away.  Just keep with it.
cab driver		You kidding?
welles		Nope.
cab driver		Uh, listen... you're not supposed to be smoking in here.  I'm sorry, that's company policy...
welles		How about this... every cigarette I smoke, I give you five dollars?
cab driver		Okay... okay, yeah, that'd be good...
amy		Welcome home.
welles		Do you know how much I missed you?
amy		I love you.
welles		I love you.
mrs christian		This is Mister Longdale, my late husband's attorney.
welles		Of what sort?
longdale		You are a private investigator?
welles		Thank you.
welles		I've been privileged to provide services for people I admire.
welles		Mrs. Christian... please, will you sit down a moment?  I want you to listen carefully. What you're talking about is a "snuff film."  But, from what I know, snuff films are a kind of... urban myth.  Like, red light district folklore.  There's no such thing, I can assure you.
welles		You... you need to go to the police.
welles		You don't have any other choice.
amy		I understand.
amy		I know.
amy		Why the gun?
welles		What I'd like, very simply, is access to your archive.  And, now I understand this isn't something you normally do for private citizens...
director		I can give you my card, if your clients want to call me...
director		Listen, maybe I can help after all. Why don't you come on back in... we'll see what we can do.
director		It's horrible, but it'll be your best friend after a few days.  I hope you realize what kind of long shot you're chasing after.
welles		You're gonna be seeing a lot of me. You're sure you don't mind?
welles		 Yeah, about five or six years ago. Anyway, do what you can to dig up your husband's old financial records, look for anything out of the ordinary...
mrs mathews		Yes... ?
welles		 Hello, Mrs. Mathews, my name's Thomas Jones, I'm a state licensed investigator...
welles		I've been hired as an independent contractor by the U.S. Resource Center for Missing Persons as part of an internal audit.  If you have any time over the next few days, I'd like to make an appointment to ask some questions about the disappearance of your daughter.
mrs mathews		I don't understand, who are... ?
welles		I'm sorry, let me explain, the R.C.M.P. is a support organization and archive, not unlike the Center for Missing and Exploited Children in Washington.  I'm sure you've dealt with them before?
mrs mathews		Yes, but...
mrs mathews		Neil... Neil Cole.
welles		 Right, Agent Cole told me he'd call and let you know to expect me.  He didn't call?
mrs mathews		No.
welles		 Well, I'm following up on your daughter, Mary, height; five four, weight; hundred ten pounds, brown eyes, blonde hair.  Born April 24, 1976.  Missing June 11th, 1992.  A runaway, that's how she's listed. Is this information correct... ?
welles		I'm sorry, I know this isn't easy. Is there a more convenient time... ?  Can I buy you lunch, would that be alright?
welles		It's very important you don't let this raise your expectations.  It's not going to effect any ongoing efforts.  All I'm saying is, please know, I'm not here to create any false hope.
mrs mathews		They hired you.  You're like, a private detective?
welles		That's exactly what I am.
mrs mathews		I didn't think there were private detectives anymore, except on TV.
welles		You probably expect me to be wearing a trench coat and a hat.  Drinking whiskey, chasing women and getting beaten up by guys with broken noses. Want to know what it's really like? It's sitting in a car and staring at a hotel window for three days straight, pissing in a plastic bottle, pardon me, because some guy thinks his wife's cheating on him. Glamorous, huh?  And the guy who hired you, he has a hair-lip, dandruff and crooked teeth, and you could have told him the minute you laid eyes on him his wife's cheating, and you don't blame her.
welles		It's refreshing to actually sit down and meet someone face to face, someone nice like you.
welles		So, she didn't leave a note?  She never gave any indication where she might go, before she left?
mrs mathews		No.
welles		She just seemed... depressed... ?
mrs mathews		She didn't seem herself.  For months there never was any way to get her to talk about it.  One night we went to bed... the next morning she was gone.  She took some clothes.
welles		What was she running from?
mrs mathews		I don't know.
welles		If there's anything you feel uncomfortable talking about, tell me, but I have to ask.  Your husband... he committed suicide?
mrs mathews		Yes.
welles		September 4th, 1993.  About a year after Mary disappeared.
mrs mathews		We were divorced by then.  Things fell apart... he was living with a friend...
welles		Why do you think he did it?
mrs mathews		It got to be too much for him.
welles		You have to forgive me, but in these circumstances... with your daughter...  Were there any indications of... any sort of abuse?
mrs mathews		There wasn't anything like that. The police and the FBI people asked, but there wasn't anything happened like that, never.  My husband... his heart broke when Mary left...
welles		I didn't mean to...
mrs mathews		You try going through what we did. Bob couldn't take it, that's all. Christ, there's times when it still seems like I can't either.
welles		I had to ask.  I apologize.
mrs mathews		No one knows what it's like.  You can't even imagine how much it hurts.
mrs mathews		People remember me from the news.  Can you drive me back now?
welles		Of course.
mrs mathews		This is her room.
mrs mathews		The police made a wreck of it, but I put it back exactly how it was. Just how she likes it.
welles		I... I shouldn't take anymore of your time.  Maybe we can finish tomorrow.  I'll call tomorrow...
mrs mathews		Okay.
welles		 I've got a lead I have to follow through.  To be honest, I don't think I'm going to get very far. I miss you.  I love you.
mrs mathews		Doesn't make much sense, does it? When everything's happy, when life's fine and you have every reason to believe there's a God, you don't bother.  Then, something horrible happens... that's when you start praying all the time.  That's when you start going to church.
welles		We're all like that.
mrs mathews		Are you religious?
welles		No.
mrs mathews		You should be.
welles		I've got what I need for my report. There is... there is one thing that bothers me though.
mrs mathews		What?
welles		It's not really my place, but it's not easy for me to set aside the private detective part of me either. See, I know a little about missing persons.  When kids run, they almost always leave a note.  It's guilt. They want to say goodbye.
mrs mathews		There wasn't one.  The police looked.
welles		Do you think the police did a good job?
mrs mathews		I don't know.  I think so.
welles		It is possible... and I know this isn't something you want to hear. Your daughter may have tried to hide a note where she thought you would eventually find it, but where she knew your husband would never find it.  She might have wanted to tell you something...
mrs mathews		No.  You don't have any reason to think that...
welles		If the police focused their search in her room, her belongings, well that'd be only natural, but they may have been looking in the wrong place.
mrs mathews		How... how can you say that to me...?
welles		Will you let me look?
mrs mathews		My husband never laid a hand on her. She would have told me... she would have told me...
mrs mathews		Go ahead and look if you want.  I don't care what you do.
welles		You were right.  I didn't find anything.  I'm going to run and get something to eat. Are you hungry?
mrs mathews		Yes.
welles		Do you ever consider... do you realize that Mary may never come back?
mrs mathews		I think about it everyday.  But, every time the phone rings... every single time, I still think it's her.
welles		It's been six years.
mrs mathews		What am I supposed to do?  Forget her?  Time heals all wounds, right?  I'd choose to know.
welles		Excuse me, I have to use your bathroom.
welles		Is this pretty much it?
welles		Just... just videos?
pierced clerk		What are you looking for?
welles		Nothing.
pierced clerk		Fuck-head.
max		Big date tonight?
welles		 Yeah... guess so.
welles		Pardon me?
max		My boss tells me I have to do more suggestive selling.
max		It's your call, but you're gonna be sorry when you're in one of those everyday situations that call for a battery-operated vagina and you don't have one.
welles		I'll risk it.
max		Thank you for shopping at Adult Bookstore.  Have a nice day.
welles		What are you reading?
max		Once you pick it up you can't put it down.
welles		Catchy title.  What are you really reading?  Hard to believe that book's got any parts worth highlighting.
welles		Truman Capote.
max		I tear off the cover and paste this one on...  You know how it is.
welles		Wouldn't want to embarrass yourself in front of your fellow perverts.
max		 Might get drummed out of the pornographer's union, and then where would I be?
welles		 The way it's going I'm about ready to pack my bags...
welles		 Goodnight.
welles		Remember me?
max		Came back for that battery-operated vagina, right?  Told you you would.
welles		I need some information.  Thought you might be able to help.
max		 Thomas Welles.  Nice picture.
welles		I'll be outside having a cigarette.
max		 Cover me, Beth.  I'm taking a break.
max		I don't know what you're looking for, mister, but so we're clear from the start, I'm straight.
welles		Good for you.
welles		How long you been working there?
max		Three, four years.
welles		What's your name, if you don't mind me asking?
max		Max.
welles		Well, here's the deal, Max.  This thing I'm on right now has something to do with underground pornography. Stuff that's sold under the counter, illegally...
max		There's not much illegal.
welles		Well, whatever there is, whoever's dealing, however it's done, I want to know.  I want a good look, so if you've got that kind of connection, great.  If not, speak now.
max		You're not a cop, are you?  If I ask and you are, you have to tell me.
welles		I'm not a cop.
max		You're a private eye.  Like Shaft.
welles		Not quite.
max		From Pennsylvania.  P.I. from PA. What are you doing out here?
welles		Well, there's the thing; you're not gonna know anything about what I'm doing, but you can make some money.
max		How much?
welles		How much do you make now?
max		Four hundred a week, off the books.
welles		Okay, let's pretend I live in the same fantasy world where you make four hundred a week in that dump. I'll give you six hundred for a few days.
max		Sounds good, pops.
welles		Here's my number if you need it...  When can you start?
max		Tomorrow night, I get off at eight.
welles		See you then.  Oh, and, don't call me "pops."
welles		 ... Hello... ?
max		Come on.
goon		Are you a law enforcement agent or in any way affiliated with law enforcement?
max		Fuck you, Larry.
goon		 Are you a law enforcement... ?
welles		No.
one dealer		We're shutting down in fifteen minutes.  Fifteen minutes.
welles		 What are these?
angry dealer		Mixed hard bondage.  Rape films. Sick shit.  Buy five, get one free.
welles		Anything harder?
angry dealer		There's nothing harder.
welles		Snuff?
angry dealer		What you see is what I got, mister.
welles		You know where I can get it?  I have a lot of money to spend.
angry dealer		There ain't no such thing as snuff. Why don't you fuck off?
large man		You have to pay to come in here.
max		You've got Penthouse, Playboy, Hustler, etc.  Nobody even considers them pornography anymore.  Then, there's mainstream hardcore.  Triple X.  The difference is penetration. That's hardcore.  That whole industry's up in the valley. Writers, directors, porn stars. They're celebrities, or they think they are.  They pump out 150 videos a week.  A week.  They've even got a porno Academy Awards.  America loves pornography.  Anybody tells you they never use pornography, they're lying.  Somebody's buying those videos.  Somebody's out there spending 900 million dollars a year on phone sex.  Know what else?  It's only gonna get worse.  More and more you'll see perverse hardcore coming into the mainstream, because that's evolution.  Desensitization.  Oh my God, Elvis Presley's wiggling his hips, how offensive!  Nowadays, Mtv's showing girls dancing around in thong bikinis with their asses hanging out.  Know what I mean?  For the porn-addict, big tits aren't big enough after a while.  They have to be the biggest tits ever.  Some porn chicks are putting in breast implants bigger than your head, literally.  Soon, Playboy is gonna be Penthouse, Penthouse'll be Hustler, Hustler'll be hardcore, and hardcore films'll be medical films. People'll be jerking off to women laying around with open wounds. There's nowhere else for it to go.
welles		Interesting theory.
max		What you saw tonight, we're not talking about a video some dentist takes home over the weekend.  We're talking about stuff where people get hurt.  Specialty product.
welles		Child pornography.
max		There's two kinds of specialty product; legal and illegal.  Foot fetish, shit films, watersports, bondage, spanking, fisting, she- males, hemaphrodites... it's beyond hardcore, but legal.  This is the kind of hardcore where one guy's going to look at it and throw up, another guy looks at it and falls in love.  Now, with some of the S+M and bondage films, they straddle the line.  How are you supposed to tell if the person tied up with the ball gag in their mouth is a consenting or not?  Step over that line, you're into kiddie porn.  Rape films, but there aren't many.  I've never seen one.
welles		Snuff films.
max		I heard you asking.  That guy wasn't yanking you around.  There's no such thing.
welles		What other ways are there to get illegal films?  Who do you see?
max		First of all, basement sales like tonight aren't gonna last much longer.  It's too risky, one, and two, everything's going on the internet.  Anyone with a computer and enough patience can find anything he wants.  It's heaven for those degenerate chicken-hawks. They're swapping pictures back and forth as fast as their modems can zap 'em.  But, there's still some weird shit under the counter where I work sometimes.  No one knows where it comes from.  That's local underground, where information spreads by word of mouth.  Those are zombies, hardcore junkies.  Their hands are permanently pruned.  They go out in the sun they don't burn, they blister.  Other than that, all I know about is the mail. Classified ads in the paper with hidden codes.  Secret couriers. Credit card orders to dummy corporations.  Interstate wire transfers.  Revolving P.O. boxes. But, if you're asking me who do you go to to get illegal shit... who knows?  That's the whole point -- the seller stays as far away from the buyer as possible, and vice versa, and cops can't trace the deal.  There's ways to do it so nobody knows who anybody is.
welles		How old are you?
max		Twenty-five.
welles		Where are your parents?
max		I don't know, where are yours?
welles		I don't mean any offense... but what are you doing mixed up in all this?
max		I'm not mixed up in anything, hayseed.  What are you talking about?
welles		You just strike me as smart enough to be doing something else.
max		Yeah, I'm a real genius.  What choices have I got?  Fuck, just because I know about stuff like tonight doesn't mean I deal it.  I work a job.  It beats pumping gas, beats making hamburgers.
welles		You're telling me it doesn't get to you?
max		You can't sit there all day watching the parade of losers that comes into that place without going numb.  So what? Am I gonna go off and be a race car driver?  Go to Harvard?  Run for President?  What about you, pops?
welles		What about me?
max		I see a ring on your finger.  You have any kids?
welles		A daughter.
max		So, you have a wife and kid waiting for you in Pennsylvania... what are you doing mixed up in all this?
welles		Good question.
mrs christian		 My husband had five cash accounts he used to temporarily hold stock profits.  Between November of 1991 and March of 1992, he wrote one check out to cash from each account. He wrote these himself...
welles		 Okay...
welles		I'm not positive this means anything.
mrs christian		 One was for two hundred thousand, one dollar and thirteen cents. Another was for three hundred thousand, six hundred fifty four dollars and seventy six cents...
mrs christian		Totalled together, these five checks from five different accounts, they equal one million dollars.
welles		 You're joking.
welles		I'm here.
welles		For a human life... murder on film, no statute of limitations.  Who knows?  It sure could have.  I'd like you to overnight me a copy of those checks, then put them in a safe deposit box.
welles		Send it to me through the post office like we arranged.  No return address.  You dug this up all by yourself?
welles		You're one hell of a detective, Mrs. Christian.
welles		Her name was Mary Anne Mathews.
nun		Yes... I remember Mary
welles		You... you do?  You're sure? Please, Sister, will you take another look, make sure...
nun		She lived here for only about a month, if I recall correctly.  She didn't return one night.  She never came back.  I didn't know what to think...
nun		Do you know what happened to her?
welles		I'm trying to find out.  She was a runaway.  I'm looking into it for her parents.
nun		 Can you get that down for me?
nun		No, the next shelf... there...
welles		What is this?
nun		Those are her belongings.
welles		Her belongings?
nun		That's her suitcase.  I had forgotten it, till you showed me her picture.
welles		Whatever possessed you to keep this all this time?
nun		She was the kindest, sweetest girl you'd ever want to meet.  Oh, I adored her.  I supposed I always hoped she'd be back.  After a time, all I could do was pray she had moved on to better things.  Can you get this suitcase to her parents, if you think it's appropriate?
welles		I'll do what I can.
welles		Cash.
salesperson		Alright.  May I have your phone number, area code first?
welles		No, you may not.
salesperson		Okay.  Fine.
salesperson		I'm required by state law to inform you that, while it's perfectly legal for you to purchase these items, it is illegal for you to use them for any sort of...
welles		Yeah, I know the spiel.  If you could bag it, I'll be on my way, thank you.
salesperson		Certainly, sir.
welles		Come on, Eddie...
welles		That is you, isn't it, Eddie?
welles		 Two one two.
welles		 What do you know about a guy called Dino Velvet?  Dino Velvet Films?
max		 Dino Velvet... yeah, he's like the John Luc Godard of S+M flicks, supposed to be a real weirdo.
max		 His stuff comes out of New York. Bondage and fetish videos, Gothic Hardcore.  Definitely not for the squeamish.
max		You're learning.
max		Out of the back of bondage magazines mostly, but you can find it on the street if you look.  He'll also do commissions, for enough money...
welles		 Alright, I get the picture.
welles		Take a vacation.  I'll pay you four hundred a day, plus expenses.
welles		Consider it.  Meanwhile, dig up whatever Dino Velvet films you can. Get receipts.  I'll call back.
mrs christian		 Hello?
mrs christian		 How are you?  Having any luck?
mrs christian		I've been ordered into bed.  The doctor says I've gotten the flu, or some other wretched ailment.
mrs christian		Nothing more than a bother.  Have you any news for me?
welles		 I've made progress.  I'm in Manhattan.  Once a few more pieces fall into place, I'll drive to you and give you an update.
welles		I've got about five thousand left in cash, but I'll need another thirty, if you approve.
mrs christian		How will I get it to you?
welles		If you have a pencil and paper, I'll tell you how to send it.
max		You didn't say it was gonna be this luxurious.
welles		It's their Presidential Suite.
max		Great.
max		Oh, come on, man, what are we doing in this flea bag?
welles		It's cheap, and people know to mind their own business. What have you got for me?
max		Dino Velvet.
welles		Max... wake up...
max		Wha... ?
welles		 Who is this, in the mask?  Who is he?
max		He's one of the lunatics Dino uses. He's in a bunch of these.
max		Why?  He have something to do with whatever you're into?
welles		No... it's nothing... that's not him.
welles		Who is he?
max		I told you, he's one of Dino Velvet's stock players...
welles		Who is he, his name?
max		Nobody knows his name.  That's his thing.  He always wears a mask.  You never see his face.  He calls himself "Machine," that's what they call him.  Machine.
max		They say he's half brain-dead from all the steroids he's using.
max		He's a brutal motherfucker, man.  He loves what he does for a living.
welles		You don't need to be here.
max		What kind of Junior P.I. would I be if I didn't go with you?
thug		You're in the wrong place.
welles		We're looking for Mr. Velvet.
thug		He's not here.
welles		Why don't you tell him we're here to give him a large sum of money.  If he's not interested, we'll go.
thug		You should leave now, before I have to remove you.
welles		You heard the boss, Milo.
dino velvet		Come in.  Make yourself comfortable.
welles		It's an honor to meet you.  Thank you for seeing us.
dino velvet		What can I do for you today?
welles		I'd like to commission a work.  I'm a great admirer of yours.
dino velvet		Flattering.  And, who's your colorful little chum?
welles		A fellow investor.
dino velvet		Hmm.
max		You're the only one still shooting film and transferring it to video. Nobody appreciates that kind of integrity anymore... the grain, the gritty look you get.
dino velvet		Well, I'm glad you appreciate it.  What would you say is your favorite piece?
max		I know if I had to pick, it'd be "Choke," or "Devil."
welles		"Devil" frightened me as much as it excited me, but I'd be hard pressed to choose a favorite.
dino velvet		You said something about money.
welles		Yes.  What we're looking for is rather specific.
welles		That's five thousand dollars.
dino velvet		Is it?
welles		Five thousand now, five thousand on delivery. Two women, one white and one black, as long as they have large breasts. Hard bondage, or course.  Other than that, trusting your artistic interpretation, I have only two stipulations.
dino velvet		And they are?
welles		I want to watch you work.
dino velvet		I'll consider it.
welles		And the other performer... it has to be that monster you use... the man in the mask.
dino velvet		Machine.
welles		If it's not him, there's no deal.
dino velvet		He might be interested... but it would mean another five thousand.
welles		We can do that.
dino velvet		Well, well, I'll have to put my thinking-cap on about all this. You'll leave the money as a deposit?  Very good.
dino velvet		You have a beautiful face... the way the light hits it.  I'd like to take your picture.  You don't mind?
welles		I'd rather you didn't.
dino velvet		What's the problem?
welles		I'm camera shy.
dino velvet		You trust me to keep your money, but not to take your picture?
welles		Those are two different kinds of trust.  Thank you for your time.  I hope we can do business.
welles		 So, what do you say?
dino velvet		 I'll do this for you.  Fifteen thousand dollars.
dino velvet		 He's in.  It will be his pleasure.
welles		 Where's that?
max		What's next?
welles		I'm trying to figure that out myself.  I have to see Machine without his mask.
max		Still don't want to tell me what you're doing?
welles		Nope.
welles		This is for you.
max		What's this?
welles		It's money.  People use it to purchase goods and services.
max		Look... that's awful generous and everything...
welles		It's not my money.  The woman I got it from is never going to give it a second thought.  Let's not make a big deal out of this, okay?  Go be a race car driver.  Go run for President.  Whatever.
welles		I'll see you around.
dino velvet		There you are.  Come join us.
welles		 Hello.
dino velvet		You brought the money?
welles		 Right here.
dino velvet		Excellent.
welles		Where are the women?
dino velvet		They should be here any minute.
welles		 What are these for?
dino velvet		Hmm?  Oh, the knifes?  They're just props.  Nice, aren't they?
welles		Sure.
dino velvet		Machine and I were just talking about knifes.  The beauty of knifes...
dino velvet		He was saying how fascinated he is by their simple ability to be sharp. The ability of a piece of metal to be so thin that it is almost nothing...
dino velvet		So close to nothingness that it cuts with minimum effort, because it's so non-intrusive.  Flesh is fooled.  It blooms open as the blade widens, but by then it's too late, because the knife's already doing its pure, simple damage.
dino velvet		Ah, ours guests have arrived.
dino velvet		Mister Welles... would you be so kind as to remove any firearms from your person?
welles		What are you... ?
dino velvet		Take out your gun!
dino velvet		Slowly.  Let me see it.
dino velvet		Empty the gun onto the table, very carefully.
welles		Look, I don't know what this...
dino velvet		Shut up, cunt!  Do exactly as I say, or I'll put this arrow through your throat.
eddie		Is that him?
dino velvet		 Put the gun down, take the handcuffs.  Handcuff yourself to the bed.
dino velvet		 Didn't know what to make of you at first, and you certainly had Eddie on pins and needles.  But, lo and behold, from out of the blue came an old business acquaintance to explain everything...
eddie		This is the fucker?  Motherfucker, doesn't look like anything...
eddie		Doesn't look like shit.
dino velvet		 You remember Mr. Longdale, don't you?
welles		I remember him.
longdale		Let's get this over with.
dino velvet		Fine idea.
dino velvet		You're going to go get the film you received from Mrs. Christian, bring it here and put it in my hand.  And to save time, so we make this as efficient as possible, there's an incentive...
welles		No...
dino velvet		Friend of yours?
welles		Look, he's got nothing to do with this... let him go...
dino velvet		Can you guess what I'm going to say next?
welles		He doesn't know anything... he's got nothing to do with this...
dino velvet		Bring the film, or we kill him.
welles		I'll get it.  It's in a safe deposit box, in the city...
dino velvet		How cooperative.  Longdale will keep you company.
dino velvet		Don't let Longdale's questionable choice of weapon give you any ideas. If his fey little gun puts enough little holes in you, you'll be just as dead... and so will Max.
eddie		Move it, dirtbag... !
dino velvet		 Do hurry.
welles		You were the middleman, am I right? Old man Christian wasn't about to go shopping for a snuff film himself.
longdale		Wouldn't exactly have been possible for a man of his stature.
welles		So, he sent you, gave you the money, his errand-boy.  And if you refused, it wasn't like you could tell anyone your pervert boss just asked you to get him a snuff film.  That's the beauty of lawyer/client privilege.
longdale		That's trust.  Mr. Christian trusted me implicitly.
welles		Must have paid you a lot, for you to risk everything.  Would've had to have cut yourself a real nice piece of money.
longdale		I was well compensated.
welles		That's why you got scared when Mrs. Christian hired me.  You knew about the film, figured it had to be in that safe.  How'd you find me?
longdale		Never mind how I found you.
welles		Followed me... must have freaked out when you saw me closing in on your buddies...
longdale		They're no friends of mine.
welles		Except, you're willing commit murder with them.
longdale		None of this would be happening if you would have left it alone.  If you weren't digging up a girl who died six years ago.  A girl no one even remembers.
welles		Mary Anne Mathews, that was her name.  Her mom remembers her.
welles		You found these smut dealers and asked to buy a snuff film, right? Wanted them to find you one.  Well, they didn't find you one, Longdale, they went out and made you one...
longdale		Shut up.
welles		Mary Anne Mathews was alive till you paid money to have her murdered.
longdale		Shut your mouth and drive!
welles		Did it get him off, huh, watching them cut her up?  Tell me, because I really want to understand.  Did he jerk off to it?  You watch it with him, sit there giving him a handjob while you both watched... ?
welles		Just tell me.  Tell me some more of the secrets you and Christian shared. What kind of degenerate pervert was he really?  What the fuck did he want with a snuff film?
longdale		You're asking me why?
welles		I'm asking.
longdale		A man like Mr. Christian, a great man... all his money, all his power... a man who attained everything there was to attain...
welles		Why did he buy a film of some poor, lost girl getting butchered?
longdale		Isn't it incredibly obvious?
welles		Enlighten me.
longdale		Because he could.  He did it because he could.  What other reason were you looking for?
longdale		You've got four minutes till I call Mr. Velvet and let him know there's a problem.
manager		May I show you to a booth...
welles		No, I've got it.
longdale		You almost went over your limit.
welles		Fuck you.
longdale		Give me the film.
longdale		Give me the film.
welles		Go ahead, shoot me.  Then try driving to Brooklyn with my brains all over the windshield.
welles		No!!
welles		You fuckers!
eddie		You're a dead man.
dino velvet		Leave him alone.
eddie		Fuck off.
eddie		What the fuck... !
dino		I promised him to Machine.
eddie		... sorry...
dino velvet		First things first.  You might want to watch this, Mr. Welles...
welles		Don't... please...
dino velvet		And so it ends.  It's as if she never existed.
dino velvet		Don't blame yourself.  You were in way over your head.
welles		Motherfuckers.  Small time, motherfuckers... !  Tell me something...
welles		I know why you did it, Dino, Eddie... but, why'd the lawyer do it?  Must have been a helluva lot of money, right?  One fuckload of money...
welles		So, what are you all still doing small time, huh?  What are you still doing in the sewer, Eddie?! Christian gave Longdale a million dollars to find him a snuff film. How much did you ever see... ?
eddie		What's he talking about?
welles		One million dollars, Dino.  How much did he tell you he had...
longdale		He's lying.
welles		Look at him.  You think he played it square?  How much did he give you, how much did he keep for himself?
eddie		What the fuck's he talking about?
longdale		Stay away from me.
dino velvet		What's going on, Longdale?  Did this happen?
eddie		You sell us short, you fuck?
longdale		Stay back!  You have a gun, Eddie, show it to me.  Now!
longdale		Put it on the ground, kick it here...
eddie		You fucking lawyer...
longdale		Move back!  All of you... move!
dino velvet		What were you thinking?
longdale		Back off!  Everything's been taken care of, and I'm leaving now...
dino velvet		You're not going anywhere if you fucked us, lawyer.
longdale		I'm leaving.
eddie		You got the guts, tough guy?  Gonna kill us all, is that it?
dino velvet		You betrayed us.
longdale		Stay where you are!
longdale		Keep back!
dino velvet		You're not gonna live through this.
longdale		Our business is done, I'm leaving, no one's going to stop me...
dino velvet		Fuck you!
eddie		Fuck.
machine		He's mine!
welles		No, no, no... please, don't kill me... please... !
eddie		Do him good.
welles		Back off, Eddie...
welles		Stop Eddie!
welles		 I swear to Christ I'll shoot you in the back... !
welles		Come back, or I put a hole in him.
welles		You might make it to your gun, but not before I shoot Machine.  And if I have to shoot him because of you, and I don't kill him, right after he kills me, he's gonna kill you.
welles		 Take off the mask.
welles		Take it off!
machine		You got one bullet.
machine		The only choice you have now, is which one of us kills you.
machine		Get the gun!
amy		 Hello?
amy		 Tom?  Where have you been... ?
welles		 Amy, just listen.  Take Cindy and get out of the house.  Do it now. Go to a hotel and stay there...
welles		 I'm okay.  Please, honey, I can't explain.  Don't use the phone, just pack a bag and get out.  I'm on my way.  I'll be back at the house in three hours.  Call me from the hotel when you get there
welles		Just do it, Amy, please, go.
welles		 Honey... ?
welles		I don't know if I can do that.
amy		What happened to you?
amy		What's going on, Tom?  What happened?
welles		I can't tell you, Amy.  You know I can't.  You have to trust me...
amy		Tom...
amy		Why haven't you called?  Why don't you answer your phone?
welles		I don't know.  I'm sorry...
amy		You're sorry?  What was I supposed to think?
amy		You owe me an explanation.  You can't treat me like this.
welles		I wanted to call.  I couldn't.
amy		You couldn't?
welles		You don't understand...
amy		No, I don't, because you're not telling me anything!
welles		I was in hell.  If I called you... if I heard your voice... it would have been so easy for me to quit. I couldn't do that.
amy		You should have.
welles		Amy, I'm not going to let anything happen to us.
amy		Look where we are.  Look at yourself.  You son of a bitch, you don't have any idea what you're putting me through...
welles		I don't know what to say
amy		You're killing me...
welles		Don't...
amy		What was I supposed to think happened to you?!
welles		Amy...
welles		Forgive me.
welles		We have to stay here a few days. I'll get more clothing from the house if I can.  I'm sorry.  We're going to be okay.
amy		Who are you calling?
welles		Mrs. Christian.
amy		What?
welles		She's all I've got.  She's the only witness.
amy		Tom... she's dead.
welles		I just talked to her.
amy		How could you not know?
amy		Promise you'll stay.
welles		Promise you won't go back there, wherever you were.  Whatever it was, forget it.
amy		Promise me.
welles		I promise.
welles		Hello, Eddie.
welles		Put your hands on your head.
welles		Put your hands behind your head, lock your finger together, get down on your knees.
welles		I owe you a few.
welles		Don't go anywhere.
eddie		I'm gonna kill you.
welles		Don't bore me with that bullshit.
eddie		How'd you find me here?
welles		Don't ask questions.
eddie		Fuck you!
welles		Starting to recognize a pattern?
eddie		What do you want?
welles		Who is Machine?
eddie		I don't know...
welles		I want his name.
eddie		I told you, I don't know.
eddie		What the fuck am I gonna protect that freak for?  He was Dino's boy, not mine.  He shows up with his mask on, leaves with his mask on.  Nobody knows.
welles		Okay, we'll come back to that.  So, six years ago a guy contacts you, through the classifieds, over the phone, however he does it.  It's Longdale, looking for a snuff film. And you, entrepreneur that you are, tell him you can hook him up.
eddie		Yeah, the fucking lawyer.
welles		Told him you could get him a snuff film.
eddie		Yeah.
welles		How much did he pay you?
eddie		Thirty thousand each, that fucking cocksucker.
welles		That's all?  Thirty each.  That's all it took for you to murder her?
eddie		It was a lot of fucking money.
welles		So... you brought Dino in, and he brought Machine.  And, one day, a girl walked into your office because you had an ad in the paper for models.  And she never walked out.
eddie		Something like that.
welles		What did you do, knock her out, shoot her up... ?
eddie		What the fuck do you want from me?
welles		I want to know.  I want to know exactly what you did to her!
eddie		Fuck you then, you want to know?  I talked her up, told her how beautiful she was, told her she was gonna be a star.  I told her I was gonna get her a screen test, and while I'm doing that, I got her a soda and dropped a mickey.  When it was dark enough, I rang Dino and told him it was go time, I put her in the trunk of my car and we went and we fucking did it.  That's what happened.  She's dead.  She's been dead a long fucking time.  Nobody fucking cares!
eddie		You wanted to know, now you know.
eddie		That's right, motherfucker, cut me loose.  Be a man.
welles		Show me!
welles		Show me where you did it, on the map, exactly where you did it.
eddie		Why?
welles		Because we're going there.
eddie		What are we doing here?
eddie		I don't know.  I felt like it.  I never saw anyone get done before.
welles		You enjoy it?
eddie		Made me sick, but what did I care? What did I care if some hump wants to beat off to that.  It was just something I was doing for money.
welles		Tell me what happened.
eddie		What do you want to know?  You saw it, you saw the loop...
welles		Nobody saw you bring her in?
eddie		There wasn't nobody around.  This place was a shit-hole.  I backed up the car to the door and we carried her in, like groceries.  Dino made her eat a bunch of pills, we laid out the plastic, put film in the camera and Machine went to work.
welles		What did you do with her body?
eddie		Took it out the bathroom window. Buried it in the woods.
welles		Show me.
eddie		What are you thinking you're gonna do... ?
welles		Keep moving.
eddie		Where do you think you're taking this, huh?  Gonna be a big hero, avenge that little girl's death? Gonna make everything right with the world?  How you gonna do that... ?
eddie		You can't go to the cops.  All you can do is cut me loose and walk away, because you got nothing...
welles		Stop talking.
eddie		You got absolute zero.
welles		Show me where you buried her.
eddie		I don't know...  ... out there somewhere.
welles		Where?  Show me where.
eddie		I fucking don't know.  What do you think... we weren't burying treasure.  We didn't pace it out so we could come back and get it.  We dug a hole and we put her in it. Your guess is as good as mine.
eddie		You'll never find her.  Nobody ever will, and even if they did, it doesn't mean nothing.  Bring in the cops, bring in the F.B.I., fuck 'em all.  Without the film, it never happened.  Don't you get it?  It's over.  You can't do anything.
welles		I can kill you.  I can leave you out here, just like you left her.
eddie		Do it.
welles		Don't think I won't.
eddie		Do it!  Put me out of my misery so I don't have to listen to you whining anymore.  You think it's so easy?
welles		Easy enough for you.
eddie		I never killed anyone.
welles		That's right, you just stood there and watched, because you "felt like it."  Almost makes you worse.
eddie		What do you want?  You want me to fall to my knees and start crying like a baby... ?
eddie		Where you going?  You're the one with the gun.  Aren't I defenseless enough?  Come on...
eddie		Go ahead and kill me.  Kill me with that gun, your gun, right, registered in your name?  Dig the hole yourself, with your bare hands, bury the body with your bullets in it.  Fucking do it!
eddie		You pussy.
eddie		Fucking pussy!
welles		 Mrs. Mathews?  It's Thomas.  Do you remember, I was there a few weeks ago... asking about your daughter...
welles		 When I... when I was there with you, her diary, in your attic, in silverware.  If you read it, you'll know what I'm telling you is true...
welles		She went to California, to Los Angeles... she wanted to start over. She wanted to be an actress...
welles		Mrs. Mathews, your daughter is dead. She's dead.
mrs mathews		Who is this... ?
welles		Someone... some men, they took your daughter and they drugged her, and they took her to a motel room... they did terrible things to her...
welles		They brought her into the room... one man, he put a knife to her throat and he raped her...
mrs mathews		No...
welles		He raped her and...and...and he murdered her...he cut her up with knifes...
welles		They killed her, and they took her out in the forest somewhere and they buried her...
welles		They murdered her, Mrs. Mathews, I'm sorry.  It happened a month after she ran away.  She's been dead all this time...
welles		I'm sorry, I'm so sorry... there wasn't anything anyone could do...
agent		There you are, Mr. Welles, confirmed through to Kennedy.  Gate 32B.
agent		Mr. Welles?
agent		Gate 32B.
welles		 Alright, thanks for your help.
welles		 Okay, thanks anyway.
welles		 He's a body-builder, stands just under six feet...
welles		 Yes, I'll hold.
welles		 Christopher Higgins.  Thirty- fifteen, Thirty Fifth Street. Where?  Astoria, Queens.
welles		Hello?!  Amy?
amy		Tom?!
amy		How much forgiveness do you think I have in me?
welles		I can't talk about it yet... not yet.
welles		Why... why... ?
amy		Tom... ?
welles		I have to tell you... I have to tell you what happened.  I have to tell you everything, but we can't tell anyone else.  No one else can ever know.
welles		You're all I've got.  You're all I've ever had.  You're the only one who can save me.
****Dialogues from script :9.txt****

****Dialogues from script :A_Few_Good_Men.txt****

written by		 Aaron Sorkin
downey		 You're lucky it's us, Willy.
jo		I'm requesting... I'm... Captain, I'd like to request that I be the attorney assigned to rep -- I'd like to request that it be myself who is assigned to represent --  "That it be myself who is assigned to represent"? ...Good, Jo, that's confidence inspiring.
gibbs		Jo, come on in.
jo		Thank you, sir.
gibbs		Captain West, this is Lt. Commander Galloway. Jo, you know Mike Lawrence.
jo		Yes sir.  Captain, I appreciate your seeing me on such short notice.
west		I understand there was some trouble over the weekend down in Cuba.
jo		Yes sir... This past Friday evening. Two marines, Corporal Harold Dawson and Private Louden Downey, entered the barracks room of a PFC William Santiago and assaulted him. Santiago died at the base hospital approximately an hour later. The NIS agent who took their statements maintains they were trying to prevent Santiago from naming them in a fenceline shooting incident. They're scheduled to have a hearing down in Cuba at 4:00 this afternoon.
lawrence		What's the problem?
jo		Dawson and Downey are both recruiting poster marines and Santiago was known to be a screw-up. I was thinking that it sounded an awful lot like a code red.
west		 Christ.
jo		I'd like them moved up to Washington and assigned counsel. Someone who can really look into this. Someone who possesses not only the legal skill, but a familiarity with the inner workings of the military. In short, Captain, I'd like to suggest that... I be the one who, that it be me who is assigned to represent them.  Myself.
west		Joanne, why don't you get yourself a cup of coffee.
jo		Thank you, sir, I'm fine.
west		Joanne, I'd like you to leave the room so we can talk about you behind your back.
jo		Certainly, sir.
west		I thought this Code Red shit wasn't going on anymore.
lawrence		With the marines at GITMO? Who the hell knows what goes on down there.
west		Well lets find out before the rest of the world does, this thing could get messy. What about this woman?
lawrence		Jo's been working a desk at internal affairs for what, almost a year now.
west		And before that?
gibbs		She disposed of three cases in two years.
west		Three cases in two years? Who was she handling, the Rosenbergs?
gibbs		She's not cut out for litigation.
lawrence		She's a hall of an investigator, Jerry --
gibbs		In Internal Affairs, sure. She can crawl up a lawyer's ass with the best of 'em, but when it comes to trial work --
west		I know. All passion, no street smarts. Bring her back in.
west		 Commander, we're gonna move the defendants up here in the morning.
jo		Thank you, sir.
west		And I'll have Division assign them counsel...
jo		 But... not me.
west		From what I understand from your colleagues, you're much too valuable in your present assignment to be wasted on what I'm sure will boil down to a five minute plea bargain and a week's worth of paper work.
jo		Sir --
west		Don't worry about it. I promise you, division'll assign the right man for the job.
kaffee		 Alright, let's get two!
second base		Sorry!
kaffee		Nothing to be sorry about, Sherby. Just look the ball into your glove.
kaffee		You gotta trust me, Sherby. You keep your eyes open, your chances of catching the ball increase by a factor of ten.
spradling		Kaffee!
kaffee		Let's try it again.
spradling		Kaffee!!
kaffee		 Dave. You seem upset and distraught.
spradling		We were supposed to meet in your office 15 minutes ago to talk about the McDermott case. You're stalling on this thing. Now we got this done and I mean now, or no kidding, Kaffee, I'll hang your boy from a fuckin' yardarm.
kaffee		A yardarm?  Sherby, does the Navy still hang people from yardarms?
sherby		 I don't think so, Danny.
kaffee		 Let's go, let's get two!
spradling		I'm gonna charge him with possession and being under the influence while on duty. Plead guilty and I'll recommend 30 days in the brig with loss of rank and pay.
kaffee		It was oregano, Dave, it was ten dollars worth of oregano.
spradling		Yeah, well your client thought it was marijuana.
kaffee		My client's a moron, that's not against the law.
kaffee		 Way to keep your head in the play, Lester. Walk it off!
spradling		I've got people to answer to just like you, I'm gonna charge him.
kaffee		With what, possession of a condiment?
spradling		Kaffee --
kaffee		Dave, I've tried to help you out of this, but if you ask for tall time, I'm gonna file a motion to dismiss.
spradling		You won't got it.
kaffee		I will get it. And if the MTD is denied, I'll file a motion in liminee seeking to obtain evidentiary ruling in advance, and after that I'm gonna file against pre-trial confinement, and you're gonna spend an entire summer going blind on paperwork because a Signalman Second Class bought and smoked a dime bag of oregano.
spradling		B Misdemeanor, 20 days in the brig.
kaffee		C Misdemeanor, 15 days restricted duty.
spradling		I don't know why I'm agreeing to this.
kaffee		'Cause you have wisdom beyond your years. Dave, can you play third base?
whitaker		'Morning.
lawyers		 'Morning Captain Whitaker.
whitaker		Sam, how's the baby?
sam		I think she's ready to say her first word any day now.
whitaker		How can you tell?
sam		She just looks like she has something to say.
kaffee		Excuse me, sorry I'm late.
whitaker		I'm sure you don't have a good excuse, so I won't force you to come up with a bad one.
kaffee		Thank you, Isaac, that's nice of you.
whitaker		Sit-down, this first one's for you.
whitaker		 You're moving up in the world, Danny, you've been requested by Division.
kaffee		Requested to do what?
whitaker		Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. A marine corporal named Dawson illegally fires a round from his weapon over the fenceline and into Cuban territory.
kaffee		What's a fenceline?
whitaker		Sam?
sam		A big wall separating the good guys from the bad guys.
kaffee		Teachers pet.
whitaker		PFC William Santiago threatens to rat on Dawson to the Naval investigative Service. Dawson and another member of his squad, PFC Louden Downey, they go into Santiago's room, tie him up, and stuff a rag down his throat. An hour later, Santiago's dead. Attending physician says the rag was treated with some kind of toxin.
kaffee		They poisoned the rag?
whitaker		Not according to them.
kaffee		What do they say?
whitaker		Not much. They're being flown up here tomorrow and on Thursday at 0600 you'll catch a transport down to Cuba for the day to find out what you can. Meantime, go across the yard and see Lt. Commander Joanne Galloway. She's the one who had 'em brought up here. She'll fill you in on whatever she has. Any questions?
kaffee		The flight to Cuba, was that 0600 in the morning, sir?
whitaker		It seems important to Division that this one be handled by the book, so I'm assigning co-counsel. Any volunteers?
sam		No.
whitaker		Sam.
sam		I have a stack of paper on my desk --
whitaker		Work with Kaffee on this.
sam		Doing what? Kaffee'll finish this up in four days.
whitaker		Do various... administrative... you know... things. Back-up. Whatever.
sam		In other words I have no responsibilities whatsoever.
whitaker		Right.
sam		My kinda case.
kaffee		Hi.  -- Commander Galloway.
kaffee		 About a briefing.
jo		You're the attorney that Division assigned?
kaffee		I'm lead counsel. This is Sam Weinberg.
sam		I have no responsibilities here whatsoever.
jo		 Come in, please, have a seat...
jo		 Lieutenant, how long have you been in the Navy?
kaffee		Going on nine months now.
jo		And how long have you been out of law school?
kaffee		A little over a year.
jo		 I see.
kaffee		Have I done something wrong?
jo		No. It's just that when I petitioned Division to have counsel assigned, I was hoping I'd be taken seriously.
kaffee		 No offense taken, if you were wondering.
sam		Commander, Lt. Kaffee's generally considered the best litigator in our office. He's successfully plea bargained 44 cases in nine months.
kaffee		One more, and I got a set of steak knives.
jo		Have you ever been in a courtroom?
kaffee		I once had my drivers license suspended.
sam		Danny --
kaffee		Commander, from what I understand, if this thing goes to court, they won't need a lawyer, they'll need a priest.
jo		No. They'll need a lawyer.
jo		 Dawson's family has been contacted. Downey's closest living relative is Ginny Miller, his aunt on his mother's side, she hasn't been Contacted yet.
jo		 Would you like me to take care of that?
kaffee		Sure, if you feel like it.
jo		One of the people you'll be speaking to down there is the barracks C.O., Colonel Nathan Jessep, I assume you've heard of him.
kaffee		 Who hasn't?
sam		 He's been in the papers lately. He's expected to be appointed Director of Operations for the National Security Counsel.
jo		These are letters that Santiago wrote in his 8 months at GITMO --
sam		 Guantanamo Bay.
kaffee		I know that one.
jo		He wrote to his recruiter, the fleet commander, HQ, Atlantic, even his senator. He wanted a transfer. Nobody was listening. You with me?
kaffee		Yes.
jo		This last letter to the Naval investigative Service --
jo		 -- where he offers information about Corporal Dawson's fenceline shooting in exchange for a transfer, was just a last ditch effort.
kaffee		Right. Is that all?
jo		 Lieutenant, this letter makes it look like your client had a motive to kill Santiago.
kaffee		Gotcha.  And Santiago is... who?
jo		 The victim.
kaffee		 Am I correct in assuming that these letters don't paint a flattering picture of marine corps life in Guantanamo Bay?
jo		Yes, among other --
kaffee		And am I further right in assuming that a protracted investigation of this incident might cause some embarrassment for the security counsel guy.
jo		Colonel Jessep, yes, but --
kaffee		Twelve years.
jo		I'm sorry?
kaffee		Twelve years. I can get it knocked down to Involuntary Manslaughter. Twelve years.
jo		You haven't talked to a witness, you haven't looked at a piece of paper.
kaffee		Pretty impressive, huh?
jo		You're gonna have to go deeper than just --
kaffee		Commander, do you have some sort of jurisdiction here that I should know about?
jo		My job is to make sure you do your job. I'm special counsel for Internal Affairs, so my jurisdiction's pretty much in your face. Read the letters. You're not under any obligation, but I'd appreciate a report when you get back from Cuba.
kaffee		Sure.
jo		You're dismissed.
kaffee		Sorry, I always forget that.
sam		He's a little preoccupied.  The team's playing Bethesda Medical next week.
jo		Tell your friend not to get cute down there.  The marines in Guantanimo are fanatical.
sam		About what?
jo		About being marines.
jessep		Who the fuck is PFC William T. Santiago.
kendrick		Sir, Santiago is a member of Second Platoon, Delta.
jessep		Yeah, well, apparently he's not very happy down here at Shangri-La, cause he's written letters to everyone but Santa Claus asking for a transfer. And now he's telling tales about a fenceline shooting.
jessep		 Matthew?
markinson		I'm appalled, sir.
jessep		You're appalled? This kid broke the Chain of Command and he ratted on a man of his unit, to say nothing of the fact that he's a U.S. Marine and it would appear that he can't run from here to there without collapsing from heat exhaustion. What the fuck's going on over at Windward, Matthew?
markinson		Colonel, I think perhaps it would be better to hold this discussion in private.
kendrick		That won't be necessary, Colonel, I'll handle the situation.
markinson		The same way you handled the Curtis Barnes incident? You're doing something wrong, Lieutenant this --
kendrick		My methods of leadership are --
markinson		Don't interrupt me, I'm still your superior officer.
jessep		And I'm yours, Matthew.
jessep		 I want to know what we're gonna do about this.
markinson		I think Santiago should be transferred off the base. Right away.
jessep		He's that bad, huh?
markinson		Not only that, but word of this letter's bound to get out. The kid's gonna get his ass kicked.
jessep		Transfer Santiago. Yes I suppose you're right. I suppose that's the thing to do. Wait. Wait. I've got a better idea. Let's transfer the whole squad off the base. Let's -- on second thought -- Windward. The whole Windward division, let's transfer 'em off the base. Jon, go on out there and get those boys down off the fence, they're packing their bags.  Tom!
orderly		Sir!
jessep		Got me the President on the phone, we're surrendering our position in Cuba.
orderly		Yes sir!
jessep		Wait a minute, Tom.
jessep		 Don't call the President just yet. Maybe we should consider this for a second. Maybe -- and I'm just spit balling here -- but maybe we as officers have a responsibility to train Santiago. Maybe we as officers have a responsibility to this country to see that the men and women charged with its security are trained professionals. Yes. I'm certain I once read that somewhere. And now I'm thinking that your suggestion of transferring Santiago, while expeditious, and certainly painless, might not be in a manner of speaking, the American way. Santiago stays where he is. We're gonna train the lad. You're in charge, Jon. Santiago doesn't make 4.1 on his next fitness report, I'm gonna blame you. Then I'm gonna kill you.
kendrick		Yes sir.
markinson		I think that's a mistake, Colonel.
jessep		Matthew, I believe I will have that word in private with you now. Jon, that's all. Why don't you and I have lunch at the "O" club, we'll talk about the training of young William.
kendrick		Yes sir, I'd be delighted to hear any suggestions you have.
jessep		Dismissed.
jessep		 Matthew, sit, please.
jessep		 What do you think of Kendrick?
markinson		 I don't know that --
jessep		I think he's kind of a weasel, myself. But he's an awfully good officer, and in the end we see eye to eye on the best way to run a marine corps unit. We're in the business of saving lives, Matthew. That's a responsibility we have to take pretty seriously. And I believe that taking a marine who's not yet up to the job and packing him off to another assignment, puts lives in danger.
jessep		 We go back a while. We went to the Academy together, we were commissioned together, we did our tours in Vietnam together. But I've been promoted up through the chain with greater speed and success than you have. Now if that's a source of tension or embarrassment for you, well, I don't give a shit. We're in the business of saving lives, Captain Markinson. Don't ever question my orders in front of another officer.
downey		Hal?
downey		 Is this Washington, D.C.?
kaffee		Alright, let's get tough out there!
jo		Excuse me.
kaffee		You want to suit up? We need all the help we can get.
jo		No, thank you, I can't throw and catch things.
kaffee		That's okay, neither can they.
jo		I wanted to talk to you about Corporal Dawson and Private Downey.
kaffee		Say again?
jo		Dawson and Downey.
kaffee		 Those names sound like they should mean something to me, but I'm just not --
jo		Dawson! Downey! Your clients!
kaffee		The Cuba thing! Yes! Dawson and Downey.  I've done something wrong again, haven't I?
jo		I was wondering why two guys have been in a jail cell since this morning while their lawyer is outside hitting a ball.
kaffee		We need the practice.
jo		That wasn't funny.
kaffee		It was a little funny.
jo		Lieutenant, would you feel very insulted if I recommended to your supervisor that he assign different counsel?
kaffee		Why?
jo		I don't think you're fit to handle this defense.
kaffee		You don't even know me. Ordinarily it takes someone hours to discover I'm not fit to handle a defense.
kaffee		 Oh come on, that was damn funny.
jo		I do know you. Daniel AlliStair Kaffee, born June 8th, 1964 at Boston Mercy Hospital. Your father's Lionel Kaffee, former Navy Judge Advocate and Attorney General, of the United States, died 1985. You went to Harvard Law on a Navy scholarship, probably because that's what your father wanted you to do, and now you're just treading water for the three years you've gotta serve in the JAG Corps, just kinda layin' low til you can get out and get a real job. And if that's the situation, that's fine, I won't tell anyone. But my feeling is that if this case is handled in the same fast-food, slick-ass, Persian Bazaar manner with which you seem to handle everything else, something's gonna get missed. And I wouldn't be doing my job if I allowed Dawson and Downey to spend any more time in prison than absolutely necessary, because their attorney had pre- determined the path of least resistance.
kaffee		Wow.  I'm sexually aroused, Commander.
jo		I don't think your clients murdered anybody.
kaffee		What are you basing this on?
jo		There was no intent.
kaffee		The doctor's report says that Santiago died of asphyxiation brought on by acute lactic acidosis, and that the nature of the acidosis strongly suggests poisoning.  Now, I don't know what any of that means, but it sounds pretty bad.
jo		Santiago died at one a.m. At three the doctor was unable to determine the cause of death, but two hours later he said it was poison.
kaffee		Oh, now I see what you're saying. It had to be Professor Plum in the library with the candlestick.
jo		I'm gonna speak to your supervisor.
kaffee		Okay. You go straight up Pennsylvania Avenue. It's a big white house with pillars in front.
jo		Thank you.
kaffee		I don't think you'll have much luck, though. I was assigned by Division, remember? Somebody over there thinks I'm a good lawyer. So while I appreciate your interest and admire your enthusiasm, I think I can pretty much handle things myself.
jo		Do you know what a code red is?
jo		 What a pity.
dawson		Sir, Lance Corporal Harold W. Dawson, sir. Rifle Security Company Windward, Second Platoon, Delta.
kaffee		Someone hasn't been working and playing well with others, Harold.
dawson		Sir, yes sir!
downey		Sir, PFC Louden Downey.
kaffee		I'm Daniel Kaffee, this is Sam Weinerg, you can sitdown.
kaffee		 Is this your signature?
dawson		Yes sir.
kaffee		You don't have to call me sir.  Is this your signature?
downey		Sir, yes sir.
kaffee		And you certainly don't have to do it twice in one sentence. Harold, what's a Code Red?
dawson		Sir, a Code Red is a disciplinary engagement.
kaffee		What does that mean, exactly?
dawson		Sir, a marine falls out of line, it's up to the men in his unit to get him back on track.
kaffee		What's a garden variety Code Red?
dawson		Sir?
kaffee		Harold, you say sir and I turn around and look for my father. Danny, Daniel, Kaffee. Garden variety; typical. What's a basic Code Red?
dawson		Sir, a marine has refused to bathe on a regular basis. The men in his squad would give him a G.I. shower.
kaffee		What's that?
dawson		Scrub brushes, brillo pads, steel wool...
sam		Beautiful.
kaffee		Was the attack on Santiago a Code Red?
dawson		Yes sir.
kaffee		 Do you ever talk?
dawson		Sir, Private Downey will answer any direct questions you ask him.
kaffee		Swell. Private Downey, the rag you stuffed in Santiago's mouth, was there poison on it?
downey		No sir.
kaffee		Silver polish, turpentine, anti- freeze...
downey		No sir. We were gonna shave his head, sir.
kaffee		When all of a sudden...?
downey		We saw blood drippinq out of his mouth. Then we pulled the tape off, and there was blood all down his face, sir. That's when Corporal Dawson called the ambulance.
kaffee		 Did anyone see you call the ambulance?
dawson		No sir.
kaffee		Were you there when the ambulance got there?
dawson		Yes sir, that's when we were taken under arrest.
sam		 On the night of August 2nd, did you fire a shot across the fenceline into Cuba?
dawson		Yes sir.
sam		Why?
dawson		My mirror engaged, sir.
kaffee		 His mirror engaged?
sam		For each American sentry post there's a Cuban counterpart. They're called mirrors. The corporal's claiming that his mirror was about to fire at him.
kaffee		Santiago's letter to the NIS said you fired illegally. He's saying that the guy, the mirror, he never made a move.
kaffee		 Oh, Harold?
kaffee		 You see what I'm getting at? If Santiago didn't have anything on you, then why did you give him a Code Red?
dawson		Because he broke the chain of command, sir.
kaffee		He what?
dawson		He went outside his unit, sir. If he had a problem, he should've spoken to me, sir. Then his Sergeant, then Company Commander, then --
kaffee		Yeah, yeah, alright. Harold, did you assault Santiago with the intent of killing him?
dawson		No sir.
kaffee		What was your intent?
dawson		To train him, sir.
kaffee		Train him to do what?
dawson		Train him to think of his unit before himself. To respect the code.
sam		What's the code?
dawson		Unit Corps God Country.
sam		I beg your pardon?
dawson		Unit Corps God Country, sir.
kaffee		The Goverrment of the United States wants to charge you two with murder. You want me to go to the prosecutor with unit, corps, god, country?
dawson		That's our code, sir.
kaffee		We'll be back. You guys need anything? Books paper, cigarettes, a ham sandwich?
dawson		Sir. No thank you. Sir.
kaffee		Harold, I think there's a concept you better start warming up to.
dawson		Sir?
kaffee		I'm the only friend you've got.
ross		Dan Kaffee.
kaffee		Sailin' Jack Ross.
ross		Welcome to the big time.
kaffee		You think so?
ross		I hope for Dawson and Downey's sake you practice law better than you play softball.
kaffee		Unfortunately for Dawson and Downey, I don't do anything better than I play softball. What are we lookin' at?
ross		They plead guilty to manslaughter, I'll drop the conspiracy and the conduct unbecoming. 20 years, they'll be home in half that time.
kaffee		I want twelve.
ross		Can't do it.
kaffee		They called the ambulance, Jack.
ross		I don't care if they called the Avon Lady, they killed a marine.
kaffee		The rag was tested for poison.  The autopsy, lab report, even the initial E.R. and C.O.D. reports. They all say the same thing: Maybe, maybe not.
ross		The Chief of Internal Medicine at the Guantanamo Bay Naval hospital says he's sure.
kaffee		What do you know about Code Reds?
ross		Oh man.
ross		 Are we off the record?
kaffee		You tell me.
ross		 I'm gonna give you the twelve years, but before you go getting yourself into trouble tomorrow, you should know this: The platoon commander Lt. Jonathan Kendrick, had a meeting with the men. And he specifically told them not to touch Santiago.
kaffee		I'll talk to you when I get back.
ross		Hey, we got a little four-on-four going tomorrow night. When does your plane get in?
jo		Hi there.
kaffee		Any luck getting me replaced?
jo		Is there anyone in this command that you don't either drink or play softball with?
kaffee		Commander --
jo		Listen, I came to make peace. We started off on the wrong foot. What do you say? Friends?
kaffee		Look, I don't --
jo		By the way, I brought Downey some comic books he was asking for. The kid, Kaffee, I swear, he doesn't know where he is, he doesn't even know why he's been arrested.
kaffee		Commander --
jo		You can call me Joanne.
kaffee		Joanne --
jo		or Jo.
kaffee		Jo?
jo		Yes.
kaffee		Jo, if you ever speak to a client of mine again without my permission, I'll have you disbarred. Friends?
jo		I had authorization.
kaffee		From where?
jo		Downey's closest living relative, Ginny Miller, his aunt on his mother's side.
kaffee		You got authorization from Aunt Ginny?
jo		I gave her a call like you asked. Very nice woman, we talked for about an hour.
kaffee		You got authorization from Aunt Ginny.
jo		Perfectly within my province.
kaffee		Does Aunt Ginny have a barn? We can hold the trial there. I can sew the costumes, and maybe his Uncle Goober can be the judge.
jo		I'm going to Cuba with you tomorrow.
kaffee		And the hits just keep on comin'.
kaffee		How's it goin', Luther?
luther		Another day, another dollar, captain.
kaffee		You gotta play 'em as they lay, Luther.
luther		What comes around, goes around, you know what I'm sayin'.
kaffee		If you can't beat 'em, join 'em.
luther		Hey, if you've got your health, you got everything.
kaffee		Love makes the world go round. I'll see you tomorrow, Luther.
sam		When Nancy gets back, you're my witness. The baby spoke. My daughter said a word.
kaffee		Your daughter made a sound, Sam, I'm not sure it was a word.
sam		Oh come on, it was a word.
kaffee		Okay.
sam		You heard her. The girl sat here, pointed, and said "Pa". She did. She said "Pa".
kaffee		She was pointing at a doorknob.
sam		That's right. Pointing, as if to say, "Pa, look, a doorknob".
kaffee		Jack Ross came to see me today. He offered me twelve years.
sam		That's what you wanted.
kaffee		I know, and I'll... I guess, I mean --  I'll take it.
sam		So?
kaffee		It took albout 45 seconds. He barely put up a fight.
sam		 Danny, take the twelve years, it's a gift.
kaffee		You don't believe their story, do you? You think they ought to go to jail for the rest of their lives.
sam		I believe every word they said. And I think they ought to go to jail for the rest of their lives.
kaffee		I'll see you tomorrow.
sam		Remember to wear your whites, it's hot down there.
kaffee		I don't like the whites.
sam		Nobody likes the whites, but we're going to Cuba in August. You got Dramamine?
kaffee		Dramamine keeps you cool?
sam		Dramamine keeps you from throwing up, you get sick when you fly.
kaffee		I get sick when I fly because I'm afraid of crashing into a large mountain, I don't think Dramamine'll help.
sam		I've got some oregano, I hear that works pretty good.
kaffee		Yeah, right.
kaffee		 You know, Ross said the strangest thing to me right before I left. He said the platoon commander Lieutenant Jonathan Kendrick had a meeting with the men and specifically told them not to touch Santiago.
sam		So?
kaffee		I never mentioned Kendrick. I don't even know who he is.  I'll see you tomorrow.
howard		Lieutenants Kaffee and Weinberg?
kaffee		 Yeah.
jo		Commander Galloway.
howard		I'm Corporal Howard, ma'am, I'm to escort you to the Windward side of the base.
jo		Thank you.
howard		I've got some camouflage jackets in the back of the jeep, sirs, I'll have to ask you both to put them on.
kaffee		Camouflage jackets?
howard		Regulations, sir. We'll be riding pretty close to the fenceline. The Cubans see an officer wearing white, they think it's someone they might wanna take a shot at.
kaffee		Good call, Sam.
howard		 We'll just hop on the ferry and be over there in no time.
kaffee		 Whoa! Hold it! We gotta take a boat?!
howard		Yes sir, to get to the other side of the bay.
kaffee		Nobody said anything about a boat.
howard		 Is there a problem, sir?
kaffee		 No. No problem. I'm just not that crazy about boats, that's all.
jo		 Jesus Christ, Kaffee, you're in the Navy for cryin' out loud!
kaffee		 Nobody likes her very much.
howard		 Yes sir.
jessep		Nathan Jessep, come on in and siddown.
kaffee		Thank you. I'm Daniel Kaffee, I'm the attorney for Dawson and Downey. This is Joanne Galloway, she's observing and evaluating --
jo		 Colonel.
jessep		Pleased to meet you, Commander.
kaffee		Sam Weinberg. He has no responsibility here whatsoever.
jessep		I've asked Captain Markinson and Lt. Kendrick to join us.
markinson		Lt. Kaffee, I had the pleasure of seeing your father once. I was a teenager and he spoke at my high school.
jessep		Lionel Kaffee?
kaffee		Yes sir.
jessep		Well what do you know. Son, this man's dad once made a lot of enemies down in your neck of the woods. Jefferson vs. Madison County School District. The folks down there said a little black girl couldn't go to an all white school, Lionel Kaffee said we'll just see about that. How the hell is your dad?
kaffee		He passed away seven years ago, colonel.
jessep		 Well... don't I feel like the fuckin, asshole.
kaffee		Not at all, sir.
jessep		Well, what can we do for you, Danny.
kaffee		Not much at all, sir, I'm afraid. This is really a formality more than anything else. The JAG Corps insists that I interview all the relevant witnesses.
jo		The JAG Corps can be demanding that way.
jessep		Jonanthan'll take you out and show you what you wanna see, then we can all hook up for lunch, how does that sound?
kaffee		Fine, sir.
kaffee		I understand you had a meeting with your men that afternoon.
kendrick		Yes.
kaffee		What'd you guys talk about?
kendrick		I told the men that there was an informer among us. And that despite any desire they might have to seek retribution, Private Santiago was not to be harmed in any way.
kaffee		What time was that meeting?
kendrick		Sixteen-hundred.
sam		 Four o'clock.
kaffee		Sam, somebody should see about getting this stuff to his parents. We don't need it anymore.
kendrick		Actually, the uniforms belong to the marine corps.
kaffee		Lt. Kendrick -- can I call you Jon?
kendrick		No, you may not.
kaffee		 Have I done something to offend you?
kendrick		No, I like all you Navy boys. Every time we've gotta go someplace and fight, you fellas always give us a ride.
jo		Lt. Kendrick, do you think Santiago was murdered?
kendrick		Commander, I believe in God, and in his son Jesus Christ, and because I do, I can say this: Private Santiago is dead and that's a tragedy. But he's dead because he had no code. He's dead because he had no honor. And God was watching.
sam		How do you feel about that theory?
kaffee		 Sounds good. Let's move on.
jo		You planning on doing any investigating or are you just gonna take the guided tour?
kaffee		 I'm pacing myself.
jessep		...And they spent the next three hours running around, looking for Americans to surrender to.
jessep		 That was delicious, men, thank you.
steward		Our pleasure, sir.
kaffee		Colonel just need to ask you a couple of questions about August 6th.
jessep		Shoot.
kaffee		On the morning of the sixth, you were contacted by an NIS angent who said that Santiago had tipped him off to an illegal fenceline shooting.
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		Santiago was gonna reveal the person's name in exchange for a transfer. An I getting this right?
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		If you feel there are any details that I'm missing, you should free to speak up.
jessep		Thank you.
kaffee		Now it was at this point that you called Captain Markinson and Lt. Kendrick into your office?
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		And what happened then?
jessep		We agreed that for his own safety, Santiago should be transferred off the base.
kaffee		Santiago was set to be transferred?
jessep		On the first available flight to the states. Six the next morning. Three hours too late as it turned out.
kaffee		Yeah.
kaffee		 Alright, that's all I have. Thanks very much for your time.
kendrick		The corporal's got the jeep outside, he'll take you back to the airstrip.
kaffee		 Thank you.
jo		Wait a minute, I've got some questions.
kaffee		No you don't.
jo		Yes I do.
kaffee		No you don't.
jo		Colonel, on the morning that Santiago died, did you meet with Doctor Stone between three and five?
kaffee		Jo --
jessep		Of course I met with the doctor. One of my men was dead.
kaffee		 See? The man was dead. Let's go.
jo		 I was wondering if you've ever heard the term Code Red.
kaffee		Jo --
jessep		I've heard the term, yes.
jo		Colonel, this past February, you received a cautionary memo from the Naval Investigative Service, warning that the practice of enlisted men disciplining their own wasn't to be condoned by officers.
jessep		I submit to you that whoever wrote that memo has never served on the working end of a Soviet-made Cuban Ml-Al6 Assault Rifle. However, the directive having come from the NIS, I gave it its due attention. What's your point, Jo?
kaffee		She has no point. She often has no point. It's part of her charm. We're outta here. Thank you.
jo		My point is that I think code reds still go on down here. Do Code Reds still happen on this base, colonel?
kaffee		Jo, the colonel doesn't need to answer that.
jo		Yes he does.
kaffee		No, he really doesn't.
jo		Yeah, he really does. Colonel?
jessep		You know it just hit me. She outranks you, Danny.
kaffee		Yes sir.
jessep		I want to tell you something Danny and listen up 'cause I mean this: You're the luckiest man in the world. There is, believe me gentlemen, nothing sexier on earth than a woman you have to salute in the morning. Promote 'em all I say.
jo		Colonel, the practice of code Reds is still condoned by officers on this base, isn't it?
jessep		You see my problem is, of course, that I'm a Colonel. I'll just have to keep taking cold showers 'til they elect some gal President.
jo		I need an answer to my question, sir.
jessep		Take caution in your tone, Commander. I'm a fair guy, but this fuckin' heat's making me absolutely crazy. You want to know about code reds? On the record I tell you that I discourage the practice in accordance with the NIS directive. Off the record I tell you that it's an invaluable part of close infantry training, and if it happens to go on without my knowledge, so be it. I run my base how I run my base. You want to investigate me, roll the dice and take your chances. I eat breakfast 80 yards away from 4000 Cubans who are trained to kill me. So don't for one second think you're gonna come down here, flash a badge, and make me nervous.
kaffee		Let's go. Colonel, I'll just need a copy of Santiago's transfer order.
jessep		What's that?
kaffee		Santiago's transfer order. You guys have paper work on that kind of thing, I just need it for the file.
jessep		For the file.
kaffee		Yeah.
jessep		 Of course you can have a copy of the transfer order. For the file. I'm here to help anyway I can.
kaffee		Thank you.
jessep		You believe that, don't you? Danny? That I'm here to help anyway I can?
kaffee		Of course.
jessep		The corporal'll run you by Ordinance on your way out to the airstrip. You can have all the transfer orders you want.
kaffee		 Let's go.
jessep		But you have to ask me nicely.
kaffee		I beg your pardon?
jessep		You have to ask me nicely. You see, Danny, I can deal with the bullets and the bombs and the blood. I can deal with the heat and the stress and the fear. I don't want money and I don't want medals. What I want is for you to stand there in that faggoty white uniform, and with your Harvard mouth, extend me some fuckin' courtesy. You gotta ask me nicely.
kaffee		Colonel Jessep... if it's not too much trouble, I'd like a copy of the transfer order. Sir.
jessep		No problem.
jessep		 I hate casualties, Matthew. There are casualties even in victory. A marine smothers a grenade and saves his platoon, that marine's a hero. The foundation of the unit, the fabric of this base, the spirit of the Corps, they are things worth fighting for.
jessep		 Dawson and Downey, they don't know it, but they're smothering a grenade.
kaffee		Who is it?
kaffee		I've really missed you, Jo. I was just saying to myself, "It's been almost three hours since I last saw -- "
jo		Markinson resigned his commission.
kaffee		 When?
jo		This afternoon. Sometime after we left.
kaffee		I'll talk to him in the morning.
jo		I already tried, I can't find him.
kaffee		You tried? Joanne, you're coming dangerously close to the textbook definition of interfering with a government investigation.
jo		I'm Louden Downey's attorney.
jo		 Aunt Ginny. She said she feels like she's known me for years. I suggested that she might feel more comfortable if I were directly involved with the case. She had Louden sign the papers about an hour ago.
kaffee		I suppose it's way too much to hope that you're just making this up to bother me.
jo		Don't worry, I'm not gonna make a motion for separation, you're still lead counsel.
kaffee		Splendid.
jo		I think Kendrick ordered the Code Red.  So do you.
dawson		Officer on deck, ten hut.
kaffee		Did Kendrick order the code red?
dawson		Sir?
kaffee		Don't say sir like I just asked you if you cleaned the latrine. You heard what I said. Did Lt. Kendrick order you guys to give Santiago a code red?
dawson		Yes sir.
kaffee		 Did he?
downey		Yes sir.
kaffee		You mind telling me why the hell you never mentioned this before?
dawson		You didn't ask us, sir.
kaffee		Cutie-pie shit's not gonna win you a place in my heart, corporal, I get paid no matter how much time you spend in jail.
dawson		Yes sir. I know you do, sir.
kaffee		Fuck you, Harold.
jo		Alright. Let's sort this out. There was a platoon meeting on August 6th at four in the afternoon. And Lt. Kendrick, he gave strict instructions that nothing was to happen to Santiago. Now is that true? I want you to speak freely.
dawson		Ma'am, that's correct. But then he dismissed the platoon and we all went to our rooms.
jo		And what happened then?
dawson		Lt. Kendrick came to our room, ma'am.
kaffee		When?
dawson		About five minutes after the meeting
kaffee		 And what happened then?
dawson		Lt. Kendrick ordered us to give Santiago a Code Red.
kaffee		Jack!
kaffee		 Jack!!
ross		 Hang on...
kaffee		They were given an order.
jo		How long have you known about the order?
ross		I didn't --  Who is this?
kaffee		This is Jo Galloway she's Downey's lawyer. She's very pleased to meet you.
ross		What exactly are you accusing me of, commander?
jo		I'm accusing you of --
kaffee		Jack didn't know about the order. Because if he did and he hadn't told us, Jack knows he'd be violating about 14 articles of the code of ethics. As it is, he's got enough to worry about. God forbid our clients decide to plead not guilty and testify for the record that they were given an order.
ross		Kendrick specifically told the men not to touch Santiago.
kaffee		That's right. And then he went into Dawson and Downey's room and specifically told them to give him a code red.
ross		That's not what Kendrick said.
kaffee		Kendrick's lying.
ross		You have proof?
kaffee		I have the defendants.
ross		And I have 23 marines who aren't accused of murder and a lieutenant with four letters of commendation.
kaffee		Why did Markinson resign his commission?
ross		We'll never know.
kaffee		You don't think I can subpoena Markinson.
ross		You can try, but you won't find him. You know what Markinson did for the first 17 of his 21 years in the corps? Counter Intelligence. Markinson's gone. There is no Markinson.
ross		 Jessep's star is on the rise. Division'll give me a lot of room to spare Jessep and the corps any embarrassment.
kaffee		How much room?
ross		I'll knock it all down to assault. Two years. They're home in six months.
jo		No deal, we're going to a jury.
kaffee		Jo --
ross		No you're not.
jo		Why not?
ross		'Cause you'll lose, and Danny knows it. And he knows that if we go to court, I'll have to go all the way, they'll be charged with the whole truckload. Murder, Conspiracy, Conduct Unbecoming, and even though he's got me by the balls out here, Dan knows that in a courtroom, he loses this case. Danny's an awfully talented lawyer, and he's not about to send his clients go to jail for life when he knows they could be home in six months.
ross		 That's the end of this negotiation. From this moment, we're on the record. I'll see tomorrow morning at the arraignment.
kaffee		Here's the story: The Goverment's offering Assault and Conduct Unbecoming. Two years. You'll be home in six months.
kaffee		 "Wow, Kaffee, you're the greatest lawyer in the world. How can we ever thank you?" Fellas, you hear what I just said, you're going home in six months.
dawson		I'm afraid we can't do that, sir.
kaffee		Do what?
dawson		Make a deal, sir.
kaffee		What are you talking about?
dawson		We did nothing wrong, sir. We did our job. If that has consequences, then I accept them. But'I won't say I'm guilty, sir.
kaffee		Did you --  Did she put you up to this?
jo		No.
dawson		We have a code, sir.
kaffee		Well zippity-doo-dah. You and your code plead not guilty and you'll be in jail for the rest of your life. Do what I'm telling you and you'll be home in six months.
kaffee		 Do it, Harold. Six months. It's nothing. It's a hockey season.
dawson		Permission to --
kaffee		Speak!
dawson		What do we do then, sir?
kaffee		When?
dawson		After six months. We'd be dishonorably discharged, right sir?
kaffee		Yes.
dawson		What do we do then, sir? We joined the corps 'cause we wanted to live our lives by a certain code. And we found it in the corps. And now you're asking us to sign a piece of paper that says we have no honor. You're asking us to say we're not marines. If a judge and jury decide that what we did was wrong, I'll accept whatever punishment they give. But I believe I was riqht, sir. I believe I did my job. And I won't dishonor myself, my unit, or the Corps, so that I can qo home in six months.  Sir.
kaffee		Commander, I want to talk to corporal Dawson alone for a minute.
jo		 Let's go in another room. Louden, everything's gonna be alright.
jo		 We're gonna go into a holding room.
kaffee		You don't like me that much, do you?  Forget it, don't answer that, it doesn't matter.
kaffee		 You know, Downey worships you. He's gonna do whatever you do. Are you really gonna let this happen to him because of a code? Harold?
dawson		Do you think we were right?
kaffee		It doesn't matter what I --
dawson		Do you think we were right?
kaffee		 I think you'd lose.
dawson		 You're such a coward, I can't believe they let you wear a uniform.
kaffee		I'm not gonna feel responsible for this, Harold. I did everything I could. You're going to Levenworth for the better part of your life, and you know what? I don't give a shit.
kaffee		 M.P.!
kaffee		 What happened to saluting an officer when he leaves the room?
kaffee		Dawson's gonna go to jail just to spite me. Fine. If he wants to jump off a cliff, that's his business. I'm not gonna hold his hand on the way down.  I want to get him a new lawyer. How do I do it?
sam		You just make a motion tomorrow morning at the arraignment. The judge'll ask you if you want to enter a plea. You tell him you want new counsel assigned.
kaffee		 Then that's that.
jo		 Yeah. One thing, though. When you ask the judge for new counsel, Danny, be sure and ask nicely.
kaffee		What do you want from me?
jo		I want you to let 'em be judged! I want you to stand up and make an argument!
sam		An argument that didn't work for Calley at My Lai, an argument that didn't work for the Nazis at Nuremberg.
kaffee		For Christ sake, Sam, do you really think that's the same as two teenage marines executing a routine order that they never believed would result in harm? These guys aren't the Nazis.
jo		Don't look now, Danny, but you're making an argument.
kaffee		 Tomorrow morning I'll get them a new attorney.
jo		Why are you so afraid to be a lawyer? Were daddy's expectations really that high?
kaffee		Please, spare me the psycho-babble father bullshit. Dawson and Downey'll have their day in court, but they'll have it with another lawyer.
jo		Another lawyer won't be good enough. They need you. You know how to win.  You know they have a case. And you know how to win. You walk away from this now, and you have sealed their fate.
kaffee		Their fate was sealed the moment Santiago died.
jo		Do you believe they have a defense?
kaffee		You and Dawson both live in the same dreamland. It doesn't matter what I believe, it only matters what I can prove. So please don't tell me what I know and don't know. I know the law.
jo		You know nothing about the law. You're a used car salesman, Daniel. You're an ambulance chaser with a rank. You're nothing.  Live with that.
yuppie lawyer		...So I told duncan if we leverage the acquisition of Biotech, the interrogatories would be there on demand. All I have to do is not pick up the phone and it'll run Flaherty ten thousand a day in court costs.
randolph		Where are we?
randolph		Does defense wish to enter a plea?
kaffee		Yeah.  They're not guilty.
randolph		Enter a plea of not guilty for the defendants. We'll adjourn until ten- hundred, three weeks from today, at which time this Court will reconvene as a General Court-Martial.
kaffee		Why does a junior grade with six months experience and a track record for plea bargaining get assigned a murder case?  Would it be so that it never sees the inside of a courtroom?
kaffee		 We'll work out of my apartment. Every night, seven o'clock. Jo, before you come over tonight, pick up a carton of legal pads, a half-dozen boxes of red pens, a half-dozen boxes of black pens. Sam get a couple of desk lamps. I need you to start on a preliminary medical profile and Jo, we need all the fitness reports on Dawson, Downey and Santiago. The only thing I have to eat is Yoo-Hoo and SugarSnacks, so if you want anything else, bring it with you. Okay?
jo		Yeah.
kaffee		So this is what a courtroom looks like.
kaffee		Were you able to speak to your friend at NIS?
sam		She said if Markinson doesn't want to be found, we're not gonna find him. She said I could be Markinson and you wouldn't know it.
kaffee		Are you Markinson?
sam		No.
kaffee		Well, I'm not Markinson, that's two down.
kaffee		 What.
sam		 I was wondering, now that Joanne's working on this... I was wondering if you still need me.
kaffee		 They were following an order, Sam.
sam		An illegal order.
kaffee		You think Dawson and Downey know it was an illegal order?
sam		It doesn't matter if they know, any decent human being would've refused to --
kaffee		They're not permitted to question orders.
sam		Then what's the secret? What are the magic words? I give orders every day, and nobody follows them.
kaffee		We have softball games and marching bands. They work at a place where you have to wear camouflage or you might get shot.
kaffee		 I need you. You're better at research than I am and you know how to prepare a witness.
jo		I've got medical reports and Chinese food. I say we eat first.
sam		Did you get any dumplings?
kaffee		This is our defense. Intent: No one can prove there was poison on the raq. Code Red: They're common and accepted in Guantanamo Bay. The Order:  That's it.
sam		What about motive?
kaffee		We're a little weak on motive. They had one.
jo		Just because a person has a motive doesn't mean --
kaffee		Relax. We'll deal with the fenceline shooting when it comes up. For now we start here --  I don't know what made Santiago die, I don't want to know. I just want to be able to show it could've been something other than poison. Jo, talk to doctors. Find out everything there is to know about lactic acidosis. Let's start prepping for Stone.
jo		As long as we're on the subject of the doctor --
kaffee		Here we go.
jo		Listen to me, three o'clock he doesn't know what killed Santiago, then he meets with Jessep, and at five o'clock he says it was poison? The doctor's covering up the truth.
kaffee		Oh, that's a relief. I was afraid I wouldn't be able to use the "Liar, Liar, Pants on Fire" defense. We can't prove coercion!! Alright, fitness reports and biographical information.
kaffee		No Cliff-Notes on these things?
jo		 Captain Hill, this is Lt. Commander Galloway, I'm an internal affairs officer with the JAG Corps in Washington, D.C. I'm trying to track down a Captain Matthew Andrew Markinson, USMC...
kaffee		Doctor, other than the rope marks, was there any other sign of external damage?
sam		No.
kaffee		No scrapes?
sam		No.
kaffee		No cuts?
jo		 He resigned his commission a week ago Thursday.
kaffee		Bruises? Broken bones?
sam		No.
jo		 No, please don't put me on hold --
kaffee		Doctor, was there any sign of violence?
sam		 You mean other than the dead body?
kaffee		Fuck!! I walk into that every goddam time!
sam		Don't ask the last question.
kaffee		Lt. Kendrick, the type of disciplinary action, or "training'' as you say --
jo		Object.
kaffee		Please the Court, I maintain that nothing could be more relevant than what the defendants learned by the example of, among others, the witness.
jo		Nice.
jo		And what happened after Kendrick came into your room?
downey		 He ordered me and Corporal Dawson to give Willy a Code Red.
sam		 His answers still have to come faster, Jo. The Iowa farmboy thing'll play for a while, but in the end it looks like he's searching for the truth.
kaffee		 He's right, and from now on, "Willy" is Private Santiago. You start calling him Willy and all of a sudden he's a person who's got a mother who's gonna miss him.
kaffee		Poker faces. Don't flinch in front of the jury. Something doesn't go our way, don't hang your head, don't shift in your seat, don't scribble furiously. Whatever happens, you have to look like it's exactly what you knew was gonna happen. When you pass me documents --
kaffee		 And don't wear that perfume in Court, it wrecks my concentration.
jo		Really!
kaffee		I was talking to Sam.
sam		What time is it?
kaffee		Time to go home. Try to get some sleep tonight.
jo		 I'll give you a ride.
kaffee		 You're a good man, Charlie Brown.
sam		See you in court.
jo		Danny --
kaffee		I know what you're gonna say. You don't have to. We've had our differences. I've said some things I didn't mean, you've said some things you didn't means but you're happy that I stuck with the case. And if you've gained a certain respect for me over the last three weeks that you didn't have before, well, of course I'm happy about that, but we don't have to make a whole big deal out of it. You like me. I won't make you say it.
jo		I was just gonna tell you to wear matching socks tomorrow.
kaffee		 Okay. Good tip.
jo		We're ready.
kaffee		Bet your ass.
kaffee		 We're gonna get creamed.
man		You're gonna save our son, aren't you?
kaffee		 I'll do my best.
jo		Danny, I want you to meet Ginny Miller, Louden's aunt.
kaffee		You're Aunt Ginny?
ginny		Uh-huh.
kaffee		I'm sorry, I was expecting someone older.
ginny		So was I.
kaffee		Last chance. I'll flip you for it.
ross		Too late.
ross		No objection, your honor.
kaffee		No objection.
randolph		Is the Government prepared to make an opening statement?
ross		 Yes sir.
ross		 And they are undisputed.
randolph		Lt. Kaffee?
kaffee		There was no poison on the rag and there was no intent to kill and any attempt to prove otherwise is futile because it just ain't true.  Make no mistake about it, Harold Dawson and Louden Downey are sitting before you in judgement today because they did their job.
randolph		Is the Government ready to call its first witness?
ross		Please the Court, the Government calls Mr. R.C McGuire.
kaffee		How you doin'?
kaffee		 Good.
ross		Mr. McGuire, would you state your full name and occupation for the record, please?
mcguire		Robert C. McGuire, Special Agent, Naval Investigative Service.
ross		Mr. McGuire, did your office receive a letter from PFC William Santiago on 3 August of this year?
mcguire		We did.
ross		What did the letter say?
mcguire		That a member of Private Santiago's unit had illegally fired his weapon over the fenceline.
ross		Was that marine identified in the letter?
mcguire		No sir. I notified the barracks C.O., Colonel Jessep, that I would be coming down to investigate.
ross		And what did you find?
mcguire		For the shift reported, only one sentry returned his weapon to the switch with a round of ammunition missing.
ross		And who was that?
mcguire		Lance Corporal Harold Dawson.
ross		 Your witness.
kaffee		Mr. McGuire, have you questioned Corporal Dawson about the fenceline shooting?
mcguire		Yes. He claims to have been engaged in some manner by the enemy.
kaffee		But you don't believe him.
mcguire		It's not my place --
kaffee		Corporal Dawson's been charged with a number of crimes, why wasn't he charged with firing at the enemy without cause?
mcguire		There wasn't enough evidence to support such a charge.
kaffee		Thank you.
ross		Mr. McGuire, I don't understand what you mean when you say there wasn't enough evidence to support such a charge. You had Willy Santiago's letter.
mcguire		Santiago was the only witness, but I never had a chance to interview him. So I don't know what he saw.
ross		And now we won't ever know, will we, Mr. McGuire?
mcguire		No.
ross		No more questions.
hammaker		Corporal Carl Edward Hammaker, Marine Barracks, Rifle Security Company Windward, Second Platoon Charlie.
ross		Corporal, were you present at a meeting that Lt. Kendrick held on the afternoon of August 6th with the members of second platoon.
hammaker		Yes sir.
ross		Would you tell the Court the substance of that meeting?
hammaker		Lt. Kendrick told us that we had an informer in our group.  That Private Santiago had gone outside the chain of command and reported to the NIS on a member of our platoon.
ross		Did that make you mad?  You can tell the truth, corporal, it's alright. Did it make you mad?
hammaker		Yes sir.
ross		How mad?
hammaker		Private Santiago betrayed a code that we believe in very deeply, sir.
ross		Were the other members of the squad angry?
kaffee		Object --
ross		Were Dawson and Downey?
kaffee		Please the Court, is the judge advocate honestly asking this witness to testify as to how the defendant felt on August 6th?
randolph		Sustained.
ross		Corporal, did Lt. Kendrick leave a standing order at that meeting?
randolph		Yes sir.
ross		What was it?
hammaker		Well it was clear that he didn't want us to take matters into our own hands, sir.
ross		What was the order?
hammaker		Sir, he said that Santiago wasn't to be touched.
ross		 Your witness.
kaffee		Corporal Hammaker, were you in Dawson and Downey's barracks room ten minutes after this meeting?
hammaker		No sir.
kaffee		Thanks, I have no more questions.
ross		The Government calls Corporal Raymond Thomas --
kaffee		Please the Court, I understand Lt. Ross is planning on calling all the other members of Rifle Security Company Windward to testify.
ross		In light of the defense that Lt. Kaffee is planning to mount, the explicit instructions of the platoon leader seems particularly relevant testimony.
kaffee		The defense is willing to concede that all 23 witnesses will testify substantially as Corporal Hammaker did, if the Government is willing to concede that none of them were in Dawson and Downey's room at 16:20 on August 6th.
randolph		 Lieutenant?
ross		The Government'll agree to the stipulation, sir.
randolph		Then we'll adjourn for the day. You can call your next witness in the morning.
stone		...And he was pronounced dead at zero-zero-thirty-seven.
ross		Dr. Stone, what's lactic acidosis?
stone		If the muscles and other cells of the body burn sugar instead of oxygen, lactic acid is produced. That lactic acid is what caused Santiago's lungs to bleed.
ross		How long does it take for the muscles and other cells to begin burning oxygen instead of sugar?
stone		Twenty to thirty minutes.
ross		And what caused Santiago's muscles and other cells to start burning sugar?
stone		An ingested poison of some kind.
kaffee		Your Honor, we object at this point. The witness is speculating.
ross		Commander Stone is an expert medical witness, in this courtroom his opinion isn't considered speculation.
kaffee		Commander Stone is an internist, not a criminologist, and the medical facts here are ultimately inconclusive.
randolph		A point which I'm confident you'll illustrate to the jury under cross- examination, so I'm sure you won't mind if his opinion is admitted now.
kaffee		Not at all, sir. Objection withdrawn.
ross		Doctor Stone, did Willy Santiago die of poisoning?
stone		Absolutely.
ross		Are you aware that the lab report and the coroners report showed no traces of poison?
stone		Yes I am.
ross		Then how do you justify --
stone		There are literally dozens of toxins which are virtually undetectable, both in the human body and on a fabric. The nature of the acidosis is the compelling factor in this issue.
ross		Thank you, sir.
kaffee		Commander, you testified that it takes lactic acidosis 20 to 30 minutes before it becomes lethal.
stone		Yes.
kaffee		Let me ask you, is it possible for a person to have an affliction, some sort of condition, which might, in the case of this person, actually speed up the process of acidosis dramatically?
kaffee		 Commander, is it possible?
stone		Certainly.
kaffee		What might some of those conditions be?
stone		 If a person had a coronary disorder... or a cerebral disorder, the process would be more rapid.
kaffee		Commander, if I had a coronary condition, and a perfectly clean rag was placed in my mouth, and the rag was accidentally pushed too far down, is it possible that my cells would continue burning sugar after the rag was taken out?
stone		It would have to be a very serious condition.
kaffee		Is it possible to have a serious coronary condition, where the initial warning signals were so mild as to escape a physician during a routine medical exam?
stone		Possibly. There would still be symptoms though.
kaffee		What kind of symptoms?
stone		There are hundreds of symptoms of a --
kaffee		Chest pains?
stone		 Yes.
kaffee		Shortness of breath?
stone		Yes.
kaffee		Fatigue?
stone		Of course.
kaffee		Doctor, is this your signature?
stone		Yes it is.
kaffee		This in an order for Private Santiago to be put on restricted duty. Would you read your hand written remarks at the bottom of the page, please, sir.
stone		 "Initial testing negative. Patient complains of chest pains, shortness of breath, and fatigue. Restricted from running distances over five miles for one week."
kaffee		Commander, isn't it possible that Santiago had a serious coronary condition, and it was that condition, and not some mysterious poison, that caused the accelerated chemical reaction?
stone		No. I personally give the men a physical examination every three months. And every three months Private Santiago got a clean bill of health.
kaffee		And that's why it had to be, poison, right, Commander? 'Cause Lord knows, if you put a man with a serious coronary condition back on duty with a clean bill of health, and that man died from a heart related incident, you'd have a lot to answer for, wouldn't you, doctor?
ross		Object. Move to strike.
randolph		Sustained. Strike it.
kaffee		No more questions, judge.
ross		Dr. Stone, you've held a license to practice medicine for 21 years, you are Board Certified in Internal Medicine, you are the Chief of Internal Medicine at a hospital which serves over 8000 men. In your professional opinion, was Willy Santiago poisoned?
jo		Your Honor, we re-new our objection to Commander Stone's testimony, and ask that it be stricken from the record. And we further ask that the Court instruct the jury to lend no weight to this witness's testimony.
randolph		The objection's overruled, counsel.
jo		Sir, the defense strenuously objects and requests a meeting in chambers so that his honor might have an opportunity to hear discussion before ruling on the objection.
randolph		The objection of the defense has been heard and overruled.
jo		Exception.
randolph		Noted. The witness is an expert and the court will hear his opinion.
ross		Doctor, in your expert, professional opinion, was Willy Santiago poisoned?
stone		Yes.
ross		Thank you, sir, I have no more questions.
randolph		Commander, you may step down.
ross		Please the Court, while we reserve the right to call rebuttal witnesses if the need arises, the Government rests.
randolph		We'll stand in recess until ten- hundred hours this Monday, the l9th at which time the defense will call it's first witness.
sam		I strenuously object? Is that how it works? Objection. Overruled. No, no, no, no, I strenuously object. Oh, well if you strenuously object, let me take a moment to reconsider.
jo		I got it on the record.
sam		You also got it in the jury's head that we're afraid of the doctor. You object once so they can hear you say he's not a criminologist. You keep after it and it looks like this great cross we did was just a bunch of fancy lawyer tricks. It's the difference between paper law and trial --
kaffee		Sam --
sam		Christ, you even had the Judge saying Stone was an expert!
kaffee		Sam, she made a mistake. Let's not relive it.
sam		I'm gonna go call my wife. I'll meet you tonight.
jo		Why do you hate them so much?
sam		They beat up on a weakling, and that's all they did. The rest is just smokefilled coffee-house crap. They tortured and tormented a weaker kid. They didn't like him. And they killed him. And why? Because he couldn't run very fast.
kaffee		Alright. Everybody take the night off.
sam		 I apologize, I, --
kaffee		It's alright. We've been working 20 hour days for three and a half weeks straight. Take the night off. Go see your wife, see your daughter. Jo, do whatever it is you do when you're not here. What day is tomorrow?
sam		Saturday.
kaffee		We'll start at ten.
sam		Why do you like them so much?
jo		 And they say "Nothing's gonna hurt you tonight. Not on my watch."
sam		Don't worry about the doctor. This trial starts Monday.
jo		I'm sorry to bother you, I should've called first.
kaffee		No, I was just watching a baseball game.
jo		I was wondering if -- how you'd feel about my taking you to dinner tonight.
kaffee		Jo, are you asking me out on a date?
jo		No.
kaffee		It sounded like you were asking me out on a date.
jo		I wasn't.
kaffee		I've been asked out on dates before, and that's what it sounded like.
jo		Do you like seafood? I know a good seafood place.
jo		My third case was a Drunk and Disorderly. The trial lasted nine weeks. I rounded up 31 people who were in the bar that night.
kaffee		Nine weeks on a D and D? What was the prosecutor offering?
jo		15 days.
kaffee		 Well, you sure hustled the shit outta him.
jo		After that, they moved me to internal affairs.
kaffee		Tough to blame them.
jo		Where I've earned two distinguished service medals and two letters of commendation.
kaffee		Why are you always giving me your resume?
jo		Because I want you to think I'm good lawyer.
kaffee		I do.
jo		No you don't.  I think you're an exceptional lawyer. I watch the jurors, they respond to you, they like you. I see you convincing them. I think Dawson and Downey are gonna end up owing their lives to you.
kaffee		 We'll keep doing what we're doing, and we'll put on a show, but at the end of the day, all we have is the testimony of two people accused of murder.
jo		We'll find Markinson.
kaffee		Jo, we're gonna lose. And we're gonna lose huge.
kaffee		Corporal Howard, name some reasons why a marine would get a code red?
howard		Being late for platoon or company meetings, keeping his barracks in disorder, falling back on a run...
kaffee		Have you ever received a code red?
howard		Yes sir. We were doing seven man assault drills, and my weapon slipped. It's just cause it was over a hundred degrees and my palms were sweaty and I'd forgot to use the resin like we were taught.
kaffee		And what happened?
howard		That night the guys in my squad threw a blanket over me and took turns punching me in the arm for five minutes. Then they poured glue on my hands. And it worked, too, 'cause I ain't never dropped my weapon since.
kaffee		Was Private Santiago ever late for platoon meetings?
howard		Yes sir.
kaffee		Was his barracks ever in disorder?
howard		Yes sir.
kaffee		Did he ever fall back on a run?
howard		All the time, sir.
kaffee		Did he ever, prior to the night of August 6th, receive a code red?
howard		No sir.
kaffee		 Never?
howard		No, sir.
kaffee		You got a code red 'cause your palms were sweaty. Why didn't Santiago, this burden to his unit, ever get one?
howard		Dawson wouldn't allow it, sir.
kaffee		Dawson wouldn't allow it.
howard		The guys talked tough about Santiago, but they wouldn't go near him. They were too afraid of Dawson, sir.
ross		Object. The witness is characterizing.
kaffee		I'll rephrase. Jeffrey, did you ever want to give Santiago a code red?
howard		Yes sir.
kaffee		Why didn't you?
howard		'Cause Dawson'd kick my butt, sir.
kaffee		Good enough. Lt. Ross is gonna ask you some questions now.
ross		Corporal Howard, I hold here The Marine Guide and General Information Handbook for New Recruits. Are you familiar with this book?
howard		Yes sir.
ross		Have you read it?
howard		Yes sir.
ross		Good.  Would you turn to the chapter that deals with code reds, please.
howard		Sir?
ross		Just flip to the page in that book that discusses code reds.
howard		Sir, you see, Code Red is a term we use -- it's just used down at GITMO, sir. I don't know if it actually --
ross		We're in luck, then. The Marine Corps Guide for Sentry Duty, NAVY BASE Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. I assume we'll find the term code red and its definition in this book, am I correct?
howard		No sir.
ross		No? Corporal Howard, I'm a marine. Is their no book, no manual or pamphlet, no set of orders or regulations that let me know that, as a marine, one of my duties is to perform code reds?
howard		 No sir. No books, sir.
ross		No further questions.
kaffee		Corporal, would you turn to the page in this book that says where the enlisted men's mess hall is?
howard		Lt. Kaffee, that's not in the book, sir.
kaffee		I don't understand, how did you know where the enlisted men's mess hall was if it's not in this book?
howard		I guess I just followed the crowd at chow time, sir.
kaffee		No more questions.
randolph		Corporal Howard, you can step down.
howard		 Thank you, sir.
kaffee		Seven tonight, we'll do a final Kendrick review. I want to slam- dunk this guy.
kaffee		Hey, Luther.
luther		Admiral, how's the big case goin'?
kaffee		Nose to the grindstone.
luther		No flies on you.
kaffee		A rolling stone gathers no moss.
luther		Yeah, well it ain't over til the fat lady sings.
kaffee		Ain't that the truth. Catch you tomorrow.
kaffee		Jesus fucking Christ!!--
markinson		You left the door unlocked.
kaffee		Scared the shit outta me.
markinson		Drive.
kaffee		Are you aware you're under subpoena?
markinson		Yes. I'm also aware that the lives of two marines are in your hands. If there was something I could do about that, I would, but since I can't, all I can do is help you. Why don't you drive, Lieutenant.
kaffee		What do you know?
markinson		I know everything.
kaffee		Was it a code red?
markinson		Yes.
kaffee		Did Kendrick give the order?
markinson		Yes.
kaffee		Did you witness it?
markinson		I didn't need to --
kaffee		Did you witness it?!
markinson		No.
kaffee		Then how do you know?
markinson		I know.
kaffee		You know shit.
markinson		He was never gonna be transferred off the base.
markinson		 Jessep was going to keep him on the base. He said he wanted him trained.
kaffee		We've got the transfer order. It's got your signature.
markinson		I know. I signed it the morning you arrived in Cuba. Six days after Santiago died.
kaffee		I'm gonna get you a deal. Some kind of immunity with the prosecutor. In about four days, you're gonna appear as a witness for the defense, and you're gonna tell the court exactly what you told me. Right now I'm gonna check you into a motel, and we're gonna start from the beginning.
markinson		I don't want a deal. And I don't want immunity.
markinson		 I want you to know, I'm proud neither of what I've done nor what I'm doing.
jo		Where is he?
kaffee		The Route 23 Best Western.
jo		I want him guarded.
kaffee		That's probably a good idea.
jo		 This is Lt. Commander Joanne Galloway.
kaffee		Clearance code?
jo		Thank you.
kaffee		 I don't have a clearance code. Do you have a --
jo		 It's Jo Galloway. I need to secure a witness.
kaffee		He also said that Jessep's lying about the transportation off the base. Jessep said six the next morning was the first flight Santiago could've left on, Markinson says there was a plane that left seven hours earlier.
jo		Damn.
kaffee		That was impressive. Did you hear what I just said about the flight?
jo		Yes.
kaffee		Sam, when a plane takes off from a base, there's gotta be some kind of record kept, right?
sam		We need the Tower Chief's Log for GITMO.
kaffee		 Get it.
jo		We're gonna win.
kaffee		Jo, don't get crazy about this. We don't know who Markinson is. We don't know what the log book's gonna say. You just concentrate on Downey. I'm gonna talk to Ross and tell him where we are.
jo		 "Kaffee's got his case now, Kaffee's got his case now."
kaffee		You are like seven of the strangest women I have ever met.
ross		That was nice work today. The redirect on Howard.
kaffee		I have Markinson.
ross		Where is he?
kaffee		A motel room in Arlington with 14 Federal Marshals outside his door. Take a sip of your drink.
ross		Damn.
kaffee		The transfer order that Parkinson signed is phoney. And Jessep's statement that the six a.m. flight was the first available is a lie, we're checking the tower chief's log. But in the meantime I'm gonna put the Apostle Jon Kendrick on the stand and see if we can't have a little fun.
ross		I have an obligation to tell you that if you accuse Kendrick or Jessep of any crime without proper evidence, you'll be subject to Court-Martial for professional misconduct. And that's something that'll be stapled to every job application you ever fill out. Markinson's not gonna hold up, he's a crazy man. I'm not saying this to intimidate you. I'm being your lawyer.
kaffee		Thanks, Jack. And I wanna tell you that I think the whole fuckin' bunch of you are certifiably insane. And this code of honor of yours makes me wanna beat the shit outta something.
ross		Don't you dare lump me in with Jessep and Markinson and Kendrick because we wear the same uniform. I'm your friend, Danny, and I'm telling you, I don't think your clients belong in jail. But I don't get to make that decision. I represent the Government of the United States. Without passion or prejudice. And my client has a case.  I want you to acknowledge that the judge advocate has made you aware of the possible consequences involved in accusing a marine officer of a felony without proper evidence.
kaffee		I've been so advised.
ross		You got bullied into that courtroom, Danny. By everyone. By Dawson, by Galloway, shit, I practically dared you. Not for a second have you believed you could win. You got bullied into that room by the memory of a dead lawyer.
kaffee		 You're a lousy softball player, Jack.
ross		Your boys are going down. I can't stop it anymore.
kaffee		Batter up, J.J.
kaffee		Lt. Kendrick, in your opinion, was Private Santiago a good marine?
kendrick		I'd say he was about average.
kaffee		Lieutenant, you signed three fitness reports on Santiago. On all three reports you indicated a rating of Below Average.
kendrick		Yes. Private Santiago was Below Average I didn't see the need in trampling on a man's grave.
kaffee		We appreciate that, but you're under oath now, and I think unpleasant as it may be, we'd all just as soon hear the truth.
kendrick		I'm aware of my oath.
kaffee		Lieutenant, these are the last three fitness reports you signed for Lance Corporal Dawson and PFC Downey. Downey received three straight marks of Exceptional. Dawson received two marks of Exceptional, but on this most recent report, dated June 9th of this year, he received a rating of Below Average. It's this last report that I'd like to discuss for a moment.
kendrick		That's fine.
kaffee		Lance Corporal Dawson's ranking after Infantry Training School was perfect. Records indicate that over half that class has since been promoted to full corporal, while Dawson has remained a lance corporal. Was Dawson's promotion held up because of this last fitness report.
kendrick		I'm sure it was.
kaffee		Do you recall why Dawson was given such a poor grade on this report?
kendrick		I'm sure I don't. I have many men in my charge, Lieutenant, I write many fitness reports.
kaffee		Do you recall an incident involving a PFC Curtis Barnes who'd been found stealing liquor from the Officer's Club?
kendrick		Yes.
kaffee		Did you report private Barnes to the proper authorities?
kendrick		I have two books at my bedside, Lieutenant, the Marine Code of Conduct and the King James Bible. The only proper authorities I'm aware of are my Commanding Officer, Colonel Nathan R. Jessep and the Lord our God.
kaffee		Lt. Kendrick, at your request, I can have the record reflect your lack of acknowledgment of this court as a proper authority.
ross		Objection. Argumentative.
randolph		Sustained.  Watch yourself, counselor.
kaffee		Did you report Private Barnes to your superiors?
kendrick		I remember thinking very highly of Private Barnes, and not wanting to see his record tarnished by a formal charge.
kaffee		You preferred it to be handled within the unit.
kendrick		I most certainly did.
kaffee		Lieutenant, do you know what a Code Red is?
kendrick		Yes I do.
kaffee		Have you ever ordered a code red?
kendrick		No, I have not.
kaffee		Lieutenant, did you order Dawson and two other men to make sure that Private Barnes receive no food or drink except water for a period of seven days?
kendrick		That's a distortion of the truth. Private Barnes was placed on barracks restriction. He was given water and vitamin supplements, and I assure you that at no time was his health in danger.
kaffee		I'm sure it was lovely for Private Barnes, but you did order the barracks restriction, didn't you? And you did order the denial of food.
kendrick		Yes.
kaffee		Wouldn't this form of discipline be considered a code red?
kendrick		 Not necessarily.
kaffee		If I called the other 8000 men at Guantanamo Bay to testify, would they consider it a Code Red?
ross		Please the court, the witness can't possibly testify as to what 8000 other men would say. We object to this entire line of questioning as argumentative and irrelevant badgering of the witness.
randolph		The Government's objection is sustained, Lt. Kaffee, and I would remind you that you're now questioning marine officer with an impeccable service record.
ross		Thank you judge.
kaffee		Lieutenant, was Dawson given a rating of Below Average on this last fitness report because you learned held been sneaking food to Private Barnes?  Lieutenant?
kendrick		Corporal Dawson was found to be Below Average because he committed a crime.
kaffee		What crime did he commit?  Dawson brought a hungry guy some food. What crime did he commit?
kendrick		He disobeyed an order.
kaffee		And because he did, because he exercised his own set of values, because he made a decision about the welfare of a marine that was in conflict with an order of yours, he was punished, is that right?
kendrick		Corporal Dawson disobeyed an order.
kaffee		Yeah, but it wasn't a order, was it? After all, it's peacetime. He wasn't being asked to secure a hill... or advance on a beachhead. I mean, surely a marine of Dawson's intelligence can be trusted to determine on his own, which are the really important orders, and which orders might, say, be morally questionable. 
kendrick		No, he can not.
kaffee		A lesson he learned after the Curtis Barnes incident, am I right?
kendrick		I would think so.
kaffee		You know so, don't you, Lieutenant.
ross		Object!
randolph		Sustained.
kaffee		Lieutenant Kendrick, one final question: if you ordered Dawson to give Santiago a code red...
ross		-- please the court --
kendrick		I told those men not to touch Santiago.
kaffee		-- is it reasonable to think that he would've disobeyed you again?
ross		Lieutenant, don't answer that.
kaffee		You don't have to, I'm through.
ross		Lieutenant Kendrick, did you order Corporal Dawson and Private Downey to give Willy Santiaga code red?
ross		 Lt. Kendrick, did you --
kendrick		No I did not.
ross		Thank you.
kaffee		What's the word?
sam		This is the tower chief's log for that night. Jessep was telling the truth. The six a.m. flight was the first plane out.
kaffee		Let me see that.
kaffee		There was no flight out at eleven o'clock. What the fuck are you trying to pull?
markinson		The first flight stateside left Guantanamo Bay at eleven and arrived at Andrews Airforce Base, Maryland, at a few minutes past two.
kaffee		Then why the hell isn't it listed in the Tower Chief's log?!
markinson		Why the hell did you think it would be?!!
kaffee		What are you telling me?  He fixed the log book?
kaffee		 Well, maybe he can make it so a plane didn't take off, but I can sure as hall prove that one landed. I'll get the log book from Andrews.
kaffee		 He made an entire flight disappear?
markinson		Nathan Jessep is about to be named Director of Operations for the National Security Council. You don't get to that position without knowing how to side-step a few land mines.  And putting me on the stand isn't gonna make him step on one.
kaffee		You're taking the stand. Thursday.
kaffee		There's gotta be someone who can testify to the flight. A ground crew member. Someone.
sam		Do you have any idea how many planes take off and land every day? A kid from the ground crew isn't gonna remember a flight that landed four weeks ago.
kaffee		Forget the flight. We'll put Markinson on the stand and we'll deal with Jessep's refusal to transfer Santiago and he'll testify to the forged transfer order. That'll be enough. That and Downey's testimony really oughta be enough.
jo		Private Downey, why did you go into Santiago's room on the night of the 6th?
downey		To give Private Santiago a Code Red, ma'am.
jo		And why did you give him a Code Red?
downey		I was ordered to give him a Code Red by the Executive officer for Rifle Security Company Windward, Lieutenent Jonathan James Kendrick.
jo		You're gonna do fine.
downey		You think they'll let us go back to our platoon soon, ma'am?
jo		 Absolutely.
jo		You remember the order of the questions?
kaffee		Yes.
jo		Are you sure?
kaffee		Yes.
jo		And you'll use small words?
kaffee		Yes.
jo		He gets rattled when he doesn't understand something.
kaffee		Jo --
jo		I'm just saying go slow.
kaffee		I'm gonna go slow.
jo		Okay.
kaffee		Alright.
jo		And get him off as fast as you can.
kaffee		Joanne!
jo		What?
kaffee		He's gonna be fine.
kaffee		Private, I want you to tell us one last time: Why did you go into Private Santiago's room on the night of August 6th?
downey		A code red was ordered by my platoon commander, Lt. Jonathan James Kendrick.
kaffee		Thank you.  Your witness.
ross		Private, for the week of 2 August, the switch log has you down at Post 39, is that correct?
downey		I'm sure it is, sir, they keep that log pretty good.
ross		How far is it from Post 39 to the Windward barracks?
downey		It's a ways, sir, it's a hike.
ross		About how far by jeep?
downey		About ten, fifteen minutes, sir.
ross		Have you ever had to walk it?
downey		Yes sir. That day, sir. Friday. The Pick-up Private -- sir, that's what we call the fella who drops us at our posts and picks us up... also, 'cause he can get girls in New York City -- the Pick-up Private got a flat...
downey		 ...Right at 39. He pulled up and blam! ...A blowout-with no spare. The two of us had to double-time it back to the barracks.
ross		And if it's ten or fifteen minutes by jeep, I'm guessing it must be a good hour by foot, am I right?
downey		Pick-up and me did it in 45 flat, sir.
ross		Not bad. Now you say your assault on Private Santiago was the result of an order that Lt. Kendrick gave in
downey		Yes sir.
ross		But you just said that you didn't make it back to Windward Barracks
downey		Sir?
ross		If you didn't make it back to your barracks until 16:45, then how could you be in your room at 16:20?
downey		 You see sir, there was a flat tire.
ross		Private, did you ever actually hear Lt. Kendrick order a Code Red?
downey		 No, sir.
jo		Please the court, I'd like to request a recess in order to confer with my client.
ross		Why did you go into Santiago's room?
jo		The witness has rights.
ross		The witness has been read his rights, commander.
downey		 Hal?
randolph		The question will be repeated.
ross		Why did you go into Santiago's room?
jo		Your honor --
downey		Hal?
ross		Did Corporal Dawson tell you to do it?
ross		 He did, didn't he? Dawson told you to give Santiago a code red.
downey		Hal?
ross		Don't look at him.
downey		Hal?
dawson		Private. Answer the Lieutenant's question.
downey		Yes, Lieutenant. I was given an order by my squad leader, Lance Corporal Harold W. Dawson of the U.S. Marine Corps. And I followed it.
jo		Where do you think he is?
jo		 As far as Downey was concerned, it was an order from Kendrick. It didn't matter that he didn't hear it first hand. He doesn't distinguish between the two.
jo		 Danny. I'm sorry.
kaffee		Don't worry about it.
jo		Sam and I were just talking about how all we really have to do is call some witnesses who'll talk about implied orders... or maybe we put Downey back on the stand before we get to Dawson.
kaffee		Maybe if we work at it we can get Dawson charged with the Kennedy assassination.
jo		Are you drunk?
kaffee		 Pretty much. Yeah.
jo		 I'll make a pot of coffee. We have a long night's work ahead.
kaffee		She's gonna make coffee. That's nice.  That was an important piece of information, don't you think?
jo		 Danny, it was just a setback. I'm sorry. But we'll fix it and then move on to Markinson.
kaffee		Markinson's dead.
kaffee		 It's not like he hanged himself by his shoelaces or slashed his wrists with a concealed butter knife. This guy got, into full dress uniform, stood in the middle of that room, drew a nickle plated pistol from his holster, and fired a bullet into his mouth.
kaffee		 Anyway, since we seem to be out of witnesses, I thought I'd drink a little.
jo		I still think we can win.
kaffee		Then maybe you should drink a little.
jo		Look, we'll go to Randolph in the morning and make a motion for a continuance. 24 hours.
kaffee		 Why would we want to do that?
jo		To subpoena Colonel Jessep.
kaffee		What?
jo		Listen for a second --
kaffee		No.
jo		Just hear me out --
kaffee		No. I won't listen to you and I won't hear you out. Your passion is comforting, Jo. It's also useless. Private Downey needed a trial lawyer today.
jo		 You chicken-shit. You're gonna use what happened today as an excuse to give up.
kaffee		It's over!
jo		Why did you ask Jessep for the transfer order?
kaffee		What are you --
jo		In Cuba. Why did you ask Jessep for the transfer order?
kaffee		What does it matter --
jo		Why?!
kaffee		I wanted the damn transfer order!
jo		Bullshit! You could've gotten it by picking up the phone and calling any one of a dozen departments at the Pentagon. You didn't want the transfer order. You wanted to see Jessep's reaction when you asked for the transfer order. You had an instinct. And it was confirmed by Markinson. Now damnit, let's put Jessep on the stand and end this thing!
kaffee		What possible good could come from putting Jessep on the stand?
jo		He told Kendrick to order the Code Red.
kaffee		He did?! Why didn't you say so!? That's qreat! And of course you have proof of that.
jo		I --
kaffee		Ah, I keep forgetting: You were sick the day they taught law at law school.
jo		You put him on the stand and you get it from him!
kaffee		Yes. No problem. We get it from him.  Colonel, isn't it true that you ordered the Code Red on Santiago?
sam		Look, we're all a little --
kaffee		I'm sorry, your time's run out. What do we have for the losers, Judge? Well, for our defendants it's a lifetime at exotic Fort Levenworth. And for defense counsel Kaffee? That's right -- it's -- a court -- martial. Yes, Johnny, after falsely accusing a marine officer of conspiracy, Lt. Kaffee will have a long and prosperous career teaching typewriter maintenance at the Rocco Columbo School for Women. Thank you for playing "Should We or Should-We-Not Follow the Advice of the Galacticly Stupid".
jo		I'm sorry I lost you your set of steak knives.
kaffee		Stop cleaning up.
kaffee		 Sam. Stop cleaning up.
kaffee		 You want a drink?
sam		Yeah.
kaffee		Is your father proud of you?
sam		Don't do this to yourself.
kaffee		I'll bet he is. I'll bet he bores the shit outta the neighbors and the relatives. "Sam, made Law Review. He's got a big case he's making -- He's arguing making an argument."  I think he would've liked that... an awful lot.
sam		Did I ever tell you that I wrote a paper on your father in college?
kaffee		Yeah?
sam		He was one of the best trial lawyers ever.
kaffee		Yes he was.
sam		And if I were Dawson and Downey and I had a choice between you or your father to represent me in this case, I'd take you any day of the week and twice on Sunday. You should have seen yourself thunder away at Kendrick.
kaffee		Would you put Jessep on the stand?
sam		No.
kaffee		You think my father would've?
sam		With the evidence we've got? Not in a million years. But here's the thing -- and there's really no way of getting around this -- neither Lionel Kaffee nor Sam Weinberg are lead counsel for the defense in the matter of U.S. versus Dawson and Downey. So there's only one question. What would you do?
kaffee		Joanne.
kaffee		 Stop the car.
kaffee		 Joanne.
kaffee		 I apologize. I was angry and... I'm sorry about what I said.
kaffee		 I'm gonna put Jessep on the stand.
jo		I say we hit him with the phoney transfer order.
sam		What's the transfer order without a witness?
kaffee		We have a witness.
sam		A dead witness.
kaffee		And in the hands of a lesser attorney, that'd be a problem.
sam		Look at this. Last night he was swimming in his Jack Daniels, now he can leap tall buildings in a single bound.
kaffee		I'm getting my second wind. Siddown. Both of you.
kaffee		 Jessep told Kendrick to order a code red. Kendrick did, and our clients followed the order. The cover-up isn't our case. To win, Jessep has to tell the jury that he ordered the code red.
sam		And you think you can got him to just say it?
kaffee		I think he wants to say it. I think he's pissed off that he's gotta hide from us. I think he wants to say that he made a command decision and that's the end of it. He eats breakfast 80 yards away from 4000 Cubans who are trained to kill him, and no one's gonna tell him how to run his base. Least of all the pushy broad, the smart Jew, and the Harvard clown. I need to shake him and put him on the defensive.
sam		That's it? That's the plan?
kaffee		That's the plan.
sam		You're gonna trip Jessep and he's gonna confess.
kaffee		I'm not gonna trip him. I'm gonna lead him right where he's dying to go.
sam		And how are you gonna do that?
kaffee		I have no idea. I need my bat.
jo		What?
kaffee		 I need my bat. I think better with my bat. Where's my bat?
jo		I put it in the closet.
kaffee		You put it in the closet.
jo		I was tripping over it.
jo		He thinks better with his bat?
kaffee		Stay here, I'm going to the office for a while.
sam		Boy, he does think better with that bat.
kaffee		 I need you to do something.
jo		What's goin' on?
sam		I've gotta go out to Andrews.
kaffee		Is Sam here?
jo		Not yet.
kaffee		Where is he?
jo		He's on his way.
kaffee		Did he got the guys?
jo		Yes. Listen, can I talk to you for a second?
jo		How're you feeling?
kaffee		I think he's gonna have his hands full today.
jo		Listen.  ...don't go for it.
jo		 I'm special counsel for internal affairs, and I'm telling you, you could get in a lot of trouble.
kaffee		Why Lt. Commander Galloway... are you suggesting I back off a material witness?
jo		If you think you can't get him.  Yeah.
kaffee		Do you think I can get him?
jo		 I can't seem to defend people.
kaffee		You're my hero, Joanne.  Live with that.
randolph		 Call your witness.
kaffee		Where's Sam?
jo		He'll be here.
randolph		Lieutenant, call your witness.
kaffee		Defense calls Colonel Nathan Jessep.
ross		Colonel, do you solemnly swear that the testimony you will give in this General Court-Martial will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth so help you God?
jessep		Yes I do.
ross		Would you state your name, rank, and current billet for the record please, air?
jessep		Colonel Nathan R. Jessep, Commanding officer, Marine Ground Forces, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
ross		Thank you, sir, would you have a seat, please.
kaffee		Colonel, when you learned of Santiago's letter to the NIS, you had a meeting with your two senior officers, is that right?
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		The Executive Officer, Lt. Jonathan Kendrick, and the Company Commander, Captain Matthew Markinson.
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		And at present, Captain Markinson is dead, is that right?
ross		Objection. I'd like to know just what defense counsel is implying?
kaffee		I'm implying simply that, at present, Captain Markinson is not alive.
ross		Surely Colonel Jessep doesn't need to appear in this courtroom to confirm that information.
kaffee		I just wasn't sure if the witness was aware that two days ago, Captain Markinson took his own life with a .45 caliber pistol.
kaffee		Yes sir. Colonel, at the time of this meeting, you gave Lt. Kendrick an order, is that right?
jessep		I told Kendrick to tell his men that Santiago wasn't to be touched.
kaffee		And did you give an order to Captain Markinson as well?
jessep		I ordered Markinson to have Santiago transferred off the base immediately.
kaffee		Why?
jessep		I felt that his life might be in danger once word of the letter got out.
kaffee		Grave danger?
jessep		Is there another kind?
kaffee		We have the transfer order that you and Markinson co-signed, ordering that Santiago be lifted on a flight leaving Guantanamo at six the next morning. Was that the first flight off the bass?
jessep		The six a.m. flight was the first flight off the base.
kaffee		Colonel, you flew up to Washington early this morning, is that right?
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		I notice you're wearing your Class A appearance in dress uniform for court today.
jessep		 As are you, Lieutenant.
kaffee		Did you wear that uniform on the plane?
ross		Please the Court, is this dialogue relevant to anything in particular?
kaffee		The defense didn't have an opportunity to depose this witness, your honor. I'd ask the Court for a little latitude.
randolph		A very little latitude.
kaffee		Colonel?
jessep		I wore fatigues on the plane.
kaffee		And you brought your dress uniform with you.
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		And a toothbrush? A shaving kit? Change of underwear?
ross		Your honor.
kaffee		 Is the Colonel's underwear a matter of national security?
randolph		Gentlemen.  You better get somewhere fast with this, Lieutenant.
kaffee		Yes sir. Colonel?
jessep		I brought a change of clothes and some personal items.
kaffee		Thank you.
kaffee		 Pairs of camouflage pants, 6 camouflage shirts, 2 pairs of boots, 1 pair of brown shoes, 1 pair of tennis shoes, 8 khaki tee-shirts, 2 belts, 1 sweater --
ross		Please the Court, is there a question anywhere in our future?
randolph		Lt. Kaffee, I have to --
kaffee		I'm wondering why Santiago wasn't packed.
kaffee		 I'll tell you what, we'll get back to that one in a minute.
kaffee		 This is a record of all telephone calls made from your base in the past 24 hours. After being subpoenaed to Washington, you made three calls.
kaffee		 I've highlighted those calls in yellow. Do you recognize those numbers?
jessep		I called Colonel Fitzhuqhes in Quantico, Va. I wanted to let him know I'd be in town. The second call was to set up a meeting with Congressman Ramond of the House Armed Services Committee, and the third call was to my sister Elizabeth.
kaffee		Why did you make that call, sir?
jessep		I thought she might like to have dinner tonight.
ross		Judge --
randolph		I'm gonna put a stop to this now.
kaffee		Your honor, these are the telephone records from GITMO for August 6th. And these are 14 letters that Santiago wrote in nine months requesting, in fact begging, for a transfer.  Upon hearing the news that he was finally getting his transfer, Santiago was so excited, that do you know how many people he called? Zero. Nobody. Not one call to his parents saying he was coming home. Not one call to a friend saying can you pick me up at the airport. He was asleep in his bed at midnight, and according to you he was getting on a plane in six hours, yet everything he owned was hanging neatly in his closet and folded neatly in his footlocker. You were leaving for one day and you packed a bag and made three phone calls. Santiago was leaving for the rest of his life, and he hadn't called a soul and he hadn't packed a thing. Can you explain that? The fact is there was no transfer order. Santiago wasn't going anywhere, isn't that right, Colonel.
ross		Object. Your Honor, it's obvious that Lt. Kaffee's intention this morning is to smear a high ranking marine officer in the desperate hope that the mere appearance of impropriety will win him points with the jury. It's my recommendation, sir, that Lt. Kaffee receive an official reprimand from the bench, and that the witness be excused with the Court's deepest apologies.
randolph		 Overruled.
ross		Your honor --
randolph		The objection's noted.
kaffee		 Colonel?
kaffee		 Is this funny, sir?
jessep		No. It's not. It's tragic.
kaffee		Do you have an answer?
jessep		Absolutely. My answer is I don't have the first damn clue. Maybe he was an early morning riser and he liked to pack in the nq. And maybe he didn't have any friends. I'm an educated man, but I'm afraid I can't speak intelligently about the travel habits of William Santiago.  What I do know is that he was set to leave the base at 0600. Now are these really the questions I was called here to answer? Phone calls and footlockers? Please tell me you've got something more, Lieutenant. Please tell me there's an ace up your sleeve. These two marines are on trial for their lives. Please tell me their lawyer hasn't pinned their hopes to a phone bill.  Do you have any other questions for me, counselor?
randolph		Lt. Kaffee?
randolph		 Lieutenant, do you have anything further for this witness?
jessep		 Thanks, Danny. I love Washington.
kaffee		Excuse me, I didn't dismiss you.
jessep		I beg your pardon.
kaffee		I'm not through with my examination. Sit down.
jessep		Colonel.
kaffee		What's that?
jessep		 I'd appreciate it if he addressed me as Colonel or Sir. I believe I've earned it.
randolph		Defense counsel will address the witness as Colonel or Sir.
jessep		 I don't know what the hell kind of an outfit you're running here.
randolph		And the witness will address this Court as Judge or Your Honor. I'm quite certain I've earned it. Take your seat, Colonel.
jessep		 What would you like to discuss now! My favorite color?
kaffee		Colonel, the six a.m. flight, was the first one off the base?
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		There wasn't a flight that left seven hours earlier and landed at Andrews Airforce Base at 2 a.m.?
randolph		Lieutenant, I think we've covered this, haven't we?
kaffee		Your Honor, these are the Tower Chief's Logs for both Guantanamo Bay and Andrews Airforce Base. The Guantanamo log lists no flight that left at eleven p.m., and the Andrews log lists no flight that landed at 2 a.m. I'd like to admit them as Defense Exhibits "A" and "B".
randolph		I don't understand. You're admitting evidence of a flight that never existed?
kaffee		We believe it did, sir.  Defense'll be calling Airman Cecil O'Malley and Airman Anthony Perez. They were working the ground crew at Andrews at two a.m. on the seventh.
ross		Your Honor, these men weren't on the list. Rebuttal witnesses, Your Honor, called specifically to refute testimony offered under direct examination.
randolph		I'll allow the witnesses.
jessep		This is ridiculous.
kaffee		Colonel, a moment ago --
jessep		Check the Tower Logs for christ's sake.
kaffee		We'll get to the airmen in just a minute, sir. A moment ago said that you ordered Kendrick to order his men not to touch Santiago.
jessep		That's right.
kaffee		And Kendrick was clear on what you wanted?
jessep		Crystal.
kaffee		Any chance Kendrick ignored the order?
jessep		Ignored the order?
kaffee		Any chance he just forgot about it?
jessep		No.
kaffee		Any chance Kendrick left your office and said, "The 'old man's wrong"?
jessep		No.
kaffee		When Kendrick spoke to the platoon and ordered them not to touch Santiago, any chance they ignored him?
jessep		Have you ever spent time in an infantry unit, son?
kaffee		No sir.
jessep		Ever served in a forward area?
kaffee		No sir.
jessep		Ever put your life in another man's hands, ask him to put his life in yours?
kaffee		No sir.
jessep		We follow orders, son. We follow orders or people die. It's that simple. Are we clear?
kaffee		Yes sir.
jessep		Are we clear?
kaffee		Crystal.
kaffee		 Colonel, I have just one more question before I call Airman O'Malley and Airman Perez: If you gave an order that Santiago wasn't to be touched, and your orders are always followed, then why would he be in danger, why would it be necessary to transfer him off the base?
jessep		Private Santiago was a sub-standard marine. He was being transferred off the base because --
kaffee		But that's not what you said. You said he was being transferred because he was in grave danger.
jessep		 Yes. That's correct, but --
kaffee		You said, "He was in danger". I said, "Grave danger". You said --
jessep		Yes, I recall what --
kaffee		I can have the Court Reporter read back your --
jessep		I know what I said. I don't need it read back to me like I'm a damn --
kaffee		Then why the two orders?  Why did you --
jessep		Sometimes men take matters into their own hands.
kaffee		No sir. You made it clear just a moment ago that your men never take matters into their own hands. Your men follow orders or people die. So Santiago shouldn't have been in any danger at all, should he have, Colonel?
jessep		You little bastard.
ross		Your Honor, I have to ask for a recess to --
kaffee		I'd like an answer to the question, Judge.
randolph		The Court'll wait for answer.
kaffee		If Kendrick told his men that Santiago wasn't to be touched, then why did he have to be transferred?
kaffee		 Colonel?
kaffee		 Kendrick ordered the code red, didn't he? Because that's what you told Kendrick to do.
ross		Object!
randolph		Counsel.
kaffee		And when it went bad, you cut these guys loose.
ross		Your Honor --
randolph		That'll be all, counsel.
kaffee		You had Markinson sign a phony transfer order --
ross		Judge --
kaffee		You doctored the log books.
ross		Damnit Kaffee!!
kaffee		I'll ask for the forth time. You ordered --
jessep		You want answers?
kaffee		I think I'm entitled to them.
jessep		You want answers?!
kaffee		I want the truth.
jessep		You can't handle the truth!
jessep		 I have neither the time nor the inclination to explain myself to a man who rises and sleeps under the blanket of the very freedom I provide, then questions the manner in which I provide it. I'd prefer you just said thank you and went on your way. Otherwise, I suggest you pick up a weapon and stand a post. Either way, I don't give a damn what you think you're entitled to.
kaffee		 Did you order the code red?
jessep		 I did the job you sent me to do.
kaffee		Did you order the code red?
jessep		 You're goddamn right I did.
kaffee		Please the court, I suggest the jury be dismissed so that we can move to an immediate Article 39a Session. The witness has rights.
randolph		Lt. Ross?
kaffee		 Jack.
randolph		The Sergeant at Arms will take the jury to an ante-room where you'll wait until further instruction.
jessep		What the hell's going on?
jessep		 Captain, what the hell's going on? I did my job. I'd do it again. Now I'm getting on a plane and going back to my base.
randolph		M.P.'s, guard the prisoner.
ross		Guard the prisoner.
jessep		What the hell --
ross		Colonel Jessep, you have the right to remain silent. Any statement you do make can be used against you in a trial by court-martial or other judicial or administrative proceeding. You have the right...
jessep		I'm being charged with a crime? I'm -- that's what this is --  I'm being charged with a crime? I'm -- that's what's happening? This -- I'm -- this is funny, you know that, this is --
jessep		 I'm gonna tear your eyes right outta your head and piss in your dead skull. You fucked with the wrong marine.
ross		Colonel Jessep, do you understand those rights as I have just read then to you?
jessep		I saved lives. That boy was -- there was a weak link. I saved lives, you hear me?
jessep		 All you did was weaken a country today, Kaffee. That's all you did. You put people in danger. Sweet dreams, son.
kaffee		Don't call me son.  I'm a lawyer, and an officer of the United States Navy. And you're under arrest you sonofabitch.
kaffee		 The witness is excused.
randolph		Have the jurors reached a verdict?
jury foreman		We have, sir.
randolph		 On the charge of Murder, the Members find the defendants Not Guilty.
randolph		 On the charge of Conspiracy to Commit Murder, the Members find the defendants Not Guilty.
randolph		 On the charge of Conduct Unbecoming a United States Marine, the members find the defendants Guilty as Charged.
randolph		 The defendants are hereby sentenced by this court to time already served, and are ordered...
randolph		 This Court-Martial is adjourned.
dawson		Why?
kaffee		Harold, I'm sorry.
dawson		Why?!
downey		I don't understand. Colonel Jessep said he ordered the Code Red.
jo		I know, but --
downey		Colonel Jessep said he ordered the Code Red, what did we do wrong?
jo		It's not as simple as --
downey		What did we do wrong?
dawson		We did nothing wrong.
sam		Yes you did! A jury just said your conduct was unbecoming a marine. What does that mean?!
dawson		You're the lawyer.
sam		You're the marine.
dawson		Not anymore.
dawson		 I never meant to hurt Willy.
kaffee		Harold!
dawson		Sir!
kaffee		 You don't need to wear a patch on your arm to have honor.
dawson		Ten-hut.
dawson		 There's an officer on deck.
ross		Airmen Cecil O'Malley and Anthony Perez? What exactly were these guys gonna testify to?
kaffee		Unless I'm mistaken they were gonna testify, under oath, that they have absolutely no recollection of anything.
ross		Strong witnesses.
kaffee		And very handsome, too, don't you think?
ross		I'll see you around the campus. I've gotta go arrest Kendrick.
kaffee		Tell him I say "Hi".
ross		Will do.
jo		What do you say we take the rest of the day off. Go out someplace. Sam? Champagne? Yoo-Hoo?
sam		Thanks, I can't. I'm gonna go home and talk to my daughter. I think she's gotta be bilingual by now.
jo		So what's next for you?
kaffee		Staff Sargeant Henry Williamson. He went to the movies on company time. What about you?
jo		Me? Oh... you know... the usual.
kaffee		Just pretty much generally annoying people?
jo		Yeah.  So what do you say? How 'bout a celebration?
kaffee		No. How 'bout a date. A real date. Dinner. Attractive clothes. The works.
jo		Sounds good.  Who do you think I should call?
kaffee		I'll pick you up at seven.
jo		What are you gonna do now?
kaffee		I'm gonna get started on Henry Williamson.  Stand my post for a while.
jo		Wear matching socks.
****Dialogues from script :A_Most_Violent_Year.txt****

****Dialogues from script :A_Prayer_Before_Dawn.txt****

first officer		You sign, na!
billy		I can't read Thai.
first officer		SIGN!
first officer		--SIGN!
billy		 GET ME THE EMBASSY!! GET ME THE FUCKING EMBASSY!!!
billy		AY?!
first officer		 You steal, na.
billy		I bought those.
first officer		Drug dealer.
billy		No.
first officer		--Yaba: Death for you.
billy		No...fuck no.
first officer		For the weapons and phones.
billy		 ...the Embassy...
first officer		 They no help you.
billy		I don't speak Thai.
billy		William Moore.
billy		Twenty-six.
billy		None.
billy		UK. Liverpool.
billy		No...
billy		No one.
billy		Not here.
billy		Six months.
billy		...I teach English part-time. But I'm a boxer...
billy		...I fought for tips.
elyias		Can make pain go `way...
billy		...
elyias		Me name Elyias. You sick, yes?
elyias		Heroin. Good medicine.
billy		I'll sit somewhere else.
billy		No, somewhere else...  I'll sit over there.
billy		--Are you off your fuckin' nut? He's dead.
tiffany		 No worry. Tomorrow he go. Many, many happy.
tiffany		Me name Tiffany.
tiffany		Relax. I no like farang. Cock too big.
tiffany		You got nice eyes.
billy		 -- Keep fuckin' back! And tuck that tackle in or I'll fuckin' rip it off.
tiffany		You like smokey?
billy		Thanks...You speak good English.
tiffany		I speak nit-noy. I speak a little bit.
billy		 So what happened to him?
tiffany		Who knows? Just die, maybe two hour. You want his bed? All yours.
billy		 What about a pillow? Blanket? Some fuckin' food I can eat...?
tiffany		Need money. Five hundred baht: Lady- Boy sew you blanket. Prison shop sell food. All inmate work for guards or other inmate to survive. No money? You die--  --like him.
tiffany		Sleep now, no more talk...
billy		Six?
billy		I don't know...
billy		Hok.
billy		Hok!!
billy		is alone, motionless and drugged. WE SEE what/how HE SEES...
elyias		Yaba...Tiger. Horse. More you use, more you need...
billy		The fuck are you on about?
elyias		Now time, you pay me.
billy		 ...I'll pay when I can.
elyias		Must pay now. No money, you pay other way...
elyias		Muslims. Bad for business... You, boxer-- Boom boom them.
billy		I don't do that. Fuck off.
elyias		Then me sell your debt to supplier: "the Samurai."
elyias		HIV, AIDS, all them...  Syringes are swords. Buy drugs and you no pay? Give AIDS to you...
elyias		Choice yours.
billy		stands there. STARK STILL. A pain in his eyes: self hatred, remorse. Then, his rapid breathing induces a RAGE, RISING...
billy		Hel-- Hel-- I, I need--
billy		HEEEEELLLLLLLLLLPPPPPPP!!!!!
black.		56   INT. PRISON INFIRMARY - DAYS LATER - BILLY                       56
kiaw		Okay, farang. You sleep here.
kiaw		I am Kiaw.
billy		Billy.
kiaw		 Me hear of you...
billy		Yeah, what'd you hear?
kiaw		That you crazy foreigner. Farang, ba. I like that. Kiaw friend to you...
kiaw		Initiation...not for Westerner.
billy		watches, nervous and horrified as Kiaw builds a "syringe": taking apart a Bic pen, then using a lighter to burn/melt one end of the stem around a needle;
kiaw		Now you.
billy		Fuck that.
kiaw		Best high like this.
billy		 --I'm sorry...sorry, I didn't--
billy		Wait, I'm a fighter! I'M A FIGHTER!!
billy		I need a doctor.
billy		What're they knocking out up there?
nigerian		Tramadol. Good for pain.
billy		Yeah? It's enough to do damage?
nigerian		Not like Dilaudid or Roxinol. But good enough.
billy		 I'm Billy Moore. What's your name?
nigerian		Black Dildo.
billy		"Black Dildo--?" Got a Christian name, haven't you?
billy		Well you know your painkillers, Black Dildo. How much they charging for it?
black dildo		Free to all. Help get prisoners clean.
billy		Where's me pills?
billy		"Pay?" The hell you mean? It's free, isn't it?
billy		-- What?!
black dildo		Come back tomorrow. You no want trouble here.
billy		No, no. It's alright, Dildo. I got this...
billy		Now look, you lil' fuckin' cunt-- There's people waitin' here...I don't want no trouble, so play fuckin' nice and give me my pills.
billy		What'd he say?
billy		I NEED these pills--
billy		 GET OFF! GET FUCKIN' OFF ME!
billy		Three on one, shitbags!
black dildo		STOP! CALM DOWN! NO MORE!
billy		Okay! Alright, Dildo. I'm calm. I'm calmed down.
billy		 ...help me...
jom		You okay?
jom		Face look very bad.
jom		No worry now. Me name Jom. I help you.
billy		 Are you sayin' I'm not?
billy		Who said I "need" it?
billy		 When I use, I don't hear it.
billy		...I can't box with chains on...
jom		So you like fight?
jom		-- Officer Pi Sit, good man. He protect us.  And now, he try and protect you...
jom		Here, I feel safe. I go outside compound,-- danger! 
jom		I spend next thirty-five years of my life here...very much afraid.  I had boyfriend, say he love me. Then he lie and cheat, and I slit his throat when he beat me.
jom		 Do you have girlfriend in prison?
jom		Hey, farang ba! You think me beautiful?
jom		 Hello. How I can help you?
billy		...cigarettes...
jom		Five dollar.
billy		 Can I buy `em on credit?
billy		 -- I'm expecting some cash from me mum.
billy		William Moore.
jom		I know...
jom		I give you fifty dollar credit. Pay me back when you can?
billy		 -- I never thanked you for fixin' me head. So...
jom		You want, I can be your sexy girlfriend...
kiaw		Someone killed...
smash to:		80   PRISON RAID SEQUENCE                                            80
billy		Those aren't mine.  Kiaw says something in Thai. Bull Guard shouts angrily back. Kiaw talks/gestures to Billy -- says the heroin is his;  Billy shakes his head "no," frantic, terror stricken. Officer Pi Sit just keeps staring at him.  As Bull Guard shouts in Thai, Billy snatches the shirt from his hands and tries to put it on.  Too small. Doesn't fit. A SLEEVE rips, then hangs off.  Bull Guard goes silent. Officer Pi Sit looks at Billy and Kiaw. A VERY SCARY, VERY INTENSE MOMENT.....  Officer Pi Sit turns, signals sharply to the Trustees.  IN A FLASH, the Trustees grab Kiaw and fiercely hurry him out of the yard.  Kiaw protests, frantic-- as Billy watches, shackled, still.  Trustees wrestle Kiaw to an upstairs office and shut the door.  There's a sudden SQUALL OF FEEDBACK over the LOUD SPEAKERS, followed by SOUNDS of footsteps scuffling -- A door being slammed -- A chair being dragged -- Kiaw being interrogated --  IT GOES ON AND ON FOR A FEW SECONDS, THEN JUST STOPS.  SILENCE.  Then the SCREAMING begins.  Billy and the prisoners are frozen, listening to the SOUND OF KIAW'S BLOOD-CHILLING SCREAMS as TRUSTEES SAVAGELY BEAT HIM WITH BATONS.  84   I/E. - VARIOUS P.A. SPEAKERS + PRISON LOCATIONS - THAT MOMENT 84  The beating/screams/sobs broadcast across the entire prison.  85   EXT. PRISON COURTYARD - BILLY + PRISONERS                        85  all staring at the speakers: NOBODY MOVES, NOBODY SPEAKS.  HOLD ON BILLY, this just awful moment. CUT TO:
billy		his eyes glazed, watching Jom through the smoke...as do all the other inmates. The room pulses slowly. Billy is totally captivated by Jom's singing and stares without blinking.
trustee's voice		William Moore, yat yeim...William Moore, yat yeim
bull guard		stands over, puts a boot on Billy's chest. No response. He yanks the shirt off Billy's face.
nindam		...Billy...you hear me?
nindam		I win tournament. In Bangkok. Muay Thai, number one.
nindam		This from gym locker. We wait long time. Can no more keep for you...  Sorry.
nindam		Next time I fight...when you leave here, me want you walk me to ring.
nindam		 ...bye, Billy...
billy		bye.
billy		 I want to fight.
billy		I mean with the team. I need to fight...
billy		You understand me.
billy		So let me fight. I need it to change. That's something...
billy		Will you mail this?
billy		It's for me mum.
billy		without his chains, approaches the shop and Jom smiles, bats her eyelashes.
jom		Hi, Billy! Missed you!  Long time, I thought you got released...
billy		I, uh...I need cigarettes. A lot of `em.
jom		You need for drugs?
jom		 Relax. He no speak English.
billy		-- No, it's not for that. Not this time.
billy		I can pay you back. I mean, I will.
jom		I believe you.
jom		 What they for?
billy		You speak English?
nan		 ...Some.
billy		Let me train, and they're yours.
billy		stands ringside, and wraps his own hands. Nan lights a cigarette and watches as Billy pulls a small jar of Vaseline from his gym bag and greases up his face, then inserts his old mouthpiece and bites down. Last, he pulls out his old boxing gloves .
nan		Chok!
nan		What you want?
nan		 You fight before?
billy		Boxing, six years. As a kid, I won the Northwest area in England.
nan		No Muay Thai?
billy		...Not much.
nan		Father train you?
billy		 When he used me as a punching bag, I might've learned some.
nan		-- Why you want fight? You in danger?
billy		 It helps me forget where I am. When the gloves are on,-- I don't have pain.
nan		Drugs no do that?
billy		 I don't want to die.
billy		How long you got here?
nan		One hundred years.
nan		Time, work!
billy		is among them, surrounded on all sides by Samurai.
billy		On my account...  My account...
jom		Hello, Billy! How my Westerner boyfriend...?
billy		You don't need to send me no more love letters.
billy		I can't be your boyfriend. I just can't...and never will be. Thanks anyway.
billy		...
billy		 I have earned this.
billy		thanks.
billy		Who am I fightin'?
nan		You know what is Songkran?
billy		No.
nan		Thai New Year. In three weeks: all prison celebrates...Boxers fight to qualify for National tournament.
billy		The fuck? Is the scale broke?
black dildo		Lady-boys and gentlemen, iiiiittt's FIGHT TIME!!
billy		How bad is it? Is it bad?
nan		Not good.
billy		His elbow done it, the cunt.
nan		Next round not for you. Your ear almost come off.
billy		Fuck that. I got another one.
billy		How's the ear?
nan		Still there.
nan		 Last round, Billy! Must knock out or lose fight!
billy		...
billy		I won't let you down.
billy		collects his belongings. He's being transferred out of the Samurai cell.
thai boxer		Hey Crazy farang, why you in prison?
billy		...Drugs...
thai boxer		What kind?
billy		All of `em.
billy		How `bout you?
thai boxer		No, I no do drugs...I just kill.
lek		Do you have father?
lek		He come visit you?
billy		...no...we don't talk anymore.
billy		Kiaw...When'd they let you out?
kiaw		When I heal.
billy		I haven't got time for this.
kiaw		Your hair look good...
billy		--What?
kiaw		You take my shampoo bottle-- smoke all heroin inside it.
billy		So? You was gonna throw me to the guards...Now we're even.
kiaw		That heroin belong to Samurai. Cost much money!
billy		That's your problem...
kiaw		You pay now.
billy		 I don't owe you nothin'.
kiaw		You know I have AIDS. You pay my debt to Samurai or I inject you with my blood.
jom		...You good fighters, not bad. My father want me to be Muay Thai, like him.
jom		But his dream not mine. I start taking hormones when I was fifteen. Father say I bring great shame, and he disown me.  But now I am who I want to be. Happy with myself.
jom		My only regret is I should have had kids before I cut my dick off.
german inmate		Well me, I like to fuck `em younger. Much younger...Dick or no dick, it don't matter.
german inmate		 How many cigarettes to suck me off?
jom		You, Westerner-- what your problem?!
german inmate		-- I haven't got a problem, I've got cigarettes. Are you going to blow me or not--?!
billy		-- Shut your mouth, or I'll bash your fuckin' skull in, nob head!
german inmate		 Fuck off, faggot!
billy		Open your eyes...
billy		I SAID, OPEN YOUR FUCKIN' EYES!!!
jom		 BILLY, NO! CALM DOWN! LET HIM GO!
jom		 You scare me, farang...very crazy! Can no control yourself!
billy		-- You, you're just a whore!
jom		-- You make everything bad! You fucking junkie! Will never change! You think too much! 
jom		I no want see you, farang ba!  Don't ever come around me!
nan		Ram Muay...before each fight, we pledge respect to spirits.
nan		--Bless...spirit...bless...spirit, bless...
nan		 Now you.
billy		I'm no dancer.
nan		Can no compete tournament without.
nan		Muay Thai more than just "fight." Disrespect spirits or no believe, you never understand Muay Thai!
billy		I "believe."
nan		No--!  When you at peace, can control anything, and win. Anger: lose everything.
nan		Hands up!
nan		Billy! Hya Suk! 
billy		Pom chuu Billy khrap? .
billy		I fucked up. I know it, Nan. Honest.
billy		I just lost it, is all. I lost me self,-- everything you taught me.  I didn't come this far to quit.
nan		Tournament very soon. Must train twice as hard now. Don't disappoint me.
billy		 I forgot cigarettes.
nan		I no more smoke. Bad for health.
noi		BILLY!!!
billy		You need new shoes...
billy		Rong tow, see lao. 
noi		Roo lao! 
billy		Pom Ja sue longtow mai hai khun na. 
billy		 ...it's not for me...
nan		Faster! Let hands and feet go!
nan		You okay?
billy		 ...yeah...
nan		Fear is good for fight. Like fire, inside you.
nan		It's almost time.
billy		Never seen you here before...
billy		I'm not sure.
billy		A what...?
billy		Well I'm sober now.
billy		 So can I get out of here...get back to the gym?
billy		I've got a tournament comin' up: Muay Thai.
billy		Doc, I'm in prison. I haven't got no "other plans."
billy		I'll just, I'll keep my guard up.
billy		-- I'll watch my pace.
billy		is the last to go. Hoping to prove the doctor wrong. He attacks the bag. fast. loud. violent.
nan		Nong Chai, Kub pai tum ngan khun na krub. 
billy		 ...fuck...
billy's face		plunges into water, FULL FRAME. Bubbles spiral, eyes peel open. Then, he whips his head back...
billy		NO! NO!
keng		 You have tournament come up, yes?
keng		Win fight and pay us your earnings. You lose, it end bad for you...
billy		They all here for the fight?
nan		Only boxers go to tournament.
billy		So where they headed?
nan		Some get transfer. Others go to death house.
billy		watches scenery pass. People on the streets; temples; markets; life on the outside.
billy		sits alone. He watches other boxers with their families. Pon, Tiger, etc. Lek, holding and kissing his INFANT SON. Then, Billy looks away and quietly stares at the ring.
billy		...
billy		Well maybe "they" are full of shit.
nan		It's time.
billy		He's too strong!
nan		Breathe, Billy. Have calm.
billy		I can't keep him off me!
nan		You can!
billy		--No--
nan		-- Remember what I teach you! Remember what you fight for!
nan		You okay, Billy?! You alright?!
billy		...yeah...
nan		You SEE, Billy?! You FEEL it?! Muay Thai in HERE--  Now, FIGHT! Khun samarth chna!
nan		Last round! No get tired now!
billy		I won't!
nan		No go down, Billy! Need last round to win!
billy		Okay.
nan		Okay?!
billy		Okay!!
trustee's voice		William Moore, yat yeim...William Moore, yat yeim.
guard		Sorry, Mister Moore. We no can find your son.
billy		Nurse. `Think I should go to the loo.
doctor		Going down?
young pharmacist		Can I help you?
billy		...no...
billy		 -- How you doin'? Took a fuckin' helluva piss in there.
billy		 You saw me?
billy		I don't want to run anymore.  Billy waits for a response; Officer Pi Sit doesn't give one. And as they ride in THICK SILENCE, en route back to prison...  CUT TO:  210   INT. PRISON VISITING ROOM - DAYS LATER - MR. MOORE              210  is waiting in the Visiting Area alone. WE HOLD ON HIS FACE. THEN;  TEXT ON SCREEN: After serving three years, Billy Moore was transferred to a UK prison and released on an amnesty by the King of Thailand in October 2010.  Upon his return, he reconnected with his family.  With the help of Narcotics Anonymous, Billy remains clean to this day, and works with other addicts who are in recovery.  Now, a smile comes to Mr. Moore's face.  Across from him, REVEAL: sits Billy.  They look at each other for a LONG MOMENT, in deep silence. Emotion is palpable between them.  Then, Billy smiles to his father.  CUT TO BLACK:
****Dialogues from script :A_Quiet_Place.txt****

****Dialogues from script :A_Scanner_Darkly.txt****

first draft		 December 20, 1997
nursery clerk		Eating the bushes?   Could be aphids.
jerry fabin		Aphids! Of course. Y'know, I started with "A" in my cyclopedia, yet somehow I must've skipped right over aphids. It does start with "A", right? Aphids?
nursery clerk		Yes.   Yes, it does, sir.
jerry fabin		Boy, those fuckers can really bite.
nursery clerk		Aphids don't bite people.
charles freck		Hey, Jerry, I was in the neighborhood looking to score, and I thought -- What the fuck are you doing in the shower with the goddamn dog?
jerry fabin		I got to get the aphids.
charles freck		I don't see any aphids. What's an aphid?
jerry fabin		 It eventually kills you.       That's what an aphid is.
jerry fabin		They're in my hair and my skin and my lungs. The goddamn pain is unbearable. I'm gonna have to go to the hospital.
charles freck		 How come I can't see them though?
jerry fabin		I'll find an especially big one, cause they're hard for many people to see.
charles freck		Wow!    That is a big one!
jerry fabin		Help me find more for the doctor to see.
charles freck		What do we get for these? I mean, does the doctor pay a bounty or something? A prize? Any bread?
jerry fabin		I get to help perfect a cure for them.
jerry fabin		Hey, man, you continue while I take a leak and like that.
charles freck		Jerry, these bugs sort of scare me.    I don't like it here by myself.
jerry fabin		You're a chickenshit bastard, Freck.
charles freck		Couldn't you --
jerry fabin		I got to take a leak and like that!
jerry fabin		Then go fuck yourself, man!
jerry fabin		Yeah they bite! They're aphids!
charles freck		Can I wash them off and wait for you?
fat businessman		Gentlemen, we have a wonderful opportunity this afternoon. The county of Orange has provided us with the chance to hear from -- and put questions to -- an undercover narcotics agent from the Sheriff's Office.
bob arctor		 Nitwits. Pathetic, soulless morons.
fat businessman		This man -- whom we will call Fred, because that is the code name under which he reports the information he 
fred		If you saw me on the street, you'd say, "There goes a weirdo freak doper." And you'd feel aversion and walk away.
bob arctor		What I fear, is that our children, your children and my children...  8. CONTINUED:
bob arctor		... calculatedly addicted, for profit, by those who would destroy this society. We do not yet know who these animals are who pray on our young, but one day we will.
fred		We believe there is one source for Substance D and a diversified distribution system making it accessible in all major drug using areas. It my job as an undercover officer to attain the confidence of low level dealers and work my way up through the network to arrive at the drug's source. Now, the profits for...
bob arctor		Well, it isn't the profits anyhow. It's something else... what you see ...
headphone voice		I think you'd better go back to the prepared text, Fred.
bob arctor		 I forgot it.
headphone voice		Riiight. I'll read it to you. Repeat it after me, but try to make it sound casual. "Each day the profits flow. Where they go we will soon determine."
bob arctor		 I got a block against this stuff.
headphone voice		"Then retribution will swiftly follow. And at that moment, for the life of me, I would not be in their shoes."
bob arctor		 You know why I've got a block against this stuff? Because this bullshit is what gets people on dope.
fred		"D" is for Substance D. Which is for Dumbness, Despair, and Desertion, the desertion of your friends from you, you from them, everyone from everyone, isolation and loneliness and hating and suspecting each other. D is finally death. Slow Death, we...  ... we the dopers call it...
bob arctor		 Well, that's it.
headphone voice		See me in my office when you get back.
fat businessman		I forgot to tell you that Fred asked me in advance to make this lecture primarily a Q and A forum with only a short introductory statement. So any questions?
bob arctor		Just this. Don't kick their asses after they're on it. Half of them, especially the girls, didn't know they were getting on anything at all. See, the pushers dissolve some reds in a glass of wine, they give the booze to an underage little chick, she passes out, then they inject her with a mex hit -- half heroin, half Substance D.  Thank you.
fred		Kill the pushers.
charles freck		Can you lay about ten Deaths on me?
telephone voice		Christ, I'm looking to score myself.
charles freck		Christ.  Christ. Christ Christ Christ.
charles freck		Fucking goddamn fuzzmobile. What was I doing? Was I weaving? I don't even know.
charles freck		Hey!
donna hawthorne		No.  Get lost.
charles freck		Sure you are. I met you at his place.
charles freck		Jeez.   I just...
donna hawthorne		I thought you were going to knock me down and bang me.
charles freck		No. I just wondered if you, like, wanted a ride or... Bang you on the sidewalk? In broad daylight?
donna hawthorne		I thought you might pull me into a doorway or something.
charles freck		I know you. Besides Arctor would snuff me if I did that.
donna hawthorne		Well, I didn't recognize you.    I'm sort of nearsighted.
charles freck		You want a ride where you're going?
donna hawthorne		You'll bang me in the car.
charles freck		Nah. Besides I can't get it up these days. Must be something they're adulterating all the stuff with.
donna hawthorne		That's a neat-o line, but I've heard it before. Everybody bangs me. At least they try to. That's what it's like to be a chick.
charles freck		That really sucks.
donna hawthorne		I'm suing one guy right now for molestation and assault. We're asking punitive damages in excess of forty thousand.
charles freck		How far he get?
donna hawthorne		A hand around my boob.
charles freck		That's not worth forty thousand.
charles freck		Listen, you got anything to sell?    I'm really hurting.
donna hawthorne		I can get it.
charles freck		Tabs, though. I don't shoot up. Needles are a bummer to me.
donna hawthorne		Sixty dollars a hundred.
charles freck		Jeez, man, that's a burn.
donna hawthorne		They're super good. Take my word.
charles freck		All right.     A hundred, then.
donna hawthorne		Cool.     How do I get in touch?
charles freck		Charles B. Freck --
donna hawthorne		V. Freck? CHARLES FRECK Charles Freck. She corrects the name. Freck notices that her writing is a slow and childish scrawl. It makes him sad. Then he steals a glance at her breasts as she writes.
donna hawthorne		I think I remember you now.
charles freck		Hey, you want to go with me to see Jerry Fabin? I'm hauling some of his stuff over to the Number Three Federal Clinic where they took him last night.
donna hawthorne		I better not. Jerry thinks I contaminated him originally with those bugs.
charles freck		They're aphids.
donna hawthorne		Yeah, well, then he didn't know what they were.
bob arctor		Fucking McDonaldburger's is taking over.
bob arctor		Donna.   How you doin'? It's Bob.
bob arctor		How's your head today, man?
bob arctor		Hey, can I get anything from you?
bob arctor		Ten.   Just ten.
bob arctor		Oh, wow.
donna hawthorne		You know what the male wolf does when he defeats a foe? He doesn't snuff him. He pees on him! Then he splits.
bob arctor		I peed on some people today.
bob arctor		Metaphorically peed, I mean.
bob arctor		What I mean is, I told this group of...
bob arctor		I told 'em I'd rather ride a pig than a hog.
bob arctor		Well, a pig is a chick that --
bob arctor		They didn't try me at my job, did they?
bob arctor		The hell you say --
bob arctor		Fuck Barris! That cephscope cost me nine hundred dollars. I need to get home right now. But I gotta... Oh, fuck, man. Fuck fuck fuck Barris!
bob arctor		I gotta run an errand and like that.
bob arctor		I'm in a bad place. I wanna turn myself in for treatment.
charles freck		Hey, Barris, I'm thinking of turning myself in to New-Path.
jim barris		No shit.
charles freck		But it's tough, that cold turkey thing they do. They watch you night and day so you don't snuff. But they never give you anything, like a doctor will, like Valium or like that.
jim barris		Hey, what kind of bread is this on the patty melt, anyway?
charles freck		Look on the menu. It explains everything.
jim barris		If you go into New-Path, you'll experience symptoms that emanate up from the basic fluids of the body, specifically those located in the brain. By that I refer to the catecholamines, such as noradrenaline and serotonin. You see, Substance D functions this way: it interacts with the catecholamines in such a fashion that involement is locked in at a subcellular level. Biological counteradaptation has occurred.  Nine-grain wheat.
waitress		So is everything good, fellas?
jim barris		Say, is your name Patty?
waitress		No.  It's Beth.
charles freck		 I wonder what the left one's called.
waitress		I'm sorry, hon?
charles freck		No.   Nothing.
jim barris		The waitress we had last time was named Patty. Same as the sandwich.
waitress		That must have been a different Patty from the sandwich. I think she spells it with an i.
jim barris		Everything is super good.
charles freck		Everything is not good with me. I got a lot of problems nobody else has.
waitress		Oh, no.   That's too bad.
jim barris		More people than you think have such problems. This is a world of illness, and getting progressively worse.
waitress		 So would you guys like to order dessert? We have fresh peach pie.
charles freck		No!   No, we don't want any dessert!
bob arctor		This place is the only hope I could think of. I had a friend come in here. A black dude, in his thirties --
bob arctor		I am bad off.
bob arctor		Okay, but listen, this black guy, my buddy, goes by the name of Spade, did he make it here? I sure hope he didn't get picked up by the pigs on the way over.
jim barris		Tell me, why the debate regarding turning yourself in for residence therapy at a drug rehab facility?
charles freck		My friend Jerry Fabin and his aphids.
jim barris		 Fabin was a special case.
charles freck		There's another reason. I'm running low again, and I can't stand this always running low and not knowing if I'm ever going to score again. Actually, though, I may have a new source. That Donna chick.
jim barris		Oh, Bob's girl.
charles freck		His old lady.
jim barris		No.   He never got into her pants.
charles freck		Really?   Can't Bob get it on?
jim barris		 It's possible Donna's on junk. Her aversion to bodily contact -- junkies lose interest in sex, you see, due to their organs swelling up from vasoconstriction. And Donna shows inordinate failure of sexual arousal, not just to Bob, but to... other males as well.
charles freck		I never shot smack. Needles are a bummer to me.
jim barris		 But... I can show you how to lay Donna for ninety-eight cents.
charles freck		I don't want to lay her. I just want to buy from her.
jim barris		Donna does coke. Anybody who would give her a gram of coke she would undoubtedly spread her legs for.
charles freck		I wish you wouldn't talk that way. Besides who has the money to procure a gram of coke?
jim barris		I, my friend, can derive a gram of coke for a total cost to me of under one dollar. From a product readily
charles freck		That's bullshit.
charles freck		Which 7-11 store do you prefer to shop at? The one on Lincoln is nice.
charles freck		Although what about the one on 8th? They have the wider aisles. A more spacious shopping experience.
jim barris		Let's not forget the one on Katella with the foxy cashier to hit on.
charles freck		What's with Bob's cephscope, his prize possession of the entire world?
jim barris		Oh, it's been sabotaged by person or persons unknown.
charles freck		This is super unreal. I'm flipping.
jim barris		Now I'll freeze it, which causes the cocaine crystals to rise to the top because they are lighter than air.
charles freck		Even if you do get a gram of coke out of thisl, I can't use it to get into Donna's pants. That's like buying her.
jim barris		You give her a gift she gives you one. The most precious gift a woman has.
charles freck		You're talking about Bob Arctor's girl, Barris. He's my friend and the guy you and Luckman live with.
jim barris		There's a great deal about Bob Arctor you're not aware of. Your view is simplistic and naive, and you believe about him what he wants you to.
charles freck		 I do not.
hank		That covers Barris and Freck. Let's see, I guess we can write Jerry Fabin off.
fred		I read his EEG analysis.    Fabin's over.
hank		Good riddance. Any luck locating our missing pusher friend Spade Weeks?
fred		New-Path wouldn't tell me shit. They're very protective of their own.
hank		Junkies, ex-junkies. It's a club.  What about Donna Hawthorne?
fred		I keep pumping her for more and more Death. Pretty soon she'll have to refer me up to her source.
hank		Fine.   And what's Arctor up to?
bob arctor		Bob Arctor? He's not doing anything much. Working at his nowhere Blue Chip Stamp job, dropping a few tabs of meth cut with Death during the day.
hank		That's not what I hear.
bob arctor		What do you mean?
hank		We have a tip that Arctor has funds above and beyond what he makes at the stamp redemption center.
fred		No shit, Hank. Is that true?
hank		And according to this information, Arctor comes and goes mysteriously. Have you observed any of this?
fred		Most likely he's with his chick, Donna.
hank		Most likely?    You're supposed to know.
fred		Yeah, it's Donna. He's over there banging her day and night. But I'll let you know. So, who's the informant?
hank		Hell, we don't know. No voice print. He used one of those rinky-dink grids.
fred		Christ, it's that burned-out acid head Barris doing a schizy grudge job on Arctor's head. I wouldn't give him the time of day as an informant.
hank		We don't know it's Barris. Anyway, there may be more to Barris than meets the eye. We're looking into him. Nothing I feel would be of use to you, at least so far.
fred		Well, it's one of Arctor's friends.
hank		Yeah. Undoubtedly a vengeance burn trip. But we need to know why Arctor's making these kind of enemies.
fred		Hank, I don't see this as an avenue of --
hank		So I'm taking you off Spade and, for the time being, I'm assigning you primarily to observe Bob Arctor.
fred		 You're assigning me to watch Arctor?
hank		Covertly funded, covertly engaged, Fred. It's worth checking into.
bob arctor		Fine. So I assume this means you'll be bugging Arctor's house and car?
hank		With the new holographic scanner system. This way you can study Arctor's every move on the tapes, and report back to us in detail.
fred		Sounds good, then.
hank		Good. You'll need to get Arctor and the boys away from the house so we can install the equipment.
charles freck		Why do you need a silencer, anyway, Jim? I mean, they're illegal.
ernie luckman		Law abidance has always been of the utmost concern to Jim Barris.
jim barris		In this day and age, with the kind of degenerate society we live in and the depravity of the individual, every person of worth needs a gun at all times. To protect himself.
ernie luckman		Just shut up and fire off the great eleven cent silencer of our times.
television jingle		It's real, it's Coke, it's really, really real. Really really really...
wife		Popcorn and Cokes, guys?
daughters		Yay, Popcorn and Cokes!
bob arctor		AH, FUCK!!
bob arctor		FUCKING POPCORN POPPER!    FUCK!
wife		Oh my God!
bob arctor		FUCK!
ernie luckman		Jesus, Barris. Y'know, you're supposed to be fixing the cephscope. Bob's lying in his bed right now thinking you're fixing his cephscope.
jim barris		Hey, Bob.    I thought you'd be sleeping.
bob arctor		Why the fuck would I screw up my own cephscope?
jim barris		No, no. You...  That was my complete, intended statement, which I was not allowed to utter.
bob arctor		You did it?
jim barris		I mean it's my theory that I did it. Under post-hypnotic suggestion. With an amnesia block so I wouldn't remember
bob arctor		Oh, Jesus, Barris. Go fuck yourself.
jim barris		Don't you see, Bob, I've got the advanced, specialized, technical, electronic skills. I have access, because I live here. It all fits.  What I can't figure out is my motive.
bob arctor		How about, you're a fucked-up lunatic?
jim barris		I might have been hired by secret forces. It could be as big as that, Bob. As huge as that.
bob arctor		Get lost.
jim barris		Oh, hold on, Bob. I forgot something. I forgot my antihistamine capsules.
ernie luckman		Jim Barris does not have allergies.
bob arctor		You guys track down Andy and the hot scope. I'll pick you up in two hours.
jim barris		And where are you off to?
bob arctor		Dropping in on a friend.
jim barris		Mysterious Bob Arctor.
kimberly		Yes?
bob arctor		It's me, Kimberly. Bob Arctor.
bob arctor		Are you alone?
kimberly		Dan and I had a fight and he split.
bob arctor		He beat you up?
kimberly		Thank God he didn't have his knife. His case-knife, which he now carries in a sheath on his belt.
bob arctor		Do you want him back?
kimberly		Well...  Who knows?
bob arctor		How long can you go without?
kimberly		Maybe. Maybe. Another day.
bob arctor		Can't you get it anywhere else? Y'know the name of Dan's supplier? Maybe you could deal directly.
kimberly		I dunno.
bob arctor		Yeah.
kimberly		Probably has his case-knife with him. Y'know, he keeps it in a sheath on his belt now.
bob arctor		You should call the police.
kimberly		No phone.
bob arctor		Kim, he'll kill you.
kimberly		 No.   I'm with someone.
dan		 I'll slash your tires, your fucking tires! And then I'll kill you!
kimberly		I got to stop him! I don't have insurance!
bob arctor		Tires aren't...
kimberly		 My tires!
bob arctor		That's what he wants you to do.
kimberly		Downstairs.   They have a phone!   Let me go!
kimberly		Open, please? Please? I need to call the police. Please let me call them.
bob arctor		 Thank you.
kimberly		 Hi, yeah, my boyfriend and me got into a fight because of these cowboy boots which were worth seven dollars. See, I said, they're mine, and he says, no, they're mine 'cause you gave them to me as a present. And I say but I bought them. Which makes them mine. Right? So he grabs 'em and I grab 'em, and I rip the backs of them with this can opener and... yes, I'll hold.
arctor		 This must be bad on you.
old man		It goes on all the time, them fighting, him saying he'll kill her.
old woman		We should have gone back to Denver.   I told you that.
old man		These terrible fights. On and on. Smashing things and screaming. And what's worse, every time --
old woman		Yes, tell him about that.
old man		Every time we go out, shopping or to mail a letter, we step in... what dogs leave.
old woman		 Dog doo.
ernie luckman		You ought to pass that truck, man. The humper's hardly moving.
jim barris		What the hell happened, Bob?
ernie luckman		The linkage from the pedal to the carb fell apart.
bob arctor		Shouldn't this locking ring hold the nut in place?
jim barris		The idle screw has been turned all the way out. So when the linkage parted, the override went up instead of down.
ernie luckman		Could it screw itself all the way out like that accidentally?
jim barris		No. A special tool would be needed. A couple, in fact. I have the tools to fix this, but back at the house.
ernie luckman		Hey, man, did this happen by accident or was it done deliberately? Like the cephscope.
jim barris		 You should've cut the ignition as soon as you realized what happened.
bob arctor		For a second I couldn't figure it out.
ernie luckman		 MOTHERFUCKER! Somebody did this intentionally! They fucking almost killed us!
bob arctor		 Maybe this is what's fucking us up, messing up our brains.
jim barris		Dope can't screw up a carb-idle adjustment, my friend.  You'd better take at least three of these. They're primo, but mild.
bob arctor		Put the fucking snuffbox away!
ernie luckman		 Hey, do you smell something, man?   A clue? Some engine smell that --
bob arctor		 Dog shit! Do you smell dog shit?
ernie luckman		 Were there any psychedelics in that dope?
bob arctor		It's an illusion, right? There's no dog shit smell. How could there be dog shit in the eng...
ernie luckman		Hey, man, you're getting a flashback.
jim barris		 Free theater tickets.
ernie luckman		Now just take it easy. Nobody got killed and now we're warned. It's okay. It's okay. Everything's okay.
jim barris		Hey, Bob, want a lump of dog shit?   To chew on?
bob arctor		What, Jim?   What'd you say?
ernie luckman		 Leave him alone, man. Fuck off.
bob arctor		 What did Barris say just now? What the hell exactly did he just say?
ernie luckman		I don't know, man. I can't figure out half the things he lays on people.
bob arctor		You goddamn Barris! I know you did it, screwed over the cephscope and now my car! You kinky freak mother bastard!
ernie luckman		Take it easy, Bob.
bob arctor		I know it's him, man. I know.
ernie luckman		That doesn't make any sense.      He'd have snuffed himself too.
ernie luckman		What was in those tabs you gave us?
jim barris		Hell, I took some too. And so did you. Didn't give us a bad trip. Besides it was so soon. Your stomach can't even absorb --
bob arctor		YOU FUCKING POISONED ME!
ernie luckman		I wonder what's been going on back at the house.
bob arctor		Yeah, I hope.
jim barris		Oh, I wouldn't worry too much about that, gents.
ernie luckman		Christ, Barris, they may have ripped off everything we got, or stomped all our animals, or --
jim barris		But I left a little surprise for anyone entering the house. An electronic surprise, if you will.
bob arctor		What kind of surprise? It's my house, Jim, you can't start rigging up --
jim barris		Easy.   Be cool.
bob arctor		Well, what is it?
jim barris		If the front door is opened, my tape recorder starts recording.
bob arctor		You should've told me.
ernie luckman		What if they come in the window or through the back door?
jim barris		To increase the chance of them making their entry via the front door, I providentially left it unlocked.
bob arctor		Well, they're not going to expect it to be unlocked, so they'll go in the window.
jim barris		But I put a note on the front door.
bob arctor		You're jiving me.
jim barris		Yes.
ernie luckman		Are you fucking jiving us or not?   I can't tell with you, man. Is he jiving us or not, Bob?
bob arctor		We'll see when we get back. If there's a note on the door and it's unlocked, we'll know he's not jiving us.
ernie luckman		But they'd probably take the note down and lock the door after vandalizing and robbing us. So we'll never know. It's that gray area again. Damn it!
jim barris		Of course I'm kidding, guys! Only a psychotic would leave the front door open with a note on it.
bob arctor		So what did you write on the note, Jim?
jim barris		I wrote: "Donna, come on in, the door's unlocked. We..." The note's to Donna.
ernie luckman		He did do that. He really did it.
jim barris		This way, we'll know who's been messing with us, Bob. And that is of prime importance.
bob arctor		Jesus, Barris.
jim barris		Interesting. Everything is exactly as we left it. They're very clever.
ernie luckman		Well, Barris, I can see you're right. There was definitely someone here. You see, the scrupulous covering-over of all signs they otherwise would've left testifies to their --  Barris, you're one paranoid fuck.
jim barris		Look at this!
ernie luckman		A still-hot butt. It sure is.
bob arctor		My God, who was here?
ernie luckman		Wait, this is what's hot.  But what'd they do? What the fuck did they do?
jim barris		That roach may not be a slip-up. Maybe they were here specifically to plant dope, then phone in a tip later. Maybe there's dope planted all over this house. We're going to have to go through and get this place clean.
ernie luckman		I'll check the wall sockets.   You take apart the tv and stereo.
jim barris		Wait. If they see us scrambling around before the raid --
bob arctor		What raid?
jim barris		-- then we can't allege, even though it's true, that we didn't know the dope was there. Maybe that, too, is part of their ingenious plan.
ernie luckman		We're fucked! We can't do anything!
bob arctor		Did you forget about the recorder, Jim?
jim barris		Oh yes. The tape should be extremely informational at this point.  Well, it probably wouldn't ultimately have proven that important.
bob arctor		Forget to turn it on, did you?
jim barris		No. The first thing they did upon entering was switch it to "off".
ernie luckman		It's off?    Fuck! Those fuckers.
jim barris		They made their move swiftly, before so much as an inch of tape pasesd through the recording head.
ernie luckman		Now what?    Now what the fuck do we do?
jim barris		You know, Bob, there is one thing you could do, although it would take time.
bob arctor		Sell the house?
ernie luckman		Does anybody know a good realtor?
jim barris		I've got an acquaintance in the field.
ernie luckman		We should probably act fast, man.
jim barris		We don't know how fast they're gonna swoop down on us.
bob arctor		What reason should we give for selling?
ernie luckman		Yeah, we can't tell the truth. We need a shuck. Barris, what's a good shuck?
bob arctor		We'll just flat out say there's narcotics planted all over the place and since we don't know where, we decided to move out and let the new owner get busted instead of us.
jim barris		No. I don't think we can afford to be that up front. Bob, you say you got a job transfer.
ernie luckman		Where to, though? Where the fuck to?
jim barris		Cleveland.
bob arctor		I say we tell them the truth. In fact, we can put an ad in the Times: "Modern, three bedroom tract house, two bathrooms for easy flushing, with high grade dope stashed in all rooms." It's a selling point.
ernie luckman		But they'd be calling asking what kind of dope, and we don't know. Man!
jim barris		Or how much. Prospective buyers might inquire about the quantity.
bob arctor		 They appear to have us.
ernie luckman		Christ, this is awful!
donna hawthorne		Hey, I came in, like the note said.   I waited for you for awhile, then I crashed. Why are you guys yelling?
bob arctor		Did you smoke a joint? Before you crashed?
donna hawthorne		Of course. Otherwise I can't sleep. You shouldn't leave your place unlocked like that. You could get ripped off and it would be your own fault. That's the main reason I came in when I saw the note. Somebody ought to be here if the place is unlocked with a note on it.
bob arctor		How long have you been here?
ernie luckman		Well, you could've taken down the note, locked the door, and left.
donna hawthorne		Approximately thirty-eight minutes. Hey, Bob, I got that wolf book, if you want to see it. It's got a lot of heavy shit in it.
jim barris		Life is only heavy and none else; heavy that leads to the grave. For everyone and everything.
donna hawthorne		Did you say you were selling the house? Or was that me dreaming?
bob arctor		Shit, I hope it was you dreaming.
hank		Here are the locations of the eight scanners. We transmit to a safe house down the block from Arctor's.
fred		That's where I do playback?
hank		Yeah. And we use also use it for playback on five other houses. So you'll be bumping into other undercover people. Always wear your scramble suit.
fred		Fine.
hank		Make note of the scanner locations. If they need servicing, you can take care of it while you're at Arctor's. As long as nobody's around.
fred		I'll have to edit myself out, so you won't see who's fixing the scanners.
hank		Right. Although we assume you're Barris, or Luckman, or Freck, or Arctor or Donna Hawthorne --
fred		 Donna?
hank		So don't edit yourself from all tapes, or we'll deduce who you are by process of elimination. Leave yourself in in places. Be creative. Have fun.
fred		Okay.
hank		This will help greatly in determining what the hell Arctor's up to.
fred		We don't know he's up to anything.
hank		We've got more recent information. There is no doubt any longer: Arctor's a phony, a three dollar bill. So keep on him until we have enough to arrest him and make it stick.
fred		You think he's high up in Death distribution?
hank		What we think isn't of any importance to you. You report; we evaluate.
fred		Well, Arctor is doomed if he's up to anything. And I have a hunch from what you say that he is.
hank		We should have a case on him soon. Then we can seize his house. I think you'd like it. It's rundown and dirty, but it's big. Nice yard. The installation crew reported it has excellent possibilities.
fred		For what?
hank		Well, the living room gives a view of the intersection, so passing vehicles could be graphed and... but Burt What's-his-face, who headed the crew, felt that it'd been allowed to deteriorate so badly that --
fred		Deteriorate in what way?
hank		The roof.
fred		The roof's perfect.
hank		Interior and exterior paint.    The condition of the floors.
fred		Bullshit.    It's all fine.
hank		Then you recommend we acquire it after Arctor's arrested and loses title?
fred		I have no opinion.
hank		You're not splitting yet.     You have to
fred		Hank, if this is about the Lion's Club speech, I've already explained --
hank		This is something different.
fred		Yes.
fred		Look, about the Lion's Club --
fred		You think I'm an addict?
fred		 I see a Coke bottle, I guess.
fred		Is this about the Lion's Club speech?
fred		Getting what?
fred		I don't think I'm getting that.
fred		Okay.
fred		A sheep.
fred		I'm sorry, what did you say?
fred		Nothing. I'm guessing it's not a sheep. But was I close at least?
fred		It's what?    What did you say it is?
fred		Oh.   How can you tell?
charles freck		Okay okay okay. So I go to Barris, "Hey, Barris, I bought a methedrine plant today," and he goes...  "I meant I inherited forty thousand dollars from an uncle and purchased a plant in this guy's garage where he makes meth. It's a factory. Plant in that sense... ' Okay okay, I don't have the phrasing exactly yet, but when I lay this on Barris, man, I'm going to get him so good.
charles freck		Hey, Jim, I bought a meth plant today.
jim barris		How big?
charles freck		What do you mean?
jim barris		How big a plant?
charles freck		 Um, well... like, what do you mean?
bob arctor		How much you pay, Freck?
charles freck		Uh, about ten bucks.
bob arctor		Jim could've gotten it for you cheaper.
jim barris		They're practically giving meth plants away.
charles freck		This is a whole fucking garage! A factory! It turns out a million pills a day!
jim barris		 All that for ten bucks?
bob arctor		Where's it located, Freck?
charles freck		Not around here. Hey, fuck it, you guys.
bob arctor		 What about the carb?
jim barris		Bent choke shaft. The whole carb needs to be rebuilt.
bob arctor		Why is it bent?
ernie luckman		I phoned and they're checking to see what a rebuilt carb will set you back. Hey, Freck.
charles freck		 Hey.
bob arctor		 Freck bought a meth plant today.
ernie luckman		Cool.    How big?
charles freck		Fuck off.
jim barris		 You could put a four barrel on instead of a two, while you're at it.
ernie luckman		It would idle too high. And it wouldn't upshift.
jim barris		The idling jets could be replaced with smaller jets. And he could watch his rpms with a tach. Usually just backing off the gas pedal causes it to upshift if the automatic linkage doesn't do it.
ernie luckman		If he tromped down heavy on the step- down passing gear to get a lot of torque suddenly on the freeway, it'd downshift and rev up so high it'd blow the whole engine.
jim barris		The tach needle would jump and he'd back off.
ernie luckman		While passing a big semi? He'd have to blow the engine up or he'd never get around what he was trying to pass.
jim barris		Momentum would carry him past.
ernie luckman		What about uphill?
jim barris		What does this car weigh, Bob?
bob arctor		About a thousand pounds.
jim barris		Well, you're right then. It wouldn't have much interia mass.  A thousand pounds traveling eighty miles an hour --
bob arctor		That's a thousand pounds with passengers, a full tank of gas, and a carton of bricks in the trunk.
ernie luckman		How many passengers, Bob?
bob arctor		Twelve.
ernie luckman		That's six in the back and six --
bob arctor		No. Eleven in the back and the driver alone up front. The extra weight is in the back so it doesn't fishtail.
jim barris		This car fishtails?
bob arctor		Unless you get eleven people in back.
jim barris		Be better, then, to have two three hundred pound bags of sand in the trunk. Then the passengers could be distributed more comfortably.
ernie luckman		What about one six hundred pound bag of gold, Jim?
jim barris		If you bastards wouldn't rappity-rap on like a bunch of speed freaks, I could complete my computations and tell you how this car with its weight would handle a four barrel carb. So shut the fuck up, you assholes!
ernie luckman		I'm going to read to you now, Barris.  "He to whom it is given to see Christ more real than any other reality... JIM BARRIS What?
ernie luckman		"...than any other reality in the World, Christ everywhere present and everywhere growing more great, Christ the final determination and plasmatic Principle of the Universe --"
bob arctor		What is that, Luckman?
ernie luckman		Teilhard de Chardin. "... that man indeed lives in a zone where no multiplicity can distress him and which is nevertheless the most active workshop of universal fulfillment."  64. CONTINUED:
charles freck		Cool it, you guys.
ernie luckman		Out of the way, Freck. I'm going to coldcock Barris into tomorrow for talking to his betters like that.
jim barris		I hear the phone ringing about the carb. I'll get it.
ernie luckman		I was just kidding.
charles freck		What if he comes back with his gun and silencer?
ernie luckman		Naw, stay, man, you're a brother.
charles freck		Naw, I'm cutting out.
jim barris		It was a wrong number, man.
ernie luckman		Hey, what's the hammer for, Jimmy-Boy?
bob arctor		To fix the engine. What else?
jim barris		Thought I would bring it with me, since I was indoors and noticed it.
charles freck		I'm gonna split. I'll see you guys.
bob arctor		The most dangerous kind of person is one who's afraid of his own shadow.
charles freck		Did Bob mean me afraid of my own shadow? But that was turning into a super-bummer. Where's the chicken into not wanting to be around that? Everything's changing, man. Used to be cool to hang out. Now its totally dark.
charles freck		Jerry! Jerry! Let me in, man, I'm truly bummed! I wanna talk!
charles freck		Fuck! I can't believe I forgot Jerry's dead. What is wrong with me?
charles freck		Fuck, I can't believe I forgot Jerry's not dead. What is wrong with me?
ernie luckman		You seem mellow, Bob. Having to spend a hundred bucks on a new carb wouldn't make me mellow.
bob arctor		I'll cruise the streets until I come across an Olds, then unbolt the carb. Like everyone else I know.
jim barris		Especially Donna. That chick steals everything she can carry.
ernie luckman		I'll tell you a Donna story. One day she put a quarter in a stamp machine and it kept spitting out stamps, till she had like eighteen thousand stamps.
jim barris		At what individual price per stamp?
ernie luckman		Fifteen cents per individual stamp.
jim barris		That's twenty-seven hundred dollars, if my arithmetic is correct.
ernie luckman		And so what's Donna gonna do with so many stamps? She can barely write...
ernie luckman		So she ripped off the whole stamp machine and remounted it, like, somewhere where the postal authorities wouldn't spot it and...
jim barris		You realize our taxes were raised by her stealing those stamps? It's one thing to steal auto parts, but when you steal from Uncle Sam --
bob arctor		I'm going out to score some beans. Luckman, is your Falcon running?
ernie luckman		 No.   I don't think so.
bob arctor		Barris?
jim barris		I wonder, Bob, if you can handle my car? By that mean there are --
ernie luckman		Fuck, Barris. It's an ordinary six cylinder. The parking lot jockeys park it all the time, for God's sake.
jim barris		There are certain secret devices which have been incorporated --
bob arctor		I'll walk.
jim barris		It's just that it has certain secret --
bob arctor		Forget it. If I tried to drive your car, I'd press the wrong button and float up over the greater L.A. area.
jim barris		I'm glad you appreciate my position.
ernie luckman		You're fucked, Barris. You know that?
fred		Would if I could, but this is live.
ernie luckman		 Fucking McDonaldburger commercials.
fred		Jesus fuck!   Barris!
jim barris		Operator, I need, I'm not sure, is it called the inhalator squad or the resuscitation squad?
operator		Is someone unable to breathe, sir?
jim barris		It is, I believe, cardiac arrest. Either that or involuntary aspiration of a bolus within the --
operator		What is the address, sir?
jim barris		The address, the address.      let's see...
fred		Christ!    Just --
jim barris		Uh, thank you. No assistance is needed after all. Good morrow.
ernie luckman		I must've gagged. Did I pass out?
jim barris		Not exactly. You did go into an altered state of consciousness for a few seconds. Probably an alpha state.
ernie luckman		Fuck. I shit myself.
jim barris		You saw me on the phone, summoning the paramedics. I moved into action immedi --
ernie luckman		Balls.
donna hawthorne		Did I scare you? Heh heh.
bob arctor		I just did a freaky number, not like a fantasy trip, but... So I'm kinda --
donna hawthorne		I have your stuff.
bob arctor		My stuff?
donna hawthorne		Your Death.
bob arctor		Fucking Barris. You know how he kills you? He doesn't. He waits until a situation arises where you die, and he just sits there. In fact he sets you up to die. I don't know how exactl --
donna hawthorne		Do you have the money?
bob arctor		What?
donna hawthorne		I need the money right now.
bob arctor		Sure.   Yeah.
donna hawthorne		I don't like Barris, and I don't trust him. He's crazy. And you're crazy when you're around him. You're crazy right now.
bob arctor		I am?
donna hawthorne		Yeah.
bob arctor		Donna, I know I can count on you to tell me if I'm getting weird or crazy or like that. Okay?
donna hawthorne		Hey, you wanna take me to a concert at Anaheim Stadium next weekend?
bob arctor		Right on.     Yeah. That sounds --
donna hawthorne		I'm gonna bring some really oily hash and get really loaded. But you have to wear something neat, not those funky clothes you sometimes wear.
bob arctor		I'll wear whatever you say.
donna hawthorne		I'm taking us to my place. And you do have the money and you'll give it to me. Then we'll drop a few of the tabs and kick back. Maybe you could buy a fifth of Southern Comfort and we could get bombed as well.
bob arctor		Oh, wow.   That sounds good.
donna hawthorne		You know what would be cool tonight, is to go to the Torrance Drive-in. They're showing all eleven Planet of the Apes movies. From 7:30 to 8:00 tomorrow morning.
bob arctor		Can a drive-in show movies in the morning?
donna hawthorne		I haven't seen all the Ape movies in years. And the last one for longer than that, the one where they reveal  73. CONTINUED:
donna hawthorne		Stay on the newspaper. I just had the rug shampooed.
bob arctor		Do you ever throw anything away?
donna hawthorne		Someday I'm gonna get married and I'm going to need all this stuff. When you get married, you need everything there is.
bob arctor		How much of what you've got did you buy and how much did you steal?
donna hawthorne		Buy?   What do you mean "buy"?
bob arctor		Like when you buy dope. Like a dope deal. When I mean by "buy" is an extension into the greater world of business transactions of what we have present now, with us, as dope deals.
donna hawthorne		I think I see what you're saying.
bob arctor		Like when you rip off those Coca-Cola truck you tailgate. That's stealing.
donna hawthorne		No.     It's a form of barter.
bob arctor		Donna, look, you're gonna get caught, and if you got drugs in your car when they catch you, there's nothing I can do to protect you then.
donna hawthorne		You protect me? What are you talking about?
bob arctor		Nothing.     I just... Please take care.
donna hawthorne		The Coca-Cola company is a capitalist monopoly. No one else can make it but them. That's fucking wrong.  C'mere, I'll supercharge you.
bob arctor		Okay, cool.
donna hawthorne		Yeah, I can dig it, you being in love with me.
bob arctor		Hey, Donna, man, do you like cats?
donna hawthorne		Dripping little things. Moving along about a foot above the ground.
bob arctor		No.   On the ground.
donna hawthorne		Drippy.    Behind furniture.
bob arctor		Little spring flowers, then?
donna hawthorne		Yes. Little spring flowers. With yellow in them. That first come up.
bob arctor		Before.    Before anyone.
donna hawthorne		Yes. Before anyone stomps on them and they're gone.
bob arctor		Yeah. You know me exactly, Donna. You can read me. No one knows me but you.
donna hawthorne		No more.
bob arctor		What's wrong?
donna hawthorne		Nothing.
bob arctor		Donna, can I put my arm around you.   I want to hold you, okay?
donna hawthorne		No, you're too ugly.
bob arctor		What?
donna hawthorne		No! Look, I snort a lot of coke; I have to be super careful because I snort a lot of coke.
bob arctor		Ugly?   Fuck you, Donna.
donna hawthorne		Just leave my body alone.
bob arctor		 Sure. Yeah. You better believe it.
donna hawthorne		 I have to watch out for that because I do so much coke. Someday I'm gonna go over the Canadian border with four pounds of coke in my snatch. I'll say I'm a Catholic and a virgin.
bob arctor		I'm taking off.
donna hawthorne		You don't have your car. I'll drive you, man.  But you can see why I have to protect my snatch --
bob arctor		You're too stoned to drive and you never let anyone else drive that little roller skate of yours.
donna hawthorne		 That's because no one else can fucking drive my car! Nobody else ever gets it right, no man especially! Driving or anything else! Listen, you had your hands down into my --
donna hawthorne		I'm dreadfully sorry I hurt your feelings. Okay? I was out of it.
bob arctor		 Too ugly.
donna hawthorne		Sometimes I get really spaced. You wanna come back? Or what? You wanna go to the drive-in? What about the Southern Comfort? C'mon, I'm sorry.
bob arctor		Okay.
donna hawthorne		That sure is good hash though, huh?
donna hawthorne		You know what I'm going to do someday, Bob? I'm going to move north to Oregon and live in the snow. Have a little house and a vegetable garden.
bob arctor		You'll have to save up for that.
donna hawthorne		 He'll get me that. What's-his-name.
bob arctor		Who?
donna hawthorne		 Mr. Right. He'll drive an Aston- Martin and take me north in it. And that's where the little old fashioned house will be in the snow.
bob arctor		You sure this'll happen?
donna hawthorne		It's in the cards.
bob arctor		Hey, man, can I go with you? To Oregon? When you do take off finally?
bob arctor		Here you go.
connie		Thanks, man.
bob arctor		Two of them do.
connie		You're queer?
bob arctor		I try not to be. That's why I've arranged this transaction with you.
connie		Yes, I suppose I'm about to find out.
telephone voice		Yeah?
jim barris		This is Jim.
telephone voice		Who?
jim barris		With the beard. Green shades. Leather pants. I met you at that happening at --
telephone voice		Oh, right.    Yeah. That guy.    Jim.
jim barris		Say, have I scored. Psylocybe Mexicana. A rare hallucinogenic mushroom used in South American mystery cults thousands of years ago. You fly, become invisible, understand the speech of animals --
telephone voice		Truly?   How much?
jim barris		Five dollars a cap.
fred		Mushrooms he seems to have picked locally.
fred		What's the statute violation?
fred		Hi, Bob.
bob arctor		 Hi.
jim barris		How'd you make out with little Miss Big Tits?
fred		Fuck off, Barris.
bob arctor		Fuck off, Barris.
jim barris		Bob, I'm sorry if I offended you.
bob arctor		Where's Luckman?
jim barris		He left with your jack, so I assume he's off to knock over pay phones.
bob arctor		My axle jack?
jim barris		Y'know, I have a sure fire way you could get into the pants of Little Miss Big Tits. For under one dollar.
bob arctor		Either you pay up your back rent or get to work fixing my godamn cephscope!
jim barris		Yes. About that, Bob. I've already ordered resistors --
jim barris		Yes, this is Robert Arctor.
jim barris		Oh, yes, I've been meaning to call you, but I've had a severe bout of intestinal flu, with loss of body heat, pyloric spasms, cramps...
jim barris		I just haven't been able to get it together to make that little twenty dollar check good, and frankly I don't intend to make it good.
jim barris		You heard me correctly.
jim barris		Think what you want. Turn out, tune out, and good-bye.
fred		Get me a name and address on this.
operator		Englesohn Locksmith, 1343 Harbor in Anaheim, Loverboy.
fred		Arctor must've burned Barris pretty bad to deserve this display of malice.
fred		Yeah.   I'm there.
fred		I suppose I can lay it on that one.  Without him flashing on me. He's docile.
fred		That can't be right. Arctor has never done it with Donna. Has he?
old lady		Yes sir?   Good morning.
bob arctor		Hi, I'm here...
bob arctor		... to pay for a check of mine the bank returned. It's twenty dollars.
old lady		Oh.   All-rightey.
old lady		Mr. Arctor, is it?
bob arctor		Yes, I am Mr. Arctor. Nobody else is.
old lady		Okay, sir. That'll be twenty dollars.
bob arctor		I'm sorry about this, but by mistake I wrote the check on a closed account.
old lady		My brother Carl.
bob arctor		I'd appreciate if you'd tell your brother that I was distraught when he called and I apologize for that, too.
old lady		I believe he said something about that, yes.
bob arctor		Any extra charge?
old lady		No extra charge.
bob arctor		I was distraught because a friend of mine had just passed-on suddenly.
old lady		Oh dear.
bob arctor		He choked to death alone, in his room, on a piece of meat. No one heard him.
old lady		You know, Mr. Arctor, more deaths happen from that than people realize. I read that if you're dining with a friend and he doesn't talk for a long time, you should ask him if he can, beacuse he may be strangling.
bob arctor		Yes. That's true. Thanks.      And thanks about the check.
old lady		Well, I'm sorry about your friend.
bob arctor		Yes.     He was the best friend I had.
old lady		How dreadful. I'll tell Carl. And thank you for coming all the way down.
bob arctor		Thank you. And thank Mr. Englesohn for me. Thank you both so much.
bob arctor		What if I, Bob Arctor, wrote this check myself and just don't remember?
bob arctor		I'm sorry to bother you again, ma'am, but I was just wondering what address do you have for that service call?
bob arctor		Yeah, I lost my ignition key.  34881 Main Street, Santa Ana...
bob arctor		So, Arctor's the forger, not Barris! Not deliberately, but because his brain is slushed on dope. All their brains are...
bob arctor		... slushed and mutually interacting in a slushed way.
bob arctor		Fucking waste of a perfectly good house. A family could live here, for Christ's sake.  Oughta take it away from this fuck.
bob arctor		 Nobody home, I guess.
bob arctor		Any given man sees only a tiny portion of the total truth, and...
charles freck		It is no problem how to kill yourself in the circles in which I hang. When life becomes more and more depressing as you watch those you know falling apart from drug use, just take a large quantity of reds.
charles freck		Wash 'em down with a bottle of cheap wine.
charles freck		You'll soon be sorry, Exxon, you ever tangled with Charles B. Freck! Junior!
bob arctor		Any given man sees only a tiny portion of Weh! steck' ich in dem Kerker noch? Verfluchtes the total truth, and very often, in fact almost perpetually dumpfes Mauerloch... FRED What the fuck is he talking about?
bob arctor		Wo selbst das liebe Himmelschlicht he deliberately deceives trub durch gemalte Scheiben bricht! FRED He's playing head games with us.   He's shucking us. The fucker!
bob arctor		 I'll be dipped.
ernie luckman		Hi, what's happening, Bob?
bob arctor		I drove by the Maylar Microdot Corporation building.
ernie luckman		You're shitting me.
bob arctor		One of the employees had evidently tracked the inventory out on the heel of his shoe. So they were all in the parking lot with many little magnifying glasses.
ernie luckman		 Any reward?
bob arctor		They had a reward, but they lost that, too. It was a little tiny penny.
ernie luckman		How large is the Maylar Microdot Corporation building?
fred		Pathetic, soulless nitwits.
bob arctor		About an inch high.
ernie luckman		Well, then how can you tell when you drive past it, if its only an inch?
bob arctor		They have a really big sign.
fred		Jesus.
ernie luckman		What's the sign look like?
bob arctor		Oh, just tell me.
ernie luckman		You smuggle it with a shipment of dope. Like heroin. The microdots are so small no one would notice.
bob arctor		That's a decent idea.
ernie luckman		Barris had this other idea for smuggling dope. You know how the custom guys, they ask you to declare what you have?
bob arctor		Right.
ernie luckman		Well, you take a huge block of hash and you carve it in the shape of a man. Then you hollow out a little section and put a wind-up motor in. And a cassette tape. And just before it goes through customs, you wind it up and it walks up to the man, who says, "Do you have anything to declare?" and it says, "No, I don't," and keeps on walking.
bob arctor		You put a solar battery in it, it could keep walking for years. Forever.
ernie luckman		What's the use of that?
bob arctor		Imagine an Eskimo village. And this six foot block of hash worth... What would it be worth?
ernie luckman		A billion dollars?
bob arctor		More. Two billion. So these Eskimos are chewing hides when this six foot block of hash comes walking through the snow saying, "No, I don't" over and over again.
ernie luckman		They'd wonder what it meant by that.
bob arctor		Legends would spring up.
ernie luckman		Can you imagine telling your grandkids, "I saw with my own eyes a six foot block of hash appear and walk past, worth two billion dollars, saying, "No, I don't." His grandchildren would have him committed.
bob arctor		But, see, legends build. So in a few centuries it would be, "In my forefathers' time, a ninety foot high block of extremely good quality  96. CONTINUED:
bob arctor		Afghanistan hash worth eight trillion dollars came at us dripping fire and screaming, "Die, Eskimo dogs!" And we fought and fought with it and finally killed it with our spears.
ernie luckman		The kids wouldn't believe that either.
bob arctor		Kids never believe anything anymore.
fred		Yeah?
telephone voice		Fred, we've processed your tests. We need you to come back for the full battery. Tomorrow at three. Do you remember the room number?
fred		Um... okay.
telephone voice		It's 203. Are you all right, Fred? Any confusion? Difficulty identifying persons or objects? Does anything you see appear inverted or reversed? Any space-time or language disorientation?
fred		Um, what?   I just... what exactly have you processed... that is, is this in regard to the Lion's Club speech?
telephone voice		We'll take all that up tomorrow, Fred.
ernie luckman		... this guy appeared on tv, claiming to be a world-famous imposter. He said he'd posed at one time or another as a great surgeon, a theoretical submolecular high-velocity particle research physicist, a Finnish novelist, a deposed president of Argentina...
bob arctor		He got away with it? Never got caught?
ernie luckman		See, the guy never really posed as any of it. He only posed as a world- famous imposter. Turns out he just pushed a broom at Disneyland, until he read about this actual world-famous imposter, and he thought, I can pose as all those things, then he thought, hell, I'll just pose as an imposter. Save a lot of time, a lot easier. Made almost as much money as the real imposter with books and movie rights.
jim barris		We see imposters in our lives, now and then. But not posing as physicists.
ernie luckman		Narks, you mean. Yeah, I wonder what a nark looks like?
bob arctor		It's like asking what an imposter looks like. I asked a hash dealer who'd been busted once what the nark who busted him looked like --
jim barris		Looked just like us.
bob arctor		More so. The dealer dude told me the nark had longer hair than we do. I guess the moral is, stay away from guys who look like us.
ernie luckman		Narks give me the creeps.
bob arctor		How could a guy do that is what I want to know, pose as a nark?
bob arctor		Shit, I'm spaced. Pose as a nark.
ernie luckman		POSE AS A NARK? POSE AS A NARK?
bob arctor		My brains are scrambled today.      I better go crash.
charles freck		I've been burned. These are not reds, but rather some freaky psychedelic, the likes of which I have never seen.
creature		We are no longer in the mundane universe. Your sins will be read to you ceaselessly throughout eternity.
charles freck		Know your fucking dealer, man.
creature		 November 14, 1962, 3:08:23 pm: you did knowingly and with malice aforethought punch your baby sister Evelyn on the left side of the head when your mother was not looking. November 14, 1962, 3:08:27 pm: you did knowingly and with malice aforethought punch your baby sister on the left arm when your mother was not looking. November 14, 1962, 3:08:32 pm: you did...
fred		Okay.
fred		This is the different one.
fred		Thank you.    Thank you all very much.
hank		Fred, is that you?
fred		Yes.
hank		Fred, this is the informant who phoned in about Bob Arctor.
fred		Sure I do.  You're James Barris, aren't you?
hank		His i.d. shows him to be, yes.
fred		What does he want?
jim barris		I have evidence that Mr. Arctor is part of a large, secret covert organization, well-funded, with arsenals of weapons at their disposal, probably dedicated to the overthrow --
hank		That part is speculation. We want to know what your firsthand evidence is.
fred		Have you ever been in a mental hospital, Mr. Barris?
jim barris		No, I have not, sir, ever been in a --
fred		Will you sign a sworn notarized statement regarding your evidence?
hank		He already has, Fred.
jim barris		My evidence, gentlemen, which I mostly don't have with me today, consits of tape recordings I have made of Robert Arctor's phone conversations.
fred		What is this covert organization?
jim barris		I believe it to be political in nature, and against this country.
fred		And what is Arctor's relationship to Substance D?
jim barris		When you examine my evidence, you will undoubtedly conclude that Substance D is produced by a foreign nation determined to overthrow the U.S., and  103. CONTINUED:
hank		Can you tells us the name of anyone else inside this organization?
jim barris		A Miss Donna Hawthorne. On various pretexts he goes over to her place and colludes with her regularly.
fred		Colludes?    What do you mean?
jim barris		I've followed him in my car, sir.
fred		She's his girl!
hank		 You think there's nothing to this?
fred		 Let's look at his evidence.
hank		 Maybe we should send an officer with him to retrieve it.
jim barris		There's one more thing. Mr. Arctor is addicted to Substance D. His mind is deranged now. He's become dangerous.
fred		Dangerous.
jim barris		He's already having episodes such as occur with brain damage from Substance D. Deterioration in the corpus callosum.
hank		This kind of unsupported speculation is worthless. We'll send an officer with you to collect your evidence.
jim barris		But, sirs --
hank		We'll arrange for an officer out of uniform, so it won't be conspicuous.
jim barris		I might be murdered. Mr. Arctor is, as I say --
hank		We appreciate your extreme risk, Mr. Barris. If your information is of significant value in obtaining a conviction, then naturally --
jim barris		That's not why I'm doing this. The man is sick. Brain damaged from Substance D. The reason I am here --
hank		We don't care why you're here. We only care if your evidence amounts to anything. The rest is your problem.
jim barris		Thank you, sirs. Thank you very much.
fred		Yes.
fred		Uh-huh.
fred		 Okay. Thank you.
fred		Why do I have two gas gauges?
fred		Will these go away?    These gas gauges?
fred		Wait. I'm confused.    Are you saying it is organic, or --
fred		Half a gas gauge?      What would that be like?
hank		Fred?
fred		Yeah.   Sorry I'm late.   I just...
hank		Would you identify the voices for us?
jim barris		The female's voice is a Miss Donna Hawthorne. The male is Bob Arctor.
jim barris		I can identify the biker gang also.
hank		You have more material of this sort?
jim barris		Much more. Much much more.     Much much much much much --
hank		Okay, great. What I'm going to do, Mr. Barris, is impound this material here for further study. You will be held in custody, charged with giving false information. This is, of course, only a pretext for your own safety, but the formal charge will be lodged anyhow. Is that satisfactory?
hank		What's your response, Fred, to Barris's evidence so far?
fred		Is that my medical report, Hank?
hank		Oh, it's a fake, Fred, for Christ sake.
fred		You might be right. But I don't agree. Um, so what does my medical report --
hank		It says you're completely cuckoo.
fred		Completely?
fred		Out of how many, would you say?
hank		I don't know. I understand brains have a lot of cells.
fred		They tell me it may never be over.
hank		Then never come back.   Can you drive?
fred		My...
hank		We can get somebody to drive you.
hank		I think you're a very good person.
fred		Thank you very much.
hank		You want a cigarette?
fred		No. I'm quitting them, too.   I'm quitting everything.
hank		Good for you. It's like I tell my children --
fred		I have kids, too.   Two little girls.
hank		I don't believe you do.   You're not supposed to.
fred		Maybe not.
hank		I don't think you're going to make it in the mountains, even if we get someone to drive you. Where else would you like to go?  110. CONTINUED:
fred		I don't know. I don't know.
hank		What about over to Donna Hawthorne's? I know you're close.
fred		How do you know that?
hank		By a process of elimination we were able to determine you're Bob Arctor.
fred		 Arctor?    I'm Bob Arctor?  But he's ugly!
hank		Nevermind. It's not important.  Where does she work?
fred		Uh, Thompson Jewelers.   I'm Arctor?
hank		 We should probably get you to a hospital. Barris poisoned you. It was really Barris, we were interested in. That's why we set up the scanners. He's into something heavy and sick, and it has to do with guns.
fred		 So, wait, you used me to get to Barris?
hank		We had to get to him, Bob. He's bad news. We couldn't tell you. We were afraid you'd spill the beans.
fred		 You fuckers. You fuckers.
donna hawthorne		Before we go to New-Path, Bob, I thought maybe we'd drive into the hills, y'know, look at the city lights.
donna hawthorne		Let's sit a few minutes.
bob arctor		 Do you have any hash?
donna hawthorne		C'mon, let's get off the road a little bit. In case of cops.
bob arctor		Just... like... the... rest... of us.
bob arctor		Did... he say what it was like?
donna hawthorne		Spars. Showers of colored sparks. In the air. Going up the wall. Wherever he looked. The whole world  113. CONTINUED:
bob arctor		What was on the other side?
donna hawthorne		He said it was always nighttime. Moonlight and water. Nothing ever changed. Water like blank ink and a beach. He was sure it was ancient Greece, that the door was a weak link in time. Later when he couldn't see it anymore, he became so frustrated with the noise and lights and motion in this world. He'd tell everyone he met that he lost everything.
bob arctor		I've lost everything.
donna hawthorne		There was a woman on the island. More like a statue. Of the Cyrenaican Aphrodite. In the moonlight. Pale and cold.
bob arctor		He should've gone through while he had the chance. You only get one chance.
donna hawthorne		He didn't have the chance, Bob. It was a promise. Something to come. Something better a long time in the future. They show us trailers now.  So we'll hold out.
bob arctor		That's what you're trying to do. With me now. Show me a trailer. So I'll hold out.
donna hawthorne		You're a good man. You've been dealt a bad blow. But life isn't over for you. I care for you a lot. I wish...
cop		Would you stand, you first, miss, and show me your identification, please?
donna hawthorne		Keep your voice down.
cop		I'm sorry.
donna hawthorne		Just fucking take off.
bob arctor		I can't make love. My thing's disappeared. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
donna hawthorne		C'mon, they're expecting us.   I have to sign you in.
bob arctor		But what'll I do if my thing's disappeared? Will they still take me?
donna hawthorne		 They'll take you.
donna hawthorne		It's a person.
donna hawthorne		It's easy to win. Anybody can win.
motorist		You want a ride, miss?
george		All right, Bruce, what you'll be doing here first is the bathrooms.
bob arctor		Okay.
george		You feel you know how to clean a bathroom?   Start, and I'll give you some pointers.
bob arctor		Okay.
mike		Thanks, man.  Mike fiddles with a belt with two metal rings for a buckle. He can't cinch it.  MIKE  Kiss my ass, kissy-facy! He wants to kiss people, kiss this, kissy-facy!
executive director		You pimp. You fuck. You dong. You shit. You turd. You snot. You asshole. You vomit. You wart.
mike		 Bruce?
bob arctor		I am an eye. I am dead. I can only look at what is front of me.
executive director		You turd prick. You weakling. You puke. You suck-off. You snatch.
mike		You like kids, Bruce?
bob arctor		Yes.
mike		You can eat with them if you like.
bob arctor		Okay.
little girl		What's your name?
bob arctor		Won't it wash off?
little girl		Oh, I see.  Well, you could write on the ceiling above your bed. Then when you want to know your name better, you can --
bob arctor		Thelma.
little girl		No, that's my name. And that's a girl's name anyway. If I see you again, I'll give you a name. I'll make one up for you. 'kay?
bob arctor		Don't you live here?
little girl		Yes, but my mommy may be leaving. She's thinking about taking us, me and my brother, and leaving. 'kay, Bye!
bob arctor		Bruce.
mike		Hey, Bruce!
bob arctor		Are you leaving here?
mike		 No, man, I can never leave   here. Too many temptations out there   for the likes of us. No, I'm just    going into town to pick up a donation   of semi- rotten vegetables.
bob arctor		Semi-rotten vegetables.
donna hawthorne		So are they paranoid about him?
mike		No. He just sits there all day. There's really nothing to suspect. They can't get anything out of him during the game sessions.
donna hawthorne		Well, then, will he be able to act, when the time comes? Is anything left?
mike		You never really know. A memory. A few charred brain cells flicker on. People like him are clacking insects. All reflex. We can only hope he's got the right reflex.
donna hawthorne		It was very well drilled into him.  Such a price to pay. The government asks an awful lot.
mike		Life asks an awful lot.
donna hawthorne		 I don't want to be on this assignment much longer. I just want it over. Shit. Sometimes I think we're colder than they are.
mike		I see a warm person when I look at you, Donna.
donna hawthorne		Oh, I'm warm on the outside. Warm face, warm eyes, warm fucking fake smile. But inside I'm cold all the time. I am full of lies. I am awful.
old woman		Can you do this?
bob arctor		I can't do that.
old woman		I can.
bob arctor		 Donna?!
bob arctor		How long has Donna been here?
bob arctor		 Oh, then it's not Donna. I've been here a week. And Donna drove me here. And she was fine: sad-eyed, quiet and composed. So beautiful. Leather jacket. That purse with the rabbit's foot dangling. Just like always.
mike		I think I'm going to try to get you a job on one of our farms, Bruce. When you're ready.
bob arctor		Can I work with animals. I like animals. Can I work with them?
mike		No, I want to try you with crops.    I think that'd be good for you.
bob arctor		I want to work with something living.
mike		The ground is living. Do you have any agricultural background?
bob arctor		 I used to work in an office.
mike		Well, you'll be outside from now on, sowing, tilling, killing insects. We do a lot of that with pesticides. But we're very careful, because those sprays can poison the crop as well as the person using them. Eat his head. The way yours has been eaten, Bruce.
bob arctor		Okay.
bob arctor		Is this Jerry Fabin?! Is this Jerry Fabin?!
farm manager		Your name is Bruce.
bob arctor		My name is Bruce.
farm manager		Mike Westaway recommended we give you a try on the farm. You're going to work here for a while.
bob arctor		Okay.
farm manager		I think you'll like it better here.
bob arctor		I think I'll like it better here.
farm manager		You like mountains?
bob arctor		I like mountains.
farm manager		Beautiful mountains all around.
bob arctor		I like air.
farm manager		Yeah, Bruce, we all like air. We really all do. C'mon, I'll show you your bunk and get you a hat to protect your head from the sun.
farm manager		This is where you sleep.
bob arctor		Will I be seeing my friends?
farm manager		You mean back at the rehab?
bob arctor		Mike and Thelma and Donna and Jerry Fabin and Luckman and Barris and --
farm manager		The farms are closed facilities, so they can't come visit. Besides you're not supposed to make any one-to-one relationships at New-Path. Didn't they teach you that?
bob arctor		They had us memorize that as part of the New-Path creed.
farm manager		But we usually send you back to your residence-of-origin for holidays. So you'll be visiting at Thanksgiving if you do good work.
bob arctor		Thanksgiving.
farm manager		All right then. What else?  Bathroom there. And you can turn on and off the light with this cord.
bob arctor		Mountains, Bruce, mountains.
farm manager		Echolalalia, Bruce, echolalalia.
bob arctor		Echolalalia, Bruce, echolalalia.
executive director		You're seeing the flower of the future, Bruce. But not for you.
bob arctor		Why not for me?
executive director		You've had too much of a good thing. So get up and stop worshipping. This isn't your god anymore.
bob arctor		Gone.     The flowers of spring are gone.
executive director		No. You simply can't see them. That's a philosophical problem you wouldn't comprehend. Epistemology -- the theory of knowledge.
bob arctor		I saw.
executive director		Back to work, Bruce.
bob arctor		A present for my friends.  My friends who I'll see soon.   At Thanksgiving.
****Dialogues from script :A_Serious_Man.txt****

man		What a marvel... what a marvel...
house interior		As its door opens and the man enters.
man		Dora!
voice		Yes...
man		You can't imagine what just happened. I was coming back on the Lublin road when the wheel came off the cart thank heavens it was the way back and I'd already sold the geese!
wife		How much?
man		Fifteen groshen, but that's not the story. I was struggling to set the cart upright when a droshky approaches from the direction of Lvov. How lucky, you think, that someone is out this late.
wife		Yes, very remarkable.
man		But that's the least of it! He stops to help me; we talk of this, we talk of that-it turns out this is someone you know! Traitle Groshkover!
wife		God has cursed us.
man		What?
wife		Traitle Groshkover has been dead for three years.
man		Why do you say such a thing! I saw the man! I talked to him!
wife		You talked to a dybbuk. Traitle Groshkover died of typhus in Pesel Bunim's house. Pesel told me-she sat shiva for him.
man		For some soup, to warm himself. The wind moans. He helped me, Dora!
the door		We are looking in from the outside as it unlatches and creaks in, opened by the husband in the foreground, who has arranged his face into a strained look of greeting. In the background the wife stares, hollow-eyed.
man		REB GROSHKOVER! You are welcome here! Reverse on REB GROSHKOVER: a short, merry-looking fellow with a bifurcated beard and a silk hat and spectacles. He gives a little squeal of delight.
reb groshkover		You are too kind, Velvel! Too kind!
man		Yes! A ray of sun, a ray of sun! Sit!
wife		My husband said he offered you soup.
reb groshkover		Yes, but I couldn't possibly eat this late, or I'd have nightmares. No, no: no soup for me!
wife		I knew it.
reb groshkover		I see! You think I'm fat enough already!
wife		No. A dybbuk doesn't eat.
reb groshkover		What a wife you have!
man		I assure you, REB GROSHKOVER, it's nothing personal; she heard a story you had died, three years ago, at Pesel Bunim's house. This is why she think you are a dybbuk; I, of course, do not believe in such things. I am a rational man.
reb groshkover		Oh my. Oh my yes. What nonsense. And even if there were spirits, certainly... He thumps his chest. I am not one of them!
wife		Pesel always worried. Your corpse was left unattended for many minutes when Pesel's father broke shiva and left the room-it must have been then that the Evil One- She breaks off to spit at the mention of the Evil One. -took you!
reb groshkover		"My corpse!" Honestly! What a wife you have!
wife		Oh yes? Look, husband...
reb groshkover		I shaved hastily this morning and missed a bit-by you this makes me a dybbuk?
man		Woman, what have you done?
reb groshkover		Why would she do such a thing?
wife		What do you say now about spirits? He is unharmed!
reb groshkover		On the contrary! I don't feel at all well.
man		Dora! Woe, woe! How can such a thing be!
reb groshkover		Perhaps I will have some soup. I am feeling weak...
man		Dear wife. We are ruined. Tomorrow they will discover the body. All is lost.
wife		Nonsense, Velvel... She walks to the door... Blessed is the Lord. Good riddance to evil and shuts it against the wind.
black		A drumbeat thumps in the black. Music blares: the Jefferson Airplane. Grace Slick's voice enters: When the truth is found to be lies And all the hope inside you dies Don't you want somebody to love. . .
teacher		Mee yodayah? Reuven? Rifkah? Mah zeh "anakim"? Efsheh mashooach ba-avodah?
doctor		Uh-huh.
hebrew school		Close on Hebrew characters being scribbled onto the blackboard as the TEACHER talks. The TEACHER, talking. A bored child, staring off. His point-of-view: a blacktopped parking lot with a few orange school busses, beyond it a marshy field, and distant suburban bungalows. Close on another child staring at something through drooping eyelids. His point-of-view: very close on the face of a classroom clock. We hear its electrical hum. Its red sweep-second hand crawls around the dial very, very slowly. DANNY Gopnik hisses:
danny		Fagle!.. . The TEACHER drones on, writing on the blackboard. DANNY's eyes flit from the TEACHER to the student sitting kitty-corner in front of him-a husky youth with shaggy hair. He hasn't heard the prompt. . Fagle! The TEACHER turns from the blackboard and DANNY leans back, eyes front, folding the twenty up small behind his book.
teacher		Ahnee rotzeh lalechet habait hakisai. Mee yodayah? Misaviv tamid anachnoo tamid... The clock-watching child, eyelids sinking, is beginning to drool out of one side of his mouth.
doctor		Mm-hmm.
hebrew school		A bored child is excavating a bugger from his nose. The TEACHER turns back to the chalkboard to circle something.
danny		Fagle!
teacher		Hamrah oomoh- He interrupts himself briefly to make a couple of phlegm-hawking sounds. He resumes: . Hamrah oomoh meshiach oomshel zal?
doctor's office		The DOCTOR palpates LARRY's midriff, digging his fingers into the hairy, baggy flesh. DOCTOR's Voice Uh-huh. We'll do some routine X-rays.
hebrew school		A young girl holds a hank of her bangs in front of her face, separating out individual hairs to examine them for split ends.
teacher		Ahnoo ahnoo mah? Mah? Talmidim? D'vorah?
teacher		Mee yodayah? The bugger-seeker, having succesfully withdrawn a bugger, carefully drapes it over the sharp end of his pencil, to what end we cannot know. DANNY, apprehensively eyeing the TEACHER, slides the twenty into the transistor radio's cover-sleeve.
hebrew school		The clock-watching student's head is making descending bobs toward his chest.
teacher		Nefsheh shelach hamilamid-eh?! The TEACHER's circuit of the classroom has taken him around behind DANNY. DANNY's book lies face-down on the desk, covering the radio, but the white cord snakes out from under it up to his ear. The TEACHER yanks at the cord.
students		Shechet! Shechet bivakasha! The nodding student's head droops ever lower. Other students join in the chant:  SHECHET! SHECHET! SHECHET BIVAKASHA!
doctor's office		LARRY, now fully clothed, is seated across from the DOCTOR. The DOCTOR is looking at his file. He absently taps a cigarette out of a pack and lights up. He nods as he smokes, looking at the file.
doctor		Well, I-sorry. He holds the pack toward LARRY.
larry		No thanks.
doctor		Well, you're in good health. How're Judith and the kids?
larry		Good. Everyone's good. You know. The DOCTOR takes a long suck.
doctor		Good. Daniel must be-what? About to be bar mitzvah?
larry		Two weeks.
doctor		Well, mazel tov. They grow up fast, don't they?
principal		Hmm... eh... nu?
danny		You put the- The old man holds up one hand.
principal		In ivrit. 
danny		Um... The old man looks down at the little earpiece pinched between two fingers. He examines it as a superstitious native might a Coca-Cola bottle. The source of the electrical hum: a wall clock whose red sweep-second hand crawls around the dial very, very slowly. The Reb continues to squint at the earpiece. DANNY sighs. He encourages:
danny		Yeah, you- The principal's tone is harder:
principal		In ivrit! This time his cold look holds until he is sure that the admonishment has registered. He looks back down at the earpiece. We hear the door open. The principal ignores it. An old woman walks slowly in with a teacup chattering on a saucer. She has thick eyeglasses. She wears thick flesh-colored support hose. She takes slow, short steps toward the desk. The principal is studying the radio.
principal		Mneh... The old woman continues to take slow short steps toward him. The tableau looks like a performance-art piece. She reaches the desk and sets the teacup down. She summons a couple of phlegm- hawking rasps and turns to go. She takes slow short steps toward the door. The principal raises the earpiece experimentally toward his ear. Close on his hairy, wrinkled ear as his trembling fingers bring in the earpiece. The i f ngers push and wobble and tamp the earpiece into place, hesitate, and then do some more pushing and wobbling and tamping. The principal keeps DANNY fixed with a stare as his hand hesitantly drops from his ear, ready to reach back up should the earpiece loosen. .mneh... Satisfied that neither the student nor the earpiece are about to make any sudden moves, he looks down at the radio. He turns a dial. Faintly and tinnily from the earpiece we hear the compressed jangle of rock music. The rabbi stares blankly, listening. DANNY slumps, looking warily at the rabbi. The rabbi continues to stare down at the radio. The compressed rock music jangles on. The rabbi is expressionless, mouth slightly open, listening. Tableau: anxious student, earplugged spiritual leader. Muffled, from the outer office, the hawking of phlegm.
classroom		We are behind a man who writes equations on a chalkboard, shoulder at work and hand quickly waggling. Periodically he glances back, giving us a fleeting look at his face: it is
larry		You following this?... Okay?.. So... Heh-heh... This part is exciting... Students follow along, bored. LARRY continues to write. . So, okay. So. So if that's that, then we can do this, right? Is that right? Isn't that right? And that's Schrodinger's paradox, right? Is the cat dead or is the cat not dead? Okay?
blegen hall		LARRY is entering the physics department office. The department's secretary wheels her castored chair away from her typing.
secretary		Messages, Professor Gopnik. He takes the three phone messages.
larry		Thank you, Natalie. Oh-CLIVE. Come in. A Korean graduate student who was been waiting on a straightbacked chair rises.
larry's office		He is flipping through the messages. Absently:
larry		So, uh, what can I do for you? The messages: WHILE YOU WERE OUT Dick Dutton OF Columbia Record Club
clive		Uh, Dr. Gopnik, I believe the results of Physics Mid-Term were unjust.
larry		Uh-huh, how so?
clive		I received an unsatisfactory grade. In fact: F, the failing grade.
larry		Uh, yes. You failed the mid-term. That's accurate.
clive		Yes, but this is not just. I was unaware to be examined on the mathematics.
larry		Well-you can't do physics without mathematics, really, can you.
clive		If I receive failing grade I lose my scholarship, and feel shame. I understand the physics. I understand the dead cat.
clive		Very difficult... very difficult...
larry		Well, I... I'm sorry, but I... what do you propose?
clive		Passing grade.
larry		No no, I-
clive		Or perhaps I can take the mid-term again. Now I know it covers mathematics.
larry		Well, the other students wouldn't like that, would they. If one student gets to retake the test til he gets a grade he likes. CLIVE impassively considers this.
clive		Secret test. LARRY wraps a hand wearily over his eyes.
larry		. No, I'm afraid-
clive		Hush-hush.
larry		No, that's just not workable. I'm afraid we'll just have to bite the bullet on this thing, CLIVE, and-
clive		Very troubling. He rises. . very troubling... He goes to the door, shaking his head, as LARRY looks on in surprise. He leaves. LARRY stares at the open door. The secretary outside, her back to us, types on. LARRY. looks stupidly around his own office, shakes his head. He picks up the phone message from Sy Ableman-"Let's talk"-and dials. As he dials his other hand wanders over the papers on the desktop. There is a plain white envelope on the desk. LARRY picks it up as the phone rings through. A ring is clipped short and a warm basso-baritone rumbles through the line: Phone Voice Sy Ableman.
larry		Hello, Sy, LARRY Gopnik.
larry		Good, how've you been, Sy?
sy		Oh fine. Shall we talk LARRY. LARRY reacts to the money.
larry		 What?! Oh! Sorry! I, uh-call back! He slams down the phone.
secretary		Sy Ableman just called. Said he got disconnected.
bathroom door		A hand enters to knock. Man's Voice Out in a minute! SARAH, the sixteen-year-old girl who has just knocked, rolls her eyes.
sarah		I gotta wash my hair! I'm going out tonight!
voice		Out in a minute!
sarah		Jesus Christ! She stomps down the hall.
kitchen		Judith, a woman of early middle age, is at the stove. SARAH enters.
sarah		W is Uncle Arthur always in the bathroom?
judith		He has to drain his sebacious cyst. You know that. Will you set the table?
sarah		Why can't he do it in the basement? Or go out in the garage!
bus		We are raking the exterior of an orange school bus as it rattles along. Hebrew characters on the side identify it-to some, anyway.
inside		We are locked down on DANNY as the bus rattles like an old crate, squeaking, grinding gears, belching exhaust. DANNY and the children around him vibrate and pitch about but, from their lack of reaction, seem used to it. They raise their voices to be heard over the engine noise and the various stress noises in the chassis and a transistor radio somewhere that plays Jefferson Airplane.
danny		I had twenty bucks in it too. Inside the case.
danny		I bought a lid from Mike Fagle. Couple weeks ago. I still owed him twenty. Mark Sallerson He already gave you the pot?
danny		Yeah but a couple weeks ago my funding got cut off. Fagle said he'd pound the crap out of me if I didn't pay up. Howard Altar What funding got cut off? Where do you get your money? Another boy, with thick glasses, is Ronnie Nudell. Ronnie Nudell What happened? Mark Sallerson Rabbi Turchik took his radio. Had money in it. Ronnie Nudell That fucker!
danny		Yeah. I think he said he was confiscating it. Ronnie Nudell He's a fucker! Where do you get your money? Mark Sallerson Mike Fagle's gonna kick his ass. Last week he pounded the crap out of Seth Seddlemeyer.
bathroom door		A hand enters to knock. Uncle Arthur's Voice Out in a minute!
sarah		Are you still in there?! Uncle Arthur I, uh.. . Just a minute!
sarah		I've gotta wash my hair! I'm going out tonight, to the hole! Uncle Arthur Okay!
outside		LARRY pulls into the driveway and gets out of the car. The purr of a lawn mower. He looks. His point-of-view: Gar Brandt, the next-door neighbor, is mowing his lawn. He has a buzz cut and is wearing a white T-shirt. Another noise competes with the lawn mower: rattling, squeaking, gear-grinding. The orange school bus with Hebrew lettering pulls up across the street. Its door opens with a pneumatic hiss to discharge a passenger.
dinner table		LARRY sits in. His wife and two children are already seated. There is one empty place. LARRY projects:
larry		Arthur! A muffled voice:
arthur		Yeah!
larry		Dinner!
arthur		Okay! Out in a minute!
larry		We should wait.
sarah		Are you kidding! They start eating.
larry		Mr. Brandt keeps mowing part of our lawn.
judy		Does that matter?
larry		What?
judy		Is it important? LARRY shrugs.
larry		It's just odd.
judy		Any news on your tenure?
larry		I think they'll give me tenure.
judy		You think.
judy		No, I don't know. Which is why I ask.
sarah		Mom, how long is Uncle Arthur staying with us?
judy		Ask your father.
back yard		Twilight. LARRY is stepping onto a hose as he unwheels it from the drum of a traveling sprinkler, laying out an are to cover the back yard. Intermittent thwacks from next door: Gar Brandt and his son, who also has a buzz cut and a white T-shirt, throw a baseball back and forth. Gar Brandt throws hard. The ball pops in the boy's mitt.
mitch		Ow. LARRY walks over to the boundary defined by the fresh mowing. He sights down it. Gar Brandt looks over his shoulder at LARRY, looking. Gar Brandt is expressionless. He
mitch		Ow.
inside		Evening. Lights on. LARRY sits at the kitchen table, a briefcase open on the chair next to him. Blue books-examination booklets-are spread on the table in front of him. He reads, occasionally making marginal scribbles, grading. From off, faint and dulled by intervening walls, rock music: somewhere in the house DANNY is listening to the Jefferson Airplane. The clink of teaspoon against china as LARRY stirs his tea. He looks up at a noise: JUDY enters.
judy		Honey.
judy		Did you talk to Sy? Still absent, without looking up:
larry		Sy?-Sy Ableman!-That's right, he called, but I-
judy		You didn't talk to him.
larry		No, I-
judy		You know the problems you and I have been having. Sympathetic, but still absent:
larry		Mm.
judy		Well, Sy and I have become very close. This brings LARRY's head up. He focuses on JUDY, puzzled. She elaborates: In.short: I think it's time to start talking about a divorce. LARRY stares at her. A long beat. At length, trying to digest:
larry		. Sy Ableman!
judy		This is not about Sy.
larry		You mentioned Sy!
judy		Don't twist my words. We-
larry		A divorce-what have I done! I haven't done anything- What have I done!
judy		LARRY, don't be a child. You haven't "done" anything. I haven't "done" anything.
larry		Yes! Yes! We haven't done anything! And I-I'm probably about to get tenure!
judy		Nevertheless, there have been problems. As you know.
judy		And things have changed. And then-Sy Ableman. Sy has come into my life. And now-
larry		Come into your-what does that mean?! You, you, you, you barely know him!
judy		We've known the Ablemans for fifteen years.
larry		Yes, but you you said we hadn't done anything! JUDY suddenly is stony:
judy		I haven't done anything. This is not some flashy fling. This is not about woopsy-doopsy. LARRY stares at her.
larry		Sy Ableman! From down the hall, a knock on a door. A muffled voice:
arthur		Out in a minute!
judy		Look, I didn't know any other way of breaking it to you. Except to tell you. And treat you like an adult. Is that so wrong? LARRY does not seem to be listening. His eyes roam the room as he thinks.
larry		Where do I sleep? JUDY narrows her eyes.
judy		What?
larry		Arthur's on the couch!
judy		Look. Sy feels that we should-
larry		Esther is barely cold!
judy		Esther died three years ago. And it was a loveless marriage. Sy wants a Gett. This derails the conversation. LARRY stares, trying to pick up the thread.
larry		. A what?
judy		A ritual divorce. He says it's very important. Without a Gett I'm an Aguna.
larry		A what? What are you talking about? She turns to go, shaking her head, peeved:
judy		You always act so surprised. As she leaves: I have begged you to see the Rabbi.
fade in		LARRY has fallen asleep at the kitchen table, face-down in a pile of blue books. Cold blue light sweeps across him and he looks up.
blegen hall		LARRY enters the departmental office. His eyes are red-rimmed and dark-bagged. He has beard stubble. The department's secretary wheels her castored chair away from her typing.
secretary		Messages, Professor Gopnik. He takes the two phone messages.
his office		LARRY looks at the messages: WHILE YOU WERE OUT Dick Dutton OF Columbia Record Club
larry		Yes-thanks for coming, CLIVE. CLIVE Park enters the office.
clive		I didn't leave it.
larry		Well--you don't even know what I was going to say.
clive		I didn't leave anything. I'm not missing anything. I know where everything is. LARRY looks at him, trying to formulate a thought.
larry		Well... then, CLIVE, where did this come from? He waves the envelope. . This is here, isn't it? CLIVE looks at it gravely.
clive		Yes, sir. That is there.
larry		This is not nothing, this is something.
clive		Yes sir. That is something. A beat. . What is it.
larry		You know what it is! You know what it is! I believe. And
clive		Of course, sir.
larry		I'll have to pass it on to Professor Finkle, along with my suspicions about where it came from. Actions have consequences.
clive		Yes. Often.
larry		Always! Actions always have consequences! He pounds the desk for emphasis. In this office, actions have consequences!
clive		Yes sir.
larry		Not just physics. Morally.
clive		Yes.
larry		And we both know about your actions.
clive		No sir. I know about my actions.
larry		I can interpret, CLIVE. I know what you meant me to understand.
clive		Meer sir my sir. LARRY cocks his head.
larry		. Meer sir my sir?
clive		 Mere... surmise. Sir. He gravely shakes his head. . Very uncertain.
sarah		You little brat fucker! You snuck twenty bucks out of my drawer!
danny		Studying torah! Asshole!
sarah		You little brat! I'm telling Dad!
danny		Oh yeah? You gonna tell him you've been sneaking it out of his wallet?
sarah		All right, you know what I'm gonna do? You little brat? If you don't give it back? We hear the thunk of the front door opening. DANNY stands, calling:
danny		Dad?
foyer		LARRY is entering with his briefcase. As he stows it in the foyer closet DANNY's voice continues, off:
danny		Dad, you gotta fix the aerial. Judith emerges from the kitchen.
judith		Hello LARRY, have you thought about a lawyer?
larry		Honey, please! DANNY emerges from the hall.
larry		 Can we discuss it later?
danny		I can't get F Troop.
judith		LARRY, the children know. Do you think this is some secret? Do you think this is something we're going to keep quiet? SARAH enters.
sarah		Dad, Uncle Arthur is in the bathroom again! And I=m going to the hole at eight! She hits DANNY on the back of the head.
danny		Stop it!
larry		SARAH! What's going on!
danny		She keeps doing that!
later		LARRY sits in a reclining chair in the living room, head back, listening to Sidor Belarsky on the hi-fi. On top of the music is a hissing-sucking sound. There is also the sound of a pencil busily scratching paper. We cut to its source: Uncle Arthur sits scribbling into a spiral notebook, his free hand holding the end of a length of surgical tubing against the back of his neck. The tube leads to a water-pik-like appliance on an end table next to him-the source of the sucking sound. After a long beat of listening to the music, LARRY speaks into space:
larry		Arthur? Uncle Arthur does not look up from his scribbling. Uncle Arthur Yes. LARRY continues to stare at the ceiling.
larry		What're you doing? Still without looking up: Uncle Arthur Working on the Mentaculus. Long beat. Music. Scribbling.
larry		Any luck, um, looking for an apartment? More scribbling. Uncle Arthur No. The doorbell chimes.
front door		LARRY enters, glances through the front door's head-height window, and-freezes, one hand arrested on the way to the doorknob. His point-of-view: framed by the window, yellowly lit by the stoop light, a human head. A middle-aged man, a few years older than LARRY. A fleshy face with droopy hangdog features, a five-o'clock shadow, and sad Harold Bloom eyes. LARRY opens the door.
larry		Sy. Sy, entering, thrusts out a hand. His voice vibrates with a warm, sad empathy:
sy		Good to see you, LARRY. He is a heavy-set man wearing a short-sleeved shirt that his belly tents out in front of him. In his left hand he holds a bottle of wine.
sy		No, actually LARRY, I'm here to see you, if I might. He shakes his head. . Such a thing. Such a thing.
larry		Shall we go in the... He is leading him into the kitchen but Sy, oblivious to surroundings, plows on with the conversation, arresting both men in the narrow space between kitchen sink and stove, and invading LARRY's space.
sy		You know, LARRY-how we handle ourselves, in this situation-it's so impawtant.
larry		Uh-huh.
sy		Absolutely. Judith told me that she broke the news to you. She said you were very adult.
larry		Did she.
sy		Absolutely. The respect she has for you.
larry		Yes?
sy		Absolutely. But the children, LARRY. The children. He shakes his head. . The most impawtant.
larry		Well, I guess...
sy		Of coss. And Judith says they're handling it so well. A tribute to you. Do you drink wine? Because this is an incredible bottle. This is not Mogen David. This is a wine, LARRY. A bawdeaux.
larry		You know, Sy-
sy		Open it-let it breathe. Ten minutes. Letting it breathe, so impawtant.
larry		Thanks, Sy, but I'm not-
sy		I insist! No reason for discumfit. I'll be uncumftable if you don't take it. These are signs and tokens, LARRY.
larry		I'm just-I'm not ungrateful, I'm, I just don't know a lot about wine and, given our respective, you know- He is startled when Sy abruptly hugs him.
hallway		The bathroom door cracks open in the foreground. DANNY peeks out. His point-of-view: the empty hallway ending in a T with another hallway. A janitor crosses, pushing a broom down the far hallway. He disappears. His echoing footsteps recede. DANNY and Ronny emerge from the bathroom.
rabbi minda		The photo-portrait on the wall of Mar Turchik's office lit by late-day sun. We hear a scraping sound.
sanctuary		We are behind the two boys who sit side by side on the last pew, staring at the front of the empty sanctuary. Its stained glass windows further weaken the late-afternoon light. In deference to the location, the boys wear yarmulkas. A long hold on their still backs. At length, some movement in DANNY's back, his head dips, and we hear him sucking on the joint. He holds it, exhales, and passes it wordlessly to Ronnie Nudell.
suburban street		We are pulling DANNY as he walks along the street, eyes red-rimmed, still wearing his yarmulka. It is dusk. After a few beats of walking, the front door of a house just behind DANNY opens. A husky, shaggy-haired youth emerges on the run. The sound has alerted DANNY. Seeing Mike Fagle, he too begins to run. He reaches up and grabs his yarmulka and clutches it in one of his pumping fists. Pursued and pursuer both run wordlessly, panting, feet pounding. Mike Fagle is closing. But DANNY is already cutting across the Brandt's front yard, approaching his own. He plunges into the house and slams the door. Mike Fagle draws up, panting, gazing hungrily at the house.
mitch		Ow. Foreshortened Gar Brandt and Mitch are playing catch in their back yard. With each toss the ball pops, alternately in father's mitt and son's. Precariously balanced, LARRY reaches out for the aerial. He tentatively touches it. He grasps it. He twists the aerial.
mitch		Ow. Faintly, under the wineglass sound, and clouded by static, a high, ringing tenor sings in an unfamiliar modality. Cantorial music. LARRY drops his hand. Inertia keeps the aerial rotating slowly til it dies, the sound drifting away into the sybillant shushing of trees. LARRY reaches out again to turn the aerial. The same crystal hum... cantorial singing... and now, layering in, the theme from F Troop. Music. Crystal hum. Wind.
mitch		Ow. LARRY's look travels: his point-of-view pans slowly off the steep angle of father and son playing catch, travels across his own backyard, and brings in the white fence that encloses the patio of the neighbor on the other side. Gar  Ow. LARRY reacts to the naked woman: startled at first, he moves to hide behind the peak of the roof. But as he realizes that the sun keeps the woman's eyes closed he relaxes, continu- ing to stare. She is attractive. Not young, not old: LARRY's age. Peaceful. After a still beat one of her hands gropes blindly to the side. It finds an ashtray on the table next to her and takes from it a pluming cigarette. The woman takes a puff and replaces it.
notebook		A pencil scratches equations into a lamplit spiral notebook. Sidor Belarsky comes in at the cut. So does the spluttering suck-sound of Uncle Arthur's evacuator. Wider on Uncle Arthur, in his pyjamas, propped up on the narrow fold-out sofa, writing with one hand as he holds the evacuator hose to his neck with the other. Squeezed into the living room next to the fold-out sofa is a camp cot of plaid-patterned nylon stretched over an aluminum frame. On the camp cot is LARRY, lying half-in, half- out of a rumpled sleeping bag. He stares at the ceiling, a damp washcloth pressed against his forehead. His face is flaming red. Arthur speaks absently as he scribbles:
arthur		Will you read this? Tell me what you think? LARRY continues to stare at the ceiling.
larry		Okay. Uncle Arthur glances up from the notebook, focuses on LARRY.
arthur		Boy. You should've worn a hat.
kitchen		LARRY, in his underwear, spoons ground coffee into the percolator. Uncle Arthur snores softly on in the other room. From outside, a dull thunk. LARRY pulls back a curtain. Next door, Gar Brandt is going down the walk, wearing camouflage togs and camo billed cap, a rifle bag slung over his shoulder. He is carrying an ice chest, its contents clicking and sloshing. The boy Mitch, also wearing camo clothes and cap and also with a rifle bag, has just closed the front door. He now lets the screen door swing shut behind him and follows his father down the walk to the car in the driveway. The twitter of early morning birds. Gar's voice, though not projected, stands out in the pre-dawn quiet:
gar		Let's see some hustle, Mitch.
larry		Hi Arlen. Arlen Finkle LARRY, I feel that, as head of the tenure committee I should tell you this, though it should be no cause for concern. You should not be at all worried. LARRY waits for more. Arlen seems to need a prompt.
larry		Okay. Arlen Finkle I feel I should mention it even though we won't give this any weight at all in considering whether to grant you tenure, so, I repeat no cause for concern.
larry		Okay, Arlen. Give what any weight? Arlen Finkle We have received some letters, uh... denigrating you, and, well, urging that we not grant you tenure.
larry		From who? Arlen Finkle They're anonymous. And so of course we dismiss them completely.
larry		Well... well... what do they say? Arlen Finkle They make allegations, not even allegations, assertions, but
larry		But... I think you're saying, these won't play any part in your deliberations. Arlen Finkle None at all.
larry		Um, so what are they... Arlen Finkle Moral turpitude. You could say.
larry		Uh-huh. Can I ask, are they, are they-idiomatic? Arlen Finkle I, uh...
larry		The reason I ask, I have a Korean student, South Korean, disgruntled South Korean, and I meant to talk to you about this, actually, he- Arlen Finkle No. No, the letters are competently-even eloquently written. A native English-speaker. No question about that.
larry		Uh-huh. Arlen Finkle But I reiterate this, LARRY: no cause for concern. I only speak because I would have felt odd concealing it.
larry		Yes, okay, thank you Arlen.
minutes later		Inside the bus, now moving. Engine noise bangs in louder and air roars in through open windows. We are on the driver, a sallow man in a short-sleeved white shirt with earlocks and a yarmulke. He pitches about, stoically wrestling with the wheel and gear shift as the vehicle bucks. The pitching children. Somewhere, Jefferson Airplane plays.
danny		I gotta get my radio back. Ronnie Nudell Maybe the fucker lodged it up his fucking asshole.
danny		I gotta get it back. Or Mike Fagle's gonna pound the crap out of me. Ronnie Nudell
danny		And I'll still have to get my sister the money back or she's gonna break four of my records. Twenty bucks, four records. Howard Altar How do you buy all those records. Where do you get your funds.
gar		Go scrub up, Mitch.
larry		Uh, good afternoon. This brings Gar's look around. Apparently he is unused to talking with his neighbor. There is a short beat before his response.
gar		Afternoon. In the background of his angle is the dead buck, staring off through sightless eyes.
gar		Yep.
larry		Is that a, uh... He is indicating the staked area. Gar looks around at it, looks back at LARRY.
gar		Gonna be a den.
larry		Uh-huh, that's great. Uh, Mr. Brandt- Gar barks at Mitch, who has lingered to listen to the grown-ups:
gar		I said scrub up, Mitch! The child quickly goes. LARRY frowns.
larry		Isn't this a school day?
gar		Took him out of school today. So he could hunt with his dad.
larry		Oh! He nods. . That's.. . nice. Gar stares at him with button eyes. Small talk is not his thing. LARRY clears his throat.
gar		Property line's the poplar.
larry		. the. ?
gar		Poplar!
larry		. Well.. . even if it is, you're just about over it
gar		Measure. We hear two pairs of pounding footsteps coming up the street.
larry		I don't have to measure, you can tell it's...
gar		Line's the poplar. He indicates. . It's all angles. Gar Brandt turns and goes. LARRY turns, reacting to the pounding footsteps. One of the two pairs belongs to DANNY who arrives, slowing to a walk, panting, a bookbag over his shoulder. A half-block back the pursuing boy also stops running. Husky, shaggy-haired, he watches, scowling, as DANNY goes up the walk to his house. LARRY addresses DANNY's retreating back:
larry		What's going on?
danny		Nothing.
sarah		I'm going to the hole.
larry		At five o'clock? He looks out the front-door window. Four girls of SARAH's age are coming up the walk
sarah		We're stopping at Laurie Kipperstein's house so I can wash my hair. LARRY pulls open the door just as the doorbell rings. From the four dark girls:
voices		Hi, Mr. Gopnik.
larry		You can't wash it here? From somewhere in the house, Jefferson Airplane starts. As she brushes past LARRY:
sarah		Uncle Arthur's in the bathroom.
voice		Out in a minute! Judith enters.
judith		Are you ready?
larry		Huh?
judith		We're meeting Sy at Embers.
larry		I am?
judith		Both of us. I told you.
sy		LARRY. How are you.
larry		Sy.
sy		Hello Judith.
judith		Hello Sy. Once Sy releases LARRY, all seat themselves at Sy's booth, Judith next to Sy, LARRY facing.
sy		Thank you for coming, LARRY. It's so impawtant that we be able to discuss these things.
larry		I'm happy to come to Embers, Sy, but, I'm thinking, really, maybe it's best to leave these discussions to the lawyers.
sy		Of coss! Legal matters, let the lawyers discuss! Don't mix apples and oranges!
judith		I've beamed you to see the lawyer.
larry		 I told you, I'm going Monday.
sy		Monday is timely! This isn't-please!-Embers isn't the forum for legalities, you are so right!
judith		Hmph.
sy		No, Judith and I thought merely we should discuss the practicalities, the living arrangements, a situation that will conduce to the comfit of all the parties. This is an issue where no one is at odds. LARRY isn't sure where this is leading:
larry		. Living arrangements.
sy		Absolutely. I think we all agree, the children not being contaminated by the tension-the most impawtant.
judith		We shouldn't put the kids in the middle of this, LARRY.
larry		The kids aren't-
judith		I'm saying "we." I'm not pointing fingers.
sy		No one is playing the "blame game," LARRY.
larry		I didn't say anyone was!
judith		Well let's not play He said, She said, either.
larry		I wasn't! I. ---
sy		Aw right, well let's just step back, and defuse the situation,
judith		Really, to keep things on an even keel, especially now, leading up to DANNY's bar mitzvah-
sy		A child's bar mitzvah, LARRY!
judith		Sy and I think it's best if you move out of the house.
larry		. Move out?!
sy		It makes eminent sense.
judith		Things can't continue as they-
larry		Move out! Where would I go?!
sy		Well, for instance, the Jolly Roger is quite livable. Not expensive, and the rooms are eminently livable.
judith		This would allow you to visit the kids.
sy		There's convenience in its fava. There's a pool-
sy		LARRY, you're jesting!
judith		LARRY, there is much to accomplish before that can happen. Sy is sadly shaking his head.
sy		LARRY, LARRY, LARRY. I think, really, the Jolly Roger is the appropriate coss of action. He shrugs. It has a pool.
danny		Stop it!
sarah		Creep fucker!
danny		Stop it! I'm getting it! I'm gonna get it! Wider shows that the brain is on television, which DANNY has muted while he plays the Cantor Youssele Rosenblatt record and drills his torah portion. He and SARAH are in a stand-off, hands tensed to either deliver or ward off blows.
sarah		Brat! LARRY enters.
larry		What's going on?
larry		What was that?
danny		Nothing.
larry		How's the haftorah coming? Can you maybe use the hi-fi?
danny		What? We hear the doorbell off. LARRY indicates the portable record player.
danny		Sure Dad. On TV, the handsome man shouts defiance at the brain. From off, SARAH projects:
sarah		Dad. Chinese guy.
asian man		A middle-aged Korean man, well groomed. He wears a nicely cut suit and a jeweled tie- pin.
man		Culcha clash. He bangs his two knuckles together, illustrating. . Culcha clash. He faces LARRY in the driveway. LARRY's car is half-loaded with open boxes that are haphazardly stuffed with clothing and effects. LARRY is leaning against the hood, arms folded, gazing at the man, unimpressed. A long beat. Finally he bestirs himself.
larry		With all respect, Mr. Park, I don't think it's that. Mr. Park Yes.
larry		No. It would be a culture clash if it were the custom in your land to bribe people for grades. Mr. Park Yes.
larry		So-you're saying it is the custom? Mr. Park No. This is defamation. Grounds for lawsuit.
larry		You-let me get this straight-you're threatening to sue me for defaming your son? Mr. Park Yes.
larry		But it would- Gar Brandt Is this man bothering you. Gar Brandt stands on the strip of lawn separating the two neighbors. He is giving Mr. Park a hard stare.
larry		Is he bothering me? No. We're fine. Thank you, Mr. Brandt. Gar Brandt, not entirely convinced, withdraws, glaring at the Korean. LARRY turns back to Mr. Park. . I, uh. . See, if it were defamation there would have to be someone I was defaming him to, or I... All right, I... let's keep it simple. I could pretend the money never appeared. That's not defaming anyone.
bl		Mr. Park Yes. And passing grade.
larry		Passing grade. Mr. Park Yes.
larry		Or you'll sue me. Mr. Park For taking money.
larry		So.. . he did leave the money. Mr. Park This is defamation. LARRY stares at him.
larry		Look. It doesn't make sense. Either he left the money or he didn't Mr. Park Please. Accept mystery.
larry		You can't have it both ways! If Mr. Park Why not. LARRY stares. We hear Sidor Belarsky music.
larry		Hello... He brightens. . Fine, Mimi, how are you?... Uh-huh... No, it's not that bad... It's not that bad... There's a pool... Arthur emerges from an alcove in the dim depth of the room that has a dressing-room mirror and apparently connects to the bathroom. He has a hand towel pressed to the back of his neck. . Oh sure, that sounds great. . . Oh, great, then I'll bring
lake nokomis		The beach: families are crowded onto the small beach of a freshwater lake, children cavorting, adults lounging, much sun, few umbrellas. Red floats connected by red nylon rope define a swimming area; beyond it people dive from an anchored raft. Splashing and children's laughter slap off the surface of the lake.
woods		Above the lake. The beach noise has some distance. It also has a faintly bizarre canyon echo. There is a present, sybillant shushing of breeze in the trees. It is dark here with intense hot spots where sun sifts through the leaf cover. We are close on DANNY, who sits very still, leaning back against a tree trunk.
voice		Gimme that fucker. DANNY passes the joint to Ronnie Nudell, who sits opposite.
picnic area		On a woodless rise above the lake. Each of the separate picnic areas consist of a redwood table and benches placed next to a firepit. Here in the sun both LARRY and Mel Nudell, a man slightly older than LARRY, glisten with sweat. Mel, in the background, bounces a bag of charcoal briquettes to spill some into the firepit. LARRY sits at the table in the foreground with Mimi Nudell who alone seems unaffected by the heat-or by anything else in the physical environment. Her pale, gravely composed Giacometti face is shaded by a large-brimmed hat.
larry		No. Almost a year and a half since Touche Ross let him go. He's very good with numbers. I think his, his social skills have held him back.
mimi		Such a sweet man though.
larry		Arthur has a good heart. And he never complains, unlike me. Sometimes I don't give him enough credit.
mimi		He tried to tell me about this thing he's working on, this, um...
larry		The Mentaculus? He says it's a, uh. a probability map. Of the universe. He asked if I could help him publish it. Um, it was a little hard for me to evaluate.
mimi		Does he go out socially at all?
larry		He tries. He's been going to the singles mixers at Hillel House.-Well, I should talk, I'm not doing any better.
mimi		How is Judith?
larry		Fine. She's fine. I'm the odd man out. Mimi smiles.
mimi		Sometimes these things just aren't meant to be. And it can take a while before you feel what was always there, for better or worse.
larry		I never felt it! It was a bolt from the blue! What does that mean! Everything that I thought was one way turns out to be another!
mimi		Then-it's an opportunity to learn how things really are. LARRY broods. Mimi softens. . I'm sorry-I don't mean to sound glib. It's not always easy, deciphering what God is trying to tell you.
larry		I'll say.
mimi		But it's not something you have to figure out all by your- self. We're Jews, we have that well of tradition to draw on, to help us understand. When we're puzzled we have all the
larry		I guess.
mimi		Have you talked to Rabbi Nachtner? Silence. Arthur is climbing the hill from the lake, dripping wet. He projects:
arthur		Boy! The air out here is magnificent! Mimi, looking at LARRY, responds to his dark silence:
mimi		Why not see him? Mel Nudell has finished spreading and lighting the coals. He now comes and sits next to Mimi, draping an arm over her shoulder. She strokes his hand, still looking at LARRY.
larry		What's the rabbi gonna tell me?
mimi		If I knew I'd be the rabbi. He looks at her glumly. She laughs. . Life is beautiful, LARRY. Nobody's sick. Nobody died. You just need help remembering how to enjoy it. She rests her head against Mel's shoulder. . Where are the kids?
mel		Woods. Exploring. Uncle Arthur approaches, swim trunks plastered to his thighs, hair dripping, one hand
arthur		If somebody could bottle this air they'd make a million bucks! A white title comes up: The First Rabbi
larry		Oh-Rabbi Scott. Rabbi Scott Ginzler is the junior rabbi, a man in his twenties. Rabbi Scott Hello LARRY.
larry		I thought I was going to see Rabbi Nachtner. Rabbi Scott He was called away on an etz monim: Ruth Brynn's mother is in the hospital and she isn't doing well. Rabbi Nachtner asked me to cover for him-come on in.
larry		And she wants a Gett. A long silence. The hum of ventilation. At length:
larry		She wants a- Rabbi Scott Oh, a Gett. Uh-huh, sure.
larry		I feel like the carpet's been yanked out from under me. I don't know which end is up. I'm not even sure how to react; I'm too confused. Rabbi Scott What reasons did she give? For the rupture?
larry		She didn't give-reasons. Just that, oh, you know, things haven't been going well. Rabbi Scott And is that true?
larry		I guess. I don't know. She's usually right about these things. Rabbi Scott Mm-hm.
larry		I feel so... addled. Rabbi Scott Yes, I can see.
larry		I was hoping that... Rabbi Nachtner... Rabbi Scott That he would... yes?
larry		Well, with the benefit of his life experience... no
larry		Um... Rabbi Scott Because with the right perspective you can see Hashem, you know, reaching into the world. He is in the world, not just in shul. It souunds to me like you're looking at the world, looking at your wife, through tired eyes. It sounds like she's become a sort of... thing... a problem... a thing...
larry		Well, she's, she's seeing Sy Ableman.
larry		She's, they're planning, that's why they want the Gett. Rabbi Scott Oh. I'm sorry.
larry		It was his idea. Rabbi Scott Well, they do need a Gett to remarry in the faith. But this is life. For you too. You can't cut yourself off from the mystical or you'll be-you'll remain-completely lost. You have to see these things as expressions of God's will. You don't have to like it, of course.
larry		The boss isn't always right, but he's always the boss. Rabbi Scott Ha-ha-ha! That's right, things aren't so bad. Look at the parking lot, LARRY. Rabbi Scott gazes out, marveling. . Just look at that parking lot.
gopnik kitchen		We hear the front door being flung open and slammed shut, and in the background foyer DANNY appears, panting heavily. He gives one glance back toward the front door and then looks at his mother and sister eating soup in the foreground. His sister has a towel wrapped turbanlike around her head. She holds it with one hand to keep it from tipping off when she tilts her head down for the soup.
danny		 We eating already?
sarah		I'm going to the hole. DANNY enters the kitchen and sits at the setting across from his sister. He picks up his spoon. Some movement in SARAH's body; DANNY recoils from a kick.
danny		Ow! Cut it out!
judith		What's going on? The siblings slurp soup, neither answering. After a couple slurps: . Isn't Dad eating?
judith		He's at the Jolly Roger.
danny		Oh yeah. More eating.
larry		Don.
don		How are you, LARRY, Jesus, I am so sorry to be seeing you under these circumstances.
larry		Oh, well...
don		I always thought you and JUDY were rock solid. This is so terrible, LARRY. This is devastating.
larry		Well, the way I look at it, it's an opportunity for me to really sit down and figure things out, and, and, look at the world afresh instead of just, you know, settling for the routine, tired old way of looking at things. Don Milgram stares at him.
don		. Really?
don		Well, legally, I have to warn you, it's never easy for the husband. Unless, of course, there's some question of the wife having violated the marriage contract.
larry		Oh no, nothing like that. She's planning to marry Sy Ableman, but they-
don		Sy Ableman!
larry		Yes, but they-
don		Esther is barely cold!
larry		She passed three years ago.
don		Well, okay, still-this changes the complexion, LARRY! Sy Ableman!
larry		Not in the sense that... there hasn't been hanky-panky. To my knowledge.
don		Oh.
larry		No. I'm fairly certain this is not an issue. And in fact they, uh, Judith wants a Gett. Beat. Don stares blankly at LARRY. LARRY clears his throat. A ritual divorce.
don		Oh.
larry		So that they can remarry in the faith-
don		Uh-huh, sure, not really a legal matter. Okay. Well. My goodness. How are the children taking it?
larry		Oh, they're very... He gropes. . resilient.
don		Good. Well. On the other thing, the neighbor's property line, I've asked Solomon Schlutz to take a look. There's very little having to do with real estate that'll get by Sol.
larry		Okay. Good. How do you-I guess I'm a little worried, how do you, I have money pressures and-
don		Our fee structure? We bill by the hour. Dave Sieglestein and Solomon Schlutz bill at a hundred and ten, the associ- ates, me for instance, bill at A secretary sticks her head in.
secretary		A call for Mr. Gopnik. DANNY. At home.
don		You can take it here.
secretary		Oh-eight-oh-nine. LARRY punches a button on a row of four on the conference-room telephone.
voice		Dad?
larry		Are you all right? Are you all-is everything-
voice		F Troop is fuzzy.
larry		. What?
voice		F Troop is still fuzzy. LARRY stares.
don		Everything okay?
car		LARRY is driving, hollow-eyed, to work. After a long beat of staring, the ka-ching of a bicycle bell.
blegen hall		LARRY enters the outer office, hugging his paper-stuffed briefcase to his chest. The secretary is just crooking the phone into her shoulder.
secretary		Oh-Professor Gopnik. It's Dick Dutton again.
larry's office		He sits in and picks up the phone.
larry		Hello?
voice		Hello, Mr. Gopnik, this is Dick Dutton from the Columbia Record Club. I'm calling because it is now, what, four months and we have yet to receive your first payment.
larry		I-there's some mistake. I'm not a member of the Columbian Record Club.
voice		Sir, you are Lawrence Gopnik of 1425 Flag Avenue South?
larry		No, I live at the Jolly Roger.
voice		Excuse me?
larry		No, I-well, yes, okay.
voice		Yes you are Lawrence Gopnik?
larry		Okay.
voice		Okay means...
larry		Okay, yes, Lawrence Gopnik, yes.
voice		Okay, well, you received your twelve introductory albums and you have been receiving the monthly main selection for four months now-
larry		"The monthly main selection?" Is that a record? I didn't
voice		To receive the monthly main selection you do nothing.
larry		That's right! I haven't done anything!
voice		Yes, that's why you receive the monthly main selection. The last
larry		But I-
voice		The last one was Santana Abraxis. You-
larry		I didn't ask for Santana Abraxis!
voice		You request the main selection at the retail price by doing nothing. It is automatically mailed to you. Plus shipping and handling. You're about to-
larry		I can't afford a new record every month! I haven't asked
voice		You're about to get Cosmo's Factory, sir. The June main selection. And you haven't-
larry		Look, something is very wrong! I don't want Santana Abraxis! I've just been in a terrible auto accident! Beat.
voice		I'm sorry sir.
larry		Well-thank you. But I-
voice		Are you okay?
larry		Yes. Yes, no one was hurt.
voice		Okay. Good. Well, you had fourteen days to listen to Santana Abraxis and return it if you weren't completely satisfied. You did nothing. And now you-
larry		I didn't ask for Santana Abraxis! I didn't listen to Santana Abraxis! I didn't do anything! The secretary is sticking her head in.
secretary		Sir.
voice		Sir. Please. We can't make you listen to the record. We-
secretary		Professor Gopnik, your son. He said it's urgent.
larry		Okay, look, I have to call you back, this is, this is I'm sorry. He irritably punches a button on the bottom row of four.
danny		Dad!
larry		Did you join the Columbia Record Club?!
danny		Um...
larry		DANNY, this is completely unacceptable. I can't afford to-
danny		Okay Dad, but you gotta come home.
larry		Is it F Troop?
danny		Huh? No no. Mom's real upset.
gopnik house		LARRY enters. We can hear weeping, semi-hysterical, from somewhere in the house. SARAH's Voice .Dad?
larry		Yes? She enters.
sarah		Does this mean I can't go to the hole tonight?
larry		Does what mean-what happened?
sarah		Sy Ableman died in a car crash. DANNY's Voice
larry		What?! DANNY enters.
danny		So are you coming back home? Can you fix the aerial? The weeping, off, grows louder and more hysterical.
larry		What?!
danny		It's still, you know... Loud wailing.
black		After a beat in black, a white title: The Second Rabbi The title fades.
rabbi's office		We are close on LARRY. He sits hunched forward, hands clasped in front of him, staring at the floor, sadly shaking his head. After a long beat:
larry		It seems like she's asking an awful lot. But then-I don't know. Somebody has to pay for Sy's funeral. Rabbi Nachtner, sitting opposite, nods. Rabbi Nachtner
larry		His own estate is in probate. But why does it have to be me? Or is it wrong to complain? JUDY says it is. But I'm so strapped for cash right now-paying for the Jolly Roger, and I wrecked the car, and DANNY's bar mitzvah... I... Rabbi Nachtner Something like this-there's never a good time.
larry		I don't know where it all leaves me. Sy's death. Obviously it's not going to go back like it was. Rabbi Nachtner Mm. Would you even want that, LARRY?
larry		No, I-well yeah! Sometimes! Or-I don't know; I guess the honest answer is I don't know. What was my life before? Not what I thought it was. What does it all mean? What is Hashem trying to tell me, making me pay for Sy Ableman's funeral? Rabbi Nachtner Mm.
larry		And-did I tell you I had a car accident the same time Sy had his? The same instant, for all I know. Is Hashem telling me that Sy Ableman is me, or we are all one or something? Rabbi Nachtner How does God speak to us: it's a good question. You know Lee Sussman?
larry		DOCTOR Sussman? I think I-yeah. Rabbi Nachtner Did he ever tell you about the goy's teeth?
larry		No... I-What goy? Rabbi Nachtner So Lee is at work one day; you know he has the orthodontic practice there at Texa-Tonka.
larry		Uh-huh. Rabbi Nachtner Right next to the Gold Eagle Cleaners. We cut to:
larry		Staring at the Rabbi. He waits a good beat. He prompts:
larry		So what did you tell him? The Rabbi seems surprised by the question. Rabbi Nachtner Sussman?
larry		Yes! Rabbi Nachtner Is it. . relevant?
larry		Well-isn't that why you're telling me? Rabbi Nachtner Mm. Okay. Nachtner says, look.. . We are back in the scene, narrated by voice-over, of the Rabbi silently advising the fretful Sussman. . The teeth, we don't know. A sign from Hashem, don't know. Helping others, couldn't hurt. LARRY's voice-over question plays over Sussman asking the same thing: LARRY  It sounds like you don't know Mthing!
the rabbi		Smiling equably at LARRY. He reacts to the ejaculation with a shrug. LARRY scowls.
larry		Why even tell me the story? Rabbi Nachtner
larry		What happened to Sussman?
sussman		In his office. Working on different patients as the Rabbi resumes his voice-over. Rabbi Nachtner What would happen? Not much. He went back to work. For a while he checked every patient's teeth for new messages; didn't see any; in time, he found he'd stopped checking. Sussman, at home, chats with his wife over dinner. . These questions that are bothering you, LARRY-maybe they're like a toothache. We feel them for a while, then they go away. Sussman lies in bed sleeping, smiling, an arm thrown across his wife.
larry		Dissatisfied.
larry		I don't want it to just go away! I want an answer! Rabbi Nachtner The answer! Sure! We all want the answer! But Hashem doesn't owe us the answer, LARRY. Hashem doesn't owe us anything. The obligation runs the other way.
larry		Why does he make us feel the questions if he's not gonna give us any answers? Rabbi Nachtner smiles at LARRY for a beat.
larry		And what happened to the goy? Rabbi Nachtner's forebearing smile fades into puzzlement. Rabbi Nachtner The goy? Who cares?
voice		Sy Ableman was a serious man!
rabbi nachtner		In close-up he gazes around, weighing the effect of the words just delivered. After a long beat during which he seeks to establish eye contact with as much of his audience as possible: Rabbi Nachtner . Sy Ableman was a man devoted to his community... Wider shows Rabbi Nachtner up on the bema. He and the congregation face each other across a casket down at floor level. . to torah study... LARRY sits among the congregants, his gaze fixed on a point off.
cop 1		Arthur Gopnik? LARRY is momentarily dumb. Inside the house we can see a corner of a card table set up in the living room with food laid out on it. SARAH sits with her back to us, head wrapped by a towel-turban. Arthur, on the far side of the table, his balding head domed by a yarmul- ka, half-leans out so that he may sneak looks toward the men at the door without totally revealing himself. From somewhere down the hall come Judith's muffled sobs. . Are you Arthur Gopnik?
larry		I'm... Laurence Gopnik. Cop I Do you go by the name Arthur Gopnik?
larry		No.
cop 1		Is that Arthur Gopnik? Arthur ducks away. From inside the living room: DANNY  Dad? What's going on?
larry		Can you tell me what's going on. We're sitting shiva here.
cop 1		You're what.
larry		A religious observance. We're... bereaved. The cop standing behind gazes in over his partner's shoulder.
cop 2		Who died?
larry		My wife's um... it's a long story.
cop 1		Look. Tell Gopnik-you know, Arthur Gopnik-he's breaking the law. We're not arresting him now but next time we will. Gambling is against the law in this state. That's just the way it is. All right. Go back to your...
cop 2		Sorry, sir.
living room		A minute later. The family-except for Judith, whose weeping continues off-sits around the card table. A long beat. At length:
larry		Arthur, how could you do that to this family. On Sy's... on Sy's-
arthur		It's a victimless crime.
larry		That doesn't make it right! And you-
danny		He won a lot of money, Dad! The Mentaculus really works! LARRY's gaze swings onto his son.
larry		You knew about it?!
danny		Well, um...
arthur		They must have finked me out. They knew I could just keep on winning, so a couple weeks ago they blackballed me, and now they've-
larry		What did you do with the money you won? Silence. Arthur sneaks a look at DANNY. LARRY looks back and forth between them. . What's going on? Arthur shrugs.
sarah		Unfair!
larry		What have you been-
arthur		What's unfair is these guys saying I can't play in their card game!
sarah		Why give him the money?! You know what he spends it on?
larry		 I know about the records.
sarah		Records?! You think he buys records from Mike Fagle? Movement in DANNY's body; SARAH recoils from a kick. . Ow! Little brat!
larry		Hey! What's going on!
danny		At least I'm not saving up for a nose job!
larry		What?!
sarah		Brat!
larry		Nobody in this house is getting a nose job! You got that?!
danny		Ali! Struck by a thought he leaps up and bolts from the room.
larry		DANNY! You weren't excused! We're still talking!
sarah		What a brat.
larry		What was this card game, Arthur?
arthur		Some goys run a private game. We hear the TV go on down the hall and the theme from F Troop. I think they're Italians.
larry		DANNY, what's going on! He rises.
bedroom		LARRY enters to look down at DANNY's back. Beyond him F Troop flickers on the TV.
larry		DANNY! We're sitting Shiva!
don		She's retained Barney Silver at Tuchman, Marsh. This is a, uh--this is an aggressive firm, LARRY.
don		These are not pleasant people. Judith is free of course to retain whoever she... I take it you don't talk to her? LARRY raises his head, squinting against the light.
larry		It's hard. I think she emptied our bank account. I tried to ask her about it, very civilly.
don		Mm.
larry		She, uh...
don		Yeah, yeah you better open an account in your name only, put your paychecks in there from here on out. Til we know where we stand.
larry		Can I?
don		Oh, absolutely!
larry		That's not, um, dishonest?
don		Oh, absolutely! You, uh-
larry		I hate to say this, but I think she's also been sneaking cash out of my wallet.
don		Ouch. Well, yes, this is definitely, um, adversarial. The
larry		Just a sunburn. I've been spending a lot of time on the roof. For... perspective. He trails off and his head drops back down onto his arms. Don gives him an appraising look.
don		. Have you seen the Rabbi?
larry		 Talked to Nachtner.
don		You should talk to Minda.
larry		They told me Minda doesn't do pastoral work any more. Just.. . ceremonial.
don		Mm. Congratulates the bar mitzvah boy every week, so forth? LARRY nods miserably. . That's too bad. A very wise man, Minda. LARRY raises his head.
larry		Getting old.
don		Very old.
larry		No, me.
don		LARRY, you're fine. It's a bump in the road. Was Nachtner helpful at all? LARRY gives a helpless shrug. Don rolls his eyes. . What-did he tell you about the goy's teeth? A knock on the door. Don projects: Yeah? The door cracks open. A pipe edges in, followed by a peeking face: Solomon Schlutz. . Oh, good! Sol, come on in. Solomon Schlutz is a large man in shirtsleeves and suspenders. He has the smooth impassive face of a sphynx with a pipe clenched in its teeth. He glides into the room, a sheaf of files tucked under one arm. . Sol has been looking into the property-line issues.. . Solomon Schlutz seats himself at the conference table and starts sorting and arranging the files into three piles. . It seems that you do have a real problem with the original survey. But Sol seems to think there's some kind of nifty way for us to-well, I haven't heard it myself, I'll let Sol map it out. Solomon Schlutz continues to arrange the files, his eye occasionally lingering on a specific page. When at length he is finished he carefully justifies the edges of the closest pile, takes the pipe out of his mouth, gives LARRY a smile that seems to take some effort, and then taps the pipe in a large glass ashtray. He looks up again at LARRY, this time shocked. His stunned look on LARRY holds for a long beat. LARRY returns a bewildered look.
don		.Sol? Solomon Schlutz's face now passes from the red end of the spectrum to the purple. Solomon Schlutz Nnnnff! The pipe clatters out of his hand. The hand grabs at his own shirt front. . Glufffl... Now his head pitches back. His backflung weight and twisting body send his chair tipping over, one hand still clutching at his chest while the other frantically waves. He disappears behind the conference table and lands with a floor-shaking thump. His writhing and gurgling remain audible.
don		Sol! Sol! Don Milgram has risen to look down at his fallen colleague; now he flings open the conference room door and bellows into the office: An ambulance! Quick! Somebody call an ambulance! A
secretary		Dick Dutton. Columbia Record Club.
larry		Call back.
his office		LARRY sits in heavily behind his desk. A beat. He opens the top left desk drawer. He withdraws the bulging white envelope and opens its flap. He runs a finger over the wad of bills.
larry		I'm... fine. Arlen Finkle I'm sorry. I know you've hit a rough patch.
larry		Thank you. I'm fine. He puts the envelope in the desk drawer and closes it.
larry		Arlen, I am not an evil man! Arlen looks at him, shocked. Arlen Finkle LARRY! Of course not!
larry		I am not- Arlen Finkle We don't make moral judgments!
larry		I went to the Aster Art once. I saw Swedish Reverie. Arlen Finkle It's okay, LARRY, we don't need to know! The Tenure
larry		It wasn't even erotic! Although it was, in a way. Arlen Finkle It's all right, LARRY. Believe me. LARRY calms somewhat.
larry		. Okay. Arlen Finkle Okay. Okay. We, uh, we decide on Wednesday, so if there's anything you want to submit in support of your tenure application, we should have it by then. That's all.
larry		I haven't done anything. Arlen Finkle Uh-huh.
larry		I haven't published. Arlen Finkle Uh-huh.
larry		Are you still getting those letters? Arlen Finkle Uh-huh.
larry		Those anonymous- Arlen Finkle Yes, I know. Yes. A beat. LARRY nods.
larry		Okay. Okay. Wednesday. Arlen Finkle Okay. Don't worry. Doing nothing is not bad. Ipso facto.
larry		Sure.
classroom		We are close over LARRY's shoulder as he scribbles symbols onto the chalkboard.
larry		. and that means... so that... from which we derive... His glances back toward the class show that he is wearier, baggier-eyed, more haggard than ever. There is also something odd about his posture. He writes smaller and smaller so as to finish before hitting the right edge of the chalkboard. . and also.. which lets us... and... Wider as he finishes and straightens up, revealing that he has been stooping to write across the very bottom of the board. The equation covers every inch of the classroom-wide three-paneled chalkboard. LARRY is an off balance figure at the right edge of frame. Reverse on the class: staring. Okay? LARRY claps chalk dust from his hands. . The Uncertainty Principle. It proves we can't ever really know... what's going on. A bell sounds. The students start to shake off their stupor and rise. LARRY projects over the wallah: . So it shouldn't bother you. Not being able to figure anything out. Although you will be responsible for this on the mid-term. The thinning crowd gradually reveals one person still seated: Sy Ableman. He wears a prayer shawl and yarmulka.
larry		Well, it might be that, in, you know, in L'olam ha-bah- Sy Ableman Excuse me. Not the issue. In this world, LARRY. He nods at the chalkboard. . I'll concede that it's subtle. It's clevva. But at the end of the day, is it convincing?
larry		Well-yes it's convincing. It's a proof. It's mathematics. Sy Ableman Excuse me, LARRY. Mathematics. Is the art of the possible. LARRY's brow furrows.
larry		I don't think so. The art of the possible, that's... I can't remember... something else... Sy Ableman I'm a serious man, LARRY.
larry		I know that. So if I've got it wrong, what do I- Sy Ableman holds up one hand to silence him. Sy Ableman So simple, LARRY. See Minda.
larry		I know, I want to see Minda! I want to see Minda! They told me that oonh! Without our having seen him rise or cross the room Sy Ableman has body-slammed LARRY into the chalkboard. Now he grabs LARRY by the hair and whips his head against the equation. As he slams LARRY's head, again and again, the chalkboard chatters and the fringes on Sy's tallis dance. Sy Ableman See Minda! See Minda! I fucked your wife, LARRY! I seriously fucked her! That's what's going on! See Minda!
larry		Very close on his eyes as they open. His head is on a pillow. Dull early light. A hissing sound. LARRY looks blearily over. On the vanity table just outside the motel bathroom door sits Uncle Arthur's cyst evacuator. Its waggling hose snakes into the cracked bathroom door as the machine hisses.
mezuza		On a doorpost. A hand enters to knock. A long beat. The person knocking gives up and his footsteps start to go away just as the door opens to reveal an attractive woman the sunbathing neighbor, now wearing plaid shorts and a buttoned white blouse. Her point-of-view: LARRY, frozen halfway down the stoop, head turned back up toward the door.
woman		Mr. Gopnik.
larry		Oh. Hello, Mrs. Samsky. I knocked, and then thought you weren't here. I, uh... Mrs. Samsky's voice is soft and breathy: Mrs. Samsky It just took me a second to get to the door. I was out back. LARRY stands nodding. He seems to need prompting. Mrs. Samsky does: . Can I help you? Wanna come in?
larry		No, I- One hand on the door, she steps back. Mrs. Samsky It's cooler.
larry		Oh. Okay. I just wanted to let you know... He is entering.
inside		After the outside glare the house does indeed seem cooler. LARRY looks around the living room, dim but neat. Wavering light sifts through closed vertical blinds which drift and click over floor-vented air-conditioning. Mrs. Samsky closes the door, shutting out all sound from outside.
larry		I've noticed that Mr. Samsky isn't around, and I- Mrs. Samsky He travels.
larry		Uh-huh. Yeah, I never seem to see him, so I thought I should let you know, since you're somewhat new here, if you ever have, whatever, chores that you'd, um, or just help with something-I've decided to help others-you know, in a neighborly way... She gazes at him with the least hint of a smile and waits for the speech to dribble away to silence. In the ensuing beat, quiet except for the clicking of the blinds, she is perfectly still. Finally, only her mouth moves: Mrs. Samsky How thoughtful. LARRY shrugs off the compliment.
larry		Oh it's nothing. It's just good to know your neighbors. And to help. Help others. Although I don't care much for my neighbors on the other side, I must say. Mrs. Samsky lets another smiling silence pass before responding. Mrs. Samsky . Goys, aren't they?
larry		Mm. Very much so. Maybe it's not fair to judge; I have to admit I- Mrs. Samsky Won't you sit down?
larry		Oh! Um. Okay. Thank you. Mrs. Samsky Iced tea? I have some. She is already turning to the kitchen.
larry		Okay.. . He watches her and reacts to: The backs of her thighs. The flesh retains the broad cross-hatch of her lawn chair. She disappears into the kitchen, but calls out: Mrs. Samsky I don't see you around much, either.
larry		Yes. Actually I haven't been home a lot recently, I, uh, my wife and I are, uh, well, she's got me staying at the Jolly Roger, the little motel there on- Mrs. Samsky is reentering with two tall glasses of iced tea beaded with moisture. The click of the ice cubes joins the clicking of the blinds. Mrs. Samsky You're in the doghouse, huh? She hands him a glass as she sits on the couch next to him, not invasively close, one bare leg folded onto the couch, the other draped over it.
larry		Yeah, that's an understatement I guess, I -thank you-I,
larry		. What do you mean. Her look holds for one more beat and then she swivels and opens the drawer of an end table.
larry		That's... Marijuana? Mrs. Samsky Mm-hmm. She hands the joint over. . You'll find you'll need the iced tea. LARRY handles the bitty cigarette with trepidation.
larry		Is it. . well.. . okay...
larry		Maybe Rabbi Scott was right. Mrs. Samsky Who's Rabbi Scott?
larry		The junior rabbi. Mrs. Samsky The junior rabbi.
larry		He spoke of.. perception. All my problems are just... just a... a mere.. He trails off, listening. . Is that a siren? Mrs. Samsky No. Some people get a little paranoid when they... Holy cow... That is a siren.
outside		The Samsky's door opens and LARRY stumbles out. He stares. The police car has stopped in front of his own house next door, lights still flashing. Two cops are going up the walk with Uncle Arthur between them in handcuffs. LARRY, stunned, walks woodenly toward his house.
larry		Hey! Neither the cops nor Uncle Arthur has heard. They have rung the doorbell and now disappear inside. LARRY projects louder-
danny		Sort of. He sleeps on the couch.
larry		This is crazy! This brings the cops' look around. Uncle Arthur also turns, shamefaced, to LARRY.
cop		Does this man live here?
arthur		I didn't know what to tell them! They asked for my address.. .
larry		It's just mathematics! You can't arrest a man for mathematics!
arthur		I didn't know whether to say I lived here or at the Jolly Roger.
cop		You know this man?
arthur		I figured this would sound more... I don't know... Mrs. Samsky appears behind LARRY on the stoop.
danny		Dad, why is Uncle Arthur in handcuffs?
larry		It's all a mistake. I mean, not a mistake, a, a-
arthur		Hello, Mrs. Samsky.
larry		-a miscarriage-
cop		Does this man live here?
danny		He sleeps on the couch.
larry		Look! What did he do!
arthur		Nothing! I didn't do anything!
danny		It folds out. Dad sleeps on a cot.
larry		You can't just-
cop		Sir, we picked this man up at the North Dakota. LARRY is brought up short.
larry		The North Dakota!
arthur		But I didn't do anything!
danny		Dad, what's the North Dakota?
cop		Solicitation. Sodomy. Very serious.
larry		. The North Dakota! We hold on LARRY's shocked reaction as we hear DANNY, off:
danny		What's Sodomy, Dad?
don milgram		He wears a black armband. He sits thinking, bouncing steepled fingers against his nose.
don		What does Arthur say?
larry		He says he didn't do anything.
don		Uh-huh.
larry		He says. . . he just went in for a drink.
don		Uh-huh. Long beat. . Does Arthur drink?
larry		No.
don		Uls-huh.
larry		. He says he was confused.
don		Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Well. The North Dakota. Well. You'll need a criminal attorney.
larry		Okay. Who's-
don		Ron Meshbesher.
larry		Is he good?
don		Ron is very good. LARRY's gaze wanders. He becomes wistful.
larry		I don't understand. He goes to mixers at the Hillel House.
don		Mm. A beat. . I would call Ron Meshbesher.
larry		Is he expensive?
don		Ron is not cheap. Don focuses on LARRY. Cheerful change of subject: . DANNY's bar mitzvah is... ?
larry		This week.
don		This shabbas! Great! He nods. . It'll be okay. Try to relax, LARRY. Try to relax.
larry		Oh my God, Mrs. Samsky... Beyond her head LARRY can see the low cottage-cheese ceiling of the bedroom. Outside we can hear Gar Brandt mowing the lawn. Suddenly we hear muffled laughter and the front door opening. LARRY panics. He hisses: . Who is it? Footsteps are approaching along the hall. Mrs. Samsky doesn't react; she looks calmly down at LARRY even as the bedroom door opens behind her and CLIVE Park walks in wearing a traffic mask. LARRY is mortified: CLIVE, please! Wait outside! Mrs. Samsky blows smoke into LARRY's eyes. The screen goes black. Close on LARRY as he opens his eyes. A shadow falls across his face. His point-of-view: a wooden plank is just being slid into place over his head. The bang of hammer on nailhead. In the black:
larry		He stands looking down in low shot. Above him is cheap Johnson-Armstrong dropped ceiling.
larry		Please. I need help. I've already talked to the other rabbis. Please. Reverse shows an elderly eastern European woman seated behind a desk, looking up at
secretary		The rabbi is busy.
larry		He didn't look busy! As she starts shuffling papers:
secretary		He's thinking.
night		Sidor Belarsky comes in at the cut.
larry		Arthur... ? Arthur? Arthur is a dim mound on the next bed. His weeping continues. For no reason LARRY continues to keep his voice to a whisper: . Arthur. What's wrong? No answer. . Arthur. It'll be okay. Arthur. We'll get Ron Meshbesher. It'll be okay-
larry		Arthur! LARRY leaps from his bed, also in his underwear. He goes to the door but pauses, peering cautiously outside. Satisfied that the courtyard is deserted, he plunges into it.
courtyard		The courtyard/parking lot is hardlit by ghastly mercury vapor lights. The pool, surrounded by chain-link fence, has been drained. Its white concrete interior is cracked
arthur		It's all shit, LARRY! It's all shit!
larry		Arthur. Don't use that word.
arthur		It's all fucking shit!
larry		Arthur! Come on!
arthur		Look at everything Hashem has given you! And what do I get! I get fucking shit!
larry		Arthur. What do I have. I live at the Jolly Roger.
arthur		You've got a family. You've got a job. Hashem hasn't given me bupkes.
larry		It's not fair to blame Hashem, Arthur. Please. Sometimes -please calm down-sometimes you have to help your- self.
larry		Arthur. Please.
arthur		Hashem hasn't given me shit. Now I can't even play cards. He starts weeping again. LARRY looks around.
larry		Arthur. This isn't the right forum. Please. Not by the pool. Arthur weeps. Arthur... It's okay... It's okay...
morning		LARRY and Arthur are driving. We are looking at the two of them square through a windshield in which towering conifers stream by in reflection. It seems to be a glorious day.
larry		Is this it? Both men peer out.
arthur		I think so... yeah... there... He indicates the road ahead.
a signpost		The old-fashioned kind with wooden fingers pointing the different directions. One points toward CANADA.
boundary waters		Beautiful, wooded, remote. The car is parked at water's edge, having backed down a lane of two tracks worn through the undergrowth. LARRY and Arthur are lowering the canoe into water.
larry		Okay.. . He straightens. Arthur straightens. LARRY hugs him. .Look... They separate and LARRY pulls a white envelope from his pocket and gives it to Arthur. . This'll help you get back on your feet. Arthur looks into the envelope.
arthur		Oh my God. Where did you get this?
larry		Doesn't matter. When you-
arthur		This is a lot of money!
larry		It should get you started.
arthur		This is a lot of money! Are you sure you don't need it?
larry		Arthur, I'm fine. Come on, get in. When you're settled...
arthur		Are you sure this is okay?
larry		It's fine. It's fine... LARRY waves. Arthur waves bravely back, then turns to pick up the oars. A couple of strokes and he turns back again with a last thought. He calls:
arthur		LARRY. I'm sorry. What I said last night.
larry		I know. It's okay. A lingering look from Arthur, and then he turns back to row. A gunshot. Blood spurts from the back of Uncle Arthur's neck. He slumps forward, dead.
voice		Good shot! LARRY looks wildly around. He sees: Gar Brandt and Mitch in their camo fatigues, hard to pick out in the foliage. They are looking off toward the canoe, Mitch just lowering his rifle. Gar Brandt's look swings around, into the lens. He points at us: There's another Jew, son.
larry		Gasping awake in the motel room. He looks around. It is dawn. Arthur sits on the edge of his bed in his underwear, staring off into space, slackjawed, vacant-eyed, drained. LARRY gazes around the room, waiting for things to fall into place. Finally, blearily:
larry		Were we... out at the pool last night? Arthur, still staring off, responds in a flat, empty voice:
arthur		Yes. I'm sorry. LARRY blinks sleep away. After a beat:
larry		It's shabbas. Another beat. Arthur heaves a deep sigh.
arthur		I'll go drain my cyst.
restroom		Day. A two-urinal, two-stall men's room of old tile and yellowed fixtures. We are low. One of the stall doors is closed. Under it we see the dress shoes and dress pants of two young men standing inside. We hear a long sucking inhale. Ronnie Nudell's Voice Gimme that fucker. A loudly projected echoing male voice:
voice		Ya'amod hab'rayshit.
sanctuary		DANNY, seated in the second pew next to his parents and sister and Uncle Arthur, rises and shuffles along the row to the aisle. His eyes are wide and red-rimmed. The prelapped voice was his call to the torah. All eyes in the congregation, which fills the large sanctuary, are on him. In great echoing silence he walks to the steps on the right side of the bema and climbs. The right-side lectern is surrounded by a gaggle of old Jewish men. They busy themselves with the preparation of the pair of scrolls on the lectern, rolling them, pausing, rolling some more, muttering prayers, kissing the scrolls by means of their tsitsim. They pay DANNY no attention. DANNY takes his place centered behind the lectern. His chin comes up to the bottom of the reading platform. Men continue to mutter prayers around him. A pair of hands appear on his shoulders from behind. DANNY looks down at the strange hands. They pull him back. A foot drags a small riser out from under the lectern. Hands push DANNY up onto the riser.
voice		Nefesh echad sheichayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot... DANNY is still staring at the end of the yad against the parchment scroll. Someone's hand enters and moves the yad to a different place in the text. The voice repeats: . Nefesh echad sheichayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot... DANNY looks up from the scrolls. In the congregation Ronnie Nudell sits hunched-shouldered and squished between his parents. He returns DANNY's red-rimmed slack-jawed stare. The insistent voice: . Nefesh echad shelchayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot... DANNY looks over. From the surrounding scrum the prompter nods at him. He looks somewhat like Cantor Youssele Rosenblatt.
danny		Nefesh echad shelchayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot. .
prompter		Mm-hm. DANNY continues to boom out the torah portion. He moves the yad along the line of letters. In the congregation, LARRY and Judith watch. We hear DANNY chanting fluently and LARRY squeezes the hand Judith has laced through his arm. Juith whispers:
judith		I'm sorry that... things have been so hard for us...
larry		It's okay.
judith		Sy had so much respect for you, LARRY. He pats her hand. A beat. . He wrote letters to the tenure committee.
later		The congregation is loudly singing V'Zos Hatorah. A tallised man of late middle age
man		Jesus Christ.. .
later		DANNY stands behind the left lectern facing Rabbi Nachtner who holds a small kiddush cup out to him. Although Rabbi Nachtner seems to be addressing DANNY, he is projecting loudly.
nachtner		. taking your place as a member of our tribe. You will go and see Rabbi Minda after the service. You will cele- brate in a reception downstairs in Schanfield Hall. And then you will be a member of B'Nai Abraham and of the Nation of Israel. DANNY Gopnik, the Sisterhood makes a gift to you of this kiddush cup so that you will remember this blessed day on the next shabbas and the next, and on every shabbas of a long and fruitful life, and, until that wonderful day when you stand under the chupa, we say.. .
congregation		Amen. DANNY, still red-eyed, tries to focus. His point-of-view shows the kiddush cup large in the foreground, extended toward him by the Rabbi beaming above. His own hand rises into frame to grasp the kiddush cup. The congregation starts Adon Olam.
a door		Creaking open. The cut has snapped off the robust Adon Olam, leaving sepulchral quiet. DANNY, clutching his kiddush cup, hesitantly enters the dim study. Minda's elderly eastern European gatekeeper closes the door behind him. Minda is an old man staring at him from behind a bare desktop. His look, eyes magnified by thick glasses, is impossible to read. DANNY creeps to the chair facing the desk. He gingerly sits on the squeaking leather upholstery, self-conscious under Minda's stare. Minda breathes regularly through his mouth. It is the only sound in the room. A long beat. The two sit face to face. Minda smacks his lips a couple of times, preparing to speak. Another beat.
minda		When the truth is found. To be lies. He pauses. He clears his throat. At length: . And all the hope. Within you dies. Another beat. DANNY waits. Minda stares. He smacks his lips again. . Then what? DANNY doesn't answer. It is unclear whether the question was directed at him. Quiet.
larry's office		LARRY is at his desk sorting through mail. Arlen Finkle (off DANNY was magnificent. LARRY looks up: Arlen is leaning in his accustomed spot in the office doorway.
larry		Oh. Thank you, Arlen. Arlen Finkle Mazel tov. It was wonderful.
larry		Yes it was. Thank you. Arlen Finkle Such a time of nachas, LARRY. He's your youngest. You have to savor it.
larry		I do. I will. Arlen Finkle See you at the staff caf.
larry		Yes. Arlen shoves off to go, but hesitates. Arlen Finkle I just... I shouldn't tell you. I'm not telling you officially. The tenure candidates aren't notified til Monday.
larry		. Yes? Arlen nods. Arlen Finkle You'll be very pleased. LARRY stares at him.
larry		Thank you, Arlen. Over his back as he goes: Arlen Finkle I didn't say anything. Mazel tov.
larry's office		He fingers the invoice. Close on a printed detail: PAYABLE: and, typed underneath: Upon Receipt. Wind is whipping rain hard against the window.
larry's office		He is staring down at his desktop. Thunder. He reaches up and scratches his nose as he stares at his desk. On the desk: a ledger sheet with a list of students' names. Next to each name, a grade. LARRY drums his fingers. He picks up a pencil. He goes down to PARK, CLIVE. Next to it is an F. He waggles the pencil, eraser-end thumping the sheet. He erases the F. He enters a C. The pencil leaves frame. We hold for a beat on the new grade. The hand reenters. It puts a minus sign after the C. The hand withdraws. LARRY closes the file. Just as he does so: The phone jangles, very harsh. LARRY looks at it, frozen. He lets it ring a couple times. He reaches for it. He slowly picks it up.
larry		. Hello?
larry		. Yes?
voice		Hi, Len Shapiro.
larry		Oh. Hello Dr. Shapiro. Dr. Shapiro Listen, mazel tov on DANNY.
larry		Yes, thank you. Dr. Shapiro Listen, could you come in to discuss these X-ray results? LARRY sits frozen, phone to his ear. . Hello?
larry		Yes? Dr. Shapiro LARRY, could you come in and discuss these X-ray results? Remember the X-rays we took?
larry		. We can't discuss them on the phone? Thunder. Pattering rain.
larry		When? Dr. Shapiro Now. Now is good. I've cleared some time now.
car		We are looking through a windshield lashed by rain at LARRY, driving. His hands are clenched tight on the wheel. Wipers pump to keep up with the rain. The cars behind have their lights on. It has gotten quite dark. Passing streetlights rhythmically sweep LARRY's face, their light stippled and bent by the rain on the windows.
danny		Hey! Fagle! From behind DANNY, over his shoulder: we see a funnel cloud in the middle distance. A growing rumble. The tornado is approaching. At the first downbeat of its chorus the Jefferson Airplane song bumps up full.
****Dialogues from script :Above_the_Law.txt****

dissolve to:		2   EXT. JUNGLE - DAY Blowing through the roof of a dense jungle straight AT CAMERA, HELICOPTER ROTORS RISE to a DEAFENING PITCH. SUPER:  Viet - Cambodian Border, 1972. Jungle foliage whips in the fierce downdraft as -- 3   "HUEY" GUNSHIP with US Army markings becomes discernible. The chopper lowers toward a crude landing zone hacked out of the wilderness. We GLIMPSE Cambodian troops and several machine gun positions around the LZ. 4   EXT. JUNGLE - TWO ARMED AMERICANS - DAY watch from the edge of the landing zone. We recognize Nico and Fox, now in their twenties, dressed in the nonmilitary jungle attire that usually marks a CIA "spook."
fox		You ever see chemical interrogation before?
cut to:		12   EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT
nico		 Why don't you light a bonfire?
zagon		That's the nice thing about modern technology. You don't have to wait for results.
zagon		 You're a hard nigger, aren't you, boy? You took it from the Chinks... you took it from the French. You'll be fucked if some Yankee peckerwood's gonna start your gums flapping -- Nico watches Zagon move the knife blade closer to the prisoner.
zagon		-- Well, you're gonna chirp for me, tough guy. You're gonna sing like a choir --
fox		 Fox -- FOX Shut up, Nico.
zagon		You can disappear as easy as this slope, kid --
fox		Are you crazy?!!  What the fuck's the matter with you?!!! Nico is shaking with rage and fear. He takes several steps away from the hooch, then draws up abruptly. Nico pulls his .45 from his holster, pops the safety, starts back for the hooch -- FOX Nico! NICO I don't cap him now, he's gonna do me later.
fox		I'll cover this. Get back to the L.Z. --  -- I'll fix it! Get out! Get the fuck outa here! The CIT man calls out to the Cambodian troops, in dialect, pointing at Nico. The soldiers start toward Nico, as if to seize him. Fox, too, starts yelling to the troops in dialect, apparently countermanding the orders of the CIT men. The troops, confused, hold up for a moment.
fox		 I'll call for a chopper... get outa here!
fade to black.		FADE IN ON:
nico		I think we got a little problem here.
jackson		Eight more days, Lieutenant. You better start preparing your defense.
henderson		Baby, I'm gonna put you on retainer.
lukich		You passed the bar? I make it a point never to pass the bar. Jackson sees Nico and Sara across the yard, waves and          * starts toward them -- 39   BACK TO BRANCA AND LUIGI
jackson		Look at this little bundle.    What a cupcake!
nico		You give up being the D.A. and hurry up and find the right fella, Jax. You might have time for one of these yourself.
nico		Watanabe!   Say hey, Doc.
branca		You're a father now. Are you gonna take me up on my offer?
nico		I'm happy, Branca.    I like what I do. Branca glances seriously to the other uncles, then, with a smile, pats Nico's cheek. BRANCA Look at this face! Six-foot-four, pretty as the statue of David. And he's a cop! Branca laughs. From a distance, Watanabe watches, missing nothing. Across the porch, Lukich and several other cops observe and try to listen. BRANCA This face should be sticking up from a white shirt. It should be a banker, a businessman, someone who earns a decent living for his family! NICO We're happy. LUIGI Nickels and dimes. Your wife's a woman with class. What did she run -- a ballet school...? NICO An art gallery. BRANCA Same thing. She wants a husband who carries a briefcase, not a shoulder holster. Jackson watches Nico trying to keep his good humor. This is serious stuff, despite the light tone. Branca's eyes meet Nico's.
branca		You wanted to get shot, you got shot. You wanted to get knifed, you got knifed. You've had your fun. Basta! Enough! UNCLE GUISEPPE Let your family help you, Nico.
nico		 Uncle Gio, that kind of help I don't need. I'd rather get shot by someone I don't know. Jackson and Lukich crack up. The others follow.   For the moment, the tension is dispelled.
nico		Mrs. Z.  Is this a way to act on the day of my son's baptism? The poor woman can't meet Nico's eyes.
nico		Listen to me, Mrs. Z. Are you listening?  I have to go to work now. But I'll come by tonight. You'll be at the bakery? MRS. ZINGARO Si, Nico. NICO We'll talk, okay? We'll find a way to take care of this.
jackson		And then you're gonna come visit me in a nice, clean, air conditioned office --
nico		I gotta take a quick leak. Stay put.
nico		Come on.   Show me something. No one moves.
nico		I get it.   It's a gay bar.   Is that it?
nico		You seen the top of her head, huh? Like I seen your mother's --  She's upstairs! 4-D! Nico drags the Dude from behind the bar.     Holding him, Nico turns, glowering, to all. NICO You cocksuckers are brave enough with 14-year-old girls. 55A   INT. FLOPHOUSE HALLWAY
nico		 Get outta here. We look in the apartment.
nico		 This ain't your day, kid.
pimp		Wait, man.   It ain't like it looks --
nico		That's two years. He jerks the Pimp back, rips open a drawer.    More pills and glacene bags. NICO That's four.  ... I can get ya more --
quick cutaway to:		57   EXT. STREET OUTSIDE - JACKSON
lucy		Let him alone! He's beautiful!
nico		Not when I get through with him. Nico lifts the Pimp by the throat, pins him to the wall.
pimp		No, man, wait! I'll give you something! Something big!
lucy		Please, Nico!    Don't! PIMP It's huge! I swear it! A shipment... coming in next Tuesday -- NICO Shipment, my ass. PIMP This is square! On my mother's soul! You can't send me up -- Nico glances to Lucy. Half of him wants to tear the Pimp apart, the other half doesn't want to make the poor girl's life any more tragic. Besides, he's a good cop -- and maybe this "shipment" is on the level. PIMP I heard it from a hooker friend of mine. She's banging some big coke lawyer, he told her. I swear to Jesus!
pimp		I don't know.  That platinum chola... Carla DeCarlo... she knows. Nico tightens his grip on the Pimp's throat.
pimp		She got popped this afternoon. She's downtown. Red dress, lizard shoes --
jackson		It's okay, girl. Mama Jax is here.
jackson		 That was some leak you took. From the door of the bar, several bloodied heads peek. JACKSON Broken windows and lost pussy cats, huh. Jackson checks out her battered partner.
jackson		You're one crazy bastard, Toscani. Nico opens the rear door, helps Jackson ease Lucy in.
nico		We'll get her some clothes and a bath. I'm not bringing her home to her grandmother like this. DISSOLVE TO:
jackson		I don't get you, Toscani.  -- I know I'm not going to change the world. I can't stop the tonnage coming in, I can't fight the boys behind the desks pushing their buttons --
nico		Carla... Carla -- I just want the name of your boyfriend -- CARLA I got 200 boyfriends. The hooker, Carla DeCarlo, slaps the box away, cursing in Spanish.
carla		Pinchi cabron, cabeza colon!
jackson		 Take it easy, sister. JACKSON I ain't your goddamn sister.   We ain't got the same mother, motherfucka. Carla fires one final parting salvo of obscenities, then sags back among the women. Carla starts to cry. Jackson comforts her; Carla responds, lets herself be comforted. CUT TO: 66   EXT. DOWNTOWN - FINANCIAL DISTRICT - DAY Jackson, back in her normal daytime wear, exits a building. She gets into Nico's car.
nico		Maybe we can bust him for that. Jackson spots something, gestures subtly out window --
jackson		That's our stud.
salvano		 -- I brought you in for your muscles, Nardo, not your mouth.
nardo		 I'm sorry, boss.
salvano		Your English is getting good... You're showing it off. Showing it off on the street --
nardo		I keep quiet.    I never talk no more --
nardo		 I thought I was fucking dead.
chi chi		You were right, cabron.                            *
chi chi		We're crazy waiting for this bullshit 'shipment.' Let me waste the other fucker now.
jackson		Toscani, you're going to have me doing time.
nico		Lighten up, Jax. No one's bringing this into court.
jackson		Except against us. NICO I don't give a shit how we do it. I just wanna get there. Jackson gives Nico a dirty look, but stifles her protest.
jackson		I thought you said you were gonna protect me. Cover my butt. Be my guardian angel -- Nico hears something through the earphones.    Gestures for silence -- 80   ANGLE THROUGH OFFICE WINDOW Chi Chi listens with increased intensity to something on the phone. He starts writing it down -- 81   BACK TO NICO In unmarked car.   He's writing it down too. NICO I got the shipment.                                  * JACKSON What?    What's he saying?
nico		 '... Engine block has cleared customs. Serial number VA-748. Pick up Tuesday, 3 May as authorized.'
jackson		Salvano? NICO Jackpot.
hostess		Two for dinner?
nico		Two for drinks. They elbow up to the packed bar, standing.   Nico squints toward the rear dining room.
nico		Cheer up, partner.   I'm gonna make you famous.
jackson		You missed a few spots, boys. LUKICH I'm takin' it home t'a make kilbasa, boss.
lukich		This ain't a bust -- it's a convention. NICO Don't you like company, Luke?  That's enough, all of you! Keep this channel clear.
nico		 You stay put.                                       *
nico		 It's going down now. Move! 103   EXT. REAR OF PACKING PLANT - DAY The station wagon men heave their rear door open, the van men start to open their side door. The Lincoln is stopped at a distance. Suddenly -- 104   NICO AND LUKICH burst from the rear door of the packing plant, guns drawn. LUKICH Police! 105   QUICK CUTS - VAN AND STATION WAGON MEN grab for their weapons --
nico		 How many kilos you got in there, Skivuzo? Salvano couldn't answer if he wanted to. The other cops look at Nico with awe. Lukich whips the van door open, yanks a tarp off the cargo. 123   INT. VAN The engine block sits in a wooden shipping frame, wrapped with industrial plastic. Nico climbs into the van, rips the plastic sheeting off, grabs the wood slats of the shipping frame, tears them off. In the background, ambulances are arriving to care for the wounded cops and criminals.
nico		What kinda fuckin' high is this? CUT TO:
salvano		-- I'll tell you what this cop is. He's a fucking menace!
agent halloran		Your problem is being handled right now, Mr. Salv -- SALVANO Yeah? Well, it shoulda been handled twelve hours ago. I don't know who's running this outfit, but somebody better get his goddamn wires straight! AGENT NEELEY                           *  -- count on it, sir. Right. You'll have our full cooperation. Neeley hangs up. Glances dubiously to Halloran. Then turns     * grimly to Salvano, Chi Chi and the lawyer Abandano.
lieutenant strozah		The tapes too.
nico		 That's my Lawrence Welk collection!
lieutenant strozah		I want everything you got on this one. Reluctantly, Nico hands over the tapes.   The Lieutenant eyes the bugs and wires. LIEUTENANT STROZAH I know you don't give a shit about yourself, Toscani.  But you're gonna put Jackson's ass in a sling, too, with these illegal wires.
jackson		Bad bad.
jackson		Is that enough? Can we do something normal now -- like eat lunch?
nico		Anything you say, Jax.   How about Salvano's?
jackson		Let it be, Nico.
jackson		What... you kept his tape, too? Nico already has it in the PLAYER. We hear FRAGMENTS of the telephone tap from the body shop in Spanish and English. Jackson looks frustrated. Nico listens care- fully to what appears to be the taped PHONE CONVERSATION. NICO Poetry, ain't it? 140   EXT. REAR SALVANO'S RESTAURANT - DAY 
jackson		This is your mother's church, isn't it?
nico		Yeah. But I bet she's never seen these boys in the choir. 150    NICO'S POV
nico		Father Genarro. The priest seizes Nico's hand warmly, smiles at Jackson.
father genarro		This must be your partner in crime.  It's good you stopped by. I have to show you something. Please. The priest begins leading Nico and Jackson. Jackson keeps glancing back out the alley to see Salvano's car slowly driving by. 153   INT. CHURCH BASEMENT - DAY
father genarro		The rats are getting bigger. NICO When did this happen?
father genarro		Two nights ago. I didn't call the police.
father genarro		 It's all right, son. These are friends.
father tomassino		How do you do? Nico shakes the young priest's hand. There is a moment between them as Nico meets Tomassino's eyes, liking what he sees. The refugees are relieved, however, when Father Genarro, Nico and Jackson take their leave. 155   NICO, JACKSON AND FATHER GENARRO
father genarro		Too long. At least the kids can go to our school.
nico		Who did it, Father?
father genarro		Kids, maybe.  Maybe worse. It's not the first time. JACKSON We can have a car check by, every hour.
father genarro		No... please.    Police frighten these people.
father genarro		Tell me, Nico... When was your last confession?
nico		I'm a married man, Father.   I've got no sins to confess.
father genarro		You're a police officer, you have many sins to confess. JACKSON Amen. Nico and Jackson start off.
rosa		Father Genarro! I have you to thank for getting my son back into church!
father genarro		It's amazing what shame can accomplish.
quick dissolve to:		161   VARIOUS SHOTS
rosa		 Help the others! Help them, Nico!
cut to:		173   STATUE OF JESUS
cut back to:		174   ANGLE ON CONGREGATION
nico		 Sara, get the baby and Mama                        * outside. Nico starts for the altar where the damage is worst.
nico		Find out where they're from, why anyone would want to harm them.
nico		Just stay near a radio.   I'll find you.
nico		Sara... go down to the car; I'll                    * be with you in a minute. He hails Neeley.                                              *
nico		I need to talk to you.  What the hell is it, Toscani? Without warning, Nico grabs Neeley by both lapels, slams      * him furiously into the wall! NICO You.   That's what the hell it is! AGENT NEELEY                          * Get your goddam hands off me! Neeley tries to shake free; Nico won't let him.               *
nico		You let Salvano walk. AGENT NEELEY                          * Salvano?! Are you crazy? 
nico		I want the agent who signed for the explosives.
first girl		Fly, baby! 194   NICO
machete man		 No, hermano. Please --
nico		Who put up the money? MACHETE MAN What money?
machete man		I told ya!    No one! Nico slams him with a fierce shot to the ribs. The hood doubles over, gasping. The flower girls shriek even louder. Nico turns to the girls with a ferocious glare. NICO  Shut up! The girls instantly go silent in terror. Nico turns back to Machete Man, spins him violently face-down, jacking the punk's right arm straight out behind him. We see that Nico can break his elbow with one blow. NICO Give it to me! Nico raises his fist to strike.
machete man		Jimmy Constanza! Nico shoves the hood into the ground, tearing the hood's wallet from his trouser pocket. Nico rips the wallet a- part, seizes the kid's identification and holds it up. He grabs the punk by the hair with his free hand. Machete Man is staring up in terror, wondering what this means.
nico		If you're lying to me, I'll come and kill you right in your own fucking kitchen.
nico		Gracias, muchacho. Nico walks away.
nico		Of course I will. I've been waiting to hear from Jax. She was supposed to get back to me by now.
nico		 This better be good, Jax.
nico		 Long time, Nelson.
nico		He just wanted to make sure we got his Christmas card.
rosa		 Check that coat.
nico		 It's all a mistake, Sara -- It's                      * gonna be all right. The cops steer Nico toward the door.
nico		Where's Jackson?
cut to:		215   EXT. PHONE BOOTH ON DOWNTOWN STREET - DAWN
cut to:		216    EXT. STREET - NICO, JACKSON AND LUKICH - DAWN A mood of urgency. JACKSON -- I found the sanctuary people. 
jackson		Ready for this? One of the people killed at the church was definitely not a congregation member.
jackson		 I've been at the Tribune all night, wearing out their Xerox machine. Harrison's staff has been compiling some kind of white paper. He's due to release it next week. Nico's mind races.
nico		That's how Fox knew. JACKSON What?
nico		Luke. I  want you to go to my house.  Call Branca... my mother has the number. Get my family ready to move out. LUKICH You got it, buddy.
nico		Stay with 'em. We'll be there. LUKICH What's going on, Nico?   What happened? NICO I got a call last night. An old agency friend. He told me my family was in danger. Jax and Lukich can't put all the pieces together yet.    But if it's drugs-CIA-Senate, it's got to be heavy. LUKICH You got a weapon? Lukich knows he doesn't. He glances up and down the street, makes sure no one's watching -- then cracks the driver's door of his car. There's a bulge in the map pocket. Nico  pulls out a Sig Saur .45. LUKICH Try this on. Jackson watches Luke slip Nico a clip.                         * CUT TO:
sister bonifacia		There is rubble all over the yard, Nicola.
refugee woman		The other one.
sister bonifacia		He came alone... two weeks ago. He had papers. Papers to give to the senator.
nico		But the bomb... The bomb was planted to destroy the pulpit. SISTER BONIFACIA Father Tomassino was going to give the Mass that day.  Father Genarro talked him out of it.
refugee man		He run, mister. He go --
jackson		 You see this list? Well, I'm not done.
nico		 Just paperwork, you understand?
cut to:		219   INT. NICO'S CAR - MOVING - MORNING Nico drives, a jumble of emotions on his face.      Urgency fear, exhaustion. He's deep in thought --
nico		Over here, you sons-a-bitches! Nico's rage is superhuman. The men stare in conster- nation. One of the men has a fresh magazine half into his weapon --
nico		 Try it. Be my guest.
nico		 Sara...                                               *
nico		You'll be safe with Uncle Branca. It's gotta be this way... I'm sorry.
rosa		I know about babies. We glimpse other relatives in the hallway; Nico hands them a pair of suitcases; they hurry off -- SARA                                    *  We needed a vacation, anyway. Sara takes her suitcase, hurries out --                        *
nico		                                      * I'll give you five minutes start.    We have to do it this way. They get their suitcases into the sedan. Mama and the baby are already aboard. Sara gets into the passenger seat.       * Lukich comes around from the front, glancing around like a lookout. NICO Where's Jax?
lukich		She thinks there may be documents at some guy's apartment.
lukich		You're gonna need help. Nico grabs the pistols, starts to strap them on.
nico		Just stay with my family Nico replaces the piece of foundation, starts back up the steps.
lukich		What are you gonna do?
nico		You don't want to know. 248    EXT. ALLEY BEHIND NICO'S HOUSE
cut to:		252    EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY
nico		Keep walking --  -- I'm bucking for number one.
clerk		What can I do for you, lads? Neeley presents his ID.                                       *
clerk		Hell, that's gone. NICO When? CLERK Right away, pardner. They scooped that stuff outa here before we even got it tagged. NICO Who?    Who took it?
clerk		 We'd like to see the paperwork. The Clerk has an accordion file right under the counter. He indicates a sign-in book.
clerk		You gotta sign.
nico		Watch your step.
watanabe		So good to see you again, sir!  Come back near closing... five- thirty... we'll place your order then. Nico nods, fades like a shadow into the throng.     MUSIC DOWN, SEQUENCE ENDS --
dissolve to:		262   INT. CONVENTION CENTER - NIGHT
watanabe		Of course not. Just because you kept a few 'friendly' tribesmen from cutting my heart out and serving it up as Pad Thai? With a wink, Watanabe escorts Nico into a back area off the floor. Carpeted office dividers set off a small area, packed with super sophisticated computer equipment.
nico		The old Spook. CUT AWAY TO: 263   OMITTED & 264 265   INT. JACKSON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Jackson has the Senator's aide's papers spread before her, cataloging them with interest. The PHONE RINGS. Jackson picks it up. JACKSON  -- where... where are you?
cut back to:		266   INT. WATANABE'S COMPUTER AREA - NIGHT
watanabe		-- No way to access Covert Ops directly. But Ornstein's at Princeton, he's got a database bigger than Langley --  If I can't crack that turkey's code, it's time to hang up my rock and roll shoes -- Nico watches Watanabe work.
watanabe		-- ah, here! Here's a little trap door. Let's see if we can wriggle up into --  '69 to '76, Cambodia, Laos. Operation Phoenix. Operation Green Mountain. Operaton Northstar. This is all Vang Pao, it's all heroin -- WATANABE You friend has found his metier.
nico		Run personnel retrievals on all these operations. I want the names of every company man who was on them.
watanabe		 Central American desk. Central American desk. Central --
nico		Thirty names from secret drug operations... and two-thirds of 'em are in Central America.  All right. Run these two names: Bautista Salvano and Ramon 'Chi Chi' Testamente.
watanabe		Those street dealers you were talking about? They're not gonna be in here. Nico gives her a look.    Watanabe starts punching keys.     * 270   CLOSE - COMPUTER SCREEN Official biographies of Salvano and Chi Chi come up. WATANABE  Recruited by agency, 1975. Trained Fort Benning, counter insurgency...
nico		 ... Listen. Can this thing tap into airlines? Reservations records --
watanabe		I can get you the ball scores, too. DISSOLVE TO:
nico		Five agents   from Central American desk. All trained   assassins. All arrived in Chicago in   the last week -- and none of them has   left. Nico grabs his coat, gulps a last swallow of coffee --
nico		Thanks, Wat. You finally may have done some good for your country. WATANABE Where are you going? NICO To find a priest.
cut to:		273   EXT. CONVENTION CENTER - NIGHT
jackson		The nun phoned me. She said two men had been sneaking around the church. She sounded scared --
jackson		There's more. I got the papers from that senator's aide's apartment. Everything Harrison's been working on. It's all at my place. CUT TO:
father tomassino		I tried.   But you killed him first.                * ZAGON Who told you about our plans?                       * FATHER TOMASSINO This is from confession. I tell no one.
zagon		You wouldn't lie to me, Father?   It's a sin.
father tomassino		I know what you are. I know what beasts you are.
zagon		I want to know who you told. FATHER TOMASSINO  ... and sometimes... to the ninos... 302   NICO'S POV - HALLWAY
zagon		 -- Can we kill him? If you told anyone, about our plans to kill the senator, we cannot do it. FATHER TOMASSINO Nadie.   Nadie. Nadie.                             * 305   NICO AND LUKICH IN HALLWAY O.S. we hear another ELEVATED TRAIN APPROACHING outside. Nico kicks the apartment door in! He and Lukich burst in, guns clutched two-handed. 306   QUICK CUTS
nico		Go!   Go! -- Simultaneously FIRING back through the kicked-in door, EMPTYING his GUN.
zagon		 Get him! Finish him!
nico		 -- Had to be a hero... another fucking hero. I'm sorry Jax. He reaches for a small calendar, looks at it.
nico		-- Senator... --  -- dumb fuck... think they're gonna let you put 'em outta business -- 327A   INT. EMERGENCY ROOM CORRIDOR - NIGHT
jackson		 You call Nico's goddamn Uncle and find out if he's heard anything.
lukich		 You just shutup and take it easy, pal.
branca		Jesus Christ!
nico		The motherfuckas got Jackson. BRANCA Lukich called. She's not dead. She's gonna make it. She was wearing a vest. Nico can't believe it. In spite of it all, life comes to him. A little smile... NICO That broad didn't trust me. CUT TO: 331   EXT. BRANCA'S SAFE HOUSE - POV FROM WINDOW - NIGHT
branca		It was picked up with your mail this afternoon.
branca		Don't worry, they're booked on an early plane. They'll be out of the country tomorrow.
rosa		 Enough of your humor. Sara clings to Nico's arm, tears in her eyes. Rosa               * crosses herself. Sara begins to weep. The doctor finishes.       * There's a long awkward moment. Then:
branca		 Leave them. Leave them alone.
quick dissolve to:		338   INT. FAMILY ROOM - LATER
sara		-- You've got to do it, Nico.    You know you have to. Whatever Sara is proposing, Nico is dead set against it.
rosa		Listen to her, Nicola.  Whatever you think of him, Federico is family. He is our family. Nico makes no response.   Instead, he lifts Julian, nuzzles him tenderly.
nico		Ever notice how clean babies smell? Like nothing in the world has touched them yet.
sara		If you won't go to him, I will. NICO  Don't push me like this -- Her eyes meet his -- loving, but desperate.
sara		Branca can put us on a plane -- but where can we fly to? Tibet? The moon? There's nowhere they can't find us.
nico		You don't know what the hell you're talking about. SARA I'm talking about everything I've learned from you in the past five years.
sara		Do you know why I love you? Do you know what it is about you that I've always loved?  Pride. It's what you have inside. You don't live the way other people live. You trust what you see as right and won't let anyone or anything make you stray from it.
nico		I don't have much time, Uncle.    So I must speak plainly. Larusso listens.   Nico waits for a beat.   Then:
nico		 -- For as long as I've been old enough to think, I've hated you and hated everything you stood for. Larusso takes this in without a flicker.
nico		I was so sure that you and I were on opposite sides of the fence... and that you and your people were destroying this country -- Nico pauses, glances away across the grounds.
nico		-- The most painful realization of my life was that the people I worked for and you are not far apart.  -- And there's not much difference between what you are and what I was. Larusso studies Nico a long moment.    Then takes Nico's elbow. * * 347   OMITTED                                                         * 348   NICO AND LARUSSO
frederico larusso		You know, of course, that this Senator Harrison will never live to make his speech tomorrow.  You know, too, that as long as this man... this torturer --
nico		Kurt Zagon.
frederico larusso		-- As long as this Zagon lives, nothing I can do will guarantee your family's safety.  'These are not men, these are animals.'
frederico larusso		Thank you, Mr. Carlucci. I trust you will give my love to my niece, Rosa. NICO I will do that, Mr. Larusso.  I hope you will be well.
branca		Take care of yourself, Nicola. CUT TO:
nico		 I was thinking of a mine on the roof. Remote-triggered, when the chopper comes in. FOX Roof's wired too.   Sensors every fifteen feet. Fox's finger rests ready on the trigger.
fox		You can turn now.   Slowly.   Slooowly... Nico turns. We see Fox clearly now. His boyish features have weathered since his "spook" days in Vietnam. There is grey in his hair now: he wears an expensive suit and is alone.
fox		I figured you'd do your recon from this building.
fox		Getting a bit of a tire. NICO  Your own tailor? FOX Hong Kong.
nico		You've gone a long way. Fox motions for Nico to dump his gun; Nico complies, dropping it gently into the briefcase. Nico takes half a step toward Fox. Fox shakes his head in warning.
fox		Uh uh.  Uhhh-uh...  I know what you can do when you get too close to a man. 367    CLOSEUP - NICO                                                  * NICO                                    * I don't believe you, Fox.                             * 367A   INT. BUILDING CORRIDOR - NIGHT                                  *
fox		If I wanted to cap you, I'd have saved myself this chit-chat. Make big points for me to bring in your scalp. I'd be White House material. NICO Is that what Zagon is?    One of your basement boys?
fox		Zagon's a rancher. 4000 acres in Costa Rica. Beautiful place.
nico		Bought with what -- opium from Cambodia?
fox		And a ton a week of coke from other places. NICO Which he funnels here through Salvano. With the Company getting its cut. FOX Legal tender.
nico		Still dodging appropriations committees, eh, Nelson?
fox		That's my job, Nico. They arrive at an elevator. FOX Keep your nose in the corner. When we get out, stay five paces ahead of me. Cross down to the garage. 367B   INT. LOWER CORRIDOR Nico and Fox emerge from the elevator. Nico lowers his hands from behind his head. Fox keeps his gun out of sight as he and Nico step past. 368    ELEVATOR BANK - NIGHT
nico		The Senator couldn't be bought, could he? He was gonna blow the lid off, so you cleared Zagon to frost him --
fox		Keep walking.
nico		But the priest found out somehow and ran here. You couldn't do the Senator's number 'till you knew if the priest had talked. So Zagon flew in with his little medical bag. Only by then I was in on it -- and you thought I might recognize his handiwork.
fox		I tried to warn you, old buddy. I knew you had wiretaps. and I knew you wouldn't let 'em go. NICO Only I was too dumb to crack it. I was so busy trying to figure a code, I didn't even recognize Zagon's voice. It's all crystal clear to Nico now. NICO So we kill our own senators now. FOX Why not?   The Romans did.
nico		 Are we the Romans?
fox		We're an empire too.
fox		Would you rather spoon borscht and quote Lenin?  I'm trying to save you, asshole! I got a spot for you. Thailand, deep under, no names, no numbers --
nico		Doing what -- processing heroin?
fox		You 'consult.' You 'assist.' You send checks to your family. Zagon won't touch you, you'll be on the team --
nico		Fuck you. FOX In five years you're out, with a fat Swiss account and a GS-15 pension. Nico stares at his old friend with contempt. He sees the gun under Fox's coat, but he's too tired and too disgusted to care --
nico		You know, Fox, right now in Israel they're trying some 80-year-old camp guard for war crimes. And all around our country there are guys on Death Row for killing one person, two people. And probably they all deserve it -- He takes a step toward Fox.   Fox's hand tightens on his gun. NICO  Viet. Lao. Thai. Cambodian. Librarians, teachers, doctors... women, children... and that's just a sliver of it. Fox tries to maintain a hard face.   But his own guilty conscience is working --
nico		 We've wiped out entire fucking countries. And not one agent --
fox		 Stop right there!
nico		 WILL BE MODIFIED TO CONFORM TO LOCATION. DO NOT BUILD OR PURCHASE WITHOUT CHECKING WITH STUNT COORDINATOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTORS. STORYBOARDS AND NEW PAGES WILL BE AVAILABLE NEXT WEEK. 371   A BIG CAR                                                      * SCREECHES to a halt in front of them. Five men dismount        * swiftly. Salvano, Bad Dude, and two agent types from the       * tenement... and Zagon!                                         * Zagon and his men are forty feet from Nico and Fox, playing it cool so as not to alarm any innocent bystanders, but the bulk under their jackets is unmistakably guns.
nico		Well... well.    What a team we have here. ZAGON  We've been looking for you, Nelson.    I see you've found our friend.
nico		Thanks for the help, Fox.
fox		I didn't bring him, Nico.    I swear it! ZAGON Have you two been sharing fond memories? Reminiscing about the good old days?
fox		Stay still!  Don't fucking move!!
zagon		Bring in our friend, Nelson. Salvano's muzzle covers Fox and Nico --
zagon		Be a good boy -- 372   FOX
zagon		We've got an hour before the honorable senator.  You've got to learn to take time, smell the roses.
zagon		I've used these little beauties many times to extract information --  -- This'll be the first time I've ever used them... just for fun.
zagon		Hold him up! Pistol agent and Bad Dude lift Nico. Zagon slams him again. Again. Nico's cheekbone is broken; blood drains from his nose. Zagon aims a two-handed blow; backhands Nico, crushing the other side of his face! Zagon backs off, chest heaving. Pistol agent and Bad Dude plop Nico back in the chair, gagging, choked by the noose. Nico looks like the Viet prisoner -- the one we saw in the opening sequence. Like the prisoner, Nico takes his beating -- still conscious, still meeting Zagon's eyes with defiance.
zagon		This is where you came in, Toscani. Only, now it's where you're gonna check out. He takes off his glove, grabs the syringe. Pistol agent and Bad Dude clamp Nico's right arm down tight. Zagon injects Nico.
zagon		Fight it. Till the vessels burst in your brain. Till the arteries rupture in your heart --
zagon		That's my boy. That's what I was waiting for -- Zagon produces his famous knife. He motions Pistol agent and Bad Dude to release Nico's arms. Noose agent slackens his grip on the choke cable. Zagon moves in closer, gloating, cooing --
zagon		A fool learns from his own mistakes. But a wise man learns from the mistakes of others --  You should have killed me when you had the chance, Toscani --
lukich		 Is there a hotel doctor?    Call 911!
fade out.		FADE IN ON:
senator harrison		Detective Toscani. I wanted to personally thank you. You are making it possible for a sliver of truth to finally come out.
senator harrison		And this is Clayton Alspaugh of the fifth circuit court. NICO Your Honor. The Judge nods to his stenographer, who swiftly sets up her equipment, takes a seat. Rosa makes a face at Branca, who rises, clearing a seat for the Judge. Sara moves              * in tight beside Nico. JUDGE ALSPAUGH Are you sure you're feeling well enough? Nico glances to Sara, to the supporting faces around              * him. Lukich. Neeley. Strozah. Jackson. The others.                * NICO  If you're ready to listen, I'm ready to talk. 423   CLOSE - STENOGRAPHER'S HANDS As the Judge's VOICE begins OVER, "slating" the depo- sitions, the stenographer's fingers start moving. PULL BACK TO: 424   ANGLE FROM OUTSIDE ROOM
the end		 THIS SCRIPT WAS PREPARED BY WARNER BROS. INC. SCRIPT PROCESSING DEPARTMENT  954-4632
****Dialogues from script :Absolute_Power.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY
girl student		Don't give up.
luther		I never do.
girl student		May I?
girl student		You work with your hands, don't you?
luther		 Redhead.
red		Luther.  Your life would be a whole lot simpler if you could learn to operate a V.C.R.
luther		My only failing.
christy		 It's okay -- I told him I was sick -- anyway, he's gone -- relax...
christy		 You fucking bastard.
richmond		 You little whore --
richmond		Kill her?
burton		No choice in the matter.
burton		Jesus, Tim, what did we do?
collin		 No choice in the matter.
russell		 Go on -- tell me.
collin		Nothing to tell. He screamed.
russell		And you heard no sounds of violence 'til then?
burton		 Nothing we haven't heard before.
burton		Maybe I should call the police now.
russell		 Think... real... fucking... hard.
burton		 Probably not a good idea.
russell		 Okay -- here's what happened tonight -- poor Christy came home alone and interrupted a burglary. That sound logical?
russell		We're going to have to sanitize this place.  Alan, did you have sex with her?
richmond		... Don'... 'member...
russell		Bill, you're going to have to examine her.
burton		I'm no gynecologist.
russell		 I just made you one.
russell		I'll take that.
collin		 It's got their prints on it.
russell		 Thanks for sharing.
richmond		Gloria -- I killed her --
russell		It's all going to be fine, Alan.
richmond		... But she's dead...
russell		... I'll take care of everything just like I always do.  Gentlemen?
collin		Shit.
burton		What?
burton		Shit!
collin		Shit!
collin		 I got his license number.
russell		 -- You may have buried us! --
collin		-- relax, I got his license number, remember? --
russell		 -- you think he's going to just sit around waiting for us? -- Asshole --
collin		-- take it easy, Miss Russell --
burton		 -- everybody shut up, all right?
burton		Oh boy...
russell		 A two-way mirror.
collin		-- I better get cracking on that license number --
russell		 -- it's all we've got -- and he's got the letter opener -- blood, fingerprints -- Jesus, think what he can do --
red		Jordan beat us at the buzzer.
luther		Bad night.
luther		Kate.  Kate.
luther		Probably too late for me to take it up.
luther		The jogging.
luther		Dumb way to start this, I guess.
luther		Wanted to talk to you.
kate		About?
luther		Believe it or not, the weather.  Nights are starting to get cold.
kate		That happens this time of year.
luther		I was thinking of maybe relocating. Someplace with a kinder climate.  ... you're the only family I've got.
kate		Luther, you don't have me.
luther		Kate --
kate		-- you know what it's like being the only kid in show and tell who got to talk about visiting day?
luther		This move -- I'm talking permanent, you understand.
kate		We don't see each other anyway -- we haven't seen each other since Mom died and that's a year.  Look, you chose your life. You had that right. You were never around for me. Fine. But I have no plans to be around for you.
kate		 -- wait a minute -- you're lying about something, aren't you? --
luther		-- no --
kate		-- are you active again? -- is that why you're here now?
luther		-- no --
kate		-- I don't believe you --  -- Christ, Father, what have you done?
seth		Christy Sullivan?
medical examiner		 Wife of Walter -- most likely came home and stumbled onto a burglary --
laura simon		I wish my carpets were this clean. And I can't find a single decent                        * fingerprint.
seth		You serious, Laura?
laura simon		 It's like Mary Poppins was here.
seth		Could someone have let him in?
laura simon		Sorry, Seth, but the entire Sullivan household went to Barbados two days ago.
seth		Thank you for your support.
laura simon		Wait -- it gets worse --  -- she was killed where she is -- all the blood patterns indicate that. But she was looking toward the bed -- what in hell was she looking at?
laura simon		Looks like someone sat here -- but I couldn't find any prints.  You think Sullivan holed up in the chair and watched his wife perform?
seth		I hope not --  -- he's such a great man.
seth		 Careful digging that out.
medical examiner		Looks like he tried to strangle her.
seth		So he tried to strangle her, then went to the door and shot her from behind?
medical examiner		He also inspected her vagina.
seth		He did what?   Why?
laura simon		Maybe he couldn't remember if he fucked her.
seth		 A strong burglar with a weak mind -- obviously another open and shut case...
seth		Mr. Sullivan? -- I'm Seth Frank, senior homicide detective for Middleton County --
sandy lord		 -- my client is in no mood for conversation, sir.
walter sullivan		It's all right, Sandy --  -- you're in charge of the case?
seth		 I have to ask some questions, but it can be tomorrow.
walter sullivan		You want what, positive identification? Yes, that was my wife. Anything else?
seth		 You'd been in Barbados for two days?
walter sullivan		 I took the entire staff down -- always do this time of year.
seth		But Mrs. Sullivan didn't come.
walter sullivan		She was, had it all planned, but you know women, they change their minds. 
sandy lord		I think that's enough for today.
seth		 I have to ask about the vault.
walter sullivan		You mean the contents of the vault of course --  Really. Go to the reception -- obviously I can't make it, but I'm sure everyone will understand.
walter sullivan		I know it's not the contents --  You mean the chair. You have to ask about the chair.
seth		 Yessir, I do.
walter sullivan		But why?   Are they connected?
seth		I think someone sat in it -- and I think that someone may have been involved in the murder.  You were my father's hero, Mr. Sullivan, I promise you this won't make my highlight reel.
walter sullivan		I'd hoped I could satisfy her... but you know... she had needs and she didn't want to go behind my back... she suggested the chair... she hoped I might get to like sitting there...  I've tried for eighty years to live a decent life. I've given a billion dollars to charity. If this comes to trial, none of that will be remembered -- I'll just go out as the joke of the world.
seth		I understand, sir; I'll do what I can.
walter sullivan		 And I'll do mine.
sandy lord		Mr. President.
richmond		Take a walk with me.
richmond		Tell me about Walter -- how is he?
sandy lord		Eighty and alone, Mr. President.
richmond		He understands officially my hands are tied?
sandy lord		Mr. President, he's touched at your concern.
richmond		Any news of the killer?  Well, why isn't there? Who's in charge of the case?
sandy lord		Top man -- eight years homicide work in New York. But I understand how you feel -- it's hard to be patient.
richmond		 No one understands how I feel -- I'm supposed to have all this power but I can't help my oldest friend -- you know and I know that more than any man alive Walter Sullivan put me here -- and now when he most needs me, he must feel abandoned.
richmond		-- I'll hold a press conference -- and I'll have Walter come -- and I will embrace him before the world.
sandy lord		He'll treasure that, Mr. President. What a generous gesture. Thank you. Thank you.
richmond		 Damn tennis elbow is killing me.
richmond		 This thing's worse, Gloria. I need to see a doctor.
russell		The country would have to be informed, Mr. President.
richmond		What happened to my right to privacy?  I think she nicked a tendon.
russell		Burton says it's a flesh wound --
richmond		 -- when did you become such an expert, Bill? -- Ever been wounded? --
burton		 Yes, sir. Many times.
russell		Are you serious about that press conference, Alan?
richmond		Of course I am -- Walter's been like a father to me.
russell		Shall I bring Mrs. Richmond home for it?
richmond		I think Mrs. Richmond's mission to help the poor in Asia should not be interrupted.  We know anything yet?
russell		We checked his license plate -- he stole the car from a police impoundment lot.
richmond		We're not dealing with a fool here.  Has he initiated contact?
russell		Burton doesn't think he will.
richmond		I agree.  Sorry about my behavior -- won't happen again; think of it as a blip on the screen. And as far as I'm concerned, so is he.
russell		He could be a little more than that, Alan -- he saw.
richmond		He saw nothing -- a drunk woman who liked rough sex too much. And he's a burglar. Who's going to believe him?  After all, it's not as if he had evidence or anything...
valerie		 You always did disappear good, Luther.
luther		You mean I've got a weak face. Thanks, Val.
valerie		You're lucky is all -- some of my customers, they stand out no matter what.
valerie		How many passports you need?
luther		 Four should cover it.
valerie		 Now you'll want different looks, and matching international driver's licenses -- I'll throw in some dummy credit cards, seeing it's you. How the rugs I made you holding up?
luther		They're good. Beards and mustaches, too.
valerie		 I try to give value for money. Leaving the country permanent?
luther		It may come to that.
valerie		Matter where you've been? -- I hate doing those goddam Asian passport stamps.
luther		Europe's fine. Maybe the Caribbean for winters. When can I pick up?
valerie		Usually takes some time, but for you, I'll rush it.
luther		Thanks, Val. I've always been able to count on you.
luther		What?
valerie		I don't want to know what you're into, but leaving forever...
luther		Finish it.
valerie		I never figured you for a runner -- thirty percent of my runners kill themselves within five years.
luther		 Five years doesn't sound so bad to me just now.
seth		See if any of this makes sense.
seth		I am Christy Sullivan and I walk in and surprise a burglar.
laura		Now you're the burglar coming out of the vault and being surprised.
seth		Gold star.  I draw my gun --
laura		 -- then why do you bother to strangle her when you could just shoot?
seth		That's nothing -- why do I bother to have her strip and then put her clothes back on?
laura		There I can help you -- see, before you were a burglar you were a dry cleaner and you still love beautiful clothes.
seth		And I dress her because?
laura		She was a good customer and you didn't want her embarrassed when the police came.
seth		She had a point-21 blood alcohol level. -- she was too drunk to drive. I've checked every cab and limo company in the area and not one of them knows anything. Someone drove her home. Goddamit, who? And why haven't they come forward?
laura		Maybe whoever drove her home killed her.
seth		You saying the burglar drove her home?  I hate this case.
telephone repairman		Lieutenant? -- sorry to bother you --  I've got your phone working again, shouldn't give you any more trouble.
seth		Good service, thanks.
telephone repairman		 Part of the job.
seth		Oh yeah    -- remember that bullet hole in    the wall? Had the lab dig out the    slug -- guess what -- no slug --    why does the burglar take the time    to do that?
laura		Different from the one in her body? 
seth		 And oh, by the way, why does he -- or they -- go out the window in the first place when he -- or they -- got in by breaking a zillion- dollar security system? --
seth		 What?
cop		 A Bill Burton of the Secret Service in the parking lot.
seth		 Did I mention that I hate this case? I really truly hate this case -- you cannot imagine how much I hate it --
burton		 Bill Burton, hi --
seth		-- hi, Seth Frank --
burton		-- I know you must be going crazy -- but the boss is very interested in your progress. Maybe we can help each other.
seth		What did you have in mind?
burton		You know how close he and Sullivan are?  Here are my numbers.
burton		 Leads?
seth		Still trying to figure out what might have happened --
burton		-- I loved playing Sherlock Holmes.
seth		 You Secret Service guys do that?
burton		I was State Trooper here ten years ago before the Government got me.
seth		You're that Bill Burton.
burton		I was younger and dumber then.  Keep in touch.
walter sullivan		 The chef makes them especially for me -- I promise you they're sinful.
walter sullivan		This is a new arena for me, but from what I'm told, you have a flawless reputation, Mister McCarty -- which is why I need to employ you.
walter sullivan		I have no idea who I'm after. Until I do, you will have to wait in Washington for instructions.
walter sullivan		When I was 10 my father died -- he was a miner and lung disease killed him. I became rich at 25 and the first thing I did was purchase that mine, close it, and give every miner there fifty thousand dollars to retire on.  And, when the time comes, two million dollars a bullet.
walter sullivan		Selling sin is easy...
laura		 Who is he?
seth		Luther Whitney --  -- one of the great thieves of the world.
seth		Been going nuts with this thing, up all night and I remembered your notion how it might be two burglars, and around dawn I thought, wait, what if it wasn't two burglars but what if it was one guy trying to throw us off by making it look like two?  -- but Whitney's the only one lives in Washington.
laura		Why haven't I ever heard of him?
seth		Because he hasn't been arrested in thirty years.
laura		 This his graduation picture from Harvard?
laura		 Seth -- we can make this stick -- I'll bet you anything this is our guy -- a local? -- can't ask for more --
seth		Whitney hasn't killed anyone in 45 years.
seth		Korea.
laura		Big deal, so he's a veteran.
seth		Not just a veteran -- a wounded veteran.                                             * And I don't do war heroes...                             *
luther		 Boy, you must be smart.
seth		 Sorry?
luther		Usually takes a week for you guys to get to me.  You look just like your picture, Seth. I'm Luther Whitney.
luther		So, do you want my confession now or after coffee?
seth		 Before I send you away for life, I should probably check out your alibi.
luther		Watched the Bullets game    with Red Bransford. Prison buddy     of mine -- runs a bar -- want to    question me about the game? I'm     probably lying.
seth		You been following the case?
luther		 I love true crime --
seth		-- F.B.I. feels only a few guys could have handled something as hard as the Sullivan job.  I've got a list here; you're on it.
luther		 If only I could do stuff like that -- I'd be the star of my A.A.R.P. meetings.
seth		 Luther? Why was this so hard?
luther		You want me to help solve your case?
seth		Just looking   for insight. How would you --   scratch that -- how would one go   about it? What kind of person do   you think I should be looking for?
luther		 Older fella. Like me.
seth		 Because?
luther		Need patience. The secret is just research, research, research -- from everything I've read.
seth		Research for what?
luther		Well, from what I can tell on the tube, it's not a small house.  There had to be an architect, right? You'd be able to tell which one from public records in the library. And once you know the office, you could break in and find the plans and Xerox them, get them back before morning.
seth		Not just steal them?
luther		Seth -- breaking in isn't hard -- what's hard is breaking in so no one knows you've been there. Now, after the architect, next you'd want the contractor's office -- and the security company's office.  I wonder how those guys do it?
seth		Why go to all that trouble?
luther		Papers said he kept the money in a vault, yes?  Well, I'm guessing there was probably some secret way to open it --
seth		 -- clicker --
luther		 -- explain --
seth		-- gizmo -- looked like a V.C.R. remote --
luther		 -- must have been a lot of money inside.
seth		 Five million.
seth		Why's that funny?
luther		The way you said it -- as if you were trying to surprise me.
seth		 I was trying to surprise you.
luther		 There you go.
seth		Would the burglar use a disguise?
luther		Seth, you've got to get with the program you expect to catch this guy -- most likely it is a guy, am I right? Some kind of weird loner?
seth		Maybe like you.
luther		 But you see any face often enough, you'll start putting things together. That's why these top guys disguise themselves. I read a great article a couple of years back -- damn, I wish I could remember where -- anyway, it was about these makeup experts some of them use -- wigmakers, people like that.
seth		 Go on about the wigmakers.
luther		 -- all this excitement, you understand.
seth		 I'll be back tomorrow.
luther		Tomorrow is promised to no one.
luther		Not 'til morning?  -- I'll be by early --
luther		 Katie darling, you've gotta try real food sometime.
richmond		... it is here, at this courthouse,                  * that Christine Sullivan's killer will be tried for his crime.
luther		Turn that off, okay?
bartender		 In a sec.
richmond		As you know, I came from an impoverished family in an impoverished town -- but we lived with our doors unlocked.
richmond		We are locking our hearts to the cries of the weary, we are locking our hearts to the poor and their pain...
luther		 Put it back on.
bartender		 You said --
luther		 Do it --
luther		You -- heartless -- prick --  -- you -- fucking -- bastard --
luther		 I'm going to bring you down...
russell		He was in the building -- he took a guided tour.
russell		I've never dealt with blackmail --
burton		 -- he doesn't want money --
russell		 -- you a mind reader too?                               *
burton		 -- see? --
russell		 'I don't want money.'
luther		 This guy sure has the guts of a burglar. Wish we had him.
russell		You finished your recruiting speech? Because I'd like to know how I handle this.
burton		Like you handled the letter opener?
russell		Gee, Bill, that could be construed as criticism. Do you really want me as an enemy?
burton		Miss Russell, I should have called the police that night. But I was weak. You convinced me to stay silent. I regret that.  Know this: every time I see your face I want to rip your throat out.
russell		Fine -- you win the pissing contest --  -- what should I do?
burton		Nothing -- because he's making a terrible mistake, he thinks he has time -- he doesn't -- Seth Frank's too good. He'll bring him in.
russell		Then what?
collin		 Then I kill him.
seth		 For a tough prosecutor, you don't resemble your reputation, Miss Whitney.
seth		What would you do if I just turned around and left?
kate		Report you as an incompetent.
seth		 You're exactly like your reputation, Miss Whitney --
seth		 I'm assuming your father's a big part of you --
kate		-- what? --
seth		-- You think it's all coincidence? He's a thief and you just happen to be the toughest prosecutor in the area?
kate		 Wow -- that never crossed my mind -- you think there might be some connection? -- Like maybe I'm somehow compensating? -- I better write that down.
seth		-- Luther disappeared.
seth		I think you can help me.
kate		Lieutenant -- I don't know the man -- he was in jail when I was a kid, when he got out my mother and I went off to live by ourselves. We don't make contact. He doesn't care about me. I've seen him all of once this past year.
seth		When?
kate		Couple days ago. He said he might be going away. There. I just helped you. Can I go back to work now?
seth		 Any idea where he might have gone?
kate		 Quit wasting my time -- if he doesn't want you to find him, you're not going to find him.
seth		You saying he's left town, skipped the country, what?
kate		I'm saying you won't recognize him. I'm saying he could be just around the corner -- he always kept a safe house --
seth		 -- where? --
kate		He never said --
seth		-- Then where'd you hear this?
kate		-- my mother loved him, all right? -- Even after she left him -- even when she was dying she always talked about him -- 'If only he hadn't this,' 'if only he could have that' --
seth		And?
kate		I meet a lot of asshole cops like you -- guys who O.D.'d on Columbo --
seth		-- Lady, I may be an asshole cop but you don't know me well enough to call me one --
kate		-- There's something else, isn't there? Something you want me to do? -- But you won't say ---
kate		How long did he live here?
seth		Years.
kate		Never been.
seth		Strange place for a thief to leave a key, don't you think?
kate		 He always did that...
seth		He sure took off in a hurry. What scares a professional thief like that?
kate		 ... I used to think... sometimes I'd come home and I'd sense he'd been in my apartment, checking the fridge, shaking his head because he never thought I ate right... It's crazy but I just knew Daddy was watching over me...
seth		You can do a good thing, Kate --  -- help me bring him in. Just leave a message on his phone machine, you're worried about him.
kate		... No...
seth		It's the truth -- you are worried about him -- this isn't your normal case -- his life may be in danger -- you can save him, make the call --
kate		... He won't come...
seth		 Of course he'll come. You're all he has.
seth		 Kate, he's on the run   and he's scared and he's right   to be scared because he's going to   get caught -- you don't know the   heat on this.                *
kate		I left a message on his machine, he called back within an hour; we're meeting tomorrow afternoon.
seth		Where?
luther		I need to look really good today.
salesman		Business?  Never too late, is it?
luther		You got that right.
burton		The Boss is very grateful. Thanks.
seth		Figured he'd    like an eyewitness report of the    capture. This is our guy -- if    he's innocent, he sure took off    awful fast.
seth		 Fuck...
waiter		Miss?  What you want please?
kate		Nothing, thank you.
waiter		Got to.
kate		Pardon?
waiter		 You sit you eat please.
seth		This is not part of my brilliant master plan.
burton		Unfuckingbelievable.
kate		 I'm waiting for someone.
waiter		He must eat too, please.
kate		Oh he will, we both will -- we'll order half the menu -- but just not now --
waiter		Cheesecake gone.
kate		Thank you so much.
luther		I did not kill that woman, Kate.
kate		 Messy.
seth		I like that in a woman.
seth		Top number's local police --  I live alone, too, call anytime. Want me to get someone to spend the night?
kate		I just need some sleep.
seth		I've got surveillance outside. And I'm keeping it on 'til this is over. I've got a feeling he's going to try and contact you.
kate		You're on a hot streak, I guess.
seth		Listen, I'm sorry.
seth		Anything unusual, call me right away -- not a bother, I live alone.
kate		You said.
seth		 Feeble, huh?
kate		Anything for the road?     I've got water and water.
seth		Deal.
seth		Pelligrino would be great.  What's funny, I say it wrong?
kate		Tired is all.
seth		I don't think I've told you this, but I live alone.  Lock it behind me.
kate		 How's that?
kate		 I betrayed you, Luther. You better know that now.
kate		Why'd you come?
luther		You have to know I'm not a murderer.
kate		No, this afternoon. To the restaurant. Why'd you come then? You must have suspected something, or you wouldn't have been prepared.
luther		 My daughter wanted to see me.
luther		The robbery went fine 'til they came in. They were drunk. I hid in the vault. Sex got rough. He was going to kill Christy, but she turned the tables, was going to kill him. Two guys came in, shot her dead.
kate		The same two guys who tried for you this afternoon?
luther		Probably only one of them. I think Walter Sullivan might have hired the other.
kate		Pretty powerful enemy; good going.
luther		Not as powerful as the President of the United States.
luther		Richmond was drunk. The two guys are Secret Service. Chief of Staff Russell planned the coverup.
luther		Every word true.
kate		You're saying you're innocent of the murder? Why in the world                               * should I believe you?
luther		Because I swear on Mattie's grave.
luther		On your mother's grave, Kate -- you know I'd kill myself before I'd lie about that.
kate		 Jesus, Luther.
luther		I know.
kate		They'll kill you.
luther		I know.
kate		Can you run?
luther		I was set to. At the airport. All the money I'd ever need.
luther		But I saw that bastard using                             * Sullivan on the T.V. -- maybe I couldn't have saved that woman, Kate. But I didn't even try.  -- haven't been to each other. And it's not the time to try and explain my life --
luther		-- but I've never robbed anyone couldn't afford it and I've never stiffed a waitress.  And Alan Richmond has to pay.
kate		What can you do?
luther		Not much, maybe -- but I only went to jail when I had partners. 
luther		This is probably it; you understand that.  I was never going to tell you this, but I watched you argue a case last year -- thank God you got your brains from your mother.
kate		It's dangerous outside.
luther		It always is --  -- but I'm not going down alone...
doorman		 Want me to sign anything?
luther		 I trust you.
richmond		 You're a vision this evening, Miss Russell.
russell		Thank you, Mr. President.  And thank you, Mr. President.
richmond		 Come again?
russell		 You sent it to me this afternoon.
richmond		Well, of course.  Excuse me, all -- I am overcome with the desire to dance with my Chief of Staff. * A hand to her -- Russell, beaming, moves out onto the dance floor with him.
richmond		What is this nonsense? I'm hoping there's an explanation.
russell		 Your gift, Alan -- I was overwhelmed -- and your note was so gratifying --
richmond		 -- I sent a note?
russell		Yes, yes, you think I don't know your writing? I assumed you wanted me to wear it tonight.
richmond		It is lovely, Gloria -- and you know what else?
russell		What, Alan?
richmond		Christy Sullivan wore it the night                          * she was killed.                                             *
richmond		You realize what this means? Whitney's been heard from.
russell		It's not precisely the first time, Mr. President. * The MUSIC is BUILDING TO CLIMAX now.       Their movements become more grand.
richmond		 You've been keeping things from me?
russell		Only because you have so much on your plate, Alan; we wanted to spare you.  He sent me a Polaroid of the letter opener yesterday.
richmond		Well, now --  This will certainly make for an interesting chapter in my memoirs.
burton		 What are you doing?
collin		 Needed a pen.
burton		 -- you don't trust me? --
collin		 -- I don't answer to you, asshole --
russell		You're both assholes, now move --
richmond		 Any idea who could have forged it?
burton		I talked to Seth Frank -- apparently Whitney learned how in prison.
richmond		Very gifted man.
richmond		And are we close to stopping him?
russell		We're working round the clock.
richmond		Good to know that.
burton		He'll make a mistake.
richmond		Good to know that too.
richmond		There is one other thing you'll want to take care of.
burton		You're sure you want to do that?
richmond		 Show you love your country.
super		 Sorry, Miss Whitney, but this thing's giving us a little trouble.
seth		Where are you?
luther		I'm not staying on long enough for you to track this, just answer me.
seth		She couldn't be in better hands -- talk about catching a break, Secret Service called me. They're taking over surveillance --
super		Got it working fine, Miss Whitney.
luther		 ... Kate...?
luther		Scream. Go on. Which do you want most, for me to kill you or life in jail forever?
luther		Going to guess this wasn't to pep her up.
collin		 ... you're not going to kill me...
luther		... why do you think that...?
collin		... you could have but you didn't...
luther		That's because you didn't know your crime, prick.
luther		 -- but you fucked with blood.
collin		... mercy...
luther		I'm fresh out.
luther		... go to sleep, honey...
luther		I need one answer -- when you interviewed Walter Sullivan, did he say why Christy didn't go to Barbados?
seth		 You know who did it, don't you?
luther		So will you -- check your phones --
seth		 -- who'd tap a police officer?
walter sullivan		Is this a shortcut, Tommy?                              *
chauffeur		 I'm your replacement driver for the evening, sir. Don't worry, Tommy's fine.                                            *
walter sullivan		Very unusual -- what do I call you?
luther		Luther, sir.
walter sullivan		And are you familiar with how to get to my home, Luther?
luther		I know the way, sir -- I'm the man who robbed you --
luther		-- and you're the man who tried to have me killed --
walter sullivan		-- I'm sorry I missed -- I believe in the Old Testament, sir -- there is nothing wrong with an eye for an eye when a terrible deed has been done.  A deed such as yours.
luther		You want to believe that, don't you? -- Makes your life a lot simpler if you believe that, isn't that right?  What do you think I gain being here?
walter sullivan		Have no idea -- you going to rob me again? --
luther		I don't need your money, Mr. Sullivan. Look in your vault lately?
walter sullivan		 I'm afraid we're a little late for an attempt at leniency.
luther		Shit's coming down tonight, Mr. Sullivan, do you want to be a player or not?  Do you want to know what happened, or not? I saw. Your call.
walter sullivan		 I want to know.
luther		Are you up to hearing about it? -- Do you want to hear how he beat the shit out of her and tried to strangle her -- you have enough left for that? --
walter sullivan		 -- I could walk through fire --
luther		I was in the chair when they came in.  They were drunk -- at first he only wanted to bruise her -- she fought back, he went for the kill -- she turned the tables. Then he screamed for help.
walter sullivan		Who else was in my house?
luther		Secret Service shot her.
walter sullivan		 Nonsense.
luther		Gloria Russell handled the cover up.
walter sullivan		Stop this --
luther		-- don't you want to know who the man was?
walter sullivan		 It was you.
luther		We're too old to bullshit each other, Mr. Sullivan.
walter sullivan		 Who was it then?
luther		 You know!
luther		You fucking well do, don't shake your head at me -- when you're alone at night, when the rage takes you and you think of what you'd do to revenge her, on those nights you put a face to your enemy.
walter sullivan		 Stop the car --
luther		-- we're going all the way, Walter --
walter sullivan		-- it's too terrible.
luther		It sure is.
walter sullivan		... I know about Alan's reputation as a philanderer... but... he would never dream of betraying me... I gave him the Presidency.
walter sullivan		That's not real proof.
luther		And this?
walter sullivan		You could have stolen this.
luther		I did steal it. But that isn't my blood and those aren't my prints.
walter sullivan		 I did love her, you know.
walter sullivan		Is he working late? I haven't an appointment but I'd like to see him if I might.
guard		You don't need an appointment, Mr. Sullivan.
kate		... you're still here...?
luther		Haven't budged.
kate		 ... was that Seth...?
luther		He was just checking in. When you're up to it, he said we might come over for dinner. He                                     * mentioned --                                                 *
kate		 I know, he lives alone --                                    *
luther		 Watch it now.
kate		... you don't have to fuss...
luther		You were forever catching colds.
kate		... am I going to be all right?....
luther		 We'll be fine.
****Dialogues from script :Abyss.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Ace_Ventura__Pet_Detective.txt****

ace ventura		PET DETECTIVE Written by Jack Bernstein Tom Shadyac Jim Carrey EXT. STREET - DAY A UPS Man with a big pot belly is walking down the street, whistling and carelessly tossing a package in the air. We hear the sound of broken glass in the box. He passes a professional woman. UPS MAN Good morning, UPS! He tosses the box behind his back like a basketball, then acknowledges another passerby. UPS MAN UPS, good to see you! He takes a couple of steps, then flings the package incredibly high into the air, spins completely around and expertly drops to one knee and catches the box. A Hispanic man passes. UPS MAN Buenos dias. Uo Pay eSsay. EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY The UPS Man dodges a couple of black kids as though playing basketball. He runs up the front steps of the building. He reaches out to open the front door and inadvertently flings the package behind him and back down the steps. He goes back, retrieves the package, then enters the building. INT. LOBBY - DAY Several people stand in the elevator. The UPS Man just makes it, but the door closes on the package... REPEATEDLY. He feigns embarrassment. INT. 3RD FLOOR - DAY ELEVATOR DOORS OPEN. The UPS Man throws the package out onto the floor and starts kicking it down the hall like a soccer player. With one last big kick the parcel lands in front of APARTMENT 3B. He picks it up and knocks on the door. We hear a small dog barking. GRUFF MAN 
****Dialogues from script :Adaptation.txt****

british narrator		As natural selection works solely by and for the good of each being, all corporeal and mental endowments will tend to progress towards perfection.
british narrator		It is interesting to contemplate an entangled bank, clothed with many plants of many kinds, with birds singing...
russell		Laroche is asleep at the wheel.
randy		Crazy White Man is now Drowsy White Man.
orlean		Two years ago I went to Florida to meet Laroche after reading a small article about a white man and three Seminole men arrested with rare orchids they'd stolen out of a place called the...
tony		We got a Seminole, or Seminoles, in the swamp. I'm on Janes Scenic Drive just east of Logging Road Twelve. I repeat, Indians in the swamp.
radio voice		I don't know what you want me to say.
tony		Barry, Indians do not go on swamp walks. If there are Indians in the swamp, they are in there for a reason.
valerie		We think you're just great.
kaufman		 Oh, thank you.
valerie		And we're thrilled you're interested.
kaufman		Oh, thanks, wow. That's nice to hear.
valerie		You have a really unique voice.
kaufman		Well, thanks. That's... I appreciate that.
valerie		Very talented. Really.
kaufman		Thanks.   Thank you.   Thanks.
valerie		 So --
kaufman		Sort of hot in here.
valerie		 Yeah, it is a bit. So, why don't you tell me your thoughts on this crazy little project of ours.
kaufman		First, I think it's a great book.
valerie		Laroche is a fun character, isn't he?
kaufman		And Orlean makes orchids so fascinating. Plus her musings on Florida, orchid poaching. Indians. Great, sprawling New Yorker stuff. I'd want to remain true to that, let the movie exist rather than be artificially plot driven.
valerie		Okay, great, great. I guess I'm not exactly sure what that means.
kaufman		Oh. Well... I'm not sure exactly yet either. So... y'know, it's...
valerie		Oh.    Okay.     Great.   So, um, what --
kaufman		It's just, I don't want to compromise by making it a Hollywood product. An orchid heist movie. Or changing the orchids into poppies and turning it into a movie about drug running. Y'know?
valerie		Oh, of course. We agree.        Definitely.
kaufman		Or cramming in sex, or car chases, or guns. Or characters learning profound life lessons. Or characters growing or characters changing or characters learning to like each other or characters overcoming obstacles to succeed in the end. Y'know? Movie shit.
valerie		See, we thought maybe Susan Orlean and Laroche could fall in love during the course of --
kaufman		Alienated journalist writes about passionate backwoods guy and he teaches her to love. I mean, it didn't happen, it wouldn't happen. It's Hollywood.
kaufman		So anyway I just wanted to stop by to congratulate you on your promotion.
margaret		Well, thanks again.   It's all so stupid.
kaufman		I think it's great. Your photo in the trades and everything. Pretty cool.
margaret		Anyway.    Yeah. So what's up with you?
kaufman		I'm considering jobs. Mostly crap. There's one you might like, about flowers.
margaret		Flowers?   Really? What is it?
kaufman		They want me to do an adaptation of a book called The Orchid Thief.
margaret		Oh my God! You're kidding?    I read that! I loved that book!
kaufman		I loved the book.
margaret		Oh, Charlie, orchids are the most amazing flowers. So complex.
kaufman		I know.   They're really great.
margaret		You should take this job. Doesn't it sound exciting, to immerse yourself in a real subject and learn everything about it? Blake wrote about seeing heaven in a wild flower. And after you learn all this stuff, you can teach me!
kaufman		 That'd be fun.
margaret		God, they're such beautiful flowers.    And so sexy. Y'know?  Did you know that orchid means --
kaufman		Testicle.     I just read that.
margaret		 Testicle! Can you believe it!
laroche		Pseudemys floridana. Did you fellas know you fellas believe the world rests on the back of a turtle? Not you fellas specifically. Although, maybe you fellas specifically. That I can't speak to.
kaufman		...plus I love the idea of learning all about orchids. I really admire those guys who know everything about ants or fungus or whatever. I'd like to be more like that. See, I tend to write self- involved, self-loathing... even masturbatory stuff. VALERIE And it's wonderful, by the way.
kaufman		Thanks. That's nice to hear. But I need to challenge myself as a writer. I've arrived at an age where I want to think about the world in a different way.
valerie		Adapting someone else's work is certainly an opportunity to think differently.
kaufman		Yes. And I welcome the challenge of taking a small subject, like orchids, something that would never draw people into a theater and making that fascinating. I want to show people heaven in a wildflower. As Blake wrote.
boy		Any one at all, ma?
mother		 A wonderful choice! And spiritually significant! Did you know that Native Americans believe the whole world rests on the back of a turtle?
boy		Cool!   I can't wait to tell the guys.
margaret		To a fucking awesome assignment, man.
kaufman		Hey, I'm going to an orchid show Sunday? For research? Maybe you'll come?
margaret		Absolutely. I think David, this guy I'm seeing, would enjoy it, too. He's a real naturalist. Okay if he comes along?
kaufman		 Yeah, of course. Sure.
margaret		He wants to meet you anyway.     All I do is tell him how great you are.
kaufman		Oh, thanks. That's nice to hear.
margaret		You'll like him. He's so honest and smart. It's rare to find someone in this town who thinks about things other than this fucking business, y'know?
kaufman		Yeah.     That's great.   He sounds great.
margaret		Like the other day we were in bed discussing Hegel. Hegel! In bed! It was fucking amazing. Have you read much?
kaufman		Y'know, a long time ago.   A bit.   Y'know.
margaret		Well, anyway, David and I were discussing his Philosophy of History and I was...
kaufman		Yeah.
margaret		... that nature doesn't exist historically, but rather cyclically. 
radio voice		How's that Injun round-up going, Tony?
tony		Fuck you, Barry, you fuckin'...
tony		Morning. May I ask what you gentlemen have in those pillowcases?
laroche		Yes, sir, you absolutely may.
tony		Okay, I'm asking then.
laroche		Oh, Okay then! Let's see...  Five kinds of bromeliad, one peperomia, nine orchid varieties. About a hundred and thirty plants all told, which my colleagues have removed from the swamp.
tony		You're aware that it's illegal to remove plants or animals from state owned land?
laroche		And don't forget these plants are all endangered, sir. Every one of them.
tony		Exactly. Well, that's exactly the issue. This is a state preserve.
laroche		Yes, sir, it is.  Oh, and my colleagues are all Seminole Indians. Did I mention that? You're familiar, I'm sure, with the State of Florida v. James E. Billie. Tony nods, even though he has no idea.
tony		But --
laroche		Not to mention the failed attempts on three separate occasions to prosecute Seminoles for poaching palm fronds, which, I believe, they use to thatch the roofs of their traditional chickee huts.
russell		He's right. That's exactly what we use them for. Chickee huts.
randy		Yeah.
vinson		Yeah.
russell		Yeah.
tony		Yeah, but I don't... I can't let you fellas go yet. Just hold on while I...  Hey, Barry, can I get some help? Barry?
orlean		Nothing in Florida seems hard or permanent. The developed places are just little clearings in the jungle, but the jungle is unstoppably fertile, everything is always growing or expanding. At the same time, the wilderness disappears before your eyes.
donald		Did you open your present from mom yet?
kaufman		What's with you?
donald		My back.
kaufman		A job is a plan. Is your plan a job?
donald		 I'm gonna be a screenwriter!   Like you!
kaufman		 Screenwriting seminars are bullshit.
kaufman		Donald, don't say "industry."
donald		I'm sorry, I forgot. Charles, this guy knows screenwriting. People from all over come to study his method. I'll pay you back, man. As soon as I sell --
kaufman		Let me explain something to you.
donald		Yeah, okay.
kaufman		Anybody who says he's got "the answer" is going to attract desperate people. Be it in the world of religion --
donald		 Okay, go ahead. Sorry. Okay. Go.
kaufman		There are no rules to follow, Donald, and anybody who says there are, is just --
donald		Not rules, principles. McKee writes: "A rule says, you must do it this way.   A principle says, this works... and has through all remembered time."
kaufman		The script I'm starting, it's about flowers. No one's ever done a movie about flowers before. So, there're no guidelines, and that's good because --
donald		What about Flowers for Algernon?
kaufman		That's not about flowers.    And it's not a movie.
donald		Oh, okay, I never saw it.    Go ahead.
kaufman		My point is, those teachers are dangerous if your goal is to do something new. And a writer should always have that goal. Writing is a journey into the unknown. It's not building a model airplane.
donald		McKee is a former Fulbright scholar. Are you a former Fulbright scholar, Charles?
boy		Turtles are of the order Testudine!
mother		Really?    Testudine?
boy		Yeah. And they're found on every continent! Except Antarptica!
mother		Antarctica. Every continent, huh?
boy		Uh-huh. The turtle shell has remained unchanged for two hundred million years! And there's all different kinds, Pelusio gabonensis, Phyrnops rufipes, Chitra indica, Dermochelys coriacea coriacea... EXT. SWAMP - LATE MORNING
laroche		... and what we have here, my friend, is ... thirteen Encyclia Cochleata... four Encyclia Tampensis -- MIKE OWEN I'm sorry, Encyclia what?
laroche		 Okay, let's see, twenty-two Epidendrum Nocturnum. A very good haul. Two Catopsi Floribunda. Three Polyrrhiza Lindenii, the ghost orchid. What I really came for. These sweeties grow nowhere in the U.S. except in your swamp.
mike owen		That true? Boy, you really know your plants, Mr. Laroche.
laroche		Yeah. I do. I'm one of the world's foremost experts. But that'll all be revealed at the hearing.
kaufman		Maybe you should watch what you eat, Donald. Did you ever consider maybe you're a bit fat? Does it ever occur to you, you kind of represent me in the world? That people look at you and think, he's Charlie's twin, therefore that's what Charlie must look like?
donald		By the way, mom's paying for the seminar.
kaufman		Did you even hear what I said?
donald		Yeah. Anyway. I pitched mom my screenplay --
kaufman		Jesus, don't say "pitch."
donald		Sorry. Anyway, she loved my... telling of my story to her. She said it's like "Silence of the Lambs" meets "Psycho."
kaufman		Hey, maybe you and mom could collaborate. I hear she's really good with structure.
donald		You think you're so superior, Charles. Well, I'm really gonna write this. And you'll see. And, and... you suck, okay?
orlean		Florida is a landscape of transition and mutation, a hybrid of unruliness and orderliness, nature and artifice.
lerner		Finally, Mr. Laroche, what is your experience in the area of horticulture?
laroche		Okay, I've been a professional horticulturist for twelve years. I've owned a plant nursery of my own which was destroyed by the hurricane. I'm a professional plant lecturer. I've given at least sixty lectures on the cultivation of plants. I'm a published author, both in magazine and book form. I have extensive experience with orchids, and the asexual micropropagation of orchids under aseptic cultures.   This is laboratory work, not at all like your nursery work.  I'm probably the smartest person I know.
lerner		Thank you.
laroche		You're very welcome.
kaufman		What?!
donald		Look, you wanna hear my pitch, or what?
kaufman		Go away.    God damn it.
donald		 Y'know, I'm just trying to do something.
kaufman		 It's a little obvious, don't you think?
donald		Okay, but there's a twist. See, we find out the killer suffers from multiple personality disorder. Okay? See, he's really also the cop and the girl. All of them. It's all him! Isn't that crazy?
kaufman		Look, the only idea more overused than serial killers, is multiple personality. On top of that you explore the notion that cop and criminal are really two aspects of the same person. See every cop movie ever made for other examples of this.
donald		Mom called it psychologically taut.
kaufman		The other thing is, there's no way to write this. Did you consider that? I mean, how exactly would you show a character holding himself hostage?
donald		Trick photography?
kaufman		Okay, that's not what I'm asking. What I'm asking is in the reality of this movie, if there's only one character, right?... Okay? How could you... What exactly would the scene... How...
laroche		They're gonna fucking crucify me.
baxley		I'll go into the Fakahatchee with a chainsaw. I swear to God.
lerner		Buster, for crying out loud, I reminded her the Indians used to own Fakahatchee. Look, we'll deal with all this at trial.
orlean		Mr. Laroche?
laroche		I'm familiar with the New Yorker. The New Yorker, yes, the New Yorker. Right? ORLEAN Right. So I was interested in doing a piece about your situation down here.
laroche		Yeah? Put this in: I don't care what goes on here. I'm right, and I'll take this all the way to the Supreme Court. That judge can screw herself.
alice		So what looks good today?
kaufman		Um. Hi. Thank you. The key lime pie, please. A small slice. I'm watching my... And a coffee, please. Skim milk.
alice		 Orchids! I absolutely love orchids.
kaufman		Yes.   They're really great.
alice		So, I'll be right back with your pie.
alice		 I absolutely love orchids.
orlean		 A few days after the hearing, Laroche took me to an orchid show in Miami.
laroche		I want you to know this van is a piece of shit. When I hit the jackpot, I'll buy myself an awesome car, maybe an Aurora.
laroche		The thing you gotta know is my whole life is looking for a goddamn profitable plant. And that's the ghost.
orlean		Why the ghost orchid?
laroche		The sucker's rare. Collectors covet what is not available. I'm the only one in the world who knows how to cultivate it.
donald		Cool.
kaufman		What do you want, Donald?
donald		Nothing. I just read about that Swamp Ape that supposedly lives in the swamp? Like bigfoot? You should put that in your script, like, killing people or something. That'd be very, very cool.
kaufman		Why are you in here now?
donald		Nothing, I was just... Oh, one thing, I need a cool way to kill people. Don't worry! For my script! Ha ha!
kaufman		Um, okay, killer's a literature professor who cuts off little chunks of his victims' bodies until they die. He'd be known in the tabloids as "The Deconstructionist."
donald		That's kinda good.   I like that.
kaufman		See, I was kidding, Donald.
donald		Oh, okay. Sorry. You got me! Heh-heh. Do you mind if I use it, though?
mother		 For certain is death for the born/And certain is birth for the dead/Therefore over the inevitable/Thou shouldst not grieve. Sweet, sweet Diane.
boy		Mom, there's something I feel I have to do. I don't know how to do this, but I feel in my stomach that I have to.
mother		What do you have to do, honey?
boy		Collect one of every turtle in the world.  I don't think my life is worth living if I can't do this.
mother		Well, we'd better get started, huh, baby?
orlean		Wow, that's some story. So how many turtles did you end up collecting?
laroche		 Oh, I lost interest right after that.
orlean		Oh.
laroche		I dropped turtles when I fell in love with Ice Age fossils. Learned everything about them. Collected the shit out of 'em. Fossils were the only thing made any sense to me in this fucking world. Y'know?
orlean		Okay, now what is lap --
laroche		Ditched lapidary for resilvering old mirrors. Did that with my mom for a while. We had the largest collection of 19th Century Dutch mirrors on the planet. Perhaps you read about us. Mirror World October '88? I have a copy somewhere...
orlean		So, did you ever miss the turtles? The only thing that made you ten year old life worth living?
laroche		I'll tell you a story. I once fell deeply, profoundly in love with tropical fish. I had sixty goddamn fish tanks in my house. I'd skin-dive to find just the right ones. Anisotremus virginicus, Holacanthus ciliaris, Chaetodon capistratus. You name it. Then one day I say, fuck fish. I renounce fish. 
orlean		 But why?
laroche		 Done with fish.
therapist		So --
kaufman		I'm still obsessed with that girl.
therapist		The Burger King girl? Dimples and sparkly eyes?
kaufman		California Pizza Kitchen.
therapist		Oh.    Red hair and nice?   Likes orchids?
kaufman		Yeah. She's really nice. I feel pretty certain she likes me maybe.
therapist		So do you think you'll talk to this one?
kaufman		Hi!
alice		Hey!    Some key lime pie for ya today?
kaufman		 Okay, yeah! That sounds great!     Yeah!
alice		I'll pick you out an extra large piece. Preferred customer.
kaufman		Thank you.     That's really sweet of you.
alice		Still reading about orchids, I hope.
kaufman		Yes, I am, in fact!    Beautiful flowers.
alice		A friend of mine has a pretty little pink one, grows right on a tree branch.
kaufman		That's what's called an epiphyte.
alice		 Right! Boy, you know your stuff, huh?
kaufman		Not really. I'm just learning. Epiphytes grow on trees, but they're not parasites. They get all their nourishment from the air and rain.
alice		Well, I'm impressed.    That's great.
kaufman		There are more than thirty thousand kinds of orchids in the world.
alice		Wow, that's a lot, huh? Okay, then, so I'll be right back with a nice big slice of key lime pie for my orchid expert.
kaufman		But, so, anyway, I was also wondering...
alice		Oh, um, well --
kaufman		I'm sorry.     I apologize.   I'm sorry.
alice		 So I'll be right back with your pie then.
orlean		There are more than thirty thousand known orchid species. One species looks like a German shepherd...
teenaged laroche		Encyclia tempensis. The butterfly. Laroche sets up the tripod, focuses on the flower.    His mother almost cries at the flower's beauty.
mother		"You will find something more in woods than in books. Trees and stones will teach you that which you can never learn from masters." Saint Bernard said that.
teenaged laroche		That's pretty, ma.
mother		Diane would've loved this flower, Johnny.
teenaged laroche		Maybe somehow she can see it.    Y'know?
mother		 So... after this one how many, honey?
teenaged laroche		Only one hundred and seventeen more.
mother		And you have to have a photo of every single type of orchid in Florida?
teenaged laroche		I have to, ma. You know that.
kaufman		I'm successful, right? I mean, I could say to a woman, I'm a screenwriter and she'd look at me differently. I could get laid. But I want someone to like me. For me. Y'know?    The way I like them. The way I'd do anything for that woman walking down the street. A million women walking down the street. I don't need to know what their jobs are. No one will ever love me like that. Like I love almost every woman I see.
laroche		Once you get the sickness, it takes over your life. I started out just photographing 'em. Now look at me.  It'll happen to you. You'll see.
orlean		I don't think so.     I'm not prone to --
laroche		Angraecum sesquipedale! Beauty! God! Darwin wrote about this one. Charles Darwin? Evolution guy? Hello?
orlean		 I know who Darwin is.
kaufman		Okay, opening of movie. Four billion years ago. Life has not begun. Endless, barren terrain. Silence. Silence.
laroche		See that nectary all the way down there? Darwin hypothesized a moth with a nose twelve inches long to pollinate it. Everyone thought he was a loon. Then, sure enough, they found this moth with a twelve inch proboscis -- proboscis means nose, by the way -- and --
orlean		I know what proboscis means.
laroche		Every one of these flowers has a specific relationship with the insect that pollinates it. There's an orchid that looks exactly like this particular insect. So the bug humps the flower and gets covered with its pollen. Thusly...
orlean		I get it.
laroche		That's called pseudo-copulation. These flowers are smart! You gotta fall in love with them. Once you learn anything about orchids, you'll devote your life to learning everything about them.
orlean		I wanted to want something as much as people wanted these plants but it isn't part of my constitution.
donald		McKee is a genius! And hilarious! He just comes up with these great jokes, and everyone laughs! But he's serious, too. You'd love him. He's all for originality, just like you! But he says, we have to realize we all write in a genre, so we must find originality within that genre. See, it turns out there hasn't been a new genre since Fellini invented the mockumentary!
kaufman		 You and I share the same DNA. Is there anything more lonely than that?
husband		You want to do something tonight?
orlean		I should work. I've got stuff...
laroche		 Asclepiadaceae. From thirty yards.   Yes.
laroche		 But, anyway, it was a godsend.
laroche		I consider the broken back -- in three places, by the way. I have x-rays --  -- a stroke of goddamn luck. I got disability, married the sweetest woman in the world. And me and my lovely new wife -- my now ex-wife, the bitch -- got to open our nursery.
laroche		People started coming out of the woodwork, to ask me stuff, to admire my plants, to admire me.
laroche		Catasetum tenebrosum. From Peru. It's neat 'cause its dimorphic, which means...
laroche		Henry! Look at that Dracula vampira! It's gorgeous, man.
laroche		Cool.
laroche		Bromeliad Tree. Hey, Dora! Good, good. Well, sure, you gotta watch the temperature. Don't want an odontoglossum above seventy-five. Uh-huh, that should be fine. Yeah, damp it down. Oh, I'm doing well. She's fine, too. Sure...
laroche		I believe some folks'd call me up to talk and just talk because they were lonely.
kaufman		I don't know how to adapt this. I should've just stuck with my own stuff. I don't know why I thought I could --
jerry		See her?   I fucked her up the ass.
jerry		Just kidding. Hey, maybe I can help. What's the problem, buddy?
kaufman		It's about flowers.
jerry		It's not only about flowers. It's got that crazy plant nut guy. He's funny, right?
kaufman		"There is not nearly enough of him to fill a book," blah blah blah, so Orlean "digresses in long passes" blah blah blah "no narrative really unites these passages." Blah blah blah blah blah. 
jerry		Oh man.   I'd fuck her up the ass.
kaufman		There's no story. The book has no story.
jerry		So make one up. The book's a jumping off point. No one in town can make up a crazy story like you. You're the king.
kaufman		I didn't want to do that this time. It's someone else's material. I have a responsibility... Anyway, I wanted to grow as a writer, do something profound and simple. Show people how amazing flowers are.
jerry		Are they amazing?
kaufman		I don't know. I think they are.
jerry		Look, what I tell a lot of guys is pick another film and use it as a model. I always thought this one could be like Apocalypse Now. The journalist spends the whole movie searching for the crazy plant nut guy -- what's his name?
kaufman		John Laroche.
jerry		She has to travel deep into the darkest swamps to find the mysterious "Laroche."
kaufman		I need you to get me out of this.
jerry		Charlie, at the end of the day, I think it would be a terrible career move.
laroche		The nursery was going well, but sometimes bad things happen. Darkness descends.
laroche		Sure you don't want to come, dad?
uncle jim		Nursery business good, Johnny?
laroche		Everything's good, Uncle Jim. This last year's been a dream, I'm telling you. We're finally pulling out of this debt.
mother		Amen, honey. Praise Allah, Buddha, Vishnu. And all the rest of 'em.
laroche		She divorced me soon after she regained consciousness. Then the hurricane destroyed my greenhouse. Everything. I knew it would break my heart to start another nursery, so when the Seminoles wanted a white guy, an expert, to get their nursery going, I took it.
laroche		But I wasn't gonna give them a conventional little potted-plant place. So I came up with the "ghost" plan.   I was gonna give them something amazing.
kaufman		... see, Laroche researched it and found that Indians have the legal right to take endangered plants off state lands.
woman		What an amazing opening! So then it's a courtroom drama. A Few Good Men! And all those Indian rights issues are so complex. There are valid arguments on both sides. I mean we took their land! We gave them smallpox!
kaufman		Well, actually, there wasn't much of a trial. Florida got 'em on a technicality, about cutting down non- endangered trees. Even the Indians aren't allowed to do that. They all plead no contest. Laroche got fined five hundred bucks and banned from the Fakahatchee for six months.
woman		Oh, wow.      So, like, then what happens?
kaufman		Nothing much. That's what I like. I mean, most people's lives don't include a lot of drama and I wanted to sort of be compelling without having to resort to big, um... Y'know what I mean?
woman		 Absolutely. I absolutely do.
kaufman		It's, like, Blake talked about seeing the world in a grain of sand and heaven in a wild flower. Y'know? Or like Hegel?
kaufman		Oh, hi.    Hi. Hey!   Hi!
kaufman		Yeah, me too.
kaufman		It's good. It's complicated what I'm trying to do, but it's going very well.
orlean		Hello, John? It's Susan.
orlean		So I was thinking it'd be good for the article for me to go into the Fakahatchee to see a ghost. Would you take me?
kaufman		 Travelling into the Fakahatchee, Donald, is a perfect metaphor for writing. I'm stepping into the confusion of the unknown. I'm taking the big risk here.
kaufman		It's dark, dangerous, as dense as steel wool. I don't know if I'll come out alive, but if I do, I'll have something true to give the world. That's the difference between writing and aping some moron's "principles."
donald		Hey, Charles, I'm thinking of putting a song in. Y'know like when characters sing pop songs in their pajamas and dance around. I thought it might be a nice way to break the tension. So, try to think of a song about split personality...
orlean		You would have to want something very badly...
kaufman		Hey!    How was Denver?
stewardess		Oh, God, sweetie, I'm so glad to be home.
orlean		The swamp's darkness and denseness can rattle your nerves. A sailor on a pluma- collecting expedition wrote in his diary:
orlean		The swampy part of the Fakahatchee is hot and wet and buggy and full of cottonmouth snakes and diamond back rattlers and...
mike owen		Charlie?
kaufman		 Yes. Hi.
mike owen		So the whole ecosystem is six thousand years old. Five to six thousand years old. About that. Five or six.
kaufman		Okay.
mike owen		Now the Fakahatchee is the largest of all the cyrpess strands, probably in the world. I don't know of any cypress strand bigger. It's about twenty miles long, or nineteen, nineteen to twenty, nineteen... and right here it's about five miles wide, four and a half, five. So, again, it's twenty miles long, three to five miles wide. And over here --
mike owen		The oldest carbon dating they've done on any of the peat out here is fifty-seven hundred years. That's with carbon-14. 
kaufman		Why isn't it wet? Orlean wrote about wading through black, corrosive water. She said it was the scariest experience of her life. And when I spoke to you on the phone, you said wear heavy boots, long pants and...
mike owen		There's usually water. We've been going through a bit of a drought. Say, have you seen that movie, Medicine Man? That's a good movie about protecting nature. It shows there could be something important in a rain forest we don't even know about, like a cure for cancer.
kaufman		It's not even hot. I was expecting it to be awful. Sun beating down, wading through water, looking out for snakes, wild hogs. I was thinking it would be dramatic. Alligators. Something!
mike owen		The alligators are over by the lakes. The temperature's a blessing for us. This time of year can get uncomfortably hot.  Green anole. Florida's most common.
mike owen		What Laroche did was wrong. Those flowers belong to all of us, all 250 million of us -- 250? I think it's up to 270 now -- And belonging to all of us means they belong to none of us. Nobody has a right to take them. Not me, not you, not John Laroche, not...
kaufman		Listen, um, Susan Orlean wrote about a legendary creature called a Swamp Ape. Have you ever heard stories or --
mike owen		 Tourist garbage! I don't know why people need to invent silly creatures to make nature fascinating. Isn't nature amazing enough?
kaufman		 I just asked because she mentioned it.
orlean		That night I called Laroche.
orlean		Thank you.      Thanks very much.
valerie		We're big fans.
orlean		Oh, thank you.
valerie		And Laroche is such a fun character.
orlean		Yeah, John's a character all right.
valerie		It's funny and fresh.     And sad in a way.
orlean		Well, thanks. Thank you.
valerie		So we were wondering, what's next?
orlean		Oh, um, Random House wants me to expand it into a book. So I'll be doing that.
valerie		And there'll be more of Laroche?
orlean		Yeah.   More John, more orchids.
valerie		Y'know, we'd really like to option it.
orlean		 You want to make this into a movie?
valerie		Laroche is such a fun character.   So...
laroche		No shit I'm a fun character.  Who's gonna play me?
orlean		I've got to write it first. Someone's gotta write the screenplay. Most things never get made. It's premature to --
laroche		I think I should play me.
laroche		I've got all the right qualities. While you write, I'll take an acting class.
laroche		I wear this just to screw with 'em.
laroche		Most of them don't even bother calling me John anymore. It's "Crazy White Man" now. 
baxley		John.
laroche		I was trying to order some pink string beans from Argentina.
baxley		No kidding.
laroche		I figure just because Project Ghost Orchid is dead, we're not closing shop.
baxley		Listen, John --
laroche		We'll get into plant multiplication. Buy little ones, turn 'em into big ones, sell 'em at a profit. Simple plant multiplication for the masses.
baxley		John, we're thinking maybe now's a good time for you to take a few weeks.
laroche		I don't need a vacation, Buster.
baxley		It's a good time.   Things are slow.
laroche		Y'know, the guys on my crew here, all they do is smoke weed all day. I been meaning to talk to you about that. So if it's a question of productivity --
laroche		They're gonna fire me. Goddamn politics. Crazy White Man's bad publicity.  Like I could give a damn. If they fire me, I'll sue. I already did some legal research on this when I was doing the other shit. They can't fire me. And I ain't going to quit.
orlean		John, it's Susan.  So, I was just wondering if you might be willing to talk some more.
orlean		C'mon, John, I'm trying to put together a book. Don't just abandon me down here.
laroche		I'm no longer interested in orchids. I'm pursuing other avenues. I apologize for any inconvenience this might cause you.
laroche		Thank you for your time.
kaufman		California.
kaufman		You kind of need a car. I guess West Hollywood would be okay.
kaufman		I'm not recommending it.
kaufman		No.     Not really.
kaufman		I don't know.
kaufman		I'd smell it.
kaufman		It could be poison.    I don't know you.
kaufman		Right.
driver		Mr. Kaufman, do you mind if I ask what type of work you do for Sony?
kaufman		I'm a writer.
driver		 A song writer?
kaufman		No, I'm a screenwriter.
driver		Oh, wow! Good for you. You mind if I ask what your movie's about?
kaufman		It's about flowers.
driver		I heard about that!   Drug flowers, right?
kaufman		Yeah.   That's it.
driver		I heard about that! That's great! Action-adventure is my favorite genre.
donald		How was Florida, man?
kaufman		 Okay.
donald		Cool! Hey, my script's going amazing! Right now I'm working out an Image System. Bob calls it an invaluable asset. Because of my multiple personality theme, I've chosen the motif of broken mirrors to show my protagonist's fragmented self. Bob teaches that an Image System greatly increases the complexity of an aesthetic emotion.
kaufman		You sound like you're in a cult.
donald		No, it's just good writing technique. 
donald		You shouldn't have done that.
kaufman		There is no Swamp Ape. It was invented for people who can't find the actual world fascinating. Y'know?
donald		Oh, okay. I didn't know that. Sorry. Hey, I got a song! "Happy Together." I was worried about putting a song in a thriller, but Bob says, Casablanca, the greatest screenplay ever written, did exactly that. Mixed genres.
kaufman		I need to go to bed, Donald.    I haven't slept in a week.
donald		Okay.
kaufman		Damn it.
kaufman		Such sweet, sad insights.   So true.
kaufman		And you're... I like looking at you.
orlean photo		I like looking at you, too.   Charlie.
kaufman		I don't know how to do this. I'm afraid I'll disappoint you. You've written a beautiful book. I can't sleep. I'm losing my hair. I'm fat and repulsive --
orlean photo		Shhh. You're not. Whittle it down, focus on one thing in the story, find the thing you care passionately about and write about that.
kaufman		We see Susan Orlean, delicate, fragile, beautiful, haunted by loneliness, typing at her desk. She looks at the camera and talks to us: "John Laroche is a tall guy, skinny as a stick, pale-eyed, slouch- shouldered..."
donald		Morning.
kaufman		Hey, hey.
donald		You seem chipper.
kaufman		I'm good.     I have some new ideas.
donald		Cool. Me too. I'm putting in a chase sequence now. The killer flees on horseback with the girl. The cop is after them on a motorcycle. It's like a battle between motors and horses.
kaufman		They're all still one person, right?
donald		Yeah, hey, that's the big pay-off.
kaufman		 Well, it sounds exciting.
donald		Thanks, man. Thanks.
orlean		I suppose what I'd been doing in Florida was trying to understand how people found order and contentment and a sense of purpose in the universe by fixing their sighs on one single desire. Now I was also trying to understand how someone could end such intense desire without a trace.
orlean		Hello, John, it's Susan.
orlean		So, how's everything going?
orlean		That sounds good.
orlean		So I've been meeting a lot of orchid people, going to shows, I thought you might want to hear about it.
orlean		If you really loved something, wouldn't a little of it always linger?
kaufman		I'm so thrilled I get to adapt your book, get to merge my thoughts with yours. I love that. It's intimate, like a marriage.
orlean		Not like a marriage.
kaufman		Maybe what marriage could be.
orlean		Isn't it ironic? You adapting my book? My three years in Florida meditating on my inability to experience passion resulted in my finding it with you.
kaufman		... and in the final sequence Susan as a young girl swings alone in the backyard. From high in the air she sees her parents in separate rooms staring blankly in opposite directions. This symbolizes the profound scarring their waning passion has had on the girl's psyche, how she became afraid to ever really love something because it would go away.
kaufman		Yallo?
kaufman		Good.     I think really good now.
kaufman		 Oh. Uh-huh, uh-huh.
kaufman		Oh.   Good.
kaufman		Um, well, y'know, for me it's distracting to... or confusing to discuss what I'm exploring in the screenplay at this point... before I finish... it. So...
kaufman		Tell Susan I'd be very happy to meet her at a future date. As she sees fit.
kaufman		And tell her how much I love her book. Say I think she's such a great writer.
kaufman		Okay.   Nice talking to you.   Okay then.
kaufman		You can sit here and pretend to be a writer, mocking the seriousness of what I do, like some kind of fucking funhouse mirror version of me! But let me tell you, you don't know what writing is!
jerry		... we need to talk about the orchid script. Valerie called yesterday. They're getting antsy.
kaufman		I think I've got it on track now.
jerry		Good.   She said you sounded weird.
kaufman		No Hollywood bullshit. Just raw truth. Sometimes that takes a while to find.
jerry		Okay.    What's the time frame here?
kaufman		It's goddamned honest, Jerry.   It's true.
jerry		Oh, hey, my friend sent me this fucked- up internet thing. It's a girl taking a shit, but a trout comes out. You got e- mail yet? I'll send it to you.
kaufman		This is more honest than anything anyone's ever done before in a movie, I'll tell you that. The only truth we can offer is the truth that's our own experience of the world. "The great poet, in writing himself, writes his time." T.S. Eliot.
jerry		It sounds good, buddy. But we do need to give Valerie a ballpark --
kaufman		I'm sick of their constant harassment!
motes		You've been checking out the displays?
orlean		Yeah.
motes		It's the Miami centennial, we're supposed to illustrate something about Florida history.
orlean		Right. Now Laroche is part of Florida history. As a mannequin.
motes		It's a world of words to the end of it./In which nothing solid is its solid self. You'll have to forgive me, I'm a reformed poetry professor.
orlean		Who is that?
motes		Wallace Stevens.
orlean		John, it's Susan.
orlean		I went to the Orchid Society Show a couple of days ago.
orlean		There was a display of you stealing the ghost orchids. You're famous.
orlean		So, look, John, I still haven't seen a ghost. And I was wondering --
orlean		Really?   Thank you so much!   I just...
kaufman		What?!    What do you want?
donald		I finished. My script.    I'm done.
kaufman		Ourobouros.
donald		I don't know what that means.
kaufman		The snake is called Ourobouros.
donald		I don't think so. But it's cool for my killer to have this modus operandi. Because at the end when he forces the woman, who's really just him, to eat herself, he's also eating himself to death.
kaufman		I'm insane. I'm Ourobouros.
donald		I don't know what that is.
kaufman		I've written myself into my screenplay. It's eating itself. I'm eating myself.
donald		Oh.   That's kinda weird.
kaufman		It's self-indulgent. It's narcissistic. It's solipsistic. It's pathetic. I'm pathetic. I'm fat and pathetic.
donald		I'm sure you had a good reason, Charles. You're an artist.
kaufman		The reason is I'm too timid to speak to the woman who wrote the book. Because I'm pathetic. Because I have no idea how to write. Because I can't make flowers fascinating. Because I suck.
donald		Hey, am I in the script, too?
kaufman		I'm going to New York. I'll meet her. That's it. That's what I have to do.
donald		Don't get mad at me for saying this, Charles, but Bob's got a seminar in New York this weekend. So if you're stuck --
orlean		Where are our supplies?
laroche		Got everything I need right here.
laroche		I remember one time when I was a kid, fifteen or so, my mother and I came to the Fakahatchee to look for a ghost to photograph. We walked for hours, through the most intense heat I'd ever felt.   We couldn't find one. I wanted to turn back. But my mom said, no. 
orlean		He made it sound like a Bible story, the hopeful journey through darkness into light. I never thought many people in the world were like John, but I was realizing more and more that Laroche was an extreme, not an aberration -- most people in some way or another do strive for something exceptional, something to pursue, even at their peril, rather than abide an ordinary life.
laroche		Here we go. Encyclia tempensis.
orlean		Cute.
laroche		Clamshell orchid. You know that.
orlean		Uh-huh.
laroche		See, I found you two already. I'll show you every orchid you want today. I'll find you a fucking ghost if it kills me.  Rigid Epidendrum. That's an ugly-ass orchid. But I'm no snob. I'm interested in all orchids. Not just pretty ones.
laroche		 They're right nearby.    Just follow me.
orlean		Thanks.   Could I get some lemon please?
orlean		Laroche, can I ask you a personal question?
laroche		We're not lost.
laroche		We're not lost.
orlean		 Not really.
laroche		Well, y'know it's not really about collecting the thing, it's about --
orlean		The sundial isn't working.
laroche		It is so working.
orlean		So, John...
laroche		Okay, fuck the sundial. We'll just go straight and eventually we'll get there.
kaufman		Hello?
kaufman		No, it's okay.
kaufman		Yeah.    Susan Orlean.
kaufman		You can't rush inspiration.   Y'know?
kaufman		What the hell is Me, Myself, and I?
kaufman		Oh.   Good.
kaufman		Jerry, don't say that.   I mean --
kaufman		Jerry, I gotta go. I have an appointment. I gotta go.
laroche		I've done this a million times. Whenever everything's killing me, I just say to myself, screw it, and go straight ahead.
registrar		May I help you?
mckee		Years from now you'll be standing around a posh cocktail party congratulating yourself on how you spent an entire weekend locked in a room with an asshole, an opinionated arrogant asshole, for your art.
mckee		So... what is the substance of writing? Nothing as trivial as words is at the heart of this great art, my friends.
mckee		Literary talent is not enough. First, last, and always, the imperative is to tell a story.
mckee		Twenty three hundred years ago, Aristotle said, when storytelling goes bad in a society, the result is decadence.  Well, just look around you.
mckee		... and God help you if you use voice- over in your work, my friends.
mckee		God fucking help you! It's flaccid, sloppy writing. Any idiot can write voice-over narration to explain the thoughts of a character. You must present the internal conflicts of your character in image, in symbol. Film is a medium of movement and image.
mckee		You want your writing to be original. You want to have an original voice like Neil Simon or Nora Ephron. Well, let me tell you something, my friends. The key to originality is not eccentricity.
mckee		Long speechs are antithetical to the nature of cinema. The Greeks called it stykomythia -- the rapid exchange of ideas. A long speech in a script, say a page long, requires that the camera hold on the actor's face for a minute. Look at the second hand on your watch as it makes one complete rotation around the clock face and you'll get an idea of how intolerable that would be for an audience. The ontology of the screen is that it's always now and it's always action and it's always vivid. Life is rarely vivid. And that's an important point. We are not recreating life on the screen. Writers are not tape recorders. Have you ever eavesdropped on people talking in a coffee shop? Then you know how dull and tedious real conversation is. Real people are not interesting. There's not a person in this world -- and I include myself in this -- who would be interesting enough to take as is and put in a movie as a character.
mckee		Someone asked me recently, Bob, do you think Michelle Pfeiffer is pretty.
mckee		Anyone else?
kaufman		You talked about Crisis as the ultimate decision a character makes, but what if a writer is attempting to create a story where nothing much happens, where people don't change, they don't have any epiphanies. They struggle and are frustrated and nothing is resolved. More a reflection of the real world --
mckee		The real world? The real fucking world? First of all, if you write a screenplay without conflict or crisis, you'll bore your audience to tears. Secondly: Nothing happens in the real world? Are you out of your fucking mind? People are murdered every day! There's genocide and war and corruption! Every fucking day somewhere in the world somebody sacrifices his life to save someone else! Every fucking day someone somewhere makes a conscious decision to destroy someone else! People find love! People lose it, for Christ's sake! A child watches her mother beaten to death on the steps of a church! Someone goes hungry! Somebody else betrays his best friend for a woman! If you can't find that stuff in life, then you, my friend, don't know much about life! And why the fuck are you taking up my precious two hours with your movie? I don't have any use for it! I don't have any bloody use for it!
kaufman		Okay, thanks.
kaufman		Mr. McKee?
mckee		Yes?
kaufman		I'm the guy you yelled at this morning.
mckee		 I need more.
kaufman		I was the one who thought things didn't happen in life.
mckee		Oh, right, okay.    Nice to see you.
kaufman		I need to talk.
mckee		I make it a rule not to give private tutorials to my seminar students. It wouldn't be fair to the others.
kaufman		Mr. McKee, please. My even standing here is very scary. I don't meet people well. I'm self-conscious and timid. But what you said this morning shook me to the bone. What you said was bigger than my screenwriting choices. It's about my choices as a human being. Please.
mckee		I could use a drink, my friend.
kaufman		... We followed it like a beacon all the way to the road.
mckee		Then what happens?
kaufman		That's the book. I wanted to present it simply, without big character arcs or sensationalizing the story. I wanted to show flowers as God's miracles.   I wanted to show that Orlean never saw the blooming ghost orchid. It's about disappointment.
mckee		I see. That's not a movie.     You must go back and put in the drama.
kaufman		 I've got pages of false starts and wrong approaches. I'm way past my deadline. I can't go back.
mckee		Ah, the everpresent deadline. Yes, I was doing a Kojak once and... it was hell.
kaufman		You promise?
mckee		You've taken my course before?
kaufman		My brother did. My twin brother Donald. He's the one who got me to come.
mckee		Twin screenwriters. Julius and Philip Epstein,who wrote Casablanca were twins.
kaufman		You mentioned that in class.
mckee		The finest screenplay ever written.
kaufman		Donald.
kaufman		Yeah. Listen, I'm calling to say congratulations on your script.
kaufman		That's great, Donald.
kaufman		I wasn't any help.
kaufman		Well, look, I've been thinking, maybe you'd be interested in hanging out with me in New York for a few days.
kaufman		So, like, what would you do?
donald		Script kind of makes fun of me, huh?
kaufman		Sorry.   I was trying something.   I --
donald		Hey, I don't mind.   It's funny.
kaufman		Okay.    So, what would you do?
donald		You and me are so different, Charles. We're different talents.
kaufman		I know. Just for fun. How would the great Donald end this script?
donald		 Well, I mean... do you need the whole court case?
kaufman		Uh, it's what happened to Laroche.   It's kind of important.
donald		It's boring. No offense. A courtroom scene should be dramatic. Stick the ruling in a line of dialogue, maybe.
kaufman		Um.   Okay.
donald		Too much about orchids. Get rid of it. Pare that stuff down to a minimum. Frankly, I'd focus more on the relationship between the brothers. I think that's the gold here. No one cares about orchids.
kaufman		The book's about orchids.
donald		That's a problem. But don't let it ruin the movie. I mean, for example, use the orchids in a more dramatic way. Have some kind of bang-up, crazy action sequence in the swamp. Use the swamp better. It's a tremendous fictional world. A setting of great dramatic possibility.
kaufman		That's true. But --
donald		And put some twists in. Reveal some surprising thing about Laroche. God, what am I doing giving suggestions to you? I mean you're like a seasoned professional. You're an artist.
kaufman		C'mon, you're the "mill-five" kid.
donald		 I love the Laroche porno web-site stuff. Is that real? Maybe make a bigger deal of that. I don't know.
kaufman		I think it's real.   I haven't actually seen the site.
donald		It's sex, man! Incorporate it.
donald		Oh, hi, I was doing some research.   I found Laroche's site and... I'm embarrassed.
kaufman		Jesus, Donald.
donald		What? She's kinda cute. You don't like her? I dunno, I think she's okay. It's not like I'm marrying her.
kaufman		Jesus.   Jesus!
donald		I think this is maybe a good thing for the script. Go ask her about this.
kaufman		I'm not gonna ask her about this.
donald		You want me to? I don't mind.
kaufman		No, I don't want you to.
donald		I could easily pretend I'm you.
kaufman		No!    No!
orlean		So you'll pick me up?    Yeah, tomorrow.
kaufman		What was she wearing?
donald		I don't know. Like a dress maybe.
kaufman		Did she look at me?    At you?
donald		Finally! Da-da-da-daaaaah! S. Orlean, TWA flight 651. Arriving Miami 10:20 tomorrow morning.
kaufman		I don't want to do this, Donald.
donald		We'll go together.       It'll be good.
kaufman		It's so weird to actually see that van in real life.
donald		So you want to build the symbolic charge of the story's imagery from the particular to the universal. Okay?
kaufman		Okay, but when you're creating an image system, how do you know --
donald		I'll get a closer look.   You wait here.
kaufman		 No, I want to go. I should go. I mean, it should be me, right? I mean...
donald		Go for it, bro. You the man.
kaufman		Holy...
orlean		Don't stop, Johnny.
laroche		Who the hell are you?
kaufman		I just... nobody, I just --
laroche		Who the fuck are you?
kaufman		Um. I'm just. I was at the wrong house. I'm looking for the Johnson family.
laroche		I got your Johnson family right here.
orlean		Honey, come back to bed.
laroche		Who the hell sent you?      Rudy?
kaufman		I'm not --
laroche		What the fuck does that mean?
kaufman		I'm the guy adapting her book.      Her book about you.
laroche		Jesus Fucking Christ.  Why the fuck were you in my backyard?
kaufman		I was, um, trying... I don't know.
orlean		Who's the bloody fat guy?
laroche		This is the fellow adapting your book for the movies, darling'.
orlean		 Oh. What does he know?
kaufman		I don't know anything.   I swear.
laroche		He knows about the greenhouse.  We can't have this appear on the silver screen.
kaufman		It won't.    I don't even under --
orlean		Johnny, I'm so tired now.
laroche		He needs to be gotten rid of.
kaufman		What?!
laroche		Small article in newspaper.
orlean		Johnny, come lie on top of me.
laroche		Focus, darling'. Is this credible?
orlean		 Screenwriter, you have a car?
kaufman		I, um, no, I --
orlean		We drive his car there, leave it on the side of the swamp. That works.
laroche		Good.   I like that.
orlean		 Sorry.
kaufman		Please.
kaufman		I thought I had a sense of you from your book.  I had a little crush on you, to tell the truth. You're different than I thought.
orlean		Huh.
kaufman		Look, I don't care what you two are you doing.   Please don't kill me.
orlean		Hey, here's one of my lines.  "Isn't it ironic? You adapting my book? My three years in Florida meditating on my inability to experience passion resulted in my finding it with you."
kaufman		I was trying to do something.
orlean		Well, it's kind of pathetic, dontcha think?
orlean		Here's me! Here's me again!  "I wanted to know what it's like to care about something passionately."
kaufman		You can laugh, but I didn't make that line up. That's a quote from your book.
orlean		Yeah, I know, Charlie-boy. Chill. I'm laughing at who I used to be. It's sad.
kaufman		So now you learned about passion.  From Weirdo Laroche. Bully for you.
orlean		You can't learn about passion. You can be passion. And it wasn't John who made me passion. It was orchids.
kaufman		I thought you didn't even like orchids.
orlean		I lied about what happened at the end of the book. On the way out of the swamp...
laroche		The jewel of the Fakahatchee.
orlean		I still don't get it. I mean, there it is. I can see it's pretty, but --
laroche		You'll get it.
orlean		The first time I tried it, the split second it took effect, I understood orchids. I loved them with a passion I'd never felt for anything. For anyone.
orlean		Isn't it curious? An orchid made me passionate about orchids.
kaufman		You're throwing the truth away for a chemical confusion of your synapses --
orlean		With this powder I am passionate about everything. 
laroche		This spot looks good.  Now how do we do this? Hit him in the head with a rock first? Keeping in mind we can only hit him once and only with as much force as would be created by him slipping and falling onto the rock.
orlean		Holy Jesus. Holy...   Hey, baby, hey...
laroche		Should we drown him, then hit him on the head? Uh-uh. A body bleeds different if the heart's stopped. These new forensic guys are very smart. We really have to know our corpses to stand a chance: rigor mortis, lividity, putrefecation, ocular changes. 
kaufman		I don't write this kind of bullshit.
laroche		Don't get all huffy, I was simply --
orlean		 Yeah, let's, baby.
laroche		Not now. We got to kill that guy. And now I guess that other guy as well.
orlean		 Ohhh.
kaufman		For Christ's sake, why didn't you do something while we were in the car?
donald		My back had seized.     I couldn't move.
kaufman		Shit!
donald		We've gotta ditch this thing.
kaufman		 It's a rental! It's a rental!
donald		Now!
orlean		That's beautiful! What's that, Johnny? What's that one called? I just so want to fuck that flower, don't you?
laroche		Asclepias lanceolata. Red milkweed. Extremely fuckable. But we don't have time.
laroche		 What's his name?
orlean		Um, y'know... Charlie or something.
laroche		Charlie! Listen, let's talk! This pie is big enough for four people!  Why are there two of him?
orlean		Identical twigs?  Did I say twigs? I meant twins.
laroche		Cladium jamaicense, guys. Sawgrass. You want to watch out for that. That's some evil shit. Cut you up.
kaufman		Fuck you, Laroche!
laroche		Just tryin' to be helpful. Walk with us and I'll be sure you avoid all the pitfalls. I know these swamps forwards and backwards. There's alligators and poisonous snakes, fellas. Wild hogs.
donald		Wait.   Do you hear something?
kaufman		Donald, that sounds bad.
kaufman		Watch out, watch out, watch out!
donald		I think we're okay.
kaufman		Fuck!   Fuck, Donald, we're dead.
donald		We're okay. How's your leg?
kaufman		I don't know. How's your back.
donald		It's fine.     My back is fine.
kaufman		Donald!
kaufman		You're gonna be okay.
donald		No.  But don't let them get you, too.  You got a fucking awesome third act.
kaufman		 Donald, this is an awful, bizarre thing to say and an awful time to say it, but I'm sorry I didn't get to know you better. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
donald		It's really... You've been really nice.
kaufman		See, it's just I thought I knew you already. I thought you were me. And I hated me.
donald		Well, don't do that anymore.      Okay?
kaufman		Okay.
mike owen		Jesus, that writer guy.
orlean		Water sounds so sparkly. Like lemon plastic jewels plopping onto a silver trampoline! Dontcha think?
laroche		Darlin', please.
orlean		Can we fuck now, baby?    Fuck like lemons?
kaufman		You gotta help me.    You gotta help me.
mike owen		What the hell is going on here?
kaufman		They're after me. They've got guns. They killed my brother.
mike owen		Who's got guns? What are you --
orlean		Hey, it's the screenwriter!
kaufman		There's a thing back there!    You don't want to be here.
laroche		You're right, I don't want to be here. I'm tired, let's get this over with.
orlean		I love your gun, baby.    Can we trade?
laroche		Stand back, sweetness.
orlean		Where'd Johnny go?
orlean		 Oh, Johnny.
kaufman		I'd just stare at your picture, and you looked so sweet. I read your words and I thought you were smart and maybe lost and lonely like me. And the way you wrote about Laroche. You said he was handsome even though he had no front teeth --
orlean		Oh, Johnny. Johnny's teeth.     Oh...
kaufman		I figured you could look at me and see something, even with all my flaws you could look at me and find something, you could maybe someday write a description of me that would be nicer than the one I write day in and day out in my head.  Would it be?
orlean		You're really so wonderful.
kaufman		Really?
orlean		So wonderful. I can see inside your soul. It glows with orange sadness. It's raining inside you. I want to run through your dripply dripples. It's so beautiful. I love you. I do.
kaufman		It's the drugs.
orlean		No, it's me. It's the real me. Look at you. I just want to hold you and -- Oh, crap, it's wearing off. Crap!
kaufman		Okay, bye.
orlean		I can't let you go, fatty.    I can't let you make this public.
kaufman		Donald!
donald		My brother is not fat. He's not bald. My brother is a great writer! He was trying to do something important!
kaufman		That's Mike Owen. John Laroche. Susan Orlean. I don't know what that is. I think it might be a Swamp Ape. And that's Donald, my twin brother. He saved my life.
police officer		You two really look alike.
kaufman		 Yeah. Yes, we do.
alice		Oh, I love McKee!  Oh, hi. Haven't seen you in a while.
kaufman		Hi.    Yeah, I've been away.
alice		So you studying screenwriting?
kaufman		I'm actually finishing one up.
alice		Good for you! Me too. God, it's so hard to get in, huh? Everyone and their brother is writing a screenplay.
kaufman		Yeah. Actually I'm writing this one for Sony Pictures.
alice		Really? Wow. Really?   That's so cool. 
kaufman		That's tough. Let's see... about being yourself, maybe. It's about learning that if you can't love yourself, you can't really love anyone.
alice		That's true. God, that's so true.     It's such an important message, y'know?
kaufman		See, my twin brother was murdered recently --
alice		Oh God!    I'm sorry.   That's so horrible.
kaufman		Thanks. Like part of me ripped away. Forever. It was a wake up call.
alice		I'm so sorry. You poor man.
kaufman		Anyway, it helped put things in perspective. Life is a miracle. All life, from the flower to the human being. You. Me. And I want to show people that. For my brother. For everyone.
alice		Listen, do you mind if I sit for a sec?
kaufman		But you're working.
alice		 It's a stupid job, y'know.    I'm Alice.
kaufman		Charlie.
alice		I like that name. Charlie. I've always really liked that name. Charlie.
****Dialogues from script :Addams_Family.txt****

please, gordon, by all means - go.		Sing. Dance. Date.
****Dialogues from script :Adjustment_Bureau.txt****

blue blazer		Congressman Norris-? Now REVEAL that we're fl: the entry hall of the Admin Building at St. Johns University. A thousand people crowd the quad out front. "Norris for Senate" placards everywhere.
charlie		Just wait 'till you see how they respond to him.. David pops a cherry lozenge into his mouth and straightens his lapel pin, which is shaped like New York State.
david		Don't build me up like that, Charlie. He'll be disappointed.
david		Hi there. I'm David Norris. And I'm running for the US Senate.
charlie		What the hell? What happened to "I'm going to have softie tea, rest my voice, and go to bed early?" You have Diane Sawyer tomorrow and you have to be up at four AM for us to make it in time. David is holding ,a beer, in his left hand. With his free hand he picks up a cup and saucer.
david		I had some tea. (sees Charlie's not in the
charlie		Ten.
david		What?
charlie		Latest poll has you ten points up. A slow smile spreads across David's face.
black screen		The sound of a busy room. Then one voice, much louder:
charlie		Eddie, call Boyd! Where the hell are the. Suffolk numbers? We've got to get the Suffolk numbers!
aide		Suffolk County Numbers! Charlie and David emerge from the private room to listen.
charlie		 I really thought we'd win Suffolk.
senior aide		Kings County just came in too.
a brutal		He shows a piece of paper to Charlie and David. beat...
david		Well, it's over. And it's going to be a blowout... David puts on a brave face. . .but this is the first moment that he realizes not only is he going to lose, but he's going to lose big. It's going to be a grand,. public humiliation.
senior aide		NBC has us up next. Charlie takes a clicker and turns the closest TV to NBC.
brian williams		Turning now to the New York Senate race, NBC is now calling the election for Roger'Lynfield. After a shockingly poor showing in both Suffolk county and in his home county, Kings, it now appears that David Norris will lose this election badly, perhaps by as much as 10 points.
richardson		This is a.bignight, gentleman.
richardson		You look tired. You should take a vacation when we finish with this. You'll have earned it.
harry		I'm not sure the kind of tired I feel would be fixed by a vacation.
richardson		Sure it would. Everybody needs a vacation. Even us.
assistant manager		Good evening, Congressman. You're in the Grand Ballroom if that's what you're looking for.
david		Actually just looking for a place to be alone for a minute before I head in there.
assistant manager		None of the banquet rooms on the third floor are in use tonight.
david		Thank you.
woman		Hi. I hope I didn't startle you.
david		What are you doing in here?
woman		Hiding from security.
david		Oh... . What did you do?
woman		Crashed a wedding. One floor up.
david		It's almost midnight. They'just caught on now?
woman		Ivana Trump finally realized I wasn't her niece. I think after the fifth; glass of champagne my Czech accent started slipping. spite of David's state that gets a grin.
david		Are you for real?
woman		Life is short.
david		Hard to argue with that.
woman		You're that guy running for Senate aren't you?
david		I'm "that guy."
woman		You winning?
david		No.
woman		Too bad. The other guy's a tool.
woman		Personally, I think mooning your friends at a college reunion is no big deal.
woman		At least not full page. He can't help but crack up.
woman		Listen, I've done it.
david		You weren't running, for Senate at the time.
woman		Do you still have a chance or is it over?
david		He crushed me. She has beautiful eyes. And an exceptional gift for conveying empathy...
woman		You must ...I don't know what you must be feeling...
david		Winning would feel better. But losing has its advantages.
woman		Like what?
david		The only time a politician is alone is when he's asleep.. .or in the bathroom. After eight years in politics that gets kind of hard to take. She tilts her head a little, gives him a curious look.
woman		Watching you, you'd never know it. The way she looks at him, the way she says it, David knows she sees what others miss in him -- even if he isn't even quite sure what it is. Not yet.
david		Thank you...
woman		Well, everything happens for a reason, right? Even losing. God, I'm really rollrng out the platitudes tonight, aren't I?
david		It's the champagne. Brines out the Hallmark in people.
woman		After it kills their Czech accents. She offers:him the bottle. He hesitates, then takes it.
david		Why not? I have to think up some good platitudes for my speech. He takes a gulp of champagne.
woman		Why the hell would you do that?
david		Apparently, even if I hadn't been caught dropping my drawers in the middle of a senate campaign I would have lost the election anyway because I'm too blunt.
woman		 Says who?
david		The TV pundits.
woman		Fuck 'em. They just wish they had the balls to be candidates themselves. She hands him the champagne bottle again.
woman		And they work for the Man anyway.
woman		Otherwise the-country will be run by tools. like Lynwood.
david		"Field."  "Lynfield." A beat. She shrugs. Then they lean toward each other... and kiss. It turns more and more passionate. When they finally pull apart:
david		Holy shit. She seems just as surprised. They look at each other and laugh. Just then the bathroom door opens. It's Charlie. He sees David and the woman.
charlie		David?
david		Wait. The woman turns to face David. Suddenly two hotel guards turn the corner and spot the woman.
hotel security		There! They rush toward her.
woman		Gotta go.  Don't let the bastards grind you down. She spins and sprints away. The hotel guards chase her.
charlie		What the hell was that?
david		I'm really not sure. David has a huge grin on his face.
david		But I think I'm ready to give my speech.
david		I grew up in Red Hook and I don't want to shock anybody but I got in a few fist fights along the way. Laughter ripples through the crowd. We don't know enough yet to get the joke.
david		And we used to have a saying when you got in a fight: "it's not whether or not you get knocked down -- because eventually everyone does -- it's what you do when you get back up."
david		But I am...  But I am going to get backup. I wanted to come out here tonight and give you a victory speech, a speech I've dreamed of giving foremost of my life. But life doesn't always deal you the cards you want. The audience sobered now. Reflective.
david		My life changed when I was ten years old. My entire world turned upside-down.' His audience,. knows exactly what he's talking about.
david		And as I looked for something to -hang ;on to, something; to help me cope' with what had. happened the only thing that made sense to me was service. Finding a way to do something with my life that left this world a little better than I found it. The audience is moved. Tears begin to well up. People dab at their eyes.
richardson		He spills his coffee when he steps out of Starbucks. The moment he comes through the door.
harry		Got it.
richardson		Our models indicate between 7:00 and 7:05 am. Harry nods but he seems distant Richardson sees this.
richard son		You planned that vacation, right?
harry		Two weeks. Richardson claps him din-the shoulder and leaves. Harry watches him go.
cnbc anchor		He served four terms in the House-- The blackberry rings.
cnbc anchor		--prior to his unsuccessful bid for Senate in last week's election. David rushes over and ?icks=up the blackberry. He has to look for a second to figure out how to hit "answer."
cnbc anchor		RSR, one ofthe country's fastest- growing hedge funds is run by NO ris's former Goldman colleague and campaign chairman, Charles
cnbc anchor		. his . electrifying concession speech led commentators to-- Finally David finds the answer button as he mutes the TV.
david		Hello?
david		Give him 3227. I'm not used to this phone yet.
charlie		Can't. He's going to ask you about joining the firm. My compliance guys say all firm business has to be done on the blackberry.
david		Really?
charlie		Sarbanes-Oxley. You voted for it, pal. In fact, you cosponsored it.
int morning		.As David pays, he notices Harry sprinting for the bus.
david		Sir, there's someone--
bus driver		There's another M1 right behind me.
harry		No...
david		No way... It's the woman from election night.', He leans around to try to see the front of her face. "It's definitely her. His eyes drift down at her legs. Just then she opens her eyes. She recoils for a second;. Then` her eyes soften when she realizes who it is.
david		 Your skirt was so short I couldn't help it.
woman		Dress.
david		Skirt, dress, same thing.
woman		If you're a pervert, yeah. All that matters is they both show leg.
david		So do shorts, dear.
woman		Yeah, but there's that pesky piece of fabric right here that interferes with your fantasy life. She shuts her eyes and leans against the window.
woman		Wake me when you have a good come back to that.
david		I have one but, unlike you, I wouldn't say it in public.
woman		 Pussy. David laughs. Can not believe this woman. In a good way. His blackberry RINGS. Her eyes pop open. David.picks up.
david		Hello...? Hello? David looks at his. phone. The signal has gone to zero.
woman		That ringer get any-louder or do you pretty much have it maxed out?
david		You're relentless.
woman		I never sleep through the night. I catch up on the bus.
david		I just started a new job, today.
david		Something got into me. He means her. They stare at each other.
david		What's the deal with you and argyles?
woman		What's the deal with you and boring shades of blue? David is wearing a Navy blue suit, blue shirt, and blue tie. A beat.
david		At least my clothes match.
woman		That's easy if you. restrict yourself to one color.
david		The belt and shoes are black.
woman		Variety is the spice of .life .
david		There you` go with the platitudes again. I guess it wasn't the ch mpagne . His blackberry goes again. RING-RING.
david		Hello? Hello? He shakes his head. It's dead again.
woman		Your phone sucks. Don't guys like you get special phones that actually work in the middle of the biggest city in the country?
david		Depends what the telecom lobby thinks of your voting record.
harry		Now.
david		Oh, Jesus...
harry		Shit! He's looking at a leather portfolio. We catch a glimpse inside: a complicated circuit diagram. Harry shuts the book, look's up to get a bead on" the the bus, then takes off down Broadway, again, hoping to cut it off at Union Square.
david		I'll pay for the damage. He pulls out his wallet. There's $7 inside. She laughs.
woman		Hope your new job pays better than your old one.
david		Give me your number and I'll send you a check.
woman		God, that is smooth. Spill coffee on me then ask for my number. She takes the coffee from his hands and casually takes a sip, then turns back to him with a devilish look in her eyes.
woman		Just let me spill some on you and we'll be even. She thrusts the cup toward his tie. David parries.
david		It's my first day at the office!
woman		Tell your boss some crazy chick dumped coffee on you on the MI. It's New York; he'll understand. She thrusts the cup back at him-
david		No! He grabs the cup with both his hands over hers.
david		You're crazy. Actually crazy. The phone on David's lap'RINGS again. She snatches it with her free hand.
david		Who was that? She shrugs. Sorry, pal. He lunges for his phone, but she holds it on the other side of her body.
david		What is this, third grade?
woman		You forgot what that was like, didn't you? How fun it was... That stops him for a moment. Until the phone RINGS again.
woman		Oh my God! How do you stand it? She drops the phone into the coffee.
woman		There. We're even. He stares at her. Incredulous. They lock eyes. God knows what would come next if they were in private... The fourth RING gurgles up through the coffee. A beat.
woman		Sturdy little fucker, isn't it? She pulls the phone out of the cup and wipes it off with her scarf, pushing the button which sends the call to voice mail. Then she reaches out her hand, as if to shake.
woman		By the way, I'm Elise.
david		The morning after .I lost I woke up thinking about you . That melts her. Instantly. All her bravado drops.
harry		Dammit! Harry sprints out onto lark Avenue now, right behind the bus-- HONK! Harry turns just in time to see a.taxi skid into him. TRUNK! He rolls up onto the hood--
charlie		Who?
david		The woman from election night.
david		She kissed me. I just didn't fight it.
david		Charlie? David looks at his phone. "Call Lost" on the screen. David hits redial. Gets a fast busy.
david		' . This is ridiculous. He pockets his phone.
taxi driver		Are you okay? Harry is sitting now, wincing, but still searching intently for something.
harry		I'm fine-- Will you hand me that? Harry points at his leather portfolio on the pavement a few feet away. We'll come to know it as a "PLANBOOK."
harry		Oh...shit...
david		Okay... Daviddecides he doesn't need to announce himself.
david		 Doesn't anybody bother getting in before eight at this place? David passes a couple of empty offices on his way towards a large corner suite where a secretary sits outside an office marked "Charles Traynor, Chairman." She's smiling.
david		Call 911! Something's wrong with Susan!
david		Jesus! Three men in business suits talking by the window spin to see David. it's Mr. Richardson and-two aides we recognize as the "security guards" who chased Elise away on election night.
richardson		Grab him! David bolts out of the office as they lunge at him--
richardson		You can't get away, David. David spins and rushes back into the main office, then down an internal staircase to the floor below. Jumps the last five steps and hits the floor hard. As he comes up he runs smack into another RSR employee who is frozen solid. David curses, then dives around the frozen employee to find Richardson, coming out of another office. down the hall. Again, physically impossible for him to get there that fast-- David spins and-- A DISTORTED WIDE ANGLE SHOT of a chloroform rag shoved right at us. FOCUS GOES IN AND OUT... FROM DAVID'S POV, BLURRY FOCUS as he's carried toward one of the large corner offices on the 40th floor. The nameplate reads "Steve Kincaid." Richardson opens the door and ushers his men, carrying David,
black screen		Silence. Then voices come up slowly:
burdensky		Re-setting's off the table. This is our fault:... Richardson glances irately at Harry, who stands by himself off to the side, clearly disgraced. David, who is tied to a chair facing away from Richardson, cranes around to see who's talking.
david		Hey. The suits stare back in silence for a beat, then turn back to talking amongst themselves -- though at a lower volume.
richardson		What are my options?
david		Can somebody tell me what's going on?
burdensky		 The questions will burn in him till the day he dies. You'll have to monitor him constantly...
on david		He can hear little snippets of what Burdensky's saying--
burdensky		If it were me, I'd level with him.
burdensky		That's the only way to extinguish his curiosity. Richardson turns and studies David. Then walks over to him. An uncomfortable pause.
david		Who are you guys?
richardson		We're the people v ho make sure things happen according to Plan. David stares back at him for a moment. then leaps up. His rope comes off and the chair falls. He sprints toward an open door forty feet across the warehouse. Richardson makes a little gesture with his hand--
moments later		David is dragged back to the center of the room and placed back in his chair in front of Richardson.
richardson		Did you really think I couldn't see that coming? David dabs blood from his lip, which split during the fall.
richardson		Now,. why are you still deciding whether or not to run? David's hands go to his head`, involuntarily, an atavistic response, as if;s.omehow that will keep his thoughts from spilling out into view.
richardson		You saw the futility of that back at the office. David's entire reality has finally been bent to the breaking point. He can't hang on any longer to an explanation for all this based in the world he's known to date...
david		What the hell is happening to me?
richardson		You just saw behind a curtain you weren't even supposed to know was there, Mr. Norris. Its jarring. I'm sure.
david		I just... came to work...
richardson		It wasn't your fault. Your Path through the world this morning was supposed to be adjusted.  Your coffee was supposed to.spill onto your shirt as you left Starbucks near your apartment. You would have gone up to change and arrived at work ten minutes later than you did. By then we would have left.
david		Whatever you were doing to Charlie back there... it wasn't misplacing his keys.
richardson		Sometimes. when nudging a person back on Plan isn't enough we intervene directly.
david		Why Charlie? What did you do to him.
richardson		You need to worry about getting back on your Plan, David, not worry about us putting him back on his. David stares back, still trying to get his bearings.
richardson		Do you understand what I just said?
david		Yes...
richardson		Not a word. Not one word about us. (long beat as he studies
david		He said I could go.
richardson		How is that possible? Why didn't we get an alert?
david		You said I could go. Richardson walks over to him.
david		 Why does it'matter?
richardson		You weren't ever supposed to see her again.
david		Why do you care.?
richardson		Because, David, you can't be with her. And we didn't want to have to resort to this-- Four big guys grab David and pull his arms backwards like prison guards incapacitating a prisoner. Richardson reaches into David's pocket and pulls out his wallet--
david		What the hell-- What are you-- Richardson removes the piece of paper that Elise wrote her number on from David's wallet--
bartender		You're David Norris, right?
david		Ice water.
bartender		That's it? David nods. Harry arrives.
harry		We should talk. But not here. Go back to work and I'll contact you later today with a place to meet.
david		Okay. Harry can see that David is still very shaken.
harry		The world's exactly the same as it's always been. You just understand it more completely now.
david		Thanks. David walks away, still trying to get his bearings in the new reality he now knows. Charlie comes around a corner.
charlie		There you are. I called your cell ten times. You left me hanging.
david		Sorry...
charlie		(seeing the look in
charlie		You sure you're okay.
david		Fine. How about you?
charlie		Great. Why?
david		No headaches or--
charlie		I feel fantastic, -man. Is it just, me or is this an odd conversation?  What the hell happened with the girl?
david		After the meeting.
david		I lost her number.
charlie		You lost her number?
david		 I was pickpocketed.
charlie		Come on. You can't be serious.  You're serious... Oh, man...dude. I'm sorry... I'm really sorry...
harry		A lot of people just collapse when they see what you've s'een. Their personal choices suddenly seem meaningless to them. Life starts to feel pointless.
david		I was` raised to believe there's something behind the curtain. I just never pictured it quite like this.
harry		Most people don't. Harry looks over his shoulder, scans for any signs of his colleagues. He's far from relaxed.
harry		How are you feeling?
david		You should know. You can read my mind, right?
harry		Richardson was just trying to scare you.
david		He knew what color I was thinking.
harry		Because he set it up as a choice. "Choose a color. Choose a number"
david		So? Harry looks away. He's crossing a line. He's really putting himself out there:
harry		We can't read your mind or hear your thoughts. But before you make a choice your brain weighs options, and we percpite that. We know if you're going to go off Plan "or not because, as long as we're close enough, we cansense it when it's about to happen.
david		it-;' s like a sixth sense for you?
harry		Seventh, actually.
david		What did they do too Charlie?
harry		Made some small change in the way he assesses risk.
david		What type of risk?
harry		 I don't know. Something arcane. Something to do with mortgage- backed securities.
david		That's all?
harry		Yes.
david		What would your colleagues do to you if they knew what you were telling me? This is precisely what Harry has been worried about.
harry		That's why we're meeting out here.
david		They're not following me?
harry		We don't have the manpower to follow everybody all the time. They're checking in on you. Just not here. Not right now. ON David's face considering this.
david		Why are you helping me?
harry		I have my reasons. David studies him. Ha=rry's' clearly not ready to go into
david		Why do they care if I'm with Elise?
harry		Your entire reality gets shattered this morning and you want to know about a woman?
david		Why do they care? Harry looks back at him. Taken aback a bit by how much David seems to care.
harry		I don't know.
david		You have no idea?
harry		All I know is, given the amount of resources they've used, keeping you from her is pretty important to them.  You're going to look for her aren't you? Again, David is silent.
david		 They send you here to tell me that?
david		I'm ready... I changed a few things last night.
david		Stop the bus.
driver		The next stop--
david		Now.
david		Elise! The woman turns around. And it's her...
elise		David?
david		Hi.
elise		Wow... How areyou. Reeling from the adrenaline; David takes a moment, then:
david		 I rode the Ml to work every day for the last three years hoping one day I'd run into you again. She's amused, rather than moved, because she doesn't buy it.
elise		Calling would have been easier.
david		I couldn't.
elise		Girlfriend wouldn't let you?
david		No girlfriend. She looks at him with continued skepticism. But his expression is dead serious.
elise		 Don't you have to get to work?
david		I just got sick.
elise		"I haven't seen you in three years - - You make me sick" is not an ideal come-on. For the record. David smiles. She's softening. A little. His phone vibrates. He pulls it out of his pocket.
david		One second.
david		And...I might have to push the speech.
david		I just ran into Elise. He hangs up.
elise		You just hung up on your best friend.
david		We've known each other since we were kids. We have a shorthand.
elise		What speech?
david		Doesn't matter. Let's take a walk. His focus on her is absolute. But she's wary of getting reeled in again.
elise		Where?
david		Somewhere far. We have a lot to talk about.
elise		I don't think you should cancel your speech. What if I don't like you at the end of our walk?
david		I'll take my chances.
elise		Seri6us1y, my number hasn't changed:. Just call me like you didn't last time.
david		My-speech will always be there, you might not be.
david		Walk with me and I'll explain that. She's still dubious. His phone vibrates. This time he turns it off .
elise		Stalker.
david		Can we walk? The moment she finally relents, CUT TO:
following shot		Polished black shoes running down a corridor on an impossibly shiny black floor with inlaid decorative silver borders.
mccrady		We have a problem.
elise		It's been years, David. How do you know I don't have a boyfriend? Oh, shit. He hasn't even had time to think about that.
david		you have a boyfriend?
elise		So all the stuff about me being in your mind constantly for the last three years was just talk... The truth is you don't have any real conviction.
david		It wouldn't matter.
elise		So you don't care about being a home-wrecker?
david		Okay... if you were married it would matter.
elise		Now you're just trying to say what you think I want to hear. A beat. She lets David twist in the wind...
elise		I'm single. ON David's face: relief...
elise		Now let's hear your bullshit excuse for never calling me.
david		I didn't have your number.
elise		What?
david		It was taken from me. I was mugged.
elise		Oh, come on.
david		Your number was in my Wallet and they ,:took it.
elise		Come on..
david		I'm serious. What else could possibly-explain my fawning all over you on that bus three years ago...and again today and not calling you in between?
david		I swear to God I didn't have your number. I swear on my parents' graves.
elise		 You really are smooth.
david		That's not fair.
elise		It's okay. I like it. I probably shouldn't, but I do.
richardson		Tell me you're kidding. How could our Path-analysis miss this? McCrady just shakes his head, mystified... Richardson walks to the closet and pulls out his fedora:.
richardson		'rlhek,e are they now?`
mccrady		Central Park. Bethesda Fountain.
elise		I read somewhere you're running again.
david		I haven't announced yet but... soon.
elise		I hope I had a little something to do with that.
david		That concession speech I gave sure did. You had everything to do with that. Elise smiles.
david		You know entirely too much about me given how little I know about you.
elise		According to Cosmo I'm supposed to keep it that way.
david		According to Maxim, I'm supposed to "maintain eye contact and ask you what you do for a living." It's the first witty comment h6' :s made this time around. He's just barely starting t6'loo`en up.
david		Oh..
elise		Not like that, you pervert. In a dance company. The. Manhattan Modern Ballet.
david		I think you have the wrong idea about me.
elise		I think it was the first thing that crossed your mind.
david		Is there a performance of this company coming up that I could watch?
elise		Actually, we have a show opening tomorrow night.
david		I'm there. You hungry yet?
elise		Yeah...
david		We could wait an hour and call it lunch.
elise		I bet lines like that work wonders with the "dancers" you normally hang out with.
david		So unfair...
waiter		Good morning. It's good to see you again,.sir.
david		Thank you. You're...  Paul, right? De...Santo?
waiter		Wow, yeah. How did you remember that? It's been a year.
richardson aide		Morris is on the artistic director. Melton is on Charlie Traynor.
richardson		This whole thing will be over in an hour.
mccrady		 We may not have that long.
richardson		What?
elise		How do you do that? I can't remember the names of people I just met.
david		 David.
elise		Right.. Thanks_.'
mccrady		Her decision tree is diverging from our models.
mccrady		No, something is wrong. I'm already seeing inflection points. Off Richardson's surprised look--
elise		Ballet is basically impossible to do correctly.
david		Why?
elise		You just do absurd things. with your body. The movement is completely unnatural. It requires incredible strength in all sorts of random muscles. And you have to be born with ridiculous amounts of flexibility in your hip or you'll never be an y good.
richardson		What's that?
mccrady		If they kiss...
mccrady		A real kiss. But once they do that every possible adjustment that's strong enough to break them up will cause ripples over your limit.
richardson		If Melton and Morris do their jobs right we'll be okay. But Richardson is clearly worried.
elise		In the history of ballet there've only been a handful of people who actually did ballet the way it's supposed to be done. Forme that just made it completely addictive.
david		Do you ever get nervous when people watch you?
elise		Not really. Do you get anxious when you make 'a speech?
david		I get more anxious alone in my apartment than in front of an auditorium full of people. Everything's backwards for me.
richardson		 Nice work.
david		How did you find me?
charlie		Does it matter?
elise		Your speech?
charlie		He's announcing today.
elise		At the speech?
david		It's okay.
charlie		What's okay? It's not okay. The one thing you can't be this. time around is impulsive. That's why we're announcing the way we are,
elise		God, don't skip this for me.
david		I told you I'm not letting you out of my sight.
charlie		David, what the hell?
david		 Come with me. Come and watch.
charlie		 Great. Perfect solution. Now, let's pay and get you over there. Charlie waves the waiter over to give them the check.
elise		Now?
charlie		The speech is in 30 minutes.
elise		I can't then.  They just moved my dress rehearsal to noon. David's own sixth sense kicks in. Has he been discovered?
david		We can reschedule the speech.
elise		David!
elise		I'll meet you right after the rehearsal.
david		Where does your company perform?
elise		We're n in our space. There was a`;power ot outage or something.  We're using a space" on Murray and West Broadway today.
charlie		You can literally walk there after the speech. David nods, his suspicions fading.
mccrady		The "four blocks" thing was a brilliant move, boss.
richardson		 We're not out of the woods yet. He looks down at the inflection points in McCrady's Planbook.
david		Okay. David and Elise stop to say goodbye to-each other.
elise		You know, the speech on election night, you said I inspired you... I wish I could do that again now.
david		just want to
david		Thanks. Thanks a lot. David turns back to Elise.
charlie		I'm wrangling him right now--
david		Whatever happens...I'm not going to let anything stand between us this time. It's such an odd thing to say, if you don't know what David has gone through. She gives him a quizzical look. But she's also moved by his,tone
elise		Okay.:.. I believe you. Of course I tend to believe in the wrong people. Especially men. It's the kind of quip that's more truth than jest.
david		Not this time. He leans in to kiss her--
david		I'll see you in two hours.
mccrady		We're okay...
richardson		That was way too close. What the hell is going on with this case?
david		What?
charlie		I've just never seen you like that. David can't possibly explain.
charlie		"I'm going to-postpone my announcement to have brunch with a woman?" Postpone any speech. I know she made an impression on you but this is ... Charlie just shakes his head, unable to comprehend. A beat.
charlie		"What is it about her?
richardson		Richardson. Yes, sir. Believe me, it was a surprise to me too. But I think we have it under control.
lauren		Oh, you're clone. You're gone...
david		.I'm here today to honor that, and to announce my intention to run for the United States Senate...
lauren		Just tell me if he disappears one more time you'll never take his call again.
elise		Don't worry. That's definite.
charlie		Good Morning America at 7am tomorrow, then you have the bankers group... David, are you listening? David's staring out the window. The sunlight has caught the building across the street just right to illuminate Richardson and McCrady on the second floor.
richardson		D` emit ! Richardson-steps back out of the sunlight.
richardson		Get out of the sunlight. McCrady, notices David looking, jumps back out of the light.
david		I have to see Elise now.
charlie		After you go back out there and talk to the New York channels--
david		Tomorrow. After GMA. He heads for the door. Charlie follows.
charlie		No, we need this on the nightly-- (catching up to David and
charlie		Every time we get close.. .you do something to derail it. A beat. There's a truth to that. David knows it. But--
david		This is different. Trust me, it's different. David leaves.
david		Elise ...I doubt you'll ever get this message but--
david		Can I have the number for the Manhattan Modern Ballet...
mccrady		He's going to go next door:. Just then David exits the furniture store and goes next door to a clothing store--
mccrady		You can't keep.-thephones and internet down on the whole block, for too much. longer without running into ripple problems...
david		Do you have a phone book?
jump cut		David gets to the phone book page that ends with "Manhattan Mobile Phone Company." The next page is torn out. David slams his fist down.
richardson		There is an entire world of women out there. I thought I made it clear this one was off limits. David takes off walking.
david		I must have forgotten. It's been a while.
richardson		Doesn't change the fact. David looks around, trying to figure out his next move.
david		Why are you so.determined to keep us apart?
richardson		You know: why.
david		The Plan? If there is a Pi ri you misread it.
richardson		There's no misreading what the Plan says about you and Elise. It's unequivocal.
david		Then your Plan's wrong.
richardson		Do you realize who wrote this Plan?
david		I don't care. Richardson grabs him and pushes him against a brick wall.
richardson		Well you should. You need to learn a little more respect. David shoves him off. Looks like he might take a swing at Richardson. Then his eye catches the complex diagram that McCrady is looking at in his Planbook.
david		Why are you keeping us apart?
richardson		Because the Plan calls for it.
richardson		That was chance. That wasn't us.
david		Three times? Bullshit! If I'm not supposed to be with her then why do I feel like this?
richardson		It doesn't matter what you feel. It matters what's in black and white. David's ready to explode: at him when he sees something in Richardson's eyes. David stops.. .then his whole expression changes...
david		You don't know, do you? You don't know why they're keeping us apart...
david		You're in a nice suit but the reality is you're just a minion aren't you? David pushes past Richardson and walks into a busy restaurant. McCrady quickly consults his Planbook.
mccrady		He's deciding how to--
richardson		Son of a bitch.
mccrady		He's smart. He's very smart. David exits the restaurant from another door. He hurries toward West Broadway.
richardson		Maybe you should try the subway. David holds him in a steely gaze.
david		I don't care what you put in my way, I'm not going to give up. David walks off, leaving Richardson standing there.
mccrady		You've got two more minutes keeping taxis off West Broadway before--
david		Jesus:.,  Is this how far you people will go?! He rushes toward the accident--
are		An hour later. Four police cars and an ambulance. They treating one of the accident"s victims for minor scrapes ]avid is getting intervie,ved by a police officer.
police officer		Unfortunately you're the only witness, Congressman.
david		How much longer?
police officer		A few more minutes. I'm sorry. I know you have to meet somebody.
david		I didn't say I had to meet anyone.
police officer		Well ...I just assumed--
richardson		Amateur! That's an amateur's mistake!
david		You're not a real cop, are you? You're one of them. Somebody could have been killed in that crash! Doesn't that make you--
david		Sergeant! He goes to the highest ranking guy on the. scene.
david		I know you heed a statement from me, but do I have to stay here to give it to you or--
sergeant		No, sir, we know ow to get in touch with you.
david		17th Street between 10th and 11th. And sir, you might have to break some traffic laws getting there. So take this. He hands him a $100 bill. A light that just turned green
david		Go through that-- The driver blows through it as it turns re
richardson		I want more red liUhtss--
mccrady		 There are too many, ripples in the system.. Cumm.lative effects are. coming into play.
richardson		A traffic jam.
mcc		That's even w r. We have to get more localize. Richardson looks at the taxi disappearing up Hudson.
richardson		He's getting out of range!
chef		Hey!
richardson		What?
receptionist		Is she expecting you? He nods.
lauren		I hope you realize how lucky you are. I'm the friend. Lauren.
richardson		Can 'I block the front door?
nccrady		He's already through Pit.
lauren		It goes without saying that I'll kill you if you hurt her.
mccrady		 There are several next ones--
mccrady		Wait, he's--
mccrady		Hat! Hat! McCrady is behind him He points. at Richardson's fedora, which is on the sidewalk. Fell off when he ran. Richardson sprints to grab it--
david		I'm in serious trouble here...
richardson		Dammit ! McCrady's phone buzzes. He pulls it out and looks at the caller ID.
richardson		Celebrate while you can. They'll just kick it upstairs now You have no idea what you're up against. David just looks at him. He'll deal with that when it comes...
mccrady		Sir? Richardson grabs the phone and answers --.going outside to talk. David turns back to the dance studio. He opens the door to get an unobstructed view of Elisee,. She spins, arches, dips. David can't take his eyes off hey` When the artistic director pauses the routine to give notes, Elise gives David a. little wave. Then they start again. David looks back out at Richardson on the street, but he's gone..
david		You're incredible. How did you get that good?
elise		It's all I do. It's the only thing I ever wante& to be. And I started young.
avid		How young?
elise		By third grade I was going every day after school.
david		That's a lot of motivation for an eight year-old. She waves to the other dancers and receptionist in the lobby and they exit on to--
elise		We moved around a lot then. Dance was kind of my stability.
david		Sure... it was the only constant in your life, aside from your parents...
elise		Really more the dance. She doesn't make a big deal of it but we get it.
david		Oh... David's phone buzzes. Caller ID shows it's Charlie.
elise		I take it this is an unauthorized social break.
david		I'm a candidate for the US-:Serrate. I don't have to punch out''when I leave. David sends the call to voice.mai
elise		Charlie?
david		Couple houtrs while I'm out of touch won't:ill him.
elise		Couple hour, huh? Well, we better make them,,-,--'count.
elise		What's it look like? We see the reflection of a dance club in the window.
david		I'm a terrible dancer. I don't dance. Elise climbs out. David follows.
elise		You don't now. By the end of the night, you will.
david		You're going to teach me to dance in one night? Not happening.
elise		Are you doubting me?
david		Yes. She spins and shoves him against the wall. Forcefully kisses him. Then pulls free.
elise		Don't. She turns and walks into the club. David stands there.
david		Holy shit...
donaldson		The disciplinary rules requ-te me to. demote you in rank and re-assign yot to a less desirable post. Donaldson ingers the document he just signed.
donaldson		I'm going-'to interpret those rules loosely. I'm going to go easy on you because,I feel the deck was stacked ,against you. In a WIDER shot we see that both Burdensky and Donaldson's AIDE sit nearby.
donaldson		I'm talking about the intense chemistry between them, the constant inflection points, and the kicker of course: you pulling them apart only to have "chance" put them back together. Twice. That seemed impossible. So I asked Burdensky to do some research this morning, which he just completed.
burdensky		It seems like these two were meant to be together because they were meant to be together...
richardson		What?!
burdensky		Were, in the past, in an earlier version of the plan. Actually a dozen earlier versions.
david		Serious, serious.trouble...
moments later		Salt, Patron, lime .'-.and two glasses dotin on the bar.
elise		Ready? Nope.
elise		Perfect. She yanks him onto the dance floor.
richardson		Why was it changed?
donaldson		Something important. They went from "meant to be together" to "red- letter denied relationship" in a single Plan revision a few years back. As for why, specifically, that's apparently above even my pay grade...
richardson		You spend your whole career hoping that one day you'll get a "red- letter" case. Something you can really make a name for yourself with. Finally I get one... and it's. .booby-trapped...
elise		Okay, we've al-ready used up an hour, we >etter hurry. She pills him toward the exit.
david		Hurry where?
elise		You've got to let yourself feel the music.
david		I've been told I have trouble feeling.
elise		Whoever said that hasn't seen you speak.
david		That's different. I mean--
elise		What?
david		In private. With women AlthOugh that might be changing. Is there any style of dance you can:'t do?
elise		Next stop, the best 80s club in the city. You ready?
david		To make an ass of myself for the third time in one night? 4`r, 6'.
elise		No rules.
david		Hmmm, could get ugly... He looks down an alley as if he's noticed something. When she looks, he takes off like a bat out of hell--
elise		You bastard! He's got a good lead, so he flips around and runs backwards.
david		Quit complaining and run. She catches up. He spins and digs it out. He can't dance, but he sure can run. He pulls away and wins.
david		Yes!!!! He pumps his arms in a victory dance.
david		You said "no rules". She punches him in the stomach. Hard. He crumples, completely unprepared for it.
david		You're insane.
elise		We. need a cab. He'laughing through the'pain.
david		I'm serious. You're a maniac. You should come with a warning label.
elise		I do. You just can't see it with my clothes on. OFF David biting his lip... and PRE-LAPPING the music--
david		Doesn't this song make you feel like you're at your high school prom?
elise		I was six when it came out. So, not really. Brutal. David just shakes his head and smiles as, she pulls him to the dance floor.
music		Baby...1-I-I can't wait--
strobe lights		As the song kicks in and David and Elise start dancing... A couple of kids next to them notice David and start pointing and signaling their approval- The kids who first spotted David have alerted a few others. More people in the crowd cheer him on.
donaldson's aide		So we're going operational? This is exciting. It's been a while.
donalds		We r t no ti go p etational No one ever.mad& to my job by taking stupit ris,s .
donaldson's aide		Thompson? Are we even allowed to go to him directly? He's a Senior
donaldson		Exec VP.
donaldson's aide		Isn't he the one.. .when he was in the field his nickname was--
donaldson		"The Hammer?" Yes. He'll crush this romance with the flick of his hand. And he'll thank me for giving him the opportunity.
strobe lights		David and Elise dancing.
music		Cause I can't wait,. this .is what I've been waiting for-- People on the dance floor are literally screaming in support.
elise		You grew up over there? She indicatesa residential area just behind the docks.
elise		What were you like as a. kid?
david		Before sixth grade I spent about half my time in the principal's office.
elise		You? Really?
david		The only person who spent as much time down there as me was a girl I had a huge crush on so I didn't mind too much.
elise		 Did your dad work here?
david		No... My dad filled vending machines.
elise		And you're going to be a senator...
david		After my brother died my Dad wanted to get me out of town for a while. We went to Washington and the day we arrived he took meto the. Capitol. We ended up sitting in the Senate gallery;,all day.  We could see that from the end of my block, but-be never once encouraged me to go to Wall Street. His idol was JFK. He thought business guys were selfish.
elise		So...areyou doing all this-:f.or him?
david		I want to matter. I don't think that's just forrhim. Elise,. tucks her head into his shoulder.
elise		I don't want tonight to mess anything..up for you, for the campaign.
david		Just make sure I make it to Diane Sawyer on time and I'll be fine. Elise looks at him for a long beat.
elise		You're different... somehow you make me believe...
david		Believe what?
elise		Just... believe, period.
elise		 I don't let people in, David. And I never let them in this quickly. David pulls her close., He-,can't see her eyes. But we can. She's struggling with something more...
elise		I haven'::t lead a perfect life
david		I. don't want perfect.,.
david		I haven't stopped thinking about you since the moment I met you. I want you in my life--
elise		There are skeletons in my closet, David. The kind that--
david		Listen to me--
elise		The kind that people use against--
david		Elise, listen! I don't care. We'll work it out... I've spent my whole life wondering why it takes auditoriums of people to fill the empty space inside me. Then I met you...and realized it doesn't. She looks at him. He means it.
elise		You scare me.
david		 That wasn't the effect I was going for... She smiles...then laughs out-loud--
thom bon		Let it happen again. 7 Thompson's aides seem surprised by the answer.
david		You been up long?
elise		No.
david		Did you wake up in. the middle of the night?
elise		Slept straight through.
david		I thought you never sleep through.
elise		I don't.
david		I won't hurt you. They kiss more... and then get swept up by it...
later		They lie in bed, post-coital, drained. Blissful. Until the phone rings. It's 6:17 am. Early for a call.
elise		Hello? :Why, are you calling?
david		What's wrong..
elise		That was my , ex. Adrian.
david		Oh... I didn't-- I guess we hadn't gotten to that stuff yet...
elise		He hasn't called since we broke up.
david		How long?
elise		Three months.
david		Was it serious?
elise		We were engaged.
david		What happened? Complete honesty.
elise		He left... David can feel this in the pit of his stomach now.
david		What an idiot.
elise		You don't know me that well yet. You're still in the wishful thinking phase.
david		But it was:h'ard to leave.
elise		H& knew what buttons., tb push.
elise		David... . It's not... It's over between us. Completely over...I want to be clear about that. I'm pretty sure yesterday was the most perfect day I've ever had.
david		Me too. David looks at the clock.
david		I have this Diane Sawyer interview.
elise		I know. So did that. They look at each other. Then David reaches for his clothes--
elise		Can I come? My dress rehearsal's not until nine. David's face lights up.
elise		I'm afraid if I let you out of my sight. . .you know...I might never see you again... A smile creeps across his face...
diane sawyer		You've overcome enormous obstacles in your life and risen to-such heights so quickly... People are fascinated by you.
david		Only people who haven't spent enough time with ' me to know the 'truth.
diane sawyer		As a speaker and politician you've been repeatedly compared to JFK.
david		By my campaign manager mostly.
david		With a childhood friend. So I don't think that counts. And, truthfully, that's how we celebrate things we're I'm from.
diane sawyer		 Let's just say you have a habit of getting into the press for...other uniquely human things as well--
david		that a euphemism, Diane? She laughs.
diane sawyer		Most politicians...
david		I think Americans are tired of electing automatons whose every word and move is stage-managed so as not to offend anyone. I think they want somebody who doesn't hide who he is or what he really believes. I guess I'm hoping they want to elect someone who's actually like them.   But I could be very wrong about that.
diane sawyer		And if you are?
david		You'd be surprised at the number of underwear companies that have approached me to be their spokesman. Diane bursts out laughing. The floor techs are laughing too.
abc id		Ma'am, Congressman Norris asked me to give you a message. We MOVE UP from his ID to REVEAL that the man is another one of Thompson's aides.
diane sawyer		 They're saying your girlfriend -- can we call her that? Is this one going to last more than a month?
david		You can call her that. And yes. Definitely. David is looking at a text from Elise as he speaks. It says: "I want to go to bed with you."
diane sawyer		They're saying she's getting a tour of the control room in studio C. Can somebody take Congressman Norris to studio C? Thompson's aide signals David to follow him. David does. They walk through a couple thick doors into the corridor.
david		God dammit!
voice		If people could hear you out there it wouldn't be a very good soundstage, would it? David turns to see Thompson, in the now familiar dark suit and fedora.
thompson		My name's Thompson.
david		What happened to Free Will?
thompson		Who said anything about Free Will? David stares back at him.
thompson		You know, we actually tried Free Will before. After taking you from hunting and gathering to the height of the Roman Empire we stepped back to see how you'd do on your own. You gave us the Dark Ages -- for five centuries -- until finally we: decided we should come back in.
david		You expect me.'to believe that?
david		If you're in control of the important things then you're incompetent cause when I look around at the world these days it seems pretty fucked.
thompson		It's still here. If we'd left things in your hands, it wouldn't be.
david		Why are you trying to keep me from Elise? Or are you just another lackey who doesn't really know? Thompson studies David for a long beat. Then decides it's time to level with him.
thompson		We put Elise in front of you three years ago to inspire you to, .g `ve that speech -- the speech that pulled you back from the brink of oblivion and, overnight, itiade.you the front runner for this coming election. The intervention on Charlie was to prevent the hedge fund you had just become vice chairman of from going belly up in the sub-prime=crisis, bringing two major banks down. with it, arid in , the process making you unelectable. David blinks. Tries to, process this... : .bAVID Are you s aying you warit me to win this election?
thompson		You can matter, David. Really matter. What you wanted your whole life. What your father wanted when he took you to the Senate gallery when you were ten. What your brother wanted when he made you promise, the day before he overdosed, that you wouldn't be like him.
david		Stop. Don't tell me this.
thompson		Why do you think you have that yearning to be in front of people. . .and that terrible emptiness when you're not?
david		Stop.
thompson		David you are meant to change the world. But that doesn't happen if you stay with her.
david		Why does it matter to you who I love? Some skeleton of hers `is so bad I won't get elected? I don't believe that!
thompson		It's not about her-:..it's about you, what being with her does to
da id		Stop. Just: stop.
thompson		David, the president can't be a
david		Stop talking. It's not working.
thompson		Why do you refuse to accept what should be completely obvious by now? You've seen what we can do. You can't doubt we are who we say we are.
david		I don't care who you are. I don't care who's orders you're following.
thompson		You can't outrun your fate, David.
david		Who said anything about running.
thompson		Maybe we should just reset you.
david		We both know if you could have we wouldn't be standing here having this conversation... Thompson stares back. He's never dealt with such temerity...
thompson		You fight us, we will take everything from you.
david		You already did once.' And I'm still standing...
thompson		You'd still be living in caves if it weren't for us.
thompson		It's 6:20. If you leave now, you'll make Elise's show. David's eyebrows go up. Huh? Thompson is letting him go?
david		What do you want?
thompson		There's one more piece to all this I haven't told you. I guess I didn't have the heart. If you stay with her, it doesn't just kill your dreams, it kills hers.
david		What?
thompson		Elise is about to become one of the most famous dancers in the country... and eventually one of the greatest choreographers in the world.
david		I don't believe you. I thought we already established that. A beat.
thompson		When you look back at all this, David, just remember, we tried to reason with you. Thompson gets up and leaves...just as the lights go down for the next dance. David watches him go...then turns around just in time to catch Elise's entrance into the dance -- a graceful jump. When she lands, her ankle cracks, and she falls. The audience gasps. INSERT: a floor board tilted oddly. It goes back to normal. FIND THOMPSON: His hand slightly outstretched. THE AUDIENCE instantly knows something is wrong. David jumps up and runs down to the.: stage door. A dancer comes from off stage and helps Elise off the floor as the show continues.
elise		If it's broken...my career's over.
david		Don't say that. Don't.
thompson		I always hear people saying "you yourself for what can't bla M4' hpens fih other people," but in this case, really, you can. David stands up... . and punnhesThompson in `the face. h T ompson is knocked onto his ass. People in the waiting room stare at David. Almost everyone here knows his fade. He looks at them, unable to summon his usual wit.
thompson		This is what you do, David.
elise		How bad is it? The surgeon turns to her with a classic doctor's detachment:
thompson		You're an educated man. You've read the Greek tragedies`. In the end Fate always wins... David looks back at him in steely silence.
thompson		It a sprain.
david		Really?
thompson		This time.
thompson		Walk away. If you truly love her, walk away. She'll hate you for it...but that way she'll be able to let you go quickly. You can give her that at least.
elise		It's a sprain! It's just a sprain! David gives her a tight hug.
elise		It's going to be okay. The doctor said it would heal in' a month. . .maybe even less.
david		You're going to: be fine.
elise		They want to do an MRI...to assess the ligament. damage but.: -. They break from them hug.
david		It's; going to be fine. And as incredible of a dancer as you already are, yot're just going to get better and better... DavidV;embraces her again, so she won't see the tears welling in his eyes.
david		I...I have to go make a few calls. His voice cracks. Elise notices.
elise		You okay?
david		I'm just...happy for you...
thompson		You're doing the right thing, David. Not just for her, and the world. . .but for yourself. David looks at him for a beat, then turns and walks away into the night.
charlie		How's he doing?
campaign aide		They still love him... Papers? The aide hands Charlie a stack of papers: three local papers, the Times, the Journal, and the three big NYC tabloids.
charlie		Thanks.
follow david		As he makes his way, towards the diner'f-tom the parking lot, shaking handb and allowing his picture to be taken.
david		I'm started.
charlie		I'm going to show you this because you'd find out eventually and because I want to be here when you do. Charlie turns the Arts section around for David to see it. Elise's photo has a noticeable impact on David. He glances at the article for a moment. Then Charlie points down near the bottom, at a particular
charlie		David?  David?
david		I think I need... I...
charlie		Take a day off. Take a couple. We're sixteen points up.
david		Do you still serve neighborhood guys here or just the tourists? The bartender smiles big. A couple people at the bar notice him. Then others notice and they start whooping it up for him. He doesn't know any of them-but they sure know him.
david		Why are you here? REVERSE to REVEAL Harry, in a suit and raincoat.
harry		I would have come earlier but I had to wait for the rain.  Water interferes with their ability to sense your decision tree. That's why we met on a boat last time.
david		About what?
david		Why, then? Why do they care so much?
harry		8ecause.,..she's enough, David. If you have =her r tau rtt .ght not need to fill the d side you with votes and ataplause'and dreams of one day becoming p sident... if Harry has:looked straight into David's soul.
harry		I've watched you a long time. They're right to want you in the White House. It would be good for the world. That's important but it can't be the only thing that matters.
david		Why are you so different than they are?
harry		You know, your Dad was a smart man. He could have been a lot more -- and he wanted to be. So did your brother. But the Plan didn't call for that. This hits David hard.
harry		In my job, you implement the Plan...
david		My mom?
harry		That wasn't me... that wasn't us at all. David takes all this in. After a;long be t he takes a drink. Then he offers the bottle to Harry, who h a esitates, then takes a drink as well.
david		When Thompson told methe choice as Elise or the White House I barely hesitated.
harry		The public loves you.
david		Before I met Elise that was all that mattered. Now I hardly notice. She's all I think about.
harry		Front of a judge. Tomorrow morning.
david		Is she happy with him? Tell me she is and I'll walk away.
harry		Thompson won't let you get near that courthouse.
david		Harry... is she happy?
harry		No. A beat.
david		Will you help me: Just help me get to her...
hardy		They'll sense )tOu coming a mile away.'
david		What if Icould move as fast as you can?
harry		What do you mean?
david		Teach me about the doors.
harry		How do you know about that?
david		The first day, after they caught me, they carried me through one.I thought it was a hallucination at first. Eventually I realized it's how you move around so fast.  If you don't want to help me because of what they'll do to you...okay, that's your choice. But if this is about protecting me then shouldn't the choice be mine?
harry		Do you have any idea how complicated it is to navigate through those doors... how many thousands of permutations there are in even a simple several block journey?
david		You know, when I do town hall meetings I usually get introduced to forty or fifty people between when I walk, through' the door and when I start speaking. But when I'm done with the speech I can call on each one of them by `game. A beat...
harry		I've seen you do that  The rain is supposed to stop in the nexthou'r. We're going to need all night to do this. And we're going to need aplace surrounded by water to do it.
moments later		Harry and David stand outside a door to a dock office at the end of the pier. Harry dons his hat.
harry		Put your hand on my shoulder. And don't let go until we've crossed the threshold.
david		Are they ever locked?
harry		Maybe if you have a defective hat. They step through the door and onto--
harry		Hurry. Harry runs David to the front dooraf a brownstone. Opens the door. They move through i into--
harry		We're underneath Canal Street, which c as ,,A canal before rt, was a street. This is the jcity's':pumping station for downtown Manhattan. We're ten blocks from the courthouse.
elise		Floor open?
receptionist		 You okay, sweetie?
elise		I just feel like being on the floor.
receptionist		Everything still on for tomorrow? Elise nods, trying to cover her ambivalence.
harry		Lower Manhattan is a nightmare. Layer upon layer of substrate -- that's what we call the system of doors -- has been added over time. That makes it a lot more complex to navigate down here than it is uptown. And a lot slower. Harry dumps out several hundred photos of doors, interior and exterior, all below Canal Street.
harry		You ready?
david		Let's go. Harry smiles and hblds,.up a photograph of.the Manhattan County Court Building in Foley Squa:e:.
harry		Your destination. Courtroom Six.
david		 North Moore St. Just south of the coffee shop... Red door. I come out on Broadway, near Leonard St. Harry looks at a photo of what David just described.
harry		Good. Keep going.
david		(eyes closed, trying to
harry		Thompson's there.
david		Okay ...so...  I hightail it East-to Lafayette no, it's Crosby Street there. INT. DANCE COMPANY -- Nit;HT Elise dances.
harry		one wearing a hat Is. a threat. vv1Le. h e rea lizes w hat' = g oin g on , Thompson is gong to pull out all the stops. H going to get reinforcement Jots of them. I don't care if u'see a auv wearing a Yankees ca a"yarmulke, or a bowler, as he's working for them.
david		I'd knock the Yankees cap off his head and go through the door before he has a chance to pick it up... A thinsmile forms on Harry's face and grows...
harry		Good... good... improvisation. We have trouble with that...
david		How am I doing?
harry		Don't get cocky. You know ten permutations out of ten thousand. Get back to work.
montage		Harry drilling David with photd'after photo of Manhattan doors INTERCUT with Elise dancing ...until she finally quits from physical and emotional exhaustion.
harry		Yourbrain can only put so much in at once. Take- a brreak. Da :} , nods. His eyg6,0s' to: Harry' s leather Planbook. He btio#ts to it -- a question: can he look at it., Harry opens tt up to a page in the middle. David's eyes look over the impossibly complex circ$t diagram.
david		Could I ever learn to read that? Harry shakes his head. Impossible.
david		No matter how hard I tried?
harry		For the same reason you can't breathe underwater or flap your arms and fly. You're not built to do it.
david		 Is that me?
harry		Elise. Her decision tree. What it was a few hours ago, before the rain, before we were down here. David looks at it, then looks away.
david		I want to ask you what it says.. .what she's thinking.. .bit somehow that feels ...wrong.
harry		You know what she's thinkin-g,'David -- as much as you need to know. The rest ...well...you're`built to feel that.
harry		ready to get back to work? Sometl`ing about that strikes Harry...
harry		Your father used to say that. Off David's reaction--
david		The fastest path is getting to the blue door right off the bat...
harry		But you're exposed the whole way there. It's a lot riskier than leapfrogging through doors--
david		But if I can make it...I'.Il have caught them completely bysurprise.
harry		Assuming you make it.
court registrar		Do you have your license? Adrian hands her his marriage license.
court registrar		Is your fiancee here?
adrian		Getting out of a cab downstairs. The registrar glances at the license to make sure it's in order. Then stamps it: "Judge Williams, Docket #23".
court registrar		Courtroom Six.
harry		You got lucky. It's raining again.
david		The marriage is scheduled for ten minutes from now.
harry		You can't jump the gun on this,,.. Getting there too early is almost as bad as getting there too late. Harry looks at his updated Planbook and consults his watch.
harry		It ',.t time. David breathes a sigh of relief. Harry takes the hat off h1znrhead wand hands it to -David.
david		I'm going for the blue door.
harry		Of course... MUSIC CUE .
harry		Run fast.
thompson's aide		It was a momentary flash, and given the weather we can't be sure, but it looks like Mr. Norris may be--
adrian		Hi, honey.  You okay?
elise		Just a little queasy.
adrian		Why?
elise		I'm not sure. Nervous... I just need a minute in the bathroom.
thompson		Cars! Cars! From here it's faster in the cars!
thompson		 Where is heribw?!
thompson's aide		Whoa!
thompson		What? Thompson's Aide is speechless as he stares at his Planbook.
thompson		What?
thompson's aide		He just went into the substrate... Off Thompson's reaction:
court clerk		Docket #22 please come forward The guy next to Adrian stands up. Adrian: throws a panicked look at Lauren.
adrian		We're next. Will you check on her?
new yorker		We all have emergencies, pal.
elise		Am I making the biggest mistake of my life?
elise lauren		 If you have doubts-- I'm okay.
elise		I'm just nervous. You haven't done this yet. It's overwhelming...
elise		I'm okay. I'm going to clean up. Tell Adrian I'll be right there.
security officer		Congressman! You left. your--
court clerk		Docket #23 please come forward. Adrian looks at Lauren. Stands. Motions urgently for Lauren to get Elise from the bathroom--
lauren		David?!
david		Where is she? Water drips from his clothes onto the marble floor.
lauren		You want to explain to me--
david		Hi...
elise		Why are you doing this to me? Just then the door bursts open. The suspicious man from the
elise		David!
david		You're not supposed to be weeping on your wedding day, Elise. Elise fights the emotion again welling inside.
david		You were never happy with Adrian. You told me that. Elise puts her head in her hands.
elise		This is so screwed up. Oh,-God..
david		I love you. I know I've acted strangely. But, I love you.
elise		Don't do this to me.
david		I've never felt anything like. this in my life.
elise		If you care 'so much, why the hell did you disappear on me in that hospital?
el se		What are you ha.d1 g from me? Why did you diS pp`ear " Again! You fucking bastard! Why? Tears are streaming down her face.
david		They'll reset me...
david		They'll scramble my brain--
elise		David, stop talking like this! Stop!
david		But at least you'll know the truth.
david		It's not in their "Plan" for us to be together. So they're trying to stop us.
thompson's aide		Oh myGod... He just revealed us.
elise		Stop talking like a crazy person. Stop making things up--
david		They said if we were together they'`d take dance from you and politic,s,from me. They hurt your ankle that night. They-- The door flies open again. David picks up a trash can and clobbers the fedora-wearing man who enters. He drops.
thompson		Call the Intervention Team! Tell them it's a square-one reset!
elise		Jesus.. .the cops are after you?! David grabs the shield and uses it to wedge the door closed. Kicks it in so it's jammed tight.
david		He's not a cop. He's one of them. Another body slams into the door now. But the shield holds it shut.
elise		Who's "them?" SLAM! SLAM! The door cracks--
elise		Jesus, David!. What's going on?! David is impossibly calm. He puts his hat back on.
david		I'm going to: show you. He takes Elise's hand, opens the bathroom door, and walks her across the threshold into--
david		Come on... We need to lose them. David walks her across the street and picks a door at random,
david		The rain slows them down but they can track us. We have two orthree minutes. Maybe less. Elise is still speechless. He takes her hand.
david		The ten year-old in me always mixed up winning elections with being loved. Then I met` you;,..
david		Now you know. Youknota everything. And you have to leave mitie.
elise		No.
david		You're not safe with me. If you
elise		It doesn't make any sense but, right now I feel safer than I've ever felt before.
elise		Every door? tavid nods...as they walk into another...
david		Let's go.
elise		We can't keep running forever,. David.
david		If they find us ...they'll take you from me.
elise		I won't let..them.
david		They'll take you from here. David touches his head'.
elise		No, I won't let them. She leans,-.over and kisses hi's forehead.
david		Perfect. David picks a door. It's locked. He tries another. It's
david		They're not supposed to be locked! David hears sounds coming from the building's central staircase. He looks down it to see four men in silver suits climbing up the stairs.
elise		This one's open! Elise is standing at the door to the roof. David runs to her and they go up the stairs together to--
elise		Kiss me. Tears well in her eyes. And his.
elise		Close your eyes and kiss me. He does. And they kiss in the rain...
elise		I love you, David Norris.
the chairman		Hello, David... Good morning, Elise. His voice is gentle, paternal.
david		Who are you?
the chairman		I think you know. David and Elise stand in awe'-'as they realize.
david		You can't oti{rn Fate... Tft , CHAIRMAN It's .more- complicated t,}an that, Fate am Free Will coexist They're;in tension with each other. And pure chance. A beat. David looks back at him...
david		And all the misery, all the pain...
the chairman		I sit up there and I watch it and it hurts me... . but if you could see the incredible courage people show, the random acts of kindness, the love... If you could see huitan beings choosing every moment every day to be better thAn'' I made them, you would know it's all worthwhile.
the chairman		Their case isclosed.
the chairman		Not anymc3e . David and Elise watc]i The Chairman walk away, still awed by what=they've just experienced. As He disappears around a corner, the sun comes out from behind the clouds ... After a long beat, Elise turns back to David, as if to say "what do we do now?"
david		Maybe we should go dancing. A smile slowly spreads across her face ...
****Dialogues from script :Adventures_of_Buckaroo_Banzai_Across_the_Eighth_Dimension.txt****

shooting script		Revised Third Draft March 30, 1983 Becherman/Canton-Richter
narrator		The advent of the Soviet nuclear capability ushers in a dangerous phase of the Cold War as the decade of the 1950s looms.  Stung by this Soviet challenge and the rapid race to develop ever more sophisticated weapons, the United States resurrects maverick Professor Toichi Hikita's work in electromagnetic particle acceleration...despite the dismal record of failure that has dogged the project.
narrator		Doctor Masado Banzai, preeminent Japanese quantum theorist, declares himself anxious to work for the Allies.  Enamored of the great American West, Banzai sires a precocious son and tags the tiny child "Buckaroo." A tribute to his adopted homeland.
narrator		And thus given a second chance after his secret pre-war laboratory disaster at Princeton, Doctor Hikita finds new life at the Texas School of Mines, where he assembles a team of crack scientists willing to gamble he's right in his bold assertion that man can indeed pass unharmed through solid matter.
narrator		Sir Alan Motley of Cambridge, a brainy, affable limey, co-developer with Whitehead and Lord Russell of the world's most advanced theoretical gravity catapult...
narrator		Dr. Sandra Banzai, Texas-born pioneer in Negative Mass Propulsion ...wife of Dr. Masado Banzai.
today		THIRTY YEARS LATER
general catburd		You're kidding. Where is he?  Still in the hospital?
general catburd		Banzai hasn't showed yet, Mr. Secretary. Looks like he's got cold feet.
perfect tommy		Better see what's keepin' the boss, Reno.
reno		Why me?
perfect tommy		'Cause I'm busy.  And get your clodhoppers off the UNIVAC.
nurse		Rawhide, it's for you.
rawhide		I'll ask him.  Buckaroo, I need an estimate.  They're getting antsy over at Mission Control.
buckaroo banzai		Another ten minutes down here, Rawhide.
rawhide		 The chief needs ten more minutes.  I got the chopper waiting.  Don't start without us.
tv anchorwoman		So where's Buckaroo?
perfect tommy		 Whadda you need Buckaroo for?
perfect tommy		Unscheduled surgery.  He'll be waltzing along momentarily.  What're you doing tonight?
tv anchorwoman		 Flying to Cambodia.
perfect tommy		That's why I wear a fifty dollar hat.  Was a two hundred dollar hat, I hadda kill you.
tv anchorwoman		Bet you say that to all the girls, Perfect Tommy.
perfect tommy		Bet I do.
star surgeon		Jesus Christ...how does the man find enough hours in the day?
rawhide		We help.
rawhide		Dr. Banzai's using a laser to fuse artificial nerve fiber to the original, bypassing massive stroke damage.  A subcutaneous microphone's gonna allow the patient to transmit verbal instructions to his own brain.
star surgeon		What, like "raise my left arm"?
rawhide		Or "throw the harpoon," depending on cultural differences. People are gonna come from all over. This guy's an Eskimo.
jewish physician		Okay...right...okay, I see...next time I'll be able to...
buckaroo banzai		There may not be a next time.
jewish physician		Look...I'm sorry...calling for help in the middle of an operation...but I just lost my nerve...I panicked...again.
buckaroo banzai		You've got the God-given tools to be a success in any field of endeavor, Dr. Zwibel.  Ever thought about joining me full-time?
buckaroo banzai		Can you sing?
mission control		All systems righteous.  Professor Hikita says we have to go.
general catburd		I've got a budget meeting on the hill, John.  What's this thing supposed to do anyway?
senator cunningham		Three hundred miles an hour, General.
general catburd		Senator, you are so fulla shit.
buckaroo banzai		Final contact is made.
general catburd		Too bad war ain't Indianapolis.  It's fast, I'll give Banzai that.
senator cunningham		Perhaps an idea whose time has come, General?  Scoot over.
general catburd		It'll never work.  It's too simple.
tv anchorwoman		Now twenty seconds downrange...Perfect Tommy, how on earth is Buckaroo able to keep that thing on the ground?
perfect tommy		She's just a damn road hugger, Allison.  Plus the man can drive.
general catburd		So what?  Big deal.  Anybody can drive fast in a straight line.
mission control		Advise you abort.  Over.  Repeat: advise abort.
buckaroo banzai		That's a big "no can do".
tv anchorwoman		The Jet Car off the road!  Radio contact with Mission Control here severed...that firestorm apparently interfering with communications...Buckaroo Banzai in serious trouble.
general catburd		Either that or he's popped his cookies.
mission control		Eject, Buckaroo! EJECT!
senator cunningham		Professor Hikita, what'd he say?
general catburd		Looks like Banzai's finally gonna get more than he bargained for.  And take the friends of the Earth with him.
mission control		It's off my scope!
general catburd		What the devil?  What is going on?!
helicopter newsman		 He's through it!  He's gone through the mountain without a scratch! Oh, my God!  Oh, my God in Heaven!
buckaroo banzai		Chute negative.  I'm gonna try and lay her sideways.
general catburd		This his frequency?  Nobody's home.
buckaroo banzai		See 'em?  They about had me and the whole damn car for breakfast. Broke my windshield...
general catburd		Creatures?  Buckaroo, Catburd here.  I got egg all over my face, but that's okay. No room for egos here.  We're all Americans and I wanna buy that thing of yours.  What's it gonna run me?
general catburd		I wasn't talking to you, Hikita san.
perfect tommy		She's not for sale, right, General?
doctor lizardo		 The Overthruster! The Overthruster!
doctor lizardo		 The Overthruster!
doctor lizardo		More!  More!
guard		Cheer up, Lizardo, it's Friday.  I come for your TV.  You been using too damn much juice...ten thousand kilowatts again this month.  Beats me how one old homicidal loony could use that much power.
doctor lizardo		I want my TV...don't take my TV...I want it.  I want the Overthruster. I want it.
rawhide		Five...four...three...two...one.
buckaroo banzai		I'm starving...somebody, help.
rawhide		Got a half a tuna sandwich.
buckaroo banzai		Same one you had yesterday?
buckaroo banzai		Smells fermented.  Check in with the Institute, Reno, see if everything's kosher.
reno		And there's a two-hundred-dollar deductible we have to eat on that crack in her windshield.
buckaroo banzai		Figures.  Anybody seen my scope?
perfect tommy		Coming right up, Buckaroo.
buckaroo banzai		Anybody we know?
perfect tommy		Who put this dirty picture in Buckaroo's viewer?
perfect tommy		Super performance organic material.
buckaroo banzai		 Too closely.  Gotta be more than sheer coincidence.  Rawhide, you're keen on bugs.  What do you think?
reno		Everything's copacetic at the Institute, Buckaroo.  Sam's with the Jet Car and she's under lock and key.  He's retiming her valves.
perfect tommy		Buckaroo, you got a minute--?
buckaroo banzai		Not really.  This is pretty important.
perfect tommy		She wants a picture.
artie duncan		I don't care who you are...when you play my joint, you're just another band. I want some music outta you characters.
buckaroo banzai		Everybody ready?  How do we look?  Do we look okay?
perfect tommy		I look great.  Let's rock 'n' roll.
rawhide		No question about it.  Something very akin to arachnoid tissue.  If I hadda guess?  A mutated species.
buckaroo banzai		I heard somebody crying.  I said is someone out there crying in the darkness?
penny priddy		Here...here at the back. I'm sorry...
buckaroo banzai		Raise your hand...where?
penny priddy		 This is so embarrassing...
buckaroo banzai		Somebody get her a mike? Can we manage that?  And a spotlight.  What's your name?
penny priddy		Penny.  I'd rather not reveal my last name or my age.
buckaroo banzai		Did you say..."Peggy"?
penny priddy		My name is Penny. Penny Priddy.  There I've said it, but it won't mean anything to you.  I'm a nobody.
buckaroo banzai		Nobody's a nobody.  Why're you crying?  What's wrong?
penny priddy		 Did I say anything was wrong? I just sponged up a little too much Vat 69, okay? I'm down to my last nickel in this lousy town, I can't get my luggage outta hock 'cause I met this jerk who said he was a record producer when all he had was a record.  He offered to set me up for life, and like a fool, well, I...
buckaroo banzai		He offered you money?
penny priddy		Do I look like that kinda girl?  I lost my room this morning.  I don't know where I'm gonna sleep tonight, but I keep going.  What the hell else can I do?  I've still got my figure, and like this bozo said, as long as there's a sidewalk, I'll always have a job.
buckaroo banzai		Remember it's always darkest just before the dawn.  Believe me, I've been there.
buckaroo banzai		This song's for Peggy.  And all you others out there a little down on your luck.
penny priddy		 My name's, Penny!  But who cares?
penny priddy		Let me go, let me go, you creeps...
buckaroo banzai		Everybody okay up here?
guard		Where do you think you're going, doc? The moon?
perfect tommy		Pick those up, Reno.
reno		I didn't drop 'em.
perfect tommy		It's a spittin' image.
perfect tommy		Pictures don't lie.
perfect tommy		It's Peggy to these eyes.  Same nose, same hair.  Plus Buckaroo thinks so too or else he wouldn't be ready to go make a fool of himself, right?
rawhide		Hot off the World Watch Wire, Buckaroo. Thought you'd wanna be notified. That old pal of the professor's, Dr. Emilio Lizardo?  The one you did the brain scan on--?  He killed a guard last night, broke outta the Trenton Home for the Criminally Insane, stole a Masarati, totaled it a block away.
buckaroo banzai		Then what?
rawhide		Vanished. Thin air.
perfect tommy		Doctor Lizardo. Wasn't he on TV once?
reno		You're thinking of Mr. Wizard.  This guy's an eccentric genius.
perfect tommy		Hey, so was Mr. Wizard.
rawhide		Dr. Lizardo's a raving lunatic, Perfect Tommy, a vicious psychopath with crazy eyes and flaming orange hair that once upon a time was mousy brown like yours.
buckaroo banzai		Have you warned Professor Hikita?
rawhide		First thing I did.
perfect tommy		 Why?  What's going on?  Anything I oughta know?  C'mon, Rawhide, spill it.
rawhide		The professor and Dr. Emilio Lizardo were actually the first to discover the Eighth Dimension.  Almost fifty years ago.  Before Buckaroo's parents even knew each other.  But there was trouble, a rocket catapult failed and Dr. Lizardo got sucked half in, half out...when they hauled him back ,he wasn't the same guy.  His hair was orange...
buckaroo banzai		And his soul black as the Ace of Spades.
rawhide		He went on a senseless crime spree, killed a cop during a bank robbery, got caught and judged insane.  The professor told us they threw away the key.
perfect tommy		Hey, any lock can be picked.  So what's he up to?
buckaroo banzai		I'm sure we'll find out soon enough.
rawhide		And another thing.  Somebody took five bucks outta petty cash without signing.
perfect tommy		Wasn't me.  I'd take a hundred, right?
buckaroo banzai		Doubt it.  Check NORAD command.  Could be a volcanic ash cloud.  Work her up statistically, check it for the next twenty-four hours, then shovel the data over to Reno.
buckaroo banzai		Sid, welcome aboard.  Fellas, meet a medical colleague, Sid Zwibel.  He'll be riding with us from now on, so get acquainted while I snoop around.
reno		The name's Reno.  This here's Perfect Tommy.
perfect tommy		Where do you hail from, Doc?
reno nevada		Where's your spurs at?
perfect tommy		Reno, how's about you take New Jersey's gear, mosey on over to the bus and introduce him to the rest of the hands.
reno		Why me?
perfect tommy		Cause Buckaroo needs me here.
reno		Follow me, pard'ner.
penny priddy		What're you doing here? Why're you looking at me like that?
buckaroo banzai		I guess 'cause you remind me of someone I once knew, long ago before any of this craziness.
penny priddy		Go away.  Let me rot?
buckaroo banzai		Who were you really trying to kill last night?
penny priddy		You.  Like the papers all say.
buckaroo banzai		Pretty terrible shot.
penny priddy		Was she pretty?
buckaroo banzai		Who?
penny priddy		The girl I remind you of.
buckaroo banzai		She was the Queen of the Netherlands.
penny priddy		It's kinda hard this way.
buckaroo banzai		I'd turn around, but I'm afraid you'd strangle me.
penny priddy		The Netherlands.  Whew, that's a long way from Wyoming.
buckaroo banzai		Wyoming? Not Cody, by any chance?
penny priddy		No.  Laramie.  Except I was born in Cody. How did you know that?  Oh, right, sure, I forgot: you know everything.
buckaroo banzai		No, I don't.
buckaroo banzai		Having a little trouble with that knot, aren't you?
penny priddy		Which?  The one in my throat.
buckaroo banzai		Did you have family there--? A sister?  In Cody?
penny priddy		I don't know. I always felt like I did, like there was another me...
buckaroo banzai		Another 'you'?
penny priddy		Somewhere.  See I was taken away by the Priddies when I was a baby.  I was adopted.
buckaroo banzai		Adopted.  I should have know. Of course. If it was a snake, it'd bit me!
penny priddy		What?  I don't understand you.  I don't understand anything anymore.
buckaroo banzai		Who does?  It's a crazy mixed-up world.  Just do the best you can with what you have...
perfect tommy		Running a little late, Buckaroo.
buckaroo banzai		Let her out. In my custody.
perfect tommy		Let her out?  She's a killer.
buckaroo banzai		No she's not.
buckaroo banzai		 I'm assigning a couple Blue Shields to protect you around the clock, just in case.
buckaroo banzai		Mr. Secretary...Senator Cunningham, ladies and gentlemen...thirty years ago, nearly to this day, my mother and father and Sir Alan Motley, all former colleagues of Professor Toichi Hikita at the Texas School of Mines, gave their lives for what was considered at the time an insane notion: the possibility of contacting alien life... not on another planet, but on a simultaneous plane of existence within solid matter...life which, before the war, Professor Hikita had actually glimpsed while pioneering a highly primitive gravity catapult with Doctor Emilio Lizardo.
buckaroo banzai		I don't wanna go get too technical here, ladies and gentlemen, but I'm talking twister physics.  Quantum Mechanics.  Now you see, now you don't.  This table I'm sitting behind?  It appears to be solid matter, right?
buckaroo banzai		But in point of fact, the solid parts of this table... the protons, quarks, your neutrons and electrons...they comprise only about one quadrillionth of its total volume.
buckaroo banzai		Exactly.  So the professor here, way back in 1937, figured that if solid matter is mostly empty space, a person oughta be able to discover a to travel inside things like tables.  And mountains.
buckaroo banzai		Which we all know are the forces that tend to pull objects part, right, professor?
penny priddy		Hey, better there than here, huh?
buckaroo banzai		The president of what?
buckaroo banzai		Is he still delirious?
penny priddy		Buckaroo, don't forget your thruster.
buckaroo banzai		You keep an eye on it.
penny priddy		Any time.
buckaroo banzai		Mr. President--?  Some kind of interference...I can't...
rawhide		Maybe it's just a prankster. Some computer whiz kid.
reno		Whoever it was they used the Blue Code, Alpha Clearance.
buckaroo banzai		 Go back to the bus and reroute the call.
rawhide		And try the President's private number at the hospital.  Make sure this is on the level. We're busy people here.
buckaroo banzai		Pencil!  Quick!  Pen!  Anything!
penny priddy		 I don't guess they matter.  It's like cheesecloth, I think.  Minkowiski space...
buckaroo banzai		There!  Those two!  Don't panic...
reno		Whadda you mean, Buckaroo?  Where?  What?
buckaroo banzai		Evil...pure and simple, from the eighth dimension! Grab 'em!
buckaroo banzai		Arachtoids! Stop 'em!
senator cunningham		Arachtoids?
john bigboot		Okay, wise guys!
john bigboot		Let those gun belts hit the floor! And nobody follows, or the prof is history!
penny priddy		Is this the kind of society you want?  A society of weak-kneed jellyfish wallowing in self-pity, prey to ruthless hoodlums who pick us off like flies?
senator cunningham		Or a society where we stand strong, take charge of our own destiny, with the cry "So far and no farther will we be pushed!"
exhibitor		Hey, you can't ride that!
perfect tommy		Any sign of Buckaroo?
reno		No!  Ditto the professor-
rawhide		Shit!
duck hunters		My God!  What the hell...
duck hunters		Jesus Christ--!  What is it?
john bigboot		A black thermopod here?  On Earth?!  Why, John Gomez?  Why?
john gomez		John Whorfin...maybe they know he's escaped!
john bigboot		 They know everything!  I told Whorfin to sit tight.  This could be the end of us all!  We gotta get Banzai's Overthruster and get off this rock!
john bigboot		Where was it, John O'Connor? How far back?
john gomez		Death to the enemy!
buckaroo banzai		Rawhide.  Come in.  Over.
rawhide		Over, Buckaroo.  What's up?  Where in Hades are you?  I'm getting a lotta static.
buckaroo banzai		That's me. I've been ionized, but I'm okay. I'm, switching on the homing beacon, mark two minute intervals.
rawhide		Buckaroo, somebody shanghaied the Professor!
buckaroo banzai		The deuce you say.  That crate!
rawhide		What crate?
buckaroo banzai		I think I'm on to something. You and the guys go back to the house and dig up everything you can on an outfit called Yoyodyne.
rawhide		 Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems?  You think they're mixed up in this?
penny priddy		How long you been riding with Buckaroo, Reno?
reno		Nigh on ten years.  Been through a lotta scrapes together.
penny priddy		What'd you do before?  Can I ask?
reno		Government work.  Had my own think tank.  Got tired of thinking-wanted some action.  Seen plenty of it too.  So will you if you stick around.
penny priddy		Where's Buckaroo?  Is he alive?
reno		Course he's alive.  He's Buckaroo Banzai.
rawhide		All right.  Let's go!  We got our work cut out for us tonight!
rawhide		You, too, Miss Penny.
john bigboot		No thanks, I'm driving.
highway patrolman		Hand me that tarp. Let's cover this guy...
john bigboot		John Bigboot, Officer. Executive Vice President, Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems.
john gomez		 One of our birds.
highway patrolman		That fella over there-that one of yours, too, is it?
john bigboot		The droid, you mean?
highway patrolman		Looks like nothing I ever seen. I seen droids in space movies, but they're nothing like this-
john gomez		It's a three-man thermopod...
highway patrolman		Thermopod?  What's a...
john bigboot		Very T.S.  Top Secret, right John Gomez?
highway patrolman		Yeah, well, I was gonna call Buckaroo Banzai out here to have a look. Right up his alley, I think.
john bigboot		You called Buckaroo Banzai?
highway patrolman		Not yet.  I said I was gonna.
highway patrolman		Go on!  Keep it moving!
john gomez		We got a truck on the way to mop things up for you.  Else this place could become a zoo, not to mention a haven for gawkers.
john bigboot		We'll just go ahead and start breaking it down.
highway patrolman		Don't touch it!  I got my own help on the way!  That's an order!
john bigboot		There's a crowbar in the truck.
buckaroo banzai		Careful...don't make noise and don't touch me.  I'm hotter than flapjacks.
buckaroo banzai		I'm a giant semi-conductor, and there's alien creatures all around us. Form the Eighth Dimension, I think.  Look...
buckaroo banzai		Ever since that phony phone call from the President.  Look at this. What is it?
buckaroo banzai		It's an antidote. A formula.  Whoever it was on the phone made me scribble this and gave me the ability to penetrate their disguises.
buckaroo banzai		Arachtoids.  From Planet Ten.
buckaroo banzai		 There's a Harley behind those bushes.  Get back to the laboratory and start working on the formula.  We don't have time to ask questions. Just synthesize it-
buckaroo banzai		Hurry!  Please.
highway patrolman		If you're gonna stay, you're gonna be under arrest.  It's your choice.
perfect tommy		Twelve minutes since the last signal. Long time.
rawhide		Too long.  We better get somebody over there.  Put up the grid, last known location--
perfect tommy		Done.
john bigboot		Open it!
scooter lindley		This is Scooter Lindley, Future Knight of the Blue Shield 411/2. Hang on!
scooter lindley		Dad! Dad! Buckaroo's in trouble!
casper lindley		Say what?!
new jersey		Trouble?
rawhide		Nah-Damn sophisticated equipment always breaking down.
penny priddy		What's his problem?
reno		Perfect Tommy's just threatened by smart women.  Can you play that thing?
penny priddy		Better than him.
highway patrolman		Whadda you think you're doing?  Hey!
highway patrolman		I said back off!  I mean it.  Now get in your car and get the hell outta here!
reno		She's not Peggy, Mrs. Johnson--
rawhide		Any word from Buckaroo?
brainy kid		Hi, fellas...gonna lay down some background vocals tonight?
rawhide		Wish life was so simple, Billy.  Remember that outfit the Justice Department checked into last year-Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems?
perfect tommy		You got her.  Buckaroo's orders: access their data bank.  Attack their systems.  Up to it?
billy		I'm a little short-handed tonight.  My phone phreaks went into town for the big ice cream social...
new jersey		So we'll help.  Let's get crackin'!
billy		Who're you?
john gant		Detonator set.  My most profuse apologies to my homeland and loved ones.  John Valuk is dead.  He fell on his head, but perhaps John Parker will get through!
highway patrolman		That's it, gentlemen, you're all under...
voice		Easy, friend-
casper lindley		Forgive the butterfingers, Buckaroo.  Casper Lindley, Knight of the Blue Shield, at your disposal.  And my son, Scooter.
buckaroo banzai		Nothing to apologize for, Casper.  You've gone beyond the call of duty tonight.  Mind if I get on the horn and radio the Cavaliers--?  They'll be worried.
buckaroo banzai		Not the famous Scooter....?
scooter lindley		Wow.  You know it.
pinky carruthers		The prof just rolled in.  Says he's on his way to the lab and "Do not disturb."
rawhide		Try a new cipher.  Try G.
new jersey		Nice work, kid.
reno		 The professor just pulled in, jabbering something about space monsters, locked himself in his lab.
perfect tommy		"Space monsters"...my ass.
penny priddy		What happened to her?
penny priddy		Any what?
penny priddy		What's up those stairs?
billy		This is queer...look...
new jersey		New Jersey?
reno		Looks like none of these guys ever lived anywhere else.  No places of birth.  And all of them with the same first name: John.
new jersey		November 1, thirty days have September, April, June, and November...when short February's done, all the rest have thirty-one. October 31st!  Halloween!  Don't you get it?  Orson Welles!
new jersey		Halloween. 1938..."War of the Worlds"...that fake radio news broadcast that got everybody scared, thinking that real live Martians were landing in Grover's Mill, New Jersey!  But then it all just turned out to be a hoax.
billy		Then that's it!
reno		What's it?
new jersey		Right!  Hoax my eye!
reno		You mean--?  No!
billy		Yes!  Martians!  Right across the river in Grover's Mills!
pinky carruthers		Hi, buddy, what can I do for ya?
john parker		Buckaroo Banzai?
pinky carruthers		You a messenger? What've you got here?
john parker		I need see Buckaroo Banzai in person. My name is John Parker. Identify yourself.
pinky carruthers		Knight Commander, Pinky Carruthers. Sorry, John, all these people "need see" Buckaroo in person.
sudden voice		That's as far as you go, pal.
sam		Okay, who's the funny guy?
john bigboot		John Whorfin will kill us!
john gomez		Professor Hikita!
buckaroo banzai		Is the professor here? Where's Penny?
buckaroo banzai		What? How do you know that?
rawhide		It's all on the record. Come on-
buckaroo banzai		Planet 10?  The same Planet 10 you postulated beyond Pluto, Perfect Tommy?  The invisible body?
perfect tommy		Yeah, but most of 'em blasted in through the Eighth Dimension in 1938 at Grover's Mills, New Jersey...
reno		...where there was some kinda giant crash landing, a huge explosion and they fooled Orson Welles into covering it up!  And then they founded Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems and hid there for...
buckaroo banzai		Orson Wells?  What about Doctor Lizardo?
perfect tommy		Lizardo caused it all.  Because he was already here on earth, screwing around with his own stupid Overthruster.
rawhide		Faulty design.  It sucked.
reno		...but he wasn't the real Doctor Lizardo...just this arachtoid creep that stole the good doc's body the year before in the Eighth Dimension when Prof. Hikita's lab exploded...
buckaroo banzai		Stole his body?  When Doctor Lizardo's hair turned red and his mind snapped?  Of course!  What else?
perfect tommy		It wouldn't tell us the whole story until you got here.  It wasn't to talk to the head honcho.
buckaroo banzai		It?  Who does?
hologram		Salutations, great Buckaroo Banzai.  I am John Emdall from Planet 10. A common grave danger confronts both our worlds.
buckaroo banzai		Will everybody please shut up so I can hear this thing?
pinky carruthers		"John Parker" I think he called himself, this Rasta man on a bike dressed up in aluminum foil.  With a weird album...how the hell was I supposed to know he came from outer space?
john emdall		And now, you, Buckaroo Banzai, have unintentionally helped John Whorfin further with your Oscillation Overthruster! For our intelligence warns us that John Whorfin is about to make good his escape from Earth back through the Eighth Dimension...and on to Planet 10! If he should attempt this we will have no choice but to disrupt worldwide electronic communications and fire a particle beam weapon from your airspace to Smolensk, in the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics.
perfect tommy		An action the Kremlin will most certainly misinterpret as an American first strike!
john emdall		Exactly, Perfect Tommy.  The Soviets will retaliate.  Your President Widmark will launch a massive counterforce strike...and within twenty minutes the danger to Planet 10 will be removed...
reno		God, if it's not one thing it's another.
john emdall		But...because we're good guys, we're giving you a chance to save your planet.  Stop John Whorfin before sunrise! If you fail we will be forced to help you destroy yourselves.  End of discussion.
buckaroo banzai		You wanna take the chance, Casper?
casper lindley		Not me. No way.
buckaroo banzai		Rawhide, go find out how Professor Hikita's coming with that formula. Mrs. Johnson, take Casper and Scooter, gas up the Jet Car.
scooter lindley		Wow, you know it!
reno		Where're you goin'?
buckaroo banzai		To get my guns.
perfect tommy		His guns?  Holy shit.
buckaroo banzai		Open up or I'll shoot it off.
penny priddy		I'll shoot yours off if I had a gun, you double-dealing Casanova!  I thought you liked me for myself.  But why should you, huh?  A jerk like me.
buckaroo banzai		Penny, look-
penny's voice		You look.  Who is she?
buckaroo banzai		That's kinda complicated to get into right now because the world's maybe coming to an end and I can't stand here and talk to a closet door.
penny's voice		Yeah, whose world is coming to an end?  You only wanted me because I remind you of her.
buckaroo banzai		Penny, I was going to get into that, but I haven't had time...with arachtoids and all...but briefly she was your long lost twin sister, we got married, and that's about all I can say.  Right now.  Penny?
penny priddy		Married--?  So that's it!  Buckaroo Banzai, a married man.  Where is she?  With the kids some place?
penny priddy		She must've been a bigger fool than me if she ran out on a guy like you...
buckaroo banzai		She was killed, Penny.
penny priddy		Oh, my.
buckaroo banzai		Don't go to pieces.  I haven't got time tonight.
penny priddy		Looks like you're the one might go to pieces.
buckaroo banzai		Where's my damn ammo?  Nothing is ever where it's supposed to be around here!
penny priddy		How did she die?  I wanna know.
buckaroo banzai		You don't wanna know.
penny priddy		Yes, I do.  Gimme a chance.  I'm stronger than you think.
buckaroo banzai		She was murdered by Hanoi Shan on our wedding night.
penny priddy		Hanoi Shan--?  The guy in your comic books.  Boss of the World Crime League?  Supreme Commander of the Legion of Death?  The Pivot of Mystery himself?  You're putting me on.  He's a cartoon character.
buckaroo banzai		I wish he was.  He's real enough.
penny priddy		God, she's so young and beautiful.  I don't remember her at all.  Which I guess is good, under the circumstances.  I bet you'll never forget her though.
buckaroo banzai		Never.
penny priddy		I gotta be honest with myself and not repress these feelings-I've got mixed emotions-I don't know if I can handle this.  Oh, boy...
buckaroo banzai		I gotta go.  We're on borrowed time.
penny priddy		Go where?  Where're you going?
buckaroo banzai		 Please, Penny.  You just gotta trust me now.  Okay?  And don't panic. Because it's gonna be all right.
penny priddy		What?  If we just believe in Buckaroo Banzai?
buckaroo banzai		Yeah...and maybe more important, if you believe in yourself.
penny priddy		Believe in Penny Priddy?
buckaroo banzai		Absolutely.
penny priddy		You've got your six guns strapped on.  You're ridding off on another adventure?  Oh, my God, it's all real...it really is real.  I should go with you.  Please...
buckaroo banzai		It's too dangerous.
penny priddy		That's just what you would say.  This is so unreal.  I'm dreaming...
perfect tommy		 Buckaroo--! Sorry--
buckaroo banzai		What is it, Tommy?
perfect tommy		Sam's dead!  Someone broke into the Jet Car! And things are going haywire over at the lab...
buckaroo banzai		Stay here, I'll be back.
penny priddy		Sure.  I won't hold my breath.
penny priddy		Whadda you want?
buckaroo banzai		Dead.  Damnit!
perfect tommy		Where's the professor?
reno		Where's Rawhide?
casper		Who'd do a thing like this?
new jersey		Arachtoids.
buckaroo banzai		Spread out. They can't be far.
rawhide		Look out, Buckaroo!
rawhide		Behind you!
buckaroo banzai		You okay?
rawhide		Yeah. Just grazed me.  The Professor's under the floor too...with the Overthruster...
buckaroo banzai		Professor--!?
penny priddy		Buckaroo!  Rawhide!  Reno?  Anybody?
rawhide		You're a welcome sight...
buckaroo banzai		Just 'grazed' you, huh?
rawhide		Apache?
buckaroo banzai		Arachtoid.
rawhide		So I was right.  That's nice to know...
pinky carruthers		We found the guy, Rawhide, sucker dug a hole and tried to...
buckaroo banzai		Any antidote for these things?
john parker		No, none.
perfect tommy		That mean you're on our side?
rawhide		 We gotta stop 'em, Buckaroo.
buckaroo banzai		We will, old fried, we will.
rawhide		Sure do pack a mean wallop...let's go...
buckaroo banzai		There's another one we owe 'em.
casper lindley		They're stealing my chopper!
reno		And they got Penny!  Look!
buckaroo banzai		Don't shoot!
john parker		Then your planet is doomed.
buckaroo banzai		No!  We'll get it back.
nurse		These'll make you a tenny bit drowsy, Mr. President.
president widmark		That's okay, Bonnie, I won't be operating any heavy machinery today.
president widmark		As are all sane men today.
president widmark		World Watch One.  Direct incoming transmission.
president widmark		That which does not kill us makes us stronger, Buckaroo.  What's it like out there in the real world?
president widmark		You're gonna have to repeat that, I think, Buckaroo.
buckaroo banzai		To cut right to the bottom line on this, sir, we have reason to believe that there are moving freely among us, vicious red aliens disguised as the owners and operators of Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems.
buckaroo banzai		The gentleman standing here with me is called John Parker, and he can corroborate everything I've said because he's from Planet 10 too.
president widmark		Buckaroo...you and I, we go back a long, long way together...but...
president widmark		Explosive? What are you saying, man? Some kind of race war in New Jersey--?
buckaroo banzai		No, sir.  This 'man' as you call him, is not a human being, Mr. President.  He's a black arachtoid.
president widmark		A what?
president widmark		You're quite serious about this, aren't you, Buckaroo.  We know each other pretty well, I think.
new jersey		There's your answer!  Electromagnetic bacterial crap!
new jersey		We inhale the bacteria.  It swims to our cerebral cortex and reprograms our consciousness.  Diabolical.  We only see what they want us to see.
buckaroo banzai		I've got it, Mr. Secretary.  But unfortunately the Oscillation Overthruster is in Penny Priddy's possession and she's been kidnapped and taken to Yoyodyne, further exacerbating the situation. We're on our way there right now.
president widmark		Who the hell's Penny Priddy?
perfect tommy		Buckaroo, John Parker has the arachtoid cloud on line 2!
president widmark		Good God...
president widmark		Get me SAC HQ: Omaha, NORAD, and the Strategic Space Command. I want some hard data on that cloud. We got any killer satellites over Jersey- -?
buckaroo banzai		 John Parker, tell them we're doing our best.  Stall.
john parker		 Buckaroo Banzai says patience is a virtue, Wing Commander, sir.
buckaroo banzai		Whorfin?  Does he know we're coming?
doctor lizardo		Well, well...Dr. Banzai. Perhaps you don't remember me?  Ah, I'm flattered.  We know the same people.  In fact, one of them is here with me now...your associate, Doctor Penny Priddy.
penny priddy		I'm not worth it, Buckaroo! Forget me!
buckaroo banzai		Penny--?!  Are you all right?
buckaroo banzai		She knows nothing, Lizardo.
doctor lizardo		Then shall we say "A Penny for your thoughts?" You can come in her place. Yoyodyne, Dr. Banzai. Come alone, with your Overthruster!  He'll bring it.  I know his type.
doctor lizardo		Take her to the pit!  Use more honey.  Find out what she knows.
penny priddy		Who are you?  Hanoi Shan?  The Scourge of Burma!  The Pivot of Mystery? Well, you're not destroying me like you did my sister!
buckaroo banzai		These antidote filters the Professor's whipped up will let you to see them like I have since yesterday, as arachtoidal creatures. They won't be pretty, nothing personal, John Parker.  But just remember...if we fail tonight, there's no tomorrow.
john parker		They will never surrender.  They will fight to the end.
buckaroo banzai		I'm working under the assumption that Penny still has the Overthruster. That'll be my job: get it back in one piece.  Here's the main gate. I'll pass through first, alone.  The rest of you divide into two strike groups-Apache Team...that's you, Reno...and Chaparral Team, Perfect Tommy.  John Parker'll ride with Chaparral.
buckaroo banzai		Top priority is the Overthruster. Whorfin can't escape without it. The built-in tracking device should make it relatively simple to locate...maybe hard to get.
president widmark		What's happening with my call to SAC?
president widmark		Jammed--? By who? Whom by?
president widmark		Should we be on Code Red?
general catburd		We go to Code Red, the Russians go to Code Red...no sense jumping off half-cocked, Mr. President.
senator cunningham		I don't know...Buckaroo Banzai's never been wrong before.
general catburd		The man went through solid matter, for crying out loud. Who knows what it did to his brain...maybe scrambled his molecules. All I'm saying is, let's not panic here!  I'm sure there's a rational explanation...
president widmark		We've got no choice then.  Call my wife.
general catburd		Mr. President, none of us here are lunatics or irrational men...  ...or persons.  I'm a soldier and I'm a damn good one, enough decorations to snap a Christmas tree, but I don't mind telling you, I'm sure I speak for everyone in this room when I say I am scared. I'm barely holding my fudge right now.
senator cunningham		Stop acting like a goddamn schoolgirl, General, and pull yourself together.
president widmark		I'm glad someone has the balls to face facts!  Forget we're the good guys and we'd never attack first.  They think we're godless monsters just like them.  Put yourself in their samovars...sitting in the dark without radar, bells ringing all over the damn Kremlin, little men in fedora hats getting out of Zils, coming into the Great Hall of the People.  Now, do you think they're gonna listen to reason?  I'll give Buckaroo his Planet 10 space cloud, but do you think they will?
general catburd		Hail Mary.
president widmark		So what's our counter option, General Catburd?  Earn your salary.
general catburd		I guess we have to prick this boil and take the heat, sir.  Hit 'em primero...blast 'em off the face of the Earth before they lose their heads and do it to us first.
president widmark		Larry, where's my Football?
general catburd		What're you waiting for, boy?  Get in here with that thing.
reno		We're waiting for the Jet Car.  Billy's bringing it.
perfect tommy		Asshole probably got lost.
new jersey		Or nailed for speeding.
buckaroo banzai		Can I have everyone's attention?  I'm not a rah-rah kinda guy, and I'm not much for speeches, but things could get rough out there tonight. It's a fight we didn't ask for, but it's a fight we're stuck with and we all saw what happened to Rawhide.  So if for any reason this is good-bye, I want you all to know that...well...that...you crazy lugs...
reno		What, Buckaroo?  You trying to tell us something?
buckaroo banzai		Let's just fry those arachtoids.
buckaroo banzai		Give me thirty minutes.  Then come in and mop up.
president widmark		Well... that's certainly food for thought.
general catburd		Here you go, Mr. President...the Sealed Authenticators.  The Plan D Documents for your eyes only...John-Hancock these, and we got ourselves a knockout little force posture...
senator cunningham		You know, on second thought, maybe we should think this through a bit more so that future generations of...
president widmark		"Name of the enemy"?  What, Planet 10?  My hand's shaking.  How on earth can I even...have to stay awake, alert...that's my job.  That's what the people put me here for.
doctor lizardo		Blacks are on this planet! Here in New Jersey! Coming to destroy us! We must move! Escape or die!
doctor lizardo		You must work faster to finish the Great Vehicle. So that we can enter the Eighth Dimension and free our trapped comrades! So we can return to our homeland and seize power once again!
red arachtoids		To Planet 10!
red arachtoids		Real soon!
john gomez		Not here!
doctor lizardo		WHERE IS THE OVERTHRUSTER!
buckaroo banzai		I thought you had it!
doctor lizardo		Solve them! The shock tower is a lie detector. Any untruth triggers a brutal charge to your auditory meatus...
buckaroo banzai		You're not getting a damn thing outta me until Penny's safe.
buckaroo banzai		I've got nothing but time.
doctor lizardo		Sealed with a curse as sharp as a knife...doomed is your soul, and damned is your life!
doctor lizardo		I want my missing circuit now!
buckaroo banzai		You bloody--!
doctor lizardo		She'll live...for a while, and she won't enjoy it.
doctor lizardo		Only you can save her from the fate of your friend, Mr. Rawhide!  Solve this equation.  I must have the crucial missing circuit.
buckaroo banzai		The missing circuit's in your head, Whorfin.
buckaroo banzai		John Emdall told me.
perfect tommy		Light precipitation.  Partly cloudy tomorrow.
scooter lindley		Could I have your autograph, Mr. Parker?
scooter lindley		Say, "To my best friend Scooter..."
john parker		You got it.
perfect tommy		Not on this bus, you're not.
perfect tommy		Perfect Tommy.
perfect tommy		Go ahead, Louie, do like the man says.
perfect tommy		 Hey, so we get into action quicker this way.  We tell Buckaroo our watches were fast.
guard		It's Bigboot.
john parker		Under here, I think.
perfect tommy		Under where?  Hold on...
perfect tommy		Hope you know where you're going, John Parker.  Because my nose is starting to whistle...
perfect tommy		Thanks.
john parker		Don't mention it.
perfect tommy		Then I won't.
john parker		They sense us.  Hurry.
doctor lizardo		Stop him!  Get him!
doctor lizardo		 Kill the girl!
john bigboot		That's 'Bigboot'.
john bigboot		It's not my goddamn planet!  Understand, monkey boy!?
john bigboot		Damn John Whorfin--!
john parker		Look out, Buckaroo Banzai!
new jersey		Leave her to me. You take care of business.
buckaroo banzai		Thanks.
doctor lizardo		Sound the call to board ship!
john bigboot		Without the crucial missing circuit?  We'll never make it!
doctor lizardo		You heard my orders!  Activate the Special Horns!
doctor lizardo		Massacre them! Without quarter!
doctor lizardo		Close the doors!
buckaroo banzai		What is this thing?  A fighter?
john parker		Don't look at me, Buckaroo Banzai.  I failed flight school.
doctor lizardo		Overthruster in place.
john bigboot		It won't work! It won't!
doctor lizardo		Shut up, John Bigboote, you coward!
doctor lizardo		Again, John O'Connor!  Again!
buckaroo banzai		They haven't got enough power.  They'll never penetrate!
doctor lizardo		Almost!  Almost!  Lower my vehicle onto the runway!
john bigboot		No!  Please!
john parker		We're going down!  Onto the runway!
buckaroo banzai		The door's locked.
small voice		Another step, I'll drink your blood--!
scooter lindley		Get 'em up!
scooter lindley		What's that?
john bigtoote		We haven't a chance.  Your Overthruster's for shit!  We'll all just...
john whorfin		One more word out of you, Bigboote...
john bigtoote		Bigboot.
whorfin's voice		Full speed ahead!  Battle stations!
buckaroo banzai		Tell them to stop.  They're your friends!
john parker		I lack the authority, Buckaroo Banzai.
buckaroo banzai		At least tell them I'm trying!  Tell 'em something--!
buckaroo banzai		Does this thing have guns, John Parker?
john parker		Boy, I hope so, Buckaroo Banzai.
buckaroo banzai		Take the throttle, John Parker!
john whorfin		Banzai!  I'll see you in hell!
buckaroo banzai		Pull up!  We did it!  Holy shit, we did it!  Pull up!
john parker		Now, Buckaroo Banzai?
buckaroo banzai		Now!
doctor lizardo		Toichi--?  I'll be damned.
buckaroo banzai		All accounted for?  Where's Penny?
perfect tommy		New Jersey brought her back to the bus through heavy fire.  Quite a guy if you want my opinion.
buckaroo banzai		Got a casualty list?
reno		Just their side.  What're we gonna do with these people?  They're illegal aliens, the way I figure, been here forty years, you could throw the book at 'em...
buckaroo banzai		And ask the American taxpayer to foot the bill?  No way.  Send 'em back to the Eighth Dimension as soon as we find the Overthruster.  It wasn't in Penny's purse...so if we have to run this joint upside down and inside out...
perfect tommy		Hey, Scooter Lindley, fall in!
scooter lindley		Is this what you're looking for, Buckaroo?
buckaroo banzai		Looks like one Junior Shield is in line for a ride in The Jet Car.
scooter lindley		Wow, you know it!  I'll have to ask my dad.
buckaroo banzai		Well, go ahead, what're you waiting for?
new jersey		I did all I could.  I did my best...
buckaroo banzai		Tell him yes on "1" and no on "2".
buckaroo banzai		Penny!
buckaroo banzai		Open your eyes!  Look at me!  Penny!
penny priddy		Buckaroo...you look awful.
****Dialogues from script :Affliction.txt****

wade		I'm sorry for the screw-up. But I couldn't help it it's too late to go trick-or-treating now. I couldn't help it I had to stop at Penny's for the costume. And you were hungry, remember.
jill		Who's fault is it then if it's not yours? You're the one in charge, Daddy.
wade		 Yeah.
jill		Look. Those kids are still trick-or- treating. They're still out.
wade		Those are the Hoyts.
jill		I don't care. They're out.
wade		Can't you see... look out there. Nobody's got their porch lights on anymore. It's too late. Those Hoyt kids are just out to get in trouble. See, they put shaving cream all over that mailbox there. They chopped down Herb Crane's new bushes. Little bastards. Jesus H. Christ.
jill		Why do they do that?
wade		Do what?
jill		You know.
wade		Break stuff?
jill		Yeah. It's stupid.
wade		I guess they're stupid.
jill		Did you do that when you were a kid?
wade		Well, yeah. Sort of. Nothing really mean. Me and my pals, me and my brothers. It was kind of funny then. Stealing pumpkins, soaping windows. Stuff like that.
jill		Was it funny?
wade		To us it was.
jill		But it's not funny now.
wade		It's not funny now. I'm a cop and I gotta listen to all the complaints people make. I'm not a kid anymore. You change.
jill		I bet you did lots of bad things.
wade		What are you talking about?
jill		I just think you used to be bad.
wade		No. I didn't used to be bad. No sir. Where do you get this stuff? From your mother?
jill		No. She doesn't talk about you anymore.
lariviere		We're looking for the funniest costume! And the scariest! And the most imaginative! And the best costume of all!
wade		 Got here just in time. Go ahead. Jump in line. Maybe you'll win a prize.
wade		Go on, Jill. Some of those kids you still know.
jill		I don't want to.
wade		Why? Why not? You know these kids from when you went to school here. It hasn't been that long.
jill		It's not that.
wade		What then?
jill		It's stupid.
wade		It's fun.
jill		 I don't like it here.
wade		Oh, Jesus, come on, will you? Don't mess this up anymore than it's already been messed up. Join the other kids. Do that and before you know it you'll be as happy as a goddamned clam.
lariviere		Wade! And who's that tiger? Is that Jill? Come and join us.
wade		What are you boys up to?
chick		Same old shit.
frankie		You see the damage these little sons- of bitches been raising tonight?
wade		 You're going to have to move your pickup.
jack		I know.
chick		 Take a bite.
wade		Don't mind if I do.
jack		LaRiviere's having a hell of a time in there. Master of fucking ceremonies.
wade		Where's that gun you were bragging on today?
jack		No brag. Just fact.
frankie		Nice.
jack		 See you got Jill tonight. How'd you manage that?
wade		Some party, huh? Sorry I lost sight of you. I had to step outside for a smoke. You find anybody you know here? There must be some kids you used to know from school. You want to go tomorrow? See your old teachers? Be more fun than hanging out with me all day.
jill		No.
wade		No what?
jill		 No I didn't see anybody I know. No I don't want to go to school here tomorrow. I want to go home.
wade		You are home. There are lots of kids you still know here.
jill		I don't want to be here. Don't worry, I love you, Daddy, I do. But I want to go home.
wade		 Jesus. Listen, Jill, tell you what. Tomorrow morning, you still want to go home, I'll drive you down. I'll get off work or something.
jill		 I called Mommy.
wade		What? You called Mommy? Just now?
jill		Yes.
wade		Jesus, why?
jill		I... because I want to go home. She said she'd come and get me.
wade		Come and get you! Shit! It's a damn half hour drive each way. Why didn't you talk to me about it first?
jill		See, I knew you'd be mad.
wade		Yeah. Yeah, right, I'm mad. What'd you tell her, for Christ sake?
jill		I told her I wanted to come home. Daddy, don't be mad at me.
wade		Well, I guess I am. I planned this, I planned all this, you know. I mean, it's sort of pathetic, but I planned it. You shouldn't have called your mother.  C'mon, we're gonna call her before she leaves.
wade		She's gone already!  Gone already! Couldn't wait.
jill		Yes.
wade		That's all you got to say? "Yes".
jill		Yes.
wade		She won't be here for a half hour. Think you can stand it that long?
jill		Yes.
wade		Where do you expect to wait for her? Obviously downstairs with the other kids isn't good enough.
wade		Sit right there by yourself if you want. Wait for her by yourself. That's fine with me. Just dandy. I'm going downstairs.
jill		That's fine with me too. When Mommy comes, tell her I'm up here.
wade		I thought I told you to move that truck!
jack		Relax, Chief. We're leaving. You wanna toke?
wade		 You gotta be more careful about that shit. Gordon or one of those guys sees you smoking that wacky tabacky around me they'll expect me to bust you. And I'll be outta a job.
jack		Some job. Here, have a hit. Don't be such a hardass. I know you got problems, but everybody's got problems. 
wade		Not here.
jack		Well, c'mon, then. Get in and we'll take a little ride, my man.
jack		Got a job first thing in the morning, first day of season. Saturday I'll hunt for myself. Twombley something. - Er --
wade		Evan. He's a mucky-muck union official from Massachusetts. You're lucky.
jack		Don't know about lucky. The guy's a full-blown asshole. Pay's good, though. $100 a day. I got to guarantee a kill, of course. Which I can do. There's some monster bucks hiding out up there.
wade		How'd you get the job?
jack		Gordon, he's always got some angle working. He wants to keep Twombley happy, I'm his boy.
hettie		What's wrong with you?
wade		Toothache.  You should get close to him. Make yourself irreplaceable. Guy's loaded.
jack		Like you and Gordon?
wade		Right. The sonofabitch couldn't get along without me.
jack		 Yeah, he'd go broke tomorrow if you quit him.
wade		 Right!
jack		Bastard's got his high beams on.
wade		 Shit.
hettie		What?
wade		My ex-wife Lillian and her husband. That was them in the Audi that just passed us.
jack		Audi's a good car.
hettie		What's she up here for?
wade		Aw, shit, she's here to get Jill. Me and Jill had a little argument. Jack, I got to get back, get back to town. Move this thing, will you? See if you can get back to the Town Hall before they get there, okay?
jack		Piece of fucking cake.
wade		Lillian!
lillian		Where's Jill?
wade		Me and Jill, we just had a little spat. She felt kind of left out, I guess, from not knowing some of the new kids --
lillian		Where is she now? Is she in the truck with your friends?
wade		She told me she wanted to wait for you. Inside.
lillian		While you went off for a few beers with your friends? Is that Hettie Rodgers there, with whatzizname?
wade		Yeah.
lillian		She's grown up some, hasn't she?
wade		Oh, Jesus, lay off, will you? It looks like you've won this fucking round already, so lay off a little, for Christ's sake.
wade		Horner! Leave her be. This's got nothing to do with you, so just act like the chauffeur. Got it?
horner		Wade. Nobody wants any trouble.
wade		I don't want her to go, Lillian.
lillian		Don't cause a scene. No one's trying to win any 'rounds'. Don't make it any worse.
wade		I'm not making it any worse. You are. Me and Jill could've worked this thing out. It's normal, it's even normal for me to get a little touchy about it. Believe it or not. How do you think this makes me look, treating her like some tragic victim or something?
wade		Just wait till we're through, goddamnit!
wade		Don't you say a word. I didn't hit him. I'm not going to hit anybody.
margie		New hat?  Jill's up, I see.
wade		 For a while.
margie		How's she doing?
wade		Okay. She's fine.
margie		You two want to do anything tomorrow and need a third party, give me a call, okay? I'm off.
wickham		Like hell you are. Tomorrow's first day of deer season. I'll need you at least in the morning.
margie		 Well, that's that.
nick		 Take care, Wade.
wade		You be careful of that little bastard. He's dying to get in your pants, you know.
margie		 Don't worry. I can protect my virtue. I mean, c'mon, Wade, give me a break.
wade		See you tomorrow, maybe.
margie		You okay?
wade		Yeah.
wade		Tomorrow, Gordon.
lariviere		Watch this snow. It's coming down tonight.
twombley		It's not enough snow, not for tracking the bastards. No advantage there, kid.
jack		Don't worry, Mr. Twombley, I know where those suckers are. Rain or shine, snow or no snow. I know deer. We'll kill us a buck today. Guaranteed. Before ten.
twombley		Guaranteed, eh?
jack		Yep. Right about now the does are holing up in the brush piles. The bucks are right behind them and we're right behind the bucks.  This gun gets fired before ten o'clock. Whether it kills a deer or not is more less up to you. I'll put you inside 30, 35 yards of a buck the first four hours of the season. That's what you're paying me for, ain't it?
twombley		Damn straight!
jack		Done much shooting with that rifle yet?
twombley		 Tell you what. You get me close to a big buck by ten, kid, there's another hundred bucks in it.
jack		If you get it?
twombley		Yeah.
jack		You might not kill it.
twombley		You think so.
jack		You might gut-shoot it or cripple it for somebody else to find and tag. Can't guarantee that won't happen, especially with a new gun. I may have to shoot it.
twombley		You take care of your end, kid, I'll take care of mine.
jack		Mmm.
twombley		You understand what I'm saying? I want a deer, a dead one, not a cripple or whatthefuck.
jack		I get it.  No sweat. You'll get yourself a deer and you'll get him dead. And you'll have him by coffee time.
twombley		And you'll get your extra hundred bucks.
jack		 Wonderful!
lugene		Are you okay, Wade? What was wrong? Why were you holding everyone up?
wade		Did you see that sonofabitch in the BMW? He could've killed somebody.
lugene		Did you get his number?
wade		I know who it is.
lugene		Good. Who?
wade		Mel Gordon.
lugene		I still don't understand --
wade		From Boston. Evan Twombley's son-in- law -- he was driving. I know where they're headed. Up the lake, Agaway. The old man's out deer hunting with Jack Hewitt, so they probably got some big weekend party planned.
jack		Safety on?
twombley		I'm okay.
jack		Follow close. We'll cross the next meadow.
jack		I used to play ball.
twombley		Yeah?
jack		Drafted by the Red Sox.
twombley		You played for the Sox?
jack		Double A. New Britain.
twombley		Oh.
jack		Pitcher. "Best ballplayer to come out of New Hampshire since Carlton Fisk."
twombley		Really.
jack		They said.
twombley		Hmm.
jack		The only difference between me and that Clemens on TV is luck, shit luck.
twombley		What happened?
jack		Ruined my arm. Brought me along too fast. Why'd it have to be my fucking arm, I used to think. Then I realized it had to be somebody's fucking arm.
twombley		Hey, Hewitt! Slow the fuck down!
jack		Safety on?
twombley		Yeah.
jack		This way.
twombley		 Sun's gettin high.
jack		 Deers have ears too.
lariviere		Told you the snow was coming down. Take the grader.
wade		Where's the plow?
lariviere		Jimmy took it. Jack's out hunting with Evan Twombley.
wade		His son-in-law damn near killed me.
lariviere		 Huh?
wade		At the school crossing. In his BMW. Coulda hurt some kids. I'm gonna bust his ass.
lariviere		Don't go playing policeman.
wade		What am I -- a security guard? You hired me, you and your Selectman friends.
lariviere		You don't want the extra police pay?
wade		I'm not saying that.
lariviere		Get the grader. Go out 29 past Toby's. Don't let Lillian get to you. She didn't belong here. That's why she left.
wade		Fuck you.
lariviere		That's what I love about a small town. You know everybody.
jack		Stay here, stand where I am.
jack		Fresh tracks.  Deer shit. Big one. Here's your buck, Mr. Twombley. I'll circle around.
twombley		You only got a little while if you want your hundred bucks.
jimmy		How's it goin?
wade		Cold. How you think?
jimmy		Sorry about that. Why's it every year, come first snow, you get stuck with the grader?
wade		School. Traffic crossing.  I gotta quit these things.
jimmy		What we doing after? Wells?  Don't work too fast. Business the way it is, Gordon's probably looking to lay me off earlier than usual this year. He's got too much money as it is. Why's it always the little guy that gets kicked in the butt in hard times?
lacoy		...That was no pisser. I'll tell you who was a pisser. Glen Whitehouse. There was a real pisser. He was mean normal, but when he drank it was like he burst on fire. Canadian Club. Always drank CC. One Christmas there's this cord of wood out back he forgot about and he decides to have his two boys stack it. Except it's been out back two months and it's snowed and rained and froze so now the wood's all iced in. He takes the boys. He was drunk, of course.
pop		Move it! Daylight in the swamps!
rolfe		Pop, the kids are waiting for us.
wade		 Rolfe.
pop		A lesson in work and its rewards. You'll thank me for this one day.  Sally, turn off that TV!
wade		 Just do it.
pop		Atta-go.
rolfe		Please, Pop. Let's go back.
pop		What are you, a quitter?
lacoy		Beats me. That's all I heard. Wade would know more about it.  Wade! We were just talking about your Old Man. "What are you, a quitter!"
wade		Jesus, LaCoy, you got nothing better to do than sit around and tell stories. Pity is, some college student will come some day and believe this shit cause you're the only one dumb enough to talk to him. Take care.
pop		That was some job.
rolfe		We'll work at it everyday, promise.
pop		I think we made the point.
wade		 You just needed a drink.
pop		What was that?  You got something to say, say it! Say it!
wade		 Nothing.
pop		You no-good pup!
wade		It don't look right.
nick		What?
wade		The sign. It looks like it's spelled wrong or something.
nick		Fuck. Wade Whitehouse. It's people like you that keep this fucking town from prospering. Whatever somebody does to improve things around here, you gotta find fault with it.
wade		I'm not finding fault. It's a good idea, good for you, good for the town. Real modern too.
nick		This town sucks.
wade		Aw, c'mon, I was only saying there's something wrong with "Home Made Cooking", that's all. The sign's fine. What it says is wrong.
margie		Who needs it? Everybody who comes here has been coming for years so what they need a sign for?
margie		You okay?
wade		Yeah.
margie		I'm sorry about what I said.
wade		Said what?
margie		About you and Jill and needing a third person. She went back to Lillian?
wade		Forget it.
margie		 I'm sorry.
wade		I'm going to start one of those custody suits. I don't give a fucking shit. You know?
margie		You don't mean that.
wade		Yeah. I mean that.
margie		 No you don't. You're pissed, that's all. You ought to cool off for a few days then have a long talk with Lillian. You know? Work it out with her, tell her how you feel. Lillian's not out to get you.
wade		The hell she isn't. Lillian's been trying to nail me to a cross since the day I met her. I'm gonna hire me a fucking lawyer from Concord and get this thing, this divorce thing, rearranged. I've been thinking about it a lot. It's like she owns Jill or something. Nobody owns nobody, especially not kids. And I pay her.
nick		 Marg!
wade		That goddamned woman. Thinks she can cart Jill off and leave me alone like this. I'm more than pissed, Margie. I'm a whole lot more than pissed. I been that plenty and I know the difference. This is different.
nick		Marg! You got orders!
margie		Call me.
wade		 Tonight. Let's get together.
margie		Okay.
nick		You talked to Jack?
wade		Not since last night. He took a guy hunting.
nick		The fucker shot himself. Ker-bang! That's what it sounds like. Not on purpose. I assume accidental.
wade		 Jack?
nick		The other guy.
wade		Where... how'd you hear that?
nick		CB. Little while ago. One of the boys on the way in picked up Jack on the CB calling for state troopers. I figured you'd know what really happened. The fucking guy kill himself? This Twombley, who the fuck is he, anyhow?
wade		No, I... I've been out on the grader all morning. Twombley's summer people. Massachusetts. Friend of Gordon's. It was his idea for Jack to take him hunting.  I gotta go.
nick		He don't care for you.
margie		Stop being jealous.
lariviere		What's the hurry?
wade		A hunting accident. Jack and Twombley.
lariviere		Huh?
wade		I figured you already heard.
lariviere		 Twombley, Jesus. We got to get moving: I got to get up there. How would I know? C'mon, you drive. We'll take my truck.
lariviere		Fuck. Turn it off.  All you heard was there was some kinda accident?
wade		Twombley's shot. I heard that. Not Jack. He's okay, I assume.
lariviere		Fuck. You don't know how bad or anything?
wade		You mean Twombley?
lariviere		Yes, Wade, I mean Twombley. Put out that cigarette. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck.
wade		He more than likely just shot himself in the foot or something. That's what usually happens.
lariviere		I shoulda sent you instead of Jack.
wade		I wish you had. I'd rather be deer hunting instead of freezing my ass on that fucking grader.
lariviere		You ain't the hunter Jack is. And he can't drive the grader worth shit.
wade		Like hell.
lariviere		 That must've been Twombley. Jesus. I bet that was Twombley.
wade		You want me to follow them to Littleton?
lariviere		Let's get to the top and talk to Jack first. He'll know what happened. He fucking better. If this coulda been avoided, I'll put that kid's ass in a sling.
jack		You heard the news.
lariviere		I hear Twombley got shot.
jack		Yeah.
brown		Watch the dog, Wade. Takes a mind to, he'll tear your fucking head off.
lariviere		 Bad?
brown		Thirty-thirty at close range.
lariviere		Jesus.
wade		Will he make it?
brown		 D.O.A. Blew the bastard wide open. Had a hole in back you could put your head into. Pretty big hole in front too. You could've put your fist into that one.
lariviere		 You see it?
jack		Nope. Heard it. We wasn't far apart. I spotted this buck, then I heard the gun go off and Twombley was gone. I looked over the little cliff we was using for a stand and there the fucker was, deader'n shit. Called it right in.
lariviere		This is gonna be one fucking mess to clean up. Twombley's son-in-law and daughter are up the weekend. Didn't you say you'd seen him, Wade?
wade		I seen 'em. Near ran me over.
brown		You wanna tell 'em, Gordon? You knew the old man.
lariviere		What the fuck. My day's already ruined.  Give me the keys. You can go back with Jack. You still got a shitload of plowing to do.
wade		It ain't done, if that's what you mean.
lariviere		Something bugging you?
wade		Yeah. A few things.
lariviere		Well, right now we're not too interested. Finish up what you gotta do, then you can get bugged on your own time.
lariviere		 Might as well take the rest of the day off. You look sort of fucked up. You've been paid for the day, anyhow, right?
jack		Not exactly. I mean, he never paid me.
lariviere		You'll get your money. Don't talk to any newspapers about this. Twombley's a big deal down in Massachusetts, you know. Tell them your lawyer says you shouldn't comment.
jack		Lawyer? I don't need no lawyer, do I?
lariviere		No, of course not. Just say it, that's all.
wade		Where'd Twombley get shot?
jack		In the chest.
wade		 No, I mean whereabouts.
jack		 A half mile in, along the old lumber road.
wade		You bring him up yourself? That's a steep climb.
jack		The ambulance guys lugged him up.
wade		You stayed away?
jack		Yeah.
wade		Where'd you get the blood?
jack		What blood?
wade		On your sleeve.
jack		Musta... How'd I know? What're you doing, playing cop?
wade		I gotta make a report to Fish and Game. I was just wondering, that's all. What'd he do, to shoot himself, I mean?
jack		Who the fuck knows? Musta slipped or something. I just heard the gun go off.
wade		I never seen a man shot before. Not even in the service. Must be something.
jack		Well, I didn't actually see him do it. Like I said.
wade		Sure you did.
jack		What?
wade		Saw him do it?
jack		What the fuck you telling me, Wade? I never seen the guy get shot, I told you that.
wade		You musta seen him get shot. I know you did.
jack		Let's get the fuck outta here. You're not making any sense, man.
wade		There's your old twenty-gauge, and that there's the new Browning you was showing me last night. This must be Twombley's gun. Brand new. Very fancy tooling. Probably fired one time. It's a beautiful piece of work.  But what the hell, Jack, I guess you deserve it. Right's right.
jack		 Yeah.
wade		Twombley sure as hell won't be shooting it again.
jack		He sure as hell won't.
wade		Rolfe.
wade		Yeah, brother, look, I was calling cause -- has there been anything on TV in Boston about a hunting accident with a guy named Twombley, Evan Twombley?
wade		Yeah, I know him -- the kid that was with him. Maybe you do too. Jack Hewitt. He works for LaRiviere with me. He's my best friend.
wade		No, not tonight. I'm in bed too. I'm calling because I need you to listen. You're supposed to be a smart guy. You're a professor. I got this theory. Jack says he didn't see Twombley shot but he did.
wade		It'll come out Jack lied and the kid'll get hung for it.
wade		Who?
wade		No shit.
wade		Well, it was an accident.
wade		Lillian was here. In Lawford.
wade		The night before the shooting.
wade		Picked up Jill. She was supposed to visit for the weekend for Halloween. She wanted to go home.
wade		Jill. I was thinking of getting a lawyer. Maybe you can help me.
wade		A divorce lawyer. A custody lawyer. You know, 'cause of Jill.
wade		Yeah, I guess.
wade		I get to feeling like a whipped dog some days, Rolfe, and some night I'm going to bite back. I swear it.
wade		No, no, I haven't. Not really. I've growled a little, but I haven't bit.
wade		I was... I'm Wade Whitehouse. I was wondering, is your husband here?
wade		Well, yes, I'm... I want to say that I'm real sorry about your father, Mrs. Twombley.
wade		Well, yeah, I suppose. Sure. I just had a little business to settle with Mr. Gordon. I'm the local police officer.
wade		Oh, no. No, it's a... it's a traffic thing. No big deal.
mel gordon		Whitehouse. Next time, phone ahead.
wade		How's that?
mel gordon		I said, 'Next time, phone ahead.'
wade		Jesus Christ. Mr. Gordon, when I come all the way to serve somebody a summons, I don't call ahead for an appointment.
mel gordon		What the hell are you talking about?
wade		I'm issuing you a ticket. Moving violation.
mel gordon		Moving violation! I just got out of bed and you're telling me you're giving me a goddamn speeding ticket? Now? Are you nuts? Is that it, Whitehouse? You're nuts?
wade		 Yesterday morning, you passed a stopped school bus, which was flashing its lights, then you--
mel gordon		 Hold on!
wade		 Don't ever put your hands on me, Mr. Gordon.
mel gordon		You're talking about a goddamned ticket, from when I passed you at the school where you were deciding to hold up traffic while dreaming of becoming a traffic cop or something?
wade		Don't give me a hard time, Mr. Gordon. I'm just --
mel gordon		Doing your fucking job. I know. I watch television too.
wade		Yes. Here's your ticket.
mel gordon		 You get the hell out of my house now, asshole. And know this -- you are going to be a lucky asshole if I haven't got you fired before the day is out. I can do it with one phone call, and I'm pissed enough to do it now!
margie		Jack's sort of sensitive, I guess. More than most. But he'll be okay in a few weeks.
wade		There's something funny about that shooting. There's lots funny about it, actually.
margie		I heard he was drunk at Toby's last night and got in a fight with Hettie. He drove off without her...
wade		I'm sure, I'm positive it didn't happen the way Jack says it did.
margie		...Jack's turned into one of those men who are permanently angry. He used to be a sweet kid, but it's like, when he found out he couldn't play ball anymore, he changed. Now he's like everyone else.
wade		I've been wondering if maybe Jack shot Twombley, instead of Twombley shooting himself. I've been wondering maybe Jack shot him on purpose.
margie		Wade! How can you even think such a thing? Why would Jack Hewitt do that, shoot Twombley on purpose?
wade		Money.
margie		Jack doesn't need money.
wade		Everybody needs money. Except guys like Twombley and that sonofabitch son-in-law of his. People like that.
margie		Jack wouldn't kill for it. Besides, who would pay him?
wade		Lots of people. Guy like Evan Twombley, Boston union official, probably got lots of people want to see him dead. The Government's been investigating his links with the Mafia.
margie		 The Mafia hire Jack Hewitt?
wade		No, I just know Jack's lying about what happened. He just seemed -- I know that kid, what he's like inside. He's a lot like I was at his age.
margie		You wouldn't have done anything like that, shot someone for money.
wade		No. Not for money. But, if somebody'd given me half a damned excuse -- I was pretty fucked up, you know.
margie		 But not now.
margie		When you gonna get that tooth fixed?
wade		I can see what you looked like as a kid.
margie		You knew me as a kid.
wade		Yeah, but never what you looked like. Not really. Never really studied your face, like now. I was never able to see you as a kid when you were a kid until now, this way.
margie		What way?
wade		After making love. I like it. It's nice to see that in a grown-up person.
margie		It's nice.
margie		Don't you think, do you still think it's a good idea to press this custody thing -- just now?
wade		I'm her father -- supposed to be, but I'm not able to. Yes. Yes, I am. It may be the only thing in my life I've been so clear about wanting. Even if it takes a big fight.
margie		Then... I guess you have to.
wade		 There's another thing I've been thinking about. I don't know how you feel about the idea, Margie, because we've never talked about it. But I've been thinking lately, I've been thinking we should get married sometime. You and me.
margie		 Oh, Wade.
wade		I've been thinking about it, that's all.
margie		You've been married twice --
wade		It was to the same woman. I was just a kid...  It's not like a marriage proposal or anything, just a thought. Something for you and me to talk about and think about. You know?
margie		Alright. I'll think about it.
wade		Good.
pop		I've got sons, Goddamnit, oh my God, have I got sons! Wade? Rolfe? Elbourne? You love me boys? Do you love your Pop? Of course you do!
sally		Glen, stop --
pop		Oh, Jesus, Sally, you are such a Goddamned good person! Capital G. You are so much better than I am, I who am no good at all, you who are a truly good person, like a fucking saint! Beyond fucking com-pare.
pop		My big boy bursting out of the seams of his jeans!
sally		Don't!
pop		You little prick!
sally		Glen, stop!
margie		Did you tell them?  That we were coming?
wade		Don't you think it's proper for a fella to introduce his girl to his parents?
margie		I know your parents.
wade		I just want to pick up my divorce papers. For the lawyer. It won't take long.
margie		 Are you sure they're home? Did you call?
wade		The truck's here. Looks like they've stayed inside since the snow started.
wade		Strange.
margie		Think they're alright?
wade		Of course! I would've heard.
margie		How?
wade		I don't know for Christ's sake!
wade		Pop, Pop, you okay?
wade		Jesus, Pop, how can you stand the cold, dressed like that? Where's Ma?
pop		Sleeping.
wade		You remember Margie Fogg?
pop		From Wickham's. Been a while. Like some coffee?
wade		How you and Ma doing? Haven't seen you in town for a while.
pop		We're alright. Your Ma's sleeping. You want me to get her?
wade		Yeah.
wade		 Jesus. Nothing's changed around here.
wade		Where's Ma?
pop		She's coming.
margie		Have you been heating the house? Not just with the stove.
pop		There's a furnace.
margie		You're not using it today?
pop		It's broke I guess. There's an electric in the bedroom.
margie		Maybe Wade should take a look at it. Your pipes'll freeze.  Wade, would you do that?
wade		Ma? It's Wade. Can I come in?
wade		Oh, Lord.
pop		Coffee's perked.
margie		When did she die?
pop		Is...? She's dead then?
wade		Yeah.
pop		I checked on her. She had the electric heater. Cold don't bother her as much as me. Which is why I give her the heater.
wade		 Is there something wrong with the phone?
pop		In the living room.
wade		Why didn't you call and have the furnace fixed?
pop		Wade. I thought she was alright. Till this morning she was.
pop		It makes me sad.
margie		Can --?
pop		 Makes me sad it was her. Instead of me. I shoulda froze.
wade		 Shouldn't we get this show on the road, now that Rolfe's here?
wade		Pointless to stand around in church with nothing to do, I guess.
rolfe		What about Jill? Is Lillian bringing her?
margie		They'll be at the church and the cemetery.
wade		Anyone else want one? Rolfe?
rolfe		No thanks. I don't drink.
wade		Yeah. I forgot.
lariviere		How you holding up, Wade?
wade		I'm fine, fine.
lariviere		You Rolfe?  I remember you from high school. You're a teacher now? Harvard?
rolfe		B.U.
lariviere		I haven't seen you around. I don't suppose there's much reason for you to come this way.
rolfe		Well...
wade		This is nuts.
margie		 Wade.
pop		...goddamned hair on her head.
pop		Not a one of you is worth a goddamned hair on that good woman's head!
wade		Pop! Don't do this now, Pop.
lariviere		Maybe I'll head on over to the church.
wade		Listen, it's no big deal, Pop.
pop		 Come on, smart guy. Tell how it's no big deal. Tell me how a single one of you is worth a single hair on that woman's head.
pop		Go fuck yourself!
rolfe		Wade, just leave it.
pop		 Listen to your little brother. 'Wade, just leave it.' Candy-asses. All of you. That's what I've got for children. Candyasses. 'Wade, just leave it.' Praise the Lord! 'Just leave it!'
wade		If you ever touch her again, I'll kill you. I swear it.
jill		Dad.
wade		 I'm glad you're here. Can you stay for a while?
wade		You ever come to your father's grave anymore?
lillian		No, not anymore. It's too... it's too far.
wade		We should talk.
lillian		We've done all our talking, Wade.
wade		It's just...
lillian		Let the past be.  I'm sorry about your mother. I liked her. You never know how much women like that suffer. It's like they live their lives with the sound turned off -- and then they're gone.
jill		 Mom.
lillian		She has an ice-skating lesson at four.
jill		I'm taking ice-skating, Daddy!
wade		Let's dig out Pop's truck before the skin of the snow freezes up.
rolfe		What about Margie?
wade		What about her?
rolfe		Well, do you still plan to get married?
wade		Yeah. She'll probably quit her job and stay out here with Pop. We can't leave him alone here, he'll set the damn place on fire. With Jill here a lot, it'll be good to have Margie around. Things are going to change in that department, by the way. I got a custody lawyer in Concord. I'm gonna see him tomorrow. All hell's gonna break loose, but it's worth it.
wade		I want to let the gas run out. I don't want the bastard driving drunk, and he's always drunk now. After, we'll hide the keys.
rolfe		Anything new about the shooting? Twombley?
wade		 I guess it was an accident, like everybody thinks.
rolfe		Want to know what I think happened?
wade		Find them everywhere. 
rolfe		I think your first response to the Twombley shooting was the correct one.
wade		Which is?
rolfe		That it wasn't an accident.
wade		Then who shot him?
rolfe		Well, your friend, I think. Jack Hewitt.
wade		Motive. You gotta have a motive.
rolfe		Money.
wade		Who'd pay him that kind of money? Not the mob. They got their own guys. Specialists.
rolfe		 They wouldn't deal with a guy like Jack. Who else benefits if Twombley is suddenly dead?
wade		 I don't know. You tell me.
rolfe		Okay. It's likely there are people in the union who don't want Twombley to testify. They probably include his son-in-law who's vice-president and will probably be the next president. I read that in the papers. What's his name, Mel Gordon?
wade		Yeah, the guy with the BMW I told you about. I did, didn't I?
rolfe		Here's my theory. Twombley, unaware of illegal union loans or whatever, starts nosing around cause of the investigation and finds out. Finds out his son-in-law is involved.
wade		So Mel Gordon wouldn't want a professional hit. That'd make the feds dig deeper. He wants an accident.
rolfe		A hunting accident is perfect.
wade		Shit, around here, you shoot somebody in the woods, you say it was an accident, you get fined fifty bucks and your hunting license lifted. Jack's probably saying the guy shot himself cause he ain't got his deer yet and don't want his license pulled.
wade		It's too neat. Things ain't that neat. It makes me mad. That somebody can pay to kill somebody, his own father-in-law, and not be punished for it. Don't that piss you off?
rolfe		Not particularly.
wade		Right's right, goddamnit! Don't you care what's right?
rolfe		I care about what happened. The truth. I'm a student of history, remember?
rolfe		I was thinking about that story you told me, about Pop and chopping the firewood out of the ice and after.
wade		Yeah.
rolfe		I hate to disappoint you, but I don't think it happened.
wade		Of course it happened. Why would I lie about it?
rolfe		It may have happened, but not the way you said.
wade		You think I wouldn't remember a thing like that?
rolfe		It wasn't me. I wasn't there, but I heard about it. When I heard about it, it was about Elbourne.
wade		We'd have to go digging in Vietnam to ask him.
rolfe		And Elbourne and Mom took you to the doctor and told him you fell from the hay loft.
wade		 Well, I never heard that one.
rolfe		I remember clearly cause when I heard I became real careful around Pop. I was a careful child and I became a careful adult, but at least I wasn't afflicted by that man's violence.
wade		 That's what you think.
rolfe		I gotta head back. It's a long drive.
lariviere		Put out that fucking cigarette!
lariviere		Not there, asshole. Flush it!
wade		Morning, Gordon.
jack		I'm fucking out of here.
wade		Lawford?
jack		Out of this fucking job. This job sucks. Working outside in the winter sucks.
jack		Open the door, will ya?
wade		Why don't you quit now, you want out so bad?
jack		Open the door. We're late.
wade		I mean it -- you got enough money now. Head out for California. Surf's up, Jack, and you're digging wells in the snow.
jack		What do you mean I got money? I'm as broke as you.
wade		Looney Tunes, Jack. Fucking Looney Tunes!
mel gordon		The boss in?
wade		I screwed up the divorce. I agreed with everything she said. I wanted her to like me. I just want to be a good father.
hand		It would help if you were married, if there was someone at home while you work.
wade		I plan to. Soon.
hand		How soon?
wade		This spring.
hand		Good. It would help if there were some drug or alcohol abuse on the part of your ex-wife. Sexual problems upsetting to the child.
wade		It looks pretty hopeless, don't it?
hand		No, not exactly. I'll look at the divorce decree, see if we can get it redrawn. Interview your daughter. Jill, right?
wade		Yes.
hand		Fine. I'll need a $500 retainer. You can mail it.
wade		Jesus. How much... how much will the whole thing cost?
hand		Hard to say. If we go for custody, depositions, psychiatric evaluations, it could drag on. Ten or twelve thousand dollars. She could win on appeal. If we just want to get the visitation rights redrawn, assuming they're unduly restrictive, it wouldn't be more than twenty-five hundred.
wade		Oh.
hand		 You might be better off legally as well as financially to just go for the --
wade		Yeah. I know. The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her. I'm not as dumb as I look. Whatever you say. I love my daughter.  I'll send you the five hundred.
wade		Sorry about the long lunch. My clutch is going out again.
lariviere		You ever think of getting a new car, Wade?
wade		On what you pay me?
lariviere		Elaine! Call Chub Meritt and have him pick up Wade's car, fix the clutch.
lariviere		 Use the pickup. I'll bill it to the town. You're the town police officer and the town police officer should have a decent car. You want a new car or not?
wade		What do I have to do for it?
lariviere		Nothing, Wade, I've been thinking. You don't get enough appreciation around here and it's time we changed things a little.
wade		I saw Mel Gordon in here this morning.
lariviere		So?
wade		He say anything about the summons I tried to give him? Sonofabitch wouldn't accept it.
lariviere		Wade, that wasn't smart. Going out right after the man's father-in-law shot himself. Let it go. Call it a favor to me.
wade		You? Why?
lariviere		Mel's doing some business with me. It's nice to do favors for people you do business with. He was in a hurry. No big deal.
wade		That was before Twombley was shot. Before he knew.
lariviere		What's the difference? Take my truck, take a rest -- stop worrying about Mel Gordon. Have you decided what to do with your old man's place -- he going to stay there?
wade		 Want to buy?
lariviere		Don't light that in here. I'm allergic.
wade		I won't. You interested?
lariviere		Maybe.
wade		You and Mel Gordon?
lariviere		Could be.
wade		 Always count on old Wade for a good screwing. Why should I always pay more, sell cheap? Why should you guys make all the money. You and Mel and Jack. Right's right.
lariviere		 Out! Out!
jack		You crazy sonofabitch! You'll sink us both! Get off the fucking ice! Get off!
jack		I'll shoot you, Wade, I swear it! I'll fucking shoot you dead if you don't move away from that truck!
jack		Don't move! I'll shoot you dead if you move!
nick		Your father's in back, Wade. Marg had to babysit him. She moved in with you, huh?  What happened?
pop		Ah, the prodigal son.
nick		About fucking time.
pop		Look, got me a new job, second cook and bottle washer!
margie		What happened?
wade		Jesus Christ, Pop, let's go home. I got waylaid. Sorry.
pop		The fuck you got waylaid. You follow your prick around like it was your nose.
nick		 Get him out of here. It was funny at first, but I'm tired.
margie		There's clothes in the back.
pop		Let's go home? What home is that? Your home? My home? Let's have a talk about that. You're fucking sly, Wade. Your mother's dead so she can't make any excuses for you anymore! You gotta deal with me! No more sugar tit, asshole.
wade		Pop, for Christ's sake!
pop		You think you can take me now? Come on, try.
nick		Marg, get out of this. Fast.
margie		I can't.
wade		I wish you would die.
margie		Stop it! Stop it! Just stop it!
wade		Then you accidentally see your body, or your face, or whatever, and you don't know who the hell it belongs to. Strange. It's the business with the old man, I know, and how incredibly pissed I was at him, and also chasing Jack Hewitt like that, and the Goddamned truck going through the ice, not to mention Margie's being so upset -- one thing on top of another.
wade		But you gotta hear this. You won't believe it. Mel Gordon had come by to visit LaRiviere and so now I'm in his office.
lariviere		He's on to us!
jack		Shit! What are we gonna do?
lariviere		Maybe I can buy him off. I gotta talk to Mel.
jack		You can't buy Wade off.
lariviere		We bought you.
jack		That was me.
alma		Wade! Come in! Have a cup of coffee.
wade		You got yourself a computer, Alma.
alma		Been putting my files into it. You take sugar and milk?
wade		No. Black.
alma		Are you alright, Wade?
wade		Yeah, sure. Why? I got this damned tooth, I got a few things bugging me, like everybody else. But I'm okay.
alma		Well, you look... sad. Upset. I don't mean to pry. I'm sorry about your mother. It was a nice funeral.
wade		Alma, I think there's some dirty business going on in this town.
alma		Always has been.
wade		This is maybe worse than you and I are used to.  What I'm talking about, I'm talking about murder. Among other things.
alma		Who?
wade		Evan Twombley, the union boss who got shot. Somebody murdered him.
alma		Who?
wade		You know Jack Hewitt, the kid I work with?
wade		...if Jack told the truth, he could be free by the time he's my age.
alma		Sometimes things are simpler than you think. Let me ask you a question.
wade		You don't believe me?
alma		 About Jack? No. Have you checked out the tax bill on your father's farm lately?
wade		I know he's due for the last two years. I was thinking of paying it when the insurance comes in.
alma		Has anybody offered to buy it?
wade		As a mater of fact, yes. LaRiviere.
alma		This is all the real estate transactions in this town the last year. Most of it unused land. Most of it for little more than the back taxes owed.
alma		This is from three years ago. Some difference, huh?
wade		 What is the Northcountry Development Association?
alma		I went down to Concord to check it out. The president is Mel Gordon. The vice-president and treasurer is Gordon LaRiviere. Those boys are buying up the mountain, Wade. $364,000 this year. I believe that's out of LaRiviere's league.
wade		Twombley involved?
alma		No.
wade		He musta found out. They had to get rid of him. And Jack'll get blamed.
alma		All the figures show is that Gordon LaRiviere is going to be a very rich man using his position as Selectman. In a year or two, you won't recognize this town.
wade		You sneaky sonofabitch! I've got your number now, Gordon! All these years I actually thought you were a decent man.  Can you believe that?
lariviere		Wade, you're done.  Let me have the shop keys.
wade		 Jesus Christ, Jack, don't you see that?
lariviere		The key, Wade.
wade		Yeah, you can have the key. It's the key that's kept me locked to you all these years. I give it to you with pleasure.  I've got to call my brother.
chick		The good news is we haven't got to your car yet. The bad news --
wade		Just tell me when you'll have it fixed.
chick		-- the bad news is there's a problem with Gordon's truck what somebody drove through the ice last night. Figured you'd know something about that, Wade.
wade		 Yeah. I know about that.
chick		LaRiviere says he ain't gonna pay for the fixin' of your car. A couple hundred for the clutch. I got some more bad news. Wanna hear it?
wade		Tell me.
chick		Chub says you're fired.
wade		He can't fire me. LaRiviere already did that this morning.
chick		He's a Selectman. The town. He said to tell you to turn your badge in and clean out your office. I'm supposed to pull the CB and police light out of your car. They're town property.
wade		What do you mean, you can't take me today? I told you --
margie		What on earth is happening to you? Why are you acting this way?
wade		It's my tooth! My fucking tooth! I can't even think anymore because of it.
margie		I heard you talking. You got fired this morning, didn't you?
wade		Look, that's temporary, believe me. There's so much shit gonna hit the fan the next few days, my getting fired by LaRiviere and Merritt won't matter a bit.
wade		I'll get another job. People are going to need me. After this is over, they'll make me into a Goddamned hero. You wait: you'll see, I'll deliver. I'll be the best father who ever lived. You need me, even Pop, for Christ's sake, he needs me. This town needs me. Maybe now they think they can send me howling into a corner like a kicked dog, but my God, it'll be different soon.
wade		Leave the bottle out!
lillian		Wait there. She'll be right out.  Is there snow on the ground up in Lawford?
wade		Yeah, lots.
lillian		 See. Get your boots.
wade		Hi honey.
jill		 Hi.
lillian		Have her back tomorrow night by six.
wade		No problem. Look, I...
lillian		You make me sick. I can't believe you've sunk so low.
wade		Low as what? What have I done? It's bad to want to see your own daughter?
lillian		You know what I'm talking about. For what you're doing to me and to the child you say you love so much. Love. You won't get away with it.
lillian		Bye, honey! Call me tonight if you want.
jill		Are we going in this?
wade		Yeah. My car's in the shop. This'll be fine.
jill		It's pretty old.
wade		It belongs to Pop.
jill		Pop?
wade		Grandpa. My father. It's his.
jill		Oh.
wade		 How about a Big Mac?
jill		Mommy won't let me eat fast food. You know that. It's bad for you.
wade		C'mon, we can always sneak a Big Mac. And a cherry turnover. Your favorite. What do you say?
jill		No.
wade		What do you want, then?
jill		Nothing.
wade		You can't have nothing, Jill. We need lunch. Mr. Pizza?
jill		Same thing, Daddy. Mommy says --
wade		I know what Mommy says. I'm in charge today, though.
jill		Okay. So we'll get what you want. What do you want?
wade		Nothing, I guess. I guess I can wait till we get home. Maybe we'll stop by Wickham's for a hamburger when we get to Lawford. That suit you? You always like Wickham's.
jill		 Okay.
wade		Fine.
wade		Oh, Jesus, Jill, I'm sorry. What's the matter, honey?
wade		Please don't cry. Please, honey.
jill		 What are you sorry for?
wade		I don't know. For the food business. I guess. I just thought, you know, we'd sneak a Big Mac on Mommy, like we used to.
jill		I want to go home.
wade		 You can't.
jill		 That's illegal, you know.
wade		I know.
jill		You're a policeman.
wade		Nope. Not anymore. I'm nothing anymore.
jill		Oh.
wade		Jillie, you want a cheese grilled sandwich?
nick		It's called a grilled cheese sandwich, you dub.
wade		Jill, please, it's alright. Nothing happened.
jill		I want to go home.
wade		 Okay, let's go home, then.
nick		 Jack Hewitt, he's looking for you. Wants you to clear your stuff out of his office in Town Hall.
wade		His office. You mean my old office.
nick		Well, I guess -- that's what he said.
wade		He got his deer yet?
nick		No, he's out now. Somewhere on the mountain. I'd stay away from him if I were you. He's real pissed.
wade		Going somewhere, Margie?
margie		I'm just cleaning out some of this stuff that's built up. For the rummage sale. And some things for the cleaners. And the laundromat.
wade		Don't lie to me. You're leaving me, I can see that.
margie		Don't be silly. Hi, Jill.
wade		 Marg.
margie		 Leave me alone! Leave me alone!
jill		Leave her alone! Leave her alone!
margie		 Get in.
jill		I want to go home. Will you take me home?
margie		Yes.
pop		 Yeah, you goddamn sonofabitch, I know you. You're a goddamn fucking piece of my heart!
wade		 So fuck you. Fuck you.
pop		Nah-nah-naw! You done done finally done it! Like a man done it. Done it right. I love you, you mean sonofabitch!
wade		Love! What the fuck do you know about love?
pop		Love! I'm made of love!
wade		Call it what you want.
pop		Everything you know is from me.
wade		Yeah.
pop		Bang!
wade		You and me.
pop		Where the Christ you going? You sonofabitch, you leave my fucking truck where it is! I need... Give me the Goddamn keys! I need to get me to town!
wade		Crawl!
pop		Nothing in the fucking house to drink. Not a fucking thing. My house, my money, my truck -- stolen!
wade		I don't know you. My goddamn father and I don't know you.
wade		I know you now. I love you too.
wade		 Joke. You scared me.
****Dialogues from script :After.txt****

blinding whiteness		We hear a MAN GASPING softly.     Rhythmically. A LUMINOUS PALE SHAPE slowly forms out of the searing whiteness. Gradually we realize we're moving across the ALABASTER BODY of a WOMAN. Her skin translucent.  ON THE WOMAN'S FACE Ethereal.   Her eyes closed.     Her face lifeless.   Then... ...her eyes open. She looks straight at us with unseeing pale blue eyes. This is ANNA  You used to enjoy it. Now it's... He shakes his head.    Frustrated.   Lights a cigarette.  PAUL ...it's like fucking a corpse. Paul immediately realizes he's gone too far.      Turns to Anna.  PAUL Shit.   I'm sorry.   That was-- Anna gets out of bed. Walks towards the bathroom.       Paul puts his head in his hands.
paul		Is this about us?
on anna		her head bowed as she lets the water wash over her.
anna		It's not about us.
anna		I don't know.
anna		I'm happy.
on anna		her nose is bleeding. She touches her lips. Looks impassively at the blood on her fingertips. The SOUND OF WATER carries into the next scene...
tall kid		You deaf Jack-off? Jack ignores them.   Irritating the Tall Kid even more.  TALL KID Can't fucking speak either. He pushes Jack against the table, toppling the incubator. Panicked, the CHICKS scatter across the surface. Just then the door opens. Anna walks in.  ANNA What's going on? She glances at the Older Boys then at Jack.  ANNA Jack?  JACK Nothing Miss Bryant.  ANNA Nothing? The incubator didn't just fall by itself. The Older Boys stare at Jack.    Waiting for his reaction.  JACK I tripped.   It was an accident. Anna looks at Jack carefully.    She knows he's lying.  ANNA  Jack. Help me clear up. Jack doesn't hear her. He's mesmerized by a SOLITARY CHICK standing motionless in the corner of the incubator.  JACK I think it's dead. Anna reaches in.   Tenderly picks up the chick.  ANNA No.   The poor thing's just scared.
on sink		Startling white. A stream of water flows into the sink. Then after a moment the spiralling clear water gradually turns a deep crimson red.
anna		It's permanent. You can't wash it out.  BEATRICE Then dye it back. You can't show up at the funeral looking like that. Like some prostitute.  ANNA I don't look--  BEATRICE Don't argue with me. Why are you constantly arguing with me? Anna bites her tongue.    Heads to the door.  BEATRICE Where are you going?  ANNA To do the washing up.  BEATRICE The sheets need changing.    They haven't been changed in months.  ANNA I changed them Monday. Anna goes to the cupboard.    Takes out clean sheets.  BEATRICE You weren't here Monday. You never sleep at home anymore. What if something happened to me in the middle of the night?  ANNA Nothing is going to happen to you.  ANYWAY DIANE--  BEATRICE   Fat lot of good she is. I wouldn't have to pay for a Nurse if my only daughter wasn't living in sin with that lawyer of hers. Doing God knows what. They always leave you in the end. You'll see. Just like your father--  ANNA That's enough Mother! Anna dumps the sheets on the bed. As she turns to leave Beatrice's hand darts out and grabs Anna's wrist.  BEATRICE That's it.     Go and cry to Paul. 
anna		Fine.   She sends her condolences.
anna		No.   I'm fine. Everything's fine. But we can see in her eyes that everything's not fine. Mrs. Hutton nods, then turns to greet another MOURNER. Anna steps nervously up to the coffin.
anna's pov		James Hutton lies peacefully amongst the velvet trimming. Suddenly his LIPS PART... as he GASPS SOFTLY.
viewing room		Anna steps back terrified. Stares at Hutton. His face serene again. It must have been her imagination. She glances up quickly. Embarrassed. Eliot's still observing her.     He nods to her cordially.
eliot's pov		Anna's by her car rummaging in a bag for her keys. Getting increasingly frustrated.
paul		What?    You always have the duck here.  ANNA  Actually there is something I need to talk to you about. Now Anna's nervous.  PAUL I've been offered a transfer to head office in Chicago. Anna looks down.   Stares at her hands on the table. 
paul		It'll mean more work of course. More responsibility. A lot of changes. But it's an incredible opportunity. I'd be crazy to turn it down. And...   Jesus. Can't we just have one fucking meal without arguing--  ANNA Fuck you! The other DINERS turn and stare at them. Paul glances at them embarrassed. Anna doesn't notice. Upset. 
paul		Keep your voice down, everyone's watching.  ANNA  FUCK YOU!  PAUL You're crazy. You know that?      Just like your mother.  ANNA I'm nothing like my mother! Anna grabs her coat.   Pushes her way through the restaurant.  PAUL   I'm not running after you this time Anna.  ANNA Good. Paul's suddenly aware that everyone's looking at him. He quickly sits down. Drains his glass of wine. Furious.
anna's car		She hesitates.       For a moment we think she might go back to him...
anna		Where am I? She talks with difficulty.       Her breathe labored.
eliot		You're in a funeral home.
eliot		You had a car accident. It was raining. You hit a truck loaded with metal pipes. She looks fearfully at the bloodied dress in Eliot's hand.
anna		I'm not dead.
eliot		You were pronounced dead eight hours ago. Your blood no longer circulates through your body. Your brain cells are slowly dying. Your body's already decomposing.
anna		I'm not dead. Eliot looks at her sadly for a moment. He places the bloodied dress on the trolley. Then picks up a document. Holds it up for her.
on document		It's Anna's death certificate.
eliot		You were dead on arrival. The attending physician signed here...  ...at 9.45 last night. I picked up your body from the hospital morgue at 12.10 this morning. Anna stares with horror at her death certificate, then at Eliot. He looks away. It pains him to see her so distressed.
eliot		I'm sorry. Eliot picks up a sponge from the trolley.   Wets it.
anna		Who are you? Eliot delicately washes Anna's face. She doesn't flinch as he dabs the wound above her eye brow.
anna		Don't touch me! Why are you touching me?
eliot		I'm preparing your body. You have to look beautiful for your funeral.
anna		I'm not dead. Eliot sighs wearily.   As if he'd had this conversation many times before.
eliot		You all say the same thing.
on anna		The lights go off. O.S. the door clicks shut as it locks automatically behind Eliot.
old guy		Just burn it. You can't send them back one shoe. It's not respectful.
paul		Oh hi.   I'm looking for Anna Bryant. The Teacher quickly moves over.    Hustles Paul to the door.  TEACHER   She didn't come in today. Jack's in the front row.   Following the conversation.  PAUL Did she call in sick?  TEACHER She hasn't called in at all. It's not like her. She always calls in. Paul's worried now.   Something's wrong.
eliot		Then why are you here? Anna doesn't know what to say.   She turns her head away. A tear falls down her cheek.  ANNA Please. Just let me go. I won't go to the police. I won't tell anyone. Eliot moves her head back.   Gently wipes away her tear.  ELIOT You're still in denial. You have to trust me. I'm only here to help you. Eliot slides a wooden head-rest under her neck and studies her wounds, touching them delicately. Thinking about how to conceal them. He turns to a tray of instruments. Picks up a needle. Leans over Anna. The needle pierces her brow. Sliding cleanly through her skin. She doesn't feel any pain as Eliot carefully sews the wound. He's meticulous. Clearly very good at his job. Eliot glances at his watch. Picks up a SYRINGE and an AMPOULE OF AMBER LIQUID. Draws up the amber liquid. Anna's alarmed. She tries to pull back.  ELIOT Don't be scared.  ANNA What are you doing?  ELIOT This will relax your muscles. Stop the rigor mortis setting in so I can work on your body. He INJECTS Anna in the neck. Just then we hear a car pull up on the gravel driveway outside.  ELIOT   Your mother's early. Anna's eyelids feel very heavy. Slowly her eyes close. Eliot pulls the white sheet over her body.
eliot		I'm so very sorry Mrs. Bryant. It's always so tragic when you lose a child.  BEATRICE I lost her years ago. He glances at her curiously.    Then gestures to his office.  ELIOT If you'd care to come to my office we can discuss the arrangements.  BEATRICE I want to see her.  ELIOT But she hasn't been--  BEATRICE I don't care. I want to see her. It takes him a second to respond.  ELIOT Of course.
beatrice		It's us who are left behind. It's us who suffer.   Who's going to look after me now? Did you think about that? She nods to Diane.    Diane helps her into the wheelchair.  ELIOT I'll confirm the date with Father Graham this afternoon. Friday as you requested.  BEATRICE Just do what you think's best.   It's just details. Beatrice whirs towards the door.      She suddenly stops. Turns to Eliot.  BEATRICE Oh there is one thing.  ELIOT Yes?  BEATRICE Her hair. She was a brunette.    I'd like it back to that color.
paul's pov		Beatrice's car pulls up. Diane gets out.      Pulls the wheelchair out of the car.
paul's car		Paul grabs the flowers.
paul		Mrs. Bryant. Beatrice doesn't acknowledge him.   Paul turns to Diane.  PAUL Hi Diane.   I need to talk to Anna. Diane can't look him in the eye.  PAUL What's wrong?  DIANE I think you better come in.
paul		No. She can't be dead.    There must be some mistake.  BEATRICE There's no mistake. We just got back from the funeral home. Beatrice pushes a joystick on her wheelchair.   As she whirs past Paul she notices the flowers.  BEATRICE   Flowers? How appropriate. Paul's not listening anymore.   Stunned.  PAUL Why didn't you call me?  BEATRICE You took her away from me.   I don't want you anywhere near her.
anna		I must be in shock.     That's all.   It's just shock. She struggles to her feet. Stumbles groggily to the door. Tries the door handle. It's locked. She bangs on the door feebly. Then she hears something. She cocks her head. Follows the sound of Eliot's footsteps upstairs.  ANNA   Let me out!
eliot's pov		Paul stands in the middle of the driveway staring blankly at the Funeral Home.
paul		I'm Anna Bryant's fiance.  ELIOT That's strange. She wasn't wearing an engagement ring.  PAUL Well not quite fiance...  ELIOT I'm very sorry for your loss Mr. Conran.  PAUL I'd like to see her.  ELIOT I'm afraid the viewing isn't until--  PAUL I'd need to see her now.    If that's possible.  ELIOT I'm sorry. It's not possible.     You're not family and--  PAUL Please.   It'd only take a minute.  ELIOT I understand. But--  PAUL  NO.   YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND!
eliot		Mr. Conran.  There really is nothing I can do. I'm so sorry. Paul looks defeated. He simply nods his head.     Eliot watches him get into his car and drive away.
eliot		Because it would only hurt you. You have to let go of the living. Just like they have to let go of you.  ANNA I don't believe you.   Why are you doing this to me? He shakes his head as he drops the towel into a small bin.  ELIOT You're all the same. You all blame me for your death. As if it were my fault.  ANNA No. You drugged me.    So my mother  WOULDN'T--  ELIOT The others. They just see you as a dead body on a slab. Only I can see you as you really are.  ANNA You're crazy! Eliot's taken aback.    Hurt.  ELIOT I'm a busy man. I don't have time for this. He heads to the door. Pulls out his keys and unlocks it. Just then he remembers something. Turns to her.  ELIOT Oh I nearly forgot.    How tall are you?  ANNA What!? He looks her up and down.   Gauging her height.  ELIOT Five seven.  ANNA Why..?  ELIOT I need to know how tall you are.   For your coffin. Anna's stunned. Eliot looks at her for a moment.     Then switches off the main lights. 
anna		Wait! He ignores her.   The door CLICKS shut behind him.
on newspaper		Schoolteacher Dies in Tragic Car Crash.
jack		I waited. His mother doesn't respond.
paul		Come on. He pushes the button repeatedly.   Then angrily slams the side of the machine. Nothing.  PAUL You piece of shit. As Paul turns away, he notices a door with a sign on it: AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY. Paul glances around. Then quickly walks over to the door.
anna's car		Glass everywhere. Paul glances at the KITSCHY BOBBLEHEAD DOLL on the dashboard flecked with blood. He places his hands on the steering wheel. Suddenly he hears a strange noise. He looks up... The KITSCHY DOLL. Its head NODDING SLOWLY. Its smiling face now unnaturally sinister. Turning towards us until it abruptly stops. Staring straight at us. Paul looks at the doll transfixed. Just then a PALE WOMAN'S HAND slowly reaches through the window... and touches Paul's shoulder. He jumps. Turns. ANNA stands by the car. Staring blankly at him.   The color drains from Paul's face.
garage		Paul gets out awkwardly.    He can't look Tom in the eye.
tom		You OK?
tom		I just found out. I'm so sorry Paul.       If you need anything--
paul		I need to see Anna.
paul		The funeral director won't let me see her Tom. He says I'm not family. Can you talk to him? Put some pressure on him.
tom		I can't do that.
paul		Tom.    You're my friend.
tom		Paul.     I can't do it. Paul nods slowly.    Tom notices the Kitschy Doll.
tom		You sure you're OK?
paul		I fucked up.
tom		Paul. It was an accident. You should get some rest. Let me drive you home.
paul		I always fuck everything up.
prep room		Eliot opens a cabinet full of boxes of hair dye with photographs of smiling women. As he prepares the dye he looks across at Anna. She's staring at something behind him. Eliot turns. Sees the uncovered body of the Old Woman on the gurney. He quickly walks over. Carefully pulls the white sheet over the Old Woman.
anna		Who is she?
eliot		Mrs. Whitehall. He mixes the dye in a bowl as he moves over to Anna.
eliot		You shouldn't be afraid of her.   The dead can't harm the dead.
anna		Stay where you are.
eliot		 Give me the scissors. I only want to help you.
anna		Don't come any closer.     I swear to God I'll kill you. Eliot walks right up to her.     His face now inches from hers.
eliot		Go on.
prep room		For a moment we think she might do it.      But then she wavers.
eliot		What are you waiting for? Anna's confidence falters. She slowly lowers her hand. The scissors fall onto the floor. Anna looks down defeated. Her breath labored. Suddenly she realizes...
anna		I'm breathing!  Look. I'm still alive!
eliot		You think you're still alive because you're still attached to life. It's normal. You're just imagining you still have symptoms of life. She's not listening. Eliot takes a roll of paper towels. Kneels down, picks up the bowl of dye and mops up the mess.
anna		Maybe I was in some kind of coma. The doctors made a mistake. They're always making mistakes.
eliot		You died.   Everyone dies.
anna		How can I be dead if we're talking? He stands up.    Sighs wearily.  ELIOT We're talking not because you're alive. But because I have a gift.   No.    Please. I don't want--  ELIOT You're a corpse. Your opinion doesn't count anymore. 
anna		But I can breathe.     I must be alive. She weakly pushes him away. Anger flashes across Eliot's face, but just as quickly he controls it.  ELIOT You people. You all think that if you breathe, shit, piss you're alive. Anna doesn't know what to say.  ELIOT You clutch onto life as if your life was worth clutching onto. Was your life worth clutching onto Anna? Anna turns her head away.   Clearly he's struck a chord.  ELIOT Was it?   Maybe you died a long time ago. Eliot rips off his latex gloves.    Tosses them into a bin.  ELIOT I have to tell you I'm surprised you're still arguing with me. You don't have much time left.  Look. She's accepted her death. Her life has been examined. She has no more regrets. And now she's at peace. She used her time well. You still have so much to learn.  ANNA I have nothing to learn!  ELIOT Are you sure? Eliot stands in the doorway. He switches off the light. His body silhouetted by the light from the hallway.  ELIOT Your funeral's in three days. Soon you'll be enclosed in a coffin. Then buried in the ground. No-one will hear you then. No-one will talk to you there. The door clicks shut behind him. Anna doesn't move. Clearly unsettled by Eliot's words. After a moment she looks at the Old Woman. She moves over. Hesitantly pulls away the white sheet. Stares at the Old Woman curiously. Then tentatively touches her cheek.  ANNA Are you cold? 
anna		I'm so cold. Anna notices the Old Woman's plastic ankle tag.
anna		You had a long life. Anna turns back.   Studies the Old Woman's serene face.
anna		You look so peaceful.
anna		I'm scared.    I'm so scared.
on paul		The music's strangely distorted now.        Almost silent.   As if we were inside Paul's head.
prep room		Anna reaches forward. Her hand disappears into the thick blackness. She snatches her hand back. Scared. Then... ...a CHILD'S HAND darts out of the darkness. Grabs Anna's wrist. Pulling her in with surprising strength. Anna struggles to free herself. But the hand drags her deeper into the darkness. The door slams shut behind her.
on casket		The Old Woman.   Her long hair braided.   She looks serene.
eliot		 Can I help you? Jack steps back timidly.   Eliot looks up.   Smiles.
eliot		Then perhaps you can help me.  Could you throw these away for me? Jack nods hesitantly.   Moves over and takes the flowers.
eliot		Thank-you. Eliot turns and arranges fresh flowers in the vase.
on jack		as he looks at the wilted flowers.    He crushes a petal then sniffs his fingers.
viewing room		Jack looks up.   Eliot's watching him carefully.
eliot		They belong in the garbage. Jack turns to leave.
eliot		I've seen you round here before. Jack's suddenly nervous.
eliot		Did you know Mrs. Whitehall?
jack		I thought it was Miss Bryant's funeral.
eliot		Ah. Miss Bryant. No.       Her funeral's not until Friday.
jack		Where is she now? Eliot considers the question for a moment.
eliot		She's downstairs.  JACK Why?  ELIOT Why?  Because she's not ready.   What do you mean? Eliot finished arranging the flowers.     He glances at his watch. Smiles at Jack.  ELIOT It was a pleasure talking to you Jack. 
anna		  Maybe you are God.  ELIOT You'll be at peace soon.     I promise. For a moment we see a deep sadness in Eliot's eyes. He's conflicted. But then abruptly he pulls himself together. Moves away and starts clearing up. Anna closes her eyes. Hugs her legs closer to her chest.  ANNA Paul. She lets out a DESPONDENT SIGH.   The SIGH carries into the next scene...
paul's pov		Anna stands in front of the shower with her back to him. She slips off her bathrobe and hangs it on a hook. Then her hand moves to her chest. There's a STRANGE WET SUCKING sound... ...as Anna rips out her heart and hangs it casually on the hook next to her bathrobe.
anna		What's that?
eliot		It's your dress. For your funeral. Your mother brought it round this morning. As Eliot takes out a pair of shiny black shoes from a plastic bag, Anna moves haltingly over to the dress. She touches the material puzzled.
anna		This isn't my dress.  This is my mother's dress! It was supposed to be for her funeral. Why has she given it to me? Eliot starts folding the plastic bag. He notices something else inside. He opens the bag. Hesitates then takes something out.
prep room		Eliot looks at it for a moment. Then glances over at Anna. She's still staring at the dress. He opens a drawer beneath the counter. It's full of rosaries and printed Holy cards. He quickly drops the rosary into the drawer. Closes it. Then turns back to Anna.
anna		It should have been her not me.  She was the one dying. Not me. Eliot unlocks the door. Jams it open with a door stop. Slips his keys back into his jacket pocket. Takes off his jacket and hangs it up. He moves over to a collapsible gurney folded on the floor. Bends down and snaps open the side-rails. Anna looks at the open door.
anna		I'm not ready to die. Eliot looks up at Anna sadly.
eliot		Why are you still struggling?
eliot		There's nothing out there for you anymore. As Eliot turns back to the gurney, Anna notices Eliot's jacket hanging beside her. Realizes the KEYS are in the pocket. She quickly glances back at Eliot. He's still busy adjusting the gurney. She leans over to his jacket.
on eliot		as he gets up and turns to Anna.
prep room		Anna looks at him calmly. We can't tell if she managed to get his keys or not. Eliot pulls on his jacket and wheels the gurney through the door. He steps back into the room. Nudges the door stop away with his foot.
eliot		I'll be back soon. The door locks behind him with a CLICK.
anna's pov		Eliot's van pulls up in front of the house.
entrance hall		Anna's trapped. We hear the CRUNCH of Eliot's footsteps on the gravel outside. Anna looks round desperately.
hallway		Eliot turns towards her... then at the last moment changes his mind. Heads in the opposite direction towards the viewing room.
anna		Paul. Suddenly the light comes on.
eliot		I'm the only one who can hear you now. Anna drops the phone. Backs away towards a window.      Eliot walks over and calmly replaces the phone.
eliot		I'd be very careful if I were you. The dead have such a hold over the living.
anna		What do you mean?
eliot		 He still feels your presence. You're only causing him more pain. If you really loved him, you'd accept your death and let him go.
anna		Then prove to me I'm really dead.
eliot		You people.   You always need proof. Eliot places his hands on her shoulders.    Turns her towards a tall mirror.
on mirror		A PALE CADAVEROUS WOMAN. Sunken eyes.      A blood-stained tear in the side of her RED SLIP.
upstairs room		Anna's stunned. She moves closer to the mirror.      Touches her reflection through a thin layer of dust.
anna		Why do I look like a corpse?
eliot		Because you are a corpse.
on mirror		Anna stares blankly at her image in the mirror.
anna		I am dead.
upstairs room		Eliot smiles. Like a father proud of his child's first step. Just then he notices something outside. We see a brief flicker of unease in Eliot's eyes.
eliot's pov		Jack stands in the driveway holding his bicycle.    Looking up at the Funeral Home. Transfixed.
jack's pov		Anna in her RED SLIP by the mirror. She looks frightening in the harsh light. Deathly pale. Like a ghost.
driveway		Strangely Jack isn't scared. He continues staring up at the window. Calmly. Curiously.
old guy		Well here he is. Frank Merano. The Old Guy hands Eliot a clipboard. The Assistant unties the rope. Pulls the plastic sheeting away.
on body		FRANK , the top half of his head has been flattened. His head split open. Grotesquely distorting his face.
morgue		Eliot glances at the Assistant with disdain. Signs the release form and hands the clipboard back to the Old Guy.
paul		 I can't help her anymore. Paul turns and walks away.    Jack grabs his arm.  JACK Maybe you just don't love her anymore? Paul turns and hits Jack with the back of his hand.     Jack falls to the ground. Paul stands over him enraged.  PAUL You little fuck. You think this is funny? He's about to hit Jack again when a STOCKY TEACHER grabs him. Paul tries to struggle loose.  STOCKY TEACHER Hey! The CHILDREN stare at Paul. A SECURITY GUARD runs across talking into a walkie-talkie. Another TEACHER bends down.  TEACHER Are you alright sweetie? Jack nods numbly. Looking up all the time at Paul.      The Security Guard grabs Paul's arm.  SECURITY GUARD The police are on their way. Paul watches Jack stand shakily.   Realizes what he's done. He reaches out to Jack.  PAUL Jack... I'm sorry...  SECURITY GUARD Step back sir.
anna's pov		Frank stares back at her with open dull eyes. His face partially reconstructed with plaster of Paris.
prep room		Eliot smooths the wax over the plaster to give Frank's face a more natural texture. Then picks up a piece of wire with a fishhook-like barb at each end.
eliot		His mouth.   To keep it closed. Eliot imbeds one barb into the upper gum then pries back Frank's lower lip. He attaches the other barb into the lower gum, then twists the wires tightly together. He picks up two plastic caps covered in small knobs.  ELIOT Now his eyes. He inserts the caps into Frank's eyes. Pulls his eyelids over them. Glues the eyelids together.  ANNA Is this how you'll prepare my body? Eliot looks at her for a moment.   Smiles reassuringly.  ELIOT No. There's no need. I had to rebuild his face. You're still beautiful.  ANNA Does he have family?  ELIOT Yes.    A brother. He's coming in later. Anna touches the white sheet covering Frank's body.  ANNA My mother... She didn't cry did she? When she came to see me?  ELIOT  No.    He didn't cry. We see a brief flicker of pain in Anna's eyes. 
anna		I knew he wouldn't.     He always got upset when I cried.     He said crying never helped. Anna suddenly looks very weary. She leans heavily against the slab. As if she's about to fall.  ELIOT You should rest. He guides her back to the slab.    Helps her lie down.  ELIOT You're getting weaker.    It's almost time. Eliot strokes her hair tenderly.    She looks up at him.  ANNA Can I ask you something?  ELIOT Yes.   Of course.  ANNA Why do we die? A long beat.  ELIOT To make life important. Anna's fingers curl around his hand. Like a vulnerable child. Totally trusting in him. Eliot looks down at Anna sadly. We sense he's conflicted. Confused. Wavering. But then reluctantly he reaches for a SYRINGE filled with AMBER LIQUID on the steel trolley. He injects her gently in the neck. Watches over her for a moment. Then moves to the window. He picks up a window pole. Pulls the shutter across the window plunging the room into darkness.
on polaroid		The Old Woman, Mrs. Whitehall, lying in her casket.
room		Suddenly Eliot looks up sharply.   As if someone had spoken to him.
eliot		Think nothing of it Mr. Houseman.    No need to apologize. Eliot moves over to the wall.
eliot		I really enjoyed our time together. We pull back slowly. Eliot's talking to a POLAROID of an OLD MAN. We pull back further... the wall's covered in HUNDREDS OF POLAROIDS of BODIES in open coffins. Most of them have closed eyes but we glimpse some with their eyes wide open. Eerily staring at us. Eliot touches the Polaroid of a YOUNG MAN. We see the fear in the Young Man's eyes.
eliot's pov		A POLICE OFFICER stands at the front door.    A SQUAD CAR parked on the driveway.
eliot's room		Eliot steps back.    Calmly continues to dry his hands.
vincent		Something's not right here.
eliot		 Not right? Vincent nods towards Frank's body.
vincent		His smile.    It was a bit more... Vincent raises his fingers to his mouth, trying to find the right word.
vincent		...smiley.
eliot		Smiley.
vincent		That's much better. Thank-you.
eliot		I'm glad I could help.
vincent		Do you mind if I have a couple of minutes alone with him? Eliot hesitates.      Then smiles.
eliot		No.   Not at all. I'll wait outside. As Eliot leaves, Vincent looks at Frank's body. After a moment he glances at Anna again. Then at the door. He quickly moves over to Anna. Looks at her curiously then pulls down the sheet. He reaches over... and CARESSES HER BREAST. Mesmerized by her naked body. As Vincent's hand moves down her body, he bumps against the trolley. Instruments CRASH to the floor. He pulls back the sheet just as Eliot enters the room.
vincent		I'm sorry.    I didn't see...
vincent		Well. I guess I should be off then. I'll see you at the service. Thanks again. Vincent glances one last time at Anna then leaves. The door locking shut behind him. Eliot stares at the door.
eliot		I just told you. That was your brother.  You had an accident. You're dead. Why do you people never listen to me? Frank doesn't move.    His mouth still wired shut.
eliot		No.   It's not a gift.   It's a curse. Eliot picks up a compact. Roughly layers Frank's cheeks with thick rouge. With every word he gets more agitated.
eliot		I take care of each of you as if you were my children. I wash the shit from your bodies. I dress you. I do everything to make you look more beautiful than when you were alive. And what do you do? Eliot's extremely irritated now.     He grabs a garish red lipstick. Smears Frank's lips.
eliot		You argue with me. As if it were my fault you're dead. As if I was to blame.  What? You're not talking to me now? You don't want to?
prep room		From Eliot's reaction it seems as if Frank has started to talk again.
eliot		No. Now I don't want to talk to you anymore.
jack's pov		Frank Merano lies nestled in the velvet interior.    His face placid. No sign of the gaudy make-up.
viewing room		Jack stares in fascination at Frank's body. He reaches into the casket. Touches Frank's cold hand. In the b.g. Eliot walks into the viewing room.     He stops surprised. Watches Jack intently.
viewing room		Jack turns quickly.    Eliot stands over him.
eliot		You have empathy with the dead. You're drawn to them. Just as they're drawn to you. It's a rare gift. Jack can't look Eliot in the eye.  ELIOT I know you saw Anna. Jack hesitates.   Then nods his head.  ELIOT You're frightened by it. I was scared too the first time. But you shouldn't be. Christ had the same gift. He raised Lazarus and spoke to the dead.  JACK   I can help you. I can teach you.
anna		Your fingernails are dirty. Eliot smiles.    Examines his nails.  ANNA Your hands are normally so clean.  ELIOT I've been gardening. He walks over to the sink.      Scrubs his nails.  ANNA Is it sunny outside? Eliot fills a bowl with water.     Carries it to the slab.  ELIOT Yes.    The tulips love the sun.  ANNA I miss the sun. Anna glances up at the shuttered window. Eliot snaps on his latex gloves. Picks up a sponge and wets it in the bowl of water. Anna turns to the tulips.  ANNA Are they your favorite flower?  ELIOT Tulips?    Yes. I think so. Eliot raises Anna's arm. Delicately washes her armpit. Along the length of her arm. Her skin pale.  ANNA I thought it'd be lilies. White lilies. Don't they symbolize death?  ELIOT No.    They symbolize purity. He moves to her breasts, following the contours of her body. Pausing every now and then to rinse the sponge.  ANNA And tulips? Eliot hesitates for a second before replying.  ELIOT Unrequited love.   What's your favorite flower? 
anna		Violets. Eliot softly washes her legs.  ELIOT A beautiful flower.       They need shade and lots of water.  ANNA What do they symbolize?  ELIOT Faithfulness.  ANNA   Do they? Eliot puts down the sponge.      Dries her body with a towel.  ANNA Roses are red, violets are blue... He reaches over to the CD player to switch it off.  ANNA No.     Leave it on.    It's so peaceful. Eliot smiles.   Leaves the music on.
street		The light's turned green. The DRIVERS HONK angrily. Paul doesn't hear them. He places his hand against the plate glass. Stunned.
eliot		Maybe you just want to believe he saw her.  PAUL Fuck you. Paul pushes past Eliot and strides into the Funeral Home.  ELIOT Mr. Conran!
paul		I'm here Anna.   I'm sorry. Please Anna. He places the palm of his hand against the door.
paul		I can't live without you. Eliot looks up at Paul with sudden interest.
paul		Anna! Eliot gently puts his hand on Paul's shoulder.  ELIOT Mr. Conran.   She's dead. Paul pushes him away.  ELIOT I know what you're going through. Denial's a natural part of grieving...
paul		She needs my help. Eliot looks at him for a moment.  ELIOT You can't help her anymore.    Believe me.
tom		Anna was in a car accident. Her car was wrecked Paul. Remember? It's downstairs.  PAUL She's not dead. Tom calmly gets up. Moves to a filing cabinet.   Takes out a file. Hands it to Paul.  TOM Here's the Coroner's report. Paul manically rifles through the file.  PAUL Look.  I saw her. Paul turns hopefully. Finally someone believes him. Vincent Merano stands by Jeff's desk.  VINCENT She was on the slab.     Dead. 
paul		No!  VINCENT I've seen dead bodies.       Believe me, she was definitely dead.  PAUL Tom. Just go down there and check the place out.  TOM On what grounds Paul?       Do you have any evidence?  PAUL No.     But--  TOM Do you have anything? Paul hesitates.    We sense his uncertainty.  PAUL I think she called me.  TOM Called you?  PAUL   On the telephone. Jeff snickers. Paul's beginning to realize how absurd this all sounds.  VINCENT Collect or long distance? Jeff snorts with laughter.  TOM First you hit a fucking kid. Then you attack Deane. And now you're telling me your dead girlfriend called you? What the fuck's going on? You're loosing it Paul. Merano and Jeff shake their heads, looking at Paul as if he were crazy. Tom's voice softens.  TOM I know you feel guilty but you've got to pull yourself together. Paul slumps in the chair.       Rubs his face. 
paul		Maybe you're right.    But why won't he let me see her? Tom signals to Merano and Jeff. Merano walks back to his desk. Jeff turns back to his work.  TOM Look Paul. The funeral's tomorrow. You'll see her then. It'll help. It will give you closure. Trust me.
anna		I don't fucking know!  ELIOT  WHAT DID YOU WANT ANNA?  ANNA   When I was a child... my mother. Anna struggles to pull together her thoughts.  ANNA When I was a child. I learnt that love. That when you love someone. You get hurt. So I learned not to love. That way no one could ever hurt me again. She looks down at the slab.     Touches the cold marble.  ANNA I was always pushing Paul away.      He thought I didn't love him.  ELIOT Did you?  ANNA He was the only one I ever loved. But I never told him that. And then he stopped loving me. Eliot stares at her intently.    Comes to a decision.  ELIOT What would you do if you had another chance? Anna's puzzled. Eliot goes to the door and unlocks it. Moonlight floods in from upstairs. Washing it with a cold light. Anna doesn't move. 
eliot		Well?   Isn't this what you wanted? Eliot holds out his hand.   Anna takes it hesitantly and rises from the slab.
funeral home		Paul strains to open the window when suddenly... he's caught in a circle of bright light. Paul turns quickly. A DARK FIGURE stands over him. Menacing.
man's voice		What the fuck are you doing here? The Figure lowers the flashlight.   It's Tom.
tom		I'm taking you home.
on anna		Her eyes still closed.
on eliot		Eliot pauses.   Too confused to look back at her.
eliot		It's...   It's not important. He closes the door.
eliot		You have to look beautiful for your funeral. He picks up a SYRINGE and an ampoule of AMBER LIQUID. Fills the syringe.
on ampoule		We glimpse the label: HYDRONIUM BROMIDE.
eliot		This is how they'll all remember you.
anna		Can I see myself for the last time? Eliot smiles.    Picks up a mirror.    Hands it to Anna.
on mirror		Anna looks peaceful.    Beautiful.    Serene.
anna		Is this the end?
prep room		Eliot glances anxiously at the fogged mirror, then at Anna.
anna		You lied to me.
eliot		Anna. We've been through this before. You're just imagining--
anna		You lied to me. Eliot injects her in the side of the neck. Anna tries to raise her hand to push him away but she's too weak.
on anna		...delicately closes Anna's eyelids.  ELIOT  Good bye Anna.
on casket		Anna lies in an open casket. Her eyes closed.     She can hear the DISTORTED VOICE of the Priest.
viewing room		Eliot gestures to Beatrice. Diane wheels her to the casket. Beatrice looks at Anna for a moment, then touches the violets in Anna's hands.
diane		Violets. They were her favorite flowers.  How did you know?
eliot		Violets just seemed appropriate somehow.
paul's pov		Anna looks serene.
viewing room		Paul takes out the ring box from his pocket. Gently slides the engagement ring onto Anna's stiff finger. Suddenly he looks alarmed. Turns quickly to Tom.
paul		She's so cold. Paul turns back to Anna.    Tears prick his eyes. He touches her cheek again.    Finally accepting her death.
paul		I'm sorry Anna. He kisses her lips. Eliot watches him carefully. It's almost as if he's jealous. Jack notices Eliot's look then turns and stares at Paul. As Paul and Tom walk away Eliot closes the casket. Begins to screw down the lid.
on coffin		A drop of blood falls onto the polished wood.
viewing room		Eliot stares at the blood for a moment. Takes out a pristine white handkerchief. Carefully wipes off the blood. Then places his hand on the coffin.
paul		Yeah.   Thanks Tom. Tom squeezes Paul's shoulder then walks away.
on polaroids		We pan slowly across the other photographs we saw before. But now we look at them differently. In some faces there is the glimmer of life. In some a despairing pleading look. In others passive resignation.
eliot's room		Eliot moves towards the window.
eliot's pov		The dark cemetery. In the distance flickering candles illuminate Anna's grave.
eliot		They've said their good byes and gone back to their TV dinners and shopping malls. Thinking that this is never going to happen to them. Until it's their turn to be buried. Think about it Anna... Eliot glances at his watch.
eliot		...think about it while you still can.
jack		I never said she was alive.     I just said I saw her. Paul simply nods his head.        Too drained of emotion to react.
paul		You need a ride? Jack shakes his head.
paul		OK.   See you. Paul opens the car door.
jack		Mr. Conran?
jack's pov		Eliot stands in the window smiling at him.
eliot		Wasn't she? Eliot's suddenly tired of Paul's allegations.  ELIOT Mr. Conran. You come to my Funeral Home, making wild accusations. You have no idea what happens when someone dies. What happens to their body. What happens to their soul.   You twisted fuck. The room's SILENT. Everyone turns towards Paul.   Eliot whispers in Paul's ear.  ELIOT You don't have much time left. Father Graham puts his hand on Paul's arm.  FATHER GRAHAM Please.   Paul. You're not well. Paul pushes his hand away. Eliot shakes his head sadly. Everyone looks at Paul with pity as he runs out.
paul		Come on.   Come on. He swerves into the middle of the road. There's a blind curve ahead... suddenly an SUV comes out of the corner. A bright white light sweeps through his car.     Paul's momentarily blinded.
the screen flashes to white.		Paul opens his eyes. The ROAD'S EMPTY. No sign of any traffic. He's confused. The road was busy a moment ago. Just then flashing red and orange lights illuminate the car. Paul looks in his rear-view mirror.
car		Paul looks through the front windshield.     Nothing.   He frowns. Where did the ambulance go?
up ahead		We see the Funeral Home.   Bone white in the moonlight. The cemetery next to it.
paul		Anna! Just then he glimpses SOMETHING MOVE among the trees. Runs over. Nothing. The cemetery is empty. The trees appear to SHIMMER for a moment. Paul shivers. Pulls his jacket around him. He doesn't notice the candles on Anna's grave behind him suddenly BLOW OUT.
anna		  What was that? Anna responds as if it was nothing strange.  ANNA It's only the scissors... We see the growing anxiety in Paul's eyes.    Anna's just interested in his lips.  PAUL Scissors?   What scissors?  ANNA Scissors. For your clothes.    Eliot just put them on the table. Paul pulls back.   Terrified.  ANNA You're safe now. We're finally together. A strong bright light sweeps across Paul's face. Like the headlights of the car on the blind curve earlier.  FADE TO SEARING WHITENESS. Paul blinks as he gradually gets used to the harsh light. Slowly the room comes into focus...
****Dialogues from script :After_School_Special.txt****

biology teacher		                        13 RACHAEL UNGER, Deacon's girlfriend at the time, is naked under Deacon's sheets after school one day. Deacon ENTERS from the bathroom and is immediately surprised by her state of undress. DEACON Rachael! What are you doing? She sits up and strikes a sexy pose. RACHAEL We've been together for a year now, and I thought it was time to take our relationship to the next level. Deacon is becoming very nervous.
deacon		Now? RACHAEL You've been talking about this for months. DEACON I didn't think you were listening to me. Suddenly, Rachael becomes a little self-conscious. RACHAEL Don't you want to? DEACON Of course I do. But, I, um... I don't have anything... She pulls out a condom. RACHAEL I do. But he's still hesitating. RACHAEL  "I have a math test tomorrow." The bottom line is, I just couldn't do it. I don't know why, I just couldn't. And I've cursed myself every day since then. Deacon is suddenly... 15   INT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY                   15 ... very depressed as he trudges to his locker. Which is nothing compared to how he feels when he looks
fred		It doesn't get any better than that. You and Rachael were perfect for each other. And naked girls don't just appear out of thin air.  "First you get the money, then you get the power, then you get the women." FRED So, we're going to become Cuban drug lords?
deacon		Listen, the porno pirating operation is bringing in plenty of money. When I get my new car tonight for my birthday, we'll have the power to go wherever we want. Then, there's nothing stopping us from getting the girls. Fred and Matt look at Deacon warily. Is this a plan? Then, the hot girls and Jake drive past the guys. JAKE Bye, Sphincter! They laugh, then peel out with the radio blasting. FRED Nothing's going to change, Deacon. You're still going to be the kid who shit his pants in fifth grade and no one will ever let you forget it. DEACON I had a stomach virus, asshole. Just then, a super hot CHEERLEADER drops her car keys and bends over to pick them up. FRED Oh, that's just not fair. Fred adjusts himself.
russ		Gotcha! Fred SCREAMS. RUSS  What's this for? ...and a Barbie-type DOLL with a pullstring. Russ pulls it. DOLL I'm Candy. Let's play dress-up. The crowd is now seriously disturbed. MARK Dude.
deacon		Yeah. MATT Really? DEACON Really. I was. ROGER Happy birthday, Deacon. It's Lois Lane #2. Be careful. It's still in the wrapper. He hands Deacon a comic book, still in the plastic bag. DEACON Thanks. 23   INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - LATER                                       23 Half-eaten cake and ice cream, unwrapped presents. Matt videotapes the event. MR. LEWIS Are you ready for the big present? DEACON                    24 The door opens, the lights come on, and Deacon's face drops. No new car. Instead, several large wrapped boxes. Deacon halfheartedly rips open the paper. MR. LEWIS It's a new computer system. You've been talking about it for months. But his Mom can see his expression. MRS. LEWIS What? That's not what you wanted? DEACON No, it is. It's just--
max		I'll take it. MRS. LEWIS Max! MR. LEWIS We can exchange it if it's not the right one. DEACON No, I just thought-- I thought you guys were buying me that car I wanted. Max snickers. MRS. LEWIS A car? Why do you need a car? MR. LEWIS You can ask permission to use our car whenever you want, champ. They put their arms around Deacon and smile warmly. Deacon looks over at his parents' Aerostar Minivan. Everyone moves back into the house, except Deacon's parents, who linger. MR. LEWIS  What? DEACON You invited more people?
fred		Well, we did send out flyers to like three hundred people from school. DEACON And no one showed up? ROGER I did. Deacon looks back at Roger. DEACON Great. ROGER Uh, guys. No one showed up because they're all at Tom Cooperman's house. He's having a keg party. FRED What? Why didn't I hear about this? That shit's not right. ROGER I heard it from Rahim. He beamed me the 411 in study hall. A beat. Deacon's anger turns to action. DEACON Let's go. MATT Why? FRED Yeah. Tom Cooperman kicked me in the balls in third grade, and I swear there is still a footprint on my nutsack. DEACON Come on, guys. Can I just get one thing that I ask for on my goddamn birthday? MATT He's got a point. FRED Fine. Watch your balls.
deacon		 I'm gonna go talk to her. What have I got to lose? FRED Your dignity? DEACON She's Rachael's friend. It's not like I don't know her. MATT Ask her if she has any unusual hats. Girls like that. Deacon gives Matt a dirty look. THE KEG AREA DEACON Hey, Naomi. NAOMI Happy Birthday, Deacon.
deacon		 What an asshole. As soon as Jake is out of sight, Deacon turns back to Naomi, but she's already gone, stranding Deacon. What just happened here? REVEAL Matt helping Roger drink a beer in the background.
deacon		looks at her, thinks it over, and finally... slips off his shorts. He gets into the pool in his underwear, then slips them off, too, and throws them on the side of pool. DEACON Wow. This feels amazing. Someone splashes Kelly, she giggles, and the other kids swim around. Kelly swims by Deacon seductively and he smiles. JAKE  Oh my God! Skid marks. Aaaahhh, Deacon shit his pants again! DEACON No, I didn't! Give them back! Jake does a victory lap around the pool with Deacon's underwear on the stick. Everybody is laughing. JAKE Sphincter boy shit his pants!
matt		What? FRED I got fired yesterday. Russ caught me and went berserk. Some sort of sting operation he's been planning for months. I don't know. DEACON You're kidding me, right? Tell me you're kidding. FRED No. And now I have to work twice a week at my dad's office. I told you this Scarface plan was stupid. DEACON Great. So now we've got no girls, no car, and no money. FRED And no porn. MATT Tony Montana would be very disappointed. Deacon is once again... 31   INT. BIOLOGY CLASS - DAY                                           31 ... very depressed, as he sits, bored out of his mind in his biology class. BIOLOGY TEACHER Now turn your textbooks to chapter six, the Animal Kingdom. As you should know by now, biology is the study of life, in all its infinite varieties. Deacon continues to stare at her perpetually hard nipples. BIOLOGY TEACHER  So to keep things a little fun around here, tomorrow we're taking a field trip to the zoo. Deacon buries his head in his hands. 32   EXT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - PARKING LOT - DAY                  32 Deacon is talking to the Dorky Freshman near the bike rack.
dorky freshman		Is this some kind of extortion racket? I'll pay you double if you can get me something today. DEACON I'm sorry. There's nothing we can do for a while. We don't have anything new. DORKY FRESHMAN I'm dying. I just need something. Just then, Naomi walks by on her way to the parking lot. DEACON Hey, Naomi. What are you up to? NAOMI Going home to cram for midterms. With a look, Deacon shoos away the freshman dork. DEACON Oh. I could help you. I mean, if you needed any help. NAOMI That's okay. I'll be all right. Deacon searches for something meaningful to say, desperate not to let the moment pass him by. Naomi cuts him some slack by asking, NAOMI  Hey, sphincter. ... just as Jake drives up to them. Deacon is starting to really get pissed at Jake ruining the moment with Naomi. DEACON Look, can you please stop calling me that? I think we're old enough to just let it go. All right?
jake		Oh, sure. Sorry about that... Shit-pants. He looks at Naomi. JAKE  Look, mom. I need a car. MRS. LEWIS But I thought we agreed-- DEACON I need a car of my own. MRS. LEWIS Well, honey. A car is a lot of responsibility. DEACON Jesus, Mom. I'm seventeen now. I think I can handle it. MRS. LEWIS Well, it's also a lot of money. I'll tell you what. Maybe you can get an after school job to earn money for a car. I'll talk to your father. Deacon is stewing.
biology teacher		 Well, Roger actually... 37   INT. FRED'S BEDROOM - DAY                                       37 FRED What? DEACON Let's make one. MATT One what? DEACON A movie. MATT Great! That's perfect! I've already got an idea for a kind of sci-fi horror thing. It's like "The Shining" meets "The Jetsons." DEACON No, you moron. A porno film. Fred lights up. FRED Even better. DEACON And check this out. The best part of all, is I've got an angle.
fred		What kind of angle? DEACON We can make pornos that cater to guys like us. FRED You mean virgins. DEACON Yes. Adult films made by virgins for virgins. MATT With good cinematography. FRED And cute, nice girls. The kind you'd want to take to dinner with your parents. DEACON Right. No shots of sweaty guys' faces. FRED And nothing up the butt. They look at him. FRED  What? I don't like it when they put stuff up their butt. MATT These have to be nicely edited. We should shoot on super 16 and transfer to video. DEACON No, Matt. We'll shoot it on your video camera. We're not getting any expensive equipment. FRED How are we going to get the women to star in the film? MATT And the guys. DEACON I don't know. We'll surf the net. We'll figure it out. They look at each other for a beat. Finally, Fred and Matt crack up.
fred		Okay. Sure. I've thought about it. I've thought about shaving Principal Taggert's ass, too. A look, then Deacon gets up to seal the deal. DEACON Look. This is an opportunity we shouldn't let slip away. If we make this movie, it could be the best year of our lives. We'll go in boys and come out men. And at the end, we'll have the money, the power, and the women. But you losers would rather play it safe. Well, I'm not going to waste another minute. I'm making this porno movie with or without you. And when I show up at school in my new set of wheels, and you two limp dicks are begging me for my sloppy seconds, I'll just have to tell you, "Sorry, guys. That ship has sailed. You blew it." Ringing silence. MATT  That was a really good speech, Deacon. DEACON Thanks. MATT Did you work that out before? DEACON No, Matt. FRED Okay... So say we were to do this. What would we call our company? MATT I've got it. "After School Special." They look at him. It's perfect. 38   INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY                                      38 WE FOLLOW a WOMAN dressed in a Fredericks of Hollywood type outfit, walking down the hallway past office suites; a mortgage company, a dentist, etc... She enters an office. As the door closes behind her, WE SEE the sign on the door, "Ramalot Productions."
fred		Okay. In a minute. Fred puts the samples down. She rolls her eyes then leaves. FRED  rectal exam. Have a seat. He leaves and Fred looks at Deacon, mischievously. DEACON No way. FRED Why not? It's perfect. My dad's got Mr. Greitzer's signature on file, his credit card number, and his social security number... A beat. DEACON And he'll never find out? FRED It's not like we're going to send him our annual report. It'll just be like an official name of record or something. DEACON Okay. Cool. The Nurse returns.
nurse		And take these fecal and semen samples, too. She hands Fred two more containers, and the guys exit. 41A   EXT. STREET - DAY                                                41A The guys ride their bikes towards the lab to deliver the samples. FRED And we need porno names. DEACON What do you mean? FRED It's a basic rule of porno. All people affiliated with the production of an adult film have porno names so their friends don't recognize them. MATT Oh, you mean like "Johnny Hardmember"? FRED Exactly. That's a good one. I'll be Balls McLongcock. MATT Ooh, I like it. DEACON Guys. Those kind of names are just for the actors. MATT You're just jealous that you don't have a cool porno name like us. DEACON Okay, fine. Then I'm Sam ...  Slam. Sam Slam. The Back Door Man. Matt and Fred look at each other, then Deacon. MATT That name sucks. FRED You don't get it, do you? A porno name needs to be a very subtle thing. Fred gestures and DROPS the samples which SPLATTER all over the ground.
deacon		Sorry, Balls. I guess I'm still new at this. FRED Matt, pick that up. 42   INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT                              42 The family dinner. MR. LEWIS And I'm telling the guy, he's got to use form ND-45 for a third-party beneficiary, but Johnson's gotta be the big man. "We've been using ND-90 for twenty-two years." But Johnson's an idiot. He doesn't know ND-90 doesn't even exist anymore. Mom yawns. The phone rings and she gets it. MRS. LEWIS Hello?  I'm tutoring someone ... in math. To earn money for a car. He forces a smile. 43   INT. DEACON'S BEDROOM - DAY                                        43 The guys are busy setting up auditions. DEACON No, we don't pay bus fare. JUMP CUT TO:
fred		Sure, you can bring your dog.  You can go in now. She gets up and walks through the curtain.
deacon		But, mom. You said I could use the car, but it's never free. MRS. LEWIS All right, Deacon. I'll walk to the store. MAX Where are you guys going? DEACON Out. MR. LEWIS Why are you boys dressed like Don Ho? FRED This is the new style, Mr. Lewis. MAX Yeah, for ass-wranglers. MRS. LEWIS Max! 49    INT. AEROSTAR - NIGHT                                               49 Inside the car  Oh, yeah. They pull out and drive off. 49A   EXT. CLEVELAND - NIGHT                                             49A The minivan descends out of the suburbs into the lights of the big city below. 50    EXT. THE PRETTY KITTY CLUB - NIGHT                                  50 CLOSE ON the Aerostar's bumper sticker: "My child is on the honor roll at William Wall High School."
deacon		We're on business, he's on vacation. He hands the i.d.'s back. BOUNCER Well, "tiki-alohi-noa-lohi." DEACON Sorry? BOUNCER That's Hawaiian for "welcome." FRED Right. Of course. We just moved to Hawaii a few months ago. Haven't picked up the local lingo yet. They force smiles and wait for the answer... BOUNCER Okay. Have a good time, guys. Deacon grabs the i.d.'s and pushes the other two forward. He grabs the handle to the door. BOUNCER  Nice lamination job. FRED Thanks! The Bouncer closes the door on them. Busted.
deacon		Look. We have to get into this strip bar. MATT The next two years of high school depend on it. BOUNCER How old are you guys? DEACON Twenty-seven. FRED Thirty-five. MATT Sixteen. Fred smacks him. BOUNCER Sorry, guys. Then, DEACON We've got money. Deacon pulls out a wad of cash. The Bouncer looks around, then thinks about it for a second. 51   INT. THE PRETTY KITTY CLUB - NIGHT                                51 WE TRACK the guys as they slowly move down the dark corridor towards the light. Each guy is in his own little world, Matt and Fred following Deacon as he takes the first nervous steps. First the neon lights hit them, then the smell of liquor and sweat, the sounds of barroom chatter, and finally the grinding blast of MUSIC, so powerful it seems to stop them in their tracks. Their eyes bug out. SCANTILY-CLAD WAITRESS walking by. As they move further into the club, they see actual STRIPPERS soliciting lap dances and some TOPLESS DANCERS onstage. Fred smiles ear to ear. The guys are locked in a deep primordial trance, broken only by the voice of a COCKTAIL WAITRESS. COCKTAIL WAITRESS What'll you boys have? Two drink minimum. FRED Huh? Oh. I'll have a scotch. Straight up. On the rocks.
mike		Vacation? There's the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Vic thinks it over. VIC That's true. Vic regains his train of thought. VIC  What is this? "F" with Vic month? If any more amateurs start moving in on my territory, I'm going to get really mad. Vic opens the drawer and pulls out a GUN. He cocks it menacingly. MIKE Who you gonna shoot? Vic's bluff has been called. Reluctantly, VIC I don't know. MIKE Calm down, Vic. I don't need you all agitated. You still got five films to star in today. VIC You're right, Mikey. Mike takes the gun from Vic and puts it away. MIKE Don't worry. I'll find these guys and take care of it. Vic cheers up a bit. VIC You hungry? MIKE Yeah, I could eat. VIC Grab some lunch? MIKE Yeah, okay. The two head out for lunch, leaving the bondage lady sitting there, confused.
matt		A stripper. Her name's Ashley. He pulls out Ashley's picture from his manila folder. Jake checks it out. His eyes go wide and suddenly he's their new best friend. JAKE Who's the guy? A beat. JAKE  Well, maybe I could do it. DEACON No, that's not a good idea. JAKE Why not? FRED It's a lot harder than it looks. JAKE You don't think I can do it? Trust me, I've nailed enough girls. DEACON Forget it. JAKE Look, you little butt munch. I want to do this, and if you don't let me, I'll go and tell your mommy what kind of sick shit you're doing. Jake looks him over. 54   INT. BASEMENT SET AS "YEARBOOK OFFICE" - DAY                    54 DARKNESS. Click. The lights come on. The big day has come at last. The guys are nervously conferring on one side of the room, far away from Ashley, who's standing alone, dressed in a conservative high school girl's outfit. The basement has been transformed into the guys' idea of a movie set, complete with lights, camera, tripod, and sound equipment. A desk and decoration make the room look roughly like the high school yearbook offices. Deacon gives Matt a little shove, and Matt takes a long walk over to Ashley.
matt		So, um, I'll be directing. ASHLEY Okay. MATT Okay. So I want you to play this very understated. It's a very visceral scene, so it's important not to play it too over the top. ASHLEY Uh huh.  Hey, did you guys shave or something? Deacon looks at the other two, all three now beardless. DEACON Okay. I think we're ready here. Fred awkwardly picks up the boom and puts his earphones on. MATT Boom in position. FRED What? Deacon pushes him over to position. MATT Ashley, get into position. Matt gets behind the camera. They whisper conspiratorially. One last reality check before they take the leap. FRED Are we actually going to do this? They look over at Ashley. She's waiting. DEACON I guess so. They return to position. MATT So, um, we're starting with the masturbation and then Phillip, the yearbook editor, is going to surprise you. ASHLEY Okay.
matt		And ... action. ASHLEY  I hope no one catches me because I forgot to lock the door. Oh, yeah. Oh, God, yeah. FRED's smile turns into nervous ogling. DEACON crosses his legs and adjusts his shorts. MATT wipes a bead of sweat from his brow. Deacon whispers, DEACON Close up. MATT What? DEACON Close up. MATT Oh yeah. Right. And Matt zooms in. Ashley continues moaning and as Matt gets closer, the camera starts shaking. He can't keep his hands steady. 54A   THROUGH MATT'S VIDEO DISPLAY                                       54A We'd love to get a look, but the camera is shaking so much, it's just a BLUR.
matt		And ACTION! But Jake is still standing there, not in the shot. He's starting to sweat. MATT  Action, Jake. JAKE Okay. Still nothing. DEACON Come on, Jake. We're filming. JAKE All right. Hang on a second. He has his back to them, but it's obvious his bread hasn't risen. Fred lets the boom mike sag a bit. FRED My arm's getting tired. ASHLEY So's his. MATT Action... Jake finally whips off his underwear and faces Ashley. ASHLEY That's it? JAKE Hey, it's not hard yet. ASHLEY I can see that. Fred snickers and Jake gives him the evil eye. DEACON Um, okay. Ashley, maybe you can help him out. She grabs his joint and Jake freezes. He remains motionless, focusing every ounce of mental control on keeping the floodgates closed. Approximately one point three seconds later... ASHLEY Aaaahhhh!
matt		Wait! I'm not set up for that shot! FRED Can I put down the boom? DEACON Jake? What's happened? Jake, humiliated, runs to put on his shorts. JAKE This has never happened before. She got me too excited. ASHLEY Me? How did you ... without even getting hard first? JAKE  What do you want to hear? I've got a tiny pee-pee? I'm a premature e-jac-u-la-tor? Sometimes before I get a boner? Okay? DEACON Calm down, Jake. We can shoot this scene again. Just relax. We can splice it together. MATT We'd have to do it like twenty times to get enough footage. JAKE I'm out of here. And if you dickwads tell anybody about this, first I'll kill you, and then I'll bust you guys. He pops the videotape out of the camera, takes it, and leaves. ASHLEY Now what? The guys regroup, away from Ashley. The moment of truth: How far are they willing to go? MATT Deacon. You do it. DEACON No way. MATT Come on. This is your big chance.
deacon		No. You do it. A beat. MATT Fred. FRED What? MATT Come on. FRED You. MATT I have to run the camera. FRED Oh, like you're the only one who can do that. MATT  Look, guys. Maybe we should just pay Ashley and chalk this up to a failed experiment. MATT Fine with me. DEACON No. We can get someone else.
fred		Who? CUT TO: 55   INT. JIM'S TINY MART - NIGHT                                       55 CLOSE ON the cover of "T&A Enthusiast" magazine. RISE UP to reveal a twenty-something MAN thumbing through the issue. REVEAL Deacon, standing a little too close to him. DEACON  Where are you going, man? The guy is out the door. Deacon... 56   EXT. JIM'S TINY MART - NIGHT                                       56 ... runs after him. DEACON Don't you want to get it on with a sexy lady?!? Matt and Fred are sitting on the curb with some slurpies, bummed. MATT And that guy had real screen presence, too. Just then, Coop pulls up in his van and gets out. COOP Hey, dudes. The guys look at each other... JUMP CUT TO: Moments later, after it's all been explained to Coop.
matt		Deacon, come quick. Deacon steps away from his class for a moment. DEACON Matt, what's wrong? BIOLOGY TEACHER  Like all mammals, the whale gives birth to live young. Can anyone name another characteristic of mammals? Vinnie? FRED Our site got linked by another bigger site. Someone must have seen our stories and liked them. DEACON And? MATT We got a few more pre-orders and a ton of hits. DEACON How many? MATT Guess. DEACON A thousand? FRED Twelve thousand. DEACON Holy shit! Deacon high-fives the other two. They're all stoked. FRED We need to hurry up and make this movie. MATT We should go over the schedule for tomorrow. And make sure the script is ready. Deacon's smile fades. DEACON Uh, I can't tonight guys. FRED Why? Where are you going?
deacon		It's this thing I have to go to. MATT Is it a travelling carnival? DEACON No. Look, it's this party Naomi invited me to. MATT Can we come? Fred picks up on Deacon's hesitation. This isn't good. DEACON Uh... Okay. I guess that's cool. An awkward beat. DEACON  What are you wearing to the party? FRED We're not really going to the party, you moron. MATT Why not? FRED Because I said so. Matt starts getting agitated.
matt		But we told Deacon-- I mean, we can't just not show up. What if Deacon is looking for us-- This is too complicated to explain to Matt, so Fred just gives in. FRED All right. All right. Stop crying already. We'll make an appearance. MATT Cool. 66   INT. MARK'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                        66 Amid this raging party, Deacon has taken his rightful place with the in-crowd, standing dangerously close to Naomi without his usual sidekicks weighing him down. Finally. NAOMI You know, Rachael's coming back from Paris in a couple of weeks. DEACON So? NAOMI So, aren't you even a little interested in seeing her? DEACON No. There's someone else I'd rather see... He looks into her eyes, waiting to see if the limb he's out on is going to break. She smiles. It's working. Just then, MATT Hey, guys. It's his sidekicks and they've got some seriously bad timing. Deacon shoots them an annoyed look. NAOMI So what's this project you guys are working on? FRED We can't really talk about it. JAKE  Yeah. It's private. Jake eyes Deacon intently.
deacon		I've been wanting to do that for a long time. NAOMI So why didn't you? Most guys would look away at this point, with a fabulous babe with pouty lips staring you down. But Deacon passes the test: he stands his ground and kisses her again. She likes it. AT A WINDOW, Jake sees them kissing. He doesn't like it. AT ANOTHER WINDOW, Fred sees it, too. And for a completely different reason, he doesn't like it either. 68   INT. BASEMENT SET - DAY                                            68 The set is finally ready: Ashley is lying on the bed in a robe, the lights and camera are set, and Matt and Fred are adjusting the video camera. The only thing missing is an actor. Deacon ENTERS. DEACON Hey, where's Coop? FRED He was supposed to be here a half hour ago. MATT Maybe he got sucked into a black hole. He chuckles to himself. DEACON Good one, Spock. I can't understand why you're not more popular with the ladies. MATT Look, we're wasting time. Deacon, why don't you just go in there? Deacon balks at first, then looks over at Ashley, lying there. MATT  Come on... DEACON Okay. Okay. All right already. He pulls off his shirt and approaches Ashley with a pizza box from out of nowhere. MATT And action!
matt		Hey, quit the chatter. FRED Sorry. MATT Hey, why don't you guys kiss? DEACON What? MATT You know. Make out with each other. DEACON What? FRED All right. Fred goes in to kiss Deacon, who's thoroughly confused. Deacon holds him back with his hand. DEACON Wait. Why do you want us to kiss? MATT  Because that's what guys do in gay porn. DEACON What? Deacon looks over at the camera. It's Ashley filming. PANIC! He slowly looks down at the person he and Fred are having sex with. He can barely look. It's Matt! MATT More sausage please. DEACON Aaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhh! CUT TO: 69   INT. DEACON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                                   69 Deacon bolts up out of bed. Nightmare. Thank God. 70   INT. BASEMENT SET AS "MOVIE THEATER" - DAY                      70 Deacon enters and the scene looks very much like the dream: Ashley on the bed and Matt and Fred waiting around.
matt		Action. Matt starts his cheesy "projector light effect" and Coop takes a seat next to Ashley. ASHLEY This summer tent-pole event-movie is making me so scared. COOP Hide your head down here and I'll tell you when it's safe to come up. As she starts to go down, we turn our attention... ON FRED and DEACON, away from the action. FRED  Oh, baby. Not yet. Fred appears to be pondering the question deeply. His face slowly contorts to a look of seeming anguish. Then, FRED Fire! The coiled cord to the massive light is burning a circular hole in the smouldering carpet. COOP Unplug the light! Deacon moves to unplug it.
matt		Wait, it's hot! Too late. Deacon touches the cord, SCREAMS, and reels back, knocking the light over. It EXPLODES onto the floor. The carpet bursts into FLAMES. FRED Run! Ashley and Coop run up the stairs. Fred isn't far behind. MATT Quick, get the fire extinguisher! DEACON Where is it? MATT Over there! He spots it in the corner and grabs it. Meanwhile the flames are growing. Deacon comes over and aims the extinguisher at the flames. He depresses the lever. Nothing. DEACON It's not working! Matt thinks about it for a second. MATT Oh. Me and Fred used it when we wrote the foamy cat fight script last week. 71    INT. FRED'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                                         71 Matt and Fred are giggling and prancing around the room in bikinis discharging the fire extinguishers at each other. 72    INT. BASEMENT SET - DAY                                             72 Deacon looks at him strangely for a beat, then runs into the 72A   INT. BASEMENT - LAUNDRY ROOM - DAY  Hurry! Deacon turns the dial to "large load," pauses and chuckles to himself.
deacon		Large load. MATT  What's going on here? DEACON'S PARENTS are standing in the doorway to the kitchen with Max, whose arm is in a splint. Max stares at Ashley. She covers herself some more. Then, Deacon and Matt enter the kitchen from downstairs. MAX Nice rack. DEACON Mom! Dad! What are you doing home? MRS. LEWIS Max sprained his wrist at soccer practice. What is going on here? MR. LEWIS Well, I'm sure there's a reasonable explanation why there's a naked girl in our kitchen. Right, Deacon? Deacon isn't too sure. MRS. LEWIS Well... DEACON I, uh... Deacon's mind is racing. Then,
ashley		I'm Deacon's girlfriend. Ashley. MRS. LEWIS                       MR. LEWIS            * His girlfriend?                  His girlfriend?                *
deacon		Yes, my girlfriend. MRS. LEWIS And what were you doing with your clothes off in my kitchen? ASHLEY We were having a make out party. MRS. LEWIS Where are the other girls? DEACON Their dates stood them up? COOP Yeah. My date wasn't feeling well. FRED Mine has mono. From too much making out. With me. MRS. LEWIS What's that smell? MATT We had a small fire, Mrs. Lewis. I tipped over a candle. It was to set the right mood. MR. LEWIS A fire? Let me see the damage. DEACON Dad, don't. Let me take responsibility. We'll pay to have it fixed. Deacon's Dad looks at Ashley again. He can't hide his pride. MR. LEWIS Damn right you will. MRS. LEWIS Well, Ashley. I didn't know Deacon even had a girlfriend. MR. LEWIS Maybe you can join us for dinner tonight. Ashley looks at Deacon. Deacon's Mom glares at Dad.
deacon		I think Ashley's busy tonight-- ASHLEY Okay. Oh, shit. MRS. LEWIS Okay, then. 74   INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT                           74 Ashley is eating dinner with the Lewises. Max keeps staring at her. Mr. Lewis steals a few glances of Ashley himself while continuing his work-related rant. MR. LEWIS So get this. Johnson comes up to me today and he's all like "where's the ND-90's?" I'm like, "Johnson, they discontinued the ND-90 like six weeks ago." I've been telling this guy... ASHLEY Johnson sounds like a moron. MR. LEWIS Exactly! Mr. Lewis is psyched that someone is finally paying attention to him. Mrs. Lewis doesn't like the way he's looking at her. MRS. LEWIS So, Ashley. If I could ask you a personal question, exactly how old are you? ASHLEY Nineteen. But I tell people eighteen. Deacon laughs nervously. DEACON Isn't that funny? The doorbell rings. DEACON  I'll get it. FOYER Deacon open the door. It's Naomi. DEACON What are you doing here?
naomi		I thought I'd come by and surprise you. Maybe we could hang out in your bedroom. She looks at him seductively. Deacon looks over his shoulder. DEACON Now's not a good time. NAOMI What's wrong? DEACON Nothing. Let's talk later. He tries to close the door, but she stops it. MRS. LEWIS  Deacon, who is it? Too late. Naomi comes in. NAOMI Hi, Mrs. Lewis. I'm Naomi. I'm Deacon's girlfriend. And with that she looks at Deacon, figuring she just made his day. It fails, however, to achieve the desired effect. MRS. LEWIS His girlfriend? She looks at Deacon. Max pokes his head through. MAX Deacon has two girlfriends? DEACON Shut up, Max! NAOMI What do you mean? What's going on? MAX Deacon's other girlfriend is having dinner with us. DEACON I can explain. Naomi walks into the kitchen with Max. MAX This is Deacon's other girlfriend, Ashley.
naomi		She's a porno actress in your porno film. She had to pretend to be your girlfriend because she ran upstairs naked when the light caused a fire. And you've never had sex with her or even kissed her. DEACON Yeah, pretty much. He looks down. DEACON  Okay. Okay. 76   CLOSE ON a computer monitor displaying the A.S.S. Website.         76 The cursor is clicking through the various pages: text stories, pictures of the set, still photos of Ashley and Coop, etc. But more importantly, the "hits" counter looks like the odometer on a rocket ship. PULL BACK to reveal...
greitzer		I'm sorry! I'll never rent them again! It was only that one time my wife was at her sister's! Please! I promise you! GREITZER'S WIFE You rented a dirty movie? You told me it was Jakob the Liar! Mike lowers the gun and they start backing out of there. GREITZER What? I shouldn't be entitled to a little joy in life? GREITZER'S WIFE Now look at the trouble you've brought to this house. GREITZER And I'm supposed to know the Religious Right would come after me for renting an adult film? As they continue to fight, Vic and Mike run back to the car. 79   INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY                                79 Dress rehearsals. Naomi is sitting at the kitchen table talking to Ashley, who's wearing a sexy cheerleader outfit. Deacon is at the microwave making popcorn. NAOMI Five hundred dollars a night? ASHLEY Yeah, but if you can break into films, like these ones, you can get featured dancing gigs and make ten times that much. NAOMI No way. ASHLEY Seriously. If these guys ever get their act together. Matt stumbles in carrying a pile of scripts. Fred walks in behind him and sees Naomi. FRED What is she doing here? DEACON Naomi is my girlfriend.
matt		He's not a geek. He's the Math Team Captain. NAOMI No, he should be really well-dressed, and maybe he's a foreign exchange student from Portugal. MATT Um, and the director is the only one who's allowed to say "cut." FRED Who cares, Naomi? NAOMI Deacon agrees with me, don't you? Matt and Fred look at Deacon. COOP Dudes, come on. My nuts are getting cold. ASHLEY I'm out of here. NAOMI Shut up, Coop. This is important. COOP  And my nuts aren't? Coop's hand accidentally smacks Ashley in the nose as she's getting up. She SCREAMS. DEACON Are you okay? COOP I'm sorry, Ashley. She's pissed, holding her nose. ASHLEY Look. This is ridiculous. Who does dress rehearsals for a porno shoot? MATT Oh, sure. Why don't we throw out the script while we're at it and "improvise."
ashley		Guys, I appreciate the money. It's nice to get paid for sitting around doing nothing, but this isn't helping my career. I've got no footage for my reel. She packs up. FRED Where are you going? ASHLEY Sorry. She leaves. COOP Ashley, wait. I'm sorry. Ashley! Then, he blurts out something unexpected: COOP  I love you! Coop exchanges an awkward glance with the guys: he's said too much. He goes after Ashley, with his pants still around his ankles and his bare ass in full display. He stumbles on his pants and falls on his face. He gets up quickly and continues after her, still with his pants down. FRED Now what are we going to do? Your "girlfriend" ruined everything. DEACON Coop's the one that smacked her. NAOMI Besides, if you losers knew anything about women, we wouldn't have this problem. FRED Who asked you? NAOMI I don't have to take this. She storms off, leaving Deacon there to make a decision. He looks at Matt and Fred for a beat, then follows Naomi. Fred and Matt are crushed. 80   EXT. THE PRETTY KITTY CLUB - DAY                                80 Ashley is walking through the parking lot on the way to work.
naomi		What? I thought you might want some new clothes. DEACON I don't need any new clothes. NAOMI And guess what? I booked facials for us at the Serenity Spa. DEACON Naomi. Wait. Stop. He stops her. NAOMI What's wrong? DEACON I have to meet up with Matt and Fred this afternoon. I already blew them off yesterday. NAOMI Deacon, you don't have to hang out with those guys any more. Besides, you really need a facial. And I mean, I thought we could spend the day together. You know, after last night. DEACON But what about Matt and Fred? NAOMI Well what about me? She pouts. She has him under her thumb. He takes her hand and continues into the store. 86   INT. BASEMENT SET - DAY                                         86 Deacon walks in really late, but wearing a hot new Peachtree & Finch outfit. And his skin seems to glow. Matt and Fred glare at him from the far end of the couch. DEACON What's going on? Are we going to find another girl?  What? FRED Matt and I have been talking. DEACON Yeah. About what?
matt		We want to make this movie. DEACON I know. I do, too. FRED No, Deacon. We want to make the movie we wrote. We want to make it without you. DEACON Okay. I know what this is about, guys. I'm sorry about Naomi. FRED That's not the problem, Deacon. DEACON Then what is it? FRED I thought this was about us having fun and doing something crazy together. But as soon as you got what you wanted, you blew us off. DEACON You don't understand. Fred cuts to the chase. FRED Do you even like her? Deacon is about to tell them. Then, DEACON Fine. Go ahead without me. FRED Fine. Matt and Fred get up and leave.
deacon		I wanted to say I'm sorry. FRED For what? DEACON For blowing you guys off. MATT That's okay, Deacon. DEACON No, it's not. It's just sometimes I feel like the whole world is passing us by and we're just sitting still. I don't know. Anyway, I'm sorry. FRED You know, you can be a real dick sometimes. Then, Fred smiles. Deacon knows they're cool with each other. DEACON Naomi and I did it the other night. MATT No way! FRED You're kidding, right? DEACON No, it's true. FRED How was it? DEACON Good.   At first. But then I kept   thinking about   all the pornos. Trying to   hit the right   spots, positions. I don't   know. After   a while it kind of seemed   like work. MATT I find that extremely difficult to believe. Deacon laughs. FRED So what now? Do we make this thing?
deacon		I don't know. Maybe we should just call it quits. ASHLEY  Make a wish. Deacon is too entranced to close his eyes, but he does take the opportunity to blow the eyelash off her hand. She smiles and brushes back a strand of hair from his brow. The guys are hooked. Up through the window, over on Deacon's computer, the A.S.S. Website is running, featuring Roger's smiling face with the motto, "By Virgins, For Virgins." The counter is on fire. 94   INT. HAIRDRESSER - DAY                                            94 Roger is getting his hair cut by a cute HAIRDRESSER, his wheelchair next to him. A few other women are in the back, whispering and looking over at Roger. An OPERA ARIA plays on the radio. HAIRDRESSER So, I'm thinking about getting into films.
roger		Okay. HAIRDRESSER You have any tips on how to break in? ROGER Uh, no. Not really. Acting classes, I guess. HAIRDRESSER Really? I didn't think there was a lot of acting in those films. Roger is confused. ROGER Well, I guess it kind of depends. HAIRDRESSER You think you could get me an audition? ROGER For what? HAIRDRESSER Come on. How long have I been cutting your hair? ROGER Since I was like eight. HAIRDRESSER  Relax. ROGER What're you-- Oh, God!
matt		I can't even watch it. Every time I turn it on, I keep thinking about that tuna fish sandwich and Coop farting all day long. DEACON That was pretty gross. MATT That's just it. The movie looks great, but seeing everything else -- all the disgusting, nasty stuff -- that's what's taken all the fun out of it. And I just don't want to do it any more. FRED Great. I knew it. I knew you couldn't handle this. Matt looks away. DEACON Take it easy, Fred. FRED No, I knew that when it came down to it, Matt would wuss out. Matt snaps. MATT You know what? Fuck you, Fred. You're the wuss here. At least I don't have to whack off every time I see a girl in the hallway. Fred shoves Matt. FRED Shut up, Matt. Matt stands up and gets in Fred's face. MATT No, you shut up! For once in your life, be a man and admit this movie was a mistake. FRED Why don't you make me? The two square off, staring each other down. Until, DEACON No. Matt's right. This movie was a mistake.
fred		What are you talking about? This whole thing was your idea. DEACON Come on, Fred. Didn't you think this movie was going to be ... I don't know, sexy? Fred looks at the other two for a beat, not sure what to say. Finally, he smiles. FRED How long have you guys known about the bathroom thing? Deacon laughs. MATT If you didn't like making the movie, why didn't you say something? FRED I don't know. I thought you guys were having fun. I didn't want to be the wuss. A beat. FRED  - NIGHT                             98 The tape is burning in the center of a huge bonfire. A massive party is raging. Tons of teenagers are dancing, drinking, and having a good time rocking to a LIVE BAND. At the center of it all are Matt, Fred, and Deacon are finally enjoying themselves.
ashley		Hey, guys. Great party. DEACON Thanks. ASHLEY I've got some big news. I sent the reel to Vivid and they want to fly me and Coop to L.A. to talk about a contract. MATT Wow. That's great, Ashley. DEACON Congratulations. Deacon hugs her. BOUNCER  Hey, what was I supposed to say? Then, Roger wheels by, arm in arm with his Hairdresser. No more braces and headgear, Roger looks sharp with slicked back hair and suave clothes.
roger		Hey, guys. Great party. He wheels off. The guys and Ashley do a double take. 99    EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - PARKING LOT - NIGHT                           99 The Bouncer is checking off names from the invite list. A long line of people are trying to get in, including J.T. J.T. I can't believe these losers are having such a killer party. Coop is walking by and overhears the comment. COOP Hey, you're not on the list, dude. J.T. What's with you, you pussy? Are you joining the retard team, too? Just then, Plantain enters and walks to the front of the line. The high school guys stop everything to stare at her. PLANTAIN Coop! COOP Plantain. Plantain kisses him, while nonchalantly grabbing his crotch. PLANTAIN Come on. You don't need to wait in this line. Deacon and the guys are already inside. Coop puts his arms around her and walks away, not without looking back over his shoulder for a second at J.T. standing there, dumbfounded. Then, the Bouncer escorts J.T. away. 100   EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - NIGHT                                        100 Ashley is walking by Wendy and Kelly. WENDY I can't believe Naomi dumped Jake for Deacon Lewis. Ashley stops. ASHLEY Let me tell you something about Deacon. That boy is amazing in bed.
kelly		And you are...? ASHLEY Ashley. Deacon's ex. WENDY Seriously? ASHLEY Seriously. Have your boyfriends ever given you an orgasm? WENDY No. KELLY I think so.  No. ASHLEY Have you ever felt so completely satisfied in bed that you just wanted to sleep for a week? KELLY AND WENDY No. ASHLEY You're wasting your time giving those Neanderthals blowjobs. I mean, they'll probably wind up unemployed wife beaters anyway. KELLY So, are Deacon's friends seeing anybody? ASHLEY Matt and Fred? I don't think so. But if you're interested, you better move fast. Those guys know how to do this thing ... She whispers something to Wendy and Kelly. They look shocked. Ashley walks off... 100A   EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - NIGHT                                      100A ...and finds Deacon, sitting alone on a broken-down ride. She sits down next to him. ASHLEY How's Naomi? DEACON I don't know. Good, I guess.
ashley		I thought she was your fantasy girl. DEACON Yeah. She was. ASHLEY You're gonna dump her. DEACON I don't want to. I don't know. It's not like it was when I was with Rachael. Rachael and I used to talk about stuff. We just, I don't know, connected. ASHLEY Very good, Deacon. Deacon is confused. DEACON What do you mean? ASHLEY Oh, nothing. I guess I'm just glad that you finally figured it out. A moment of realization. DEACON Yeah, I guess I did.  I guess. Or not. Whatever. Deacon smiles. He finally understands that Ashley really does care about him. Ashley kisses him on the cheek and exits off into the horizon. 101   EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - NIGHT                                      101 Deacon holds Naomi's hand and they walk and talk. DEACON There's something I want to talk to you about. NAOMI What? DEACON I've been thinking. Maybe we should see other people.
naomi		What? DEACON Well, I mean, we don't really have anything in common. And we don't really even get along. NAOMI You're breaking up with me?  They're perverts! They make porno movies in their basement!
matt		I think he's got something there. Making that movie felt like we were tampering with forces we couldn't possibly understand. DEACON Exactly. The fun part about high school is unravelling the mystery of what's going to happen next. The guys smile and dial the combinations on their lockers. In the background, Jake is still on the ground crying. We TRACK through the hallway, outside... 121C   EXT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - PARKING LOT - DAY                  121C ... where we see a large CAR TRANSPORT, with three hot new sports cars on it. Their license plates read "JOHNNY H," "SAM SLAM," and "BALLS." TRACK OVER to Mike, unloading the cars and Vic, standing there smiling. FADE OUT: END CREDITS FADE IN: 122    INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT                                             122 Deacon's parents are in bed. On the TV plays familiar sounding porno music on the hotel pay-per-view. MR. LEWIS Why do they always have to show the guy's face? MRS. LEWIS To make you think you can get girls as hot as her. It's a basic rule of porno. A long beat. MR. LEWIS Hey. Isn't that our basement? FADE OUT: THE END
****Dialogues from script :Agnes_of_God.txt****

mother superior		Agnes!... Agnes...
paramedic		I'm just going to put something here to stop the bleeding. Excuse me Sister. She'll be fine.
reporter		Here they are now.
leveau		Martha, it's you.
martha		What about Roger? He's free.
eve		They want a woman.
lyon		All you have to do is meet with her once or twice... then tell the court she's insane.
martha		Are you dictating my position to me? We're getting into some sticky legal territories here.
eve		Martha, all we're saying is, no-one wants this to come to trial, not the Church, not the Crown... least of all me.
martha		Eve, she strangled a baby!
eve		Nobody is interested in sending a nun to prison.
leveau		We're not telling you what to decide Martha. We're not even telling you to take this.
lyon		Is there any reason why you feel you shouldn't take it?
martha		Today's my birthday. I always make bad decisions on my birthday.
leveau		Happy birthday.
man		 ???
martha		Bonjour, I'm Doctor Martha Livingston, I...
mother superior		 Most people find it uncomfortable.
martha		Well... I...
mother miriam		 I'm afraid the word brings up the most unpleasant connatations in this day and age...
martha		Yes... I...
mother miriam		You can call me Sister.
martha		... Thank you.
mother miriam		You must have tons of questions. You may smoke if you want to. Just don't tell any of the Sisters.
martha		You were a smoker?
mother miriam		Two packs a day.
martha		I can beat that.
mother miriam		Unfiltered.
martha		Who knew about Agnes' pregnancy?
mother miriam		No-one.
martha		How did she hide it from the other nuns?
mother miriam		She undressed alone... she bathed alone.
martha		Is that normal?
mother miriam		Yes.
martha		How did she hide it during the day?
mother miriam		 She could have hidden a machine gun in here if she had wanted to.
martha		Didn't she have any physical examinations
mother miriam		We're examined once a year. Her pregnancy fell in between the doctor's visits.
martha		Who was the father?
mother miriam		I haven't a clue.
martha		What man had access to her?
mother miriam		None as far as I know.
martha		Was there a priest?
mother miriam		Yes, but I...
martha		What's his name?
mother miriam		Father Martineau, but I don't see him as a candidate.
martha		Could there have been anyone else?
mother miriam		 Obviously there was.
martha		And you didn't try to find out who?
mother miriam		 Believe me, I've done everything possible short of asking Agnes.
martha		Why haven't you asked her?
mother miriam		 She can't even remember the birth. Do you think she'd admit to the conception?
martha		Look, someone gave her the baby.
martha		Why do you think that?
mother miriam		Don't ask me those questions dear, I'm not the patient.
martha		Well I'm the doctor. I'm the one who's going to decide what is, or is not important here.
mother miriam		Look doctor, I don't know how to tell you this politely, but I don't approve of you. Not you personally...
martha		The science of psychiatry.
mother miriam		 Exactly. I want you do deal with Agnes as speedily and as easily as possible. She won't hold up under any sort of cross examination.
martha		 I am not with the Inquisition.
mother miriam		And I am not from the Middle Ages. I know what you are! I don't want that mind cut open.
martha		Hello. I'm Doctor Livingston. I've been asked to talk to you. May I?
agnes		Yes.
martha		You have a lovely voice.
agnes		No I don't.
martha		I just heard you.
agnes		That wasn't me.
martha		Was it Sister Marguerite?
agnes		No I'm not.
martha		Hasn't anyone ever told you that before?
agnes		Let's talk about something else.
martha		What would you like to talk about.
agnes		I don't know.
martha		Anything... may I sit down?
agnes		Yes.
martha		First thing that comes to your mind?
agnes		God!    But there's nothing to say about God.
martha		Second thing that comes to your mind.
agnes		Love.
martha		Have you ever loved anyone?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Who?
agnes		Everyone.
martha		Well, who in particular?
agnes		Right now?
martha		Uh huh.
agnes		I love you.
martha		 Agnes, have you ever loved another man... other than, Jesus Christ?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Who?
agnes		 Oh, there are so many.
martha		Well do you love... do you love Father Martineau?
agnes		Oh, yes!
martha		Do you think he loves you?
agnes		Oh, I know he does.
martha		He's told you?
agnes		No. But... when I look into his eyes, I can tell.
martha		You've been alone together?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Often?
agnes		At least once a week.
martha		And you like that?
agnes		Oh, yes.
martha		Where do you meet?
agnes		 In the confessional.
martha		Agnes, do ever see Father Martineau outside the...
agnes		You want to talk about the baby don't you?
martha		Would you like to talk about it?
agnes		I never saw any baby... I think they made it up.
martha		Why should they?
agnes		I don't know.
martha		Do you remember the night they said it came?
agnes		No. I was sick.
martha		How were you sick?
agnes		Something I ate.
martha		Did it hurt?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Where?
agnes		Down... there.
martha		And what did you do?
agnes		I went to my room.
martha		And what happened?
agnes		I got sicker.
agnes		I fell asleep.
martha		In the middle of all the pain?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Where did the baby come from?
agnes		What baby?
martha		The baby they made up.
agnes		From their heads...
martha		Is that where they say it came from... ?
agnes		No, they say it came from the waste paper basket!
martha		Where'd it come from before that?
agnes		From God.
martha		After God... before the waste-paper basket.
agnes		I... I don't understand.
martha		Agnes, how are babies born?
agnes		Don't you know?
martha		Yes I do,    but I want you to...
agnes		 I don't understand what you're talking about... you want to talk about the baby... everybody wants
martha		Then let's talk about something else...
agnes		 No... no, I'm tired of talking, I've been talking for weeks, nobody believes me when I tell them anything... nobody listens to me.
martha		 Agnes...
agnes		 No... no, I don't want to answer any more questions.
martha		Would you like to ask them?
agnes		 What do you mean?
martha		Just that... you ask and I'll answer.
agnes		Anything?
martha		 Anything.
agnes		What's your real name?
martha		Martha Louise Livingston.
agnes		Are you married?
martha		No.
agnes		Would you like to be?
martha		Not at the moment, no.
agnes		Do you have any children?
martha		No.
agnes		Would you like some?
martha		I can't have them any more.
agnes		Why not?
martha		 I've stopped menstruating
agnes		Why do you smoke?
martha		Does it bother you?
agnes		No questions.
martha		Smoking is an    obsession with me. Maybe one day    I'll become obsessed with something    else, then I'll stop smoking... Do    you have any more questions?
agnes		One.
martha		What?
agnes		Where do you think babies come from?
martha		From their mothers and fathers of course. Before that, I... I don't know.
agnes		Well I think they come from... angel lights on their mothers chest and whispers into her ear. That makes good babies start to grow. And bad babies come from when a fallen angel squeezes in down there, and they start to grow, grow, till they come out down there. I don't know where good babies come out. And you can't tell the difference... except bad babies cry a lot... and they make their fathers go away... and their mothers get very ill... die sometimes.
martha		Do you know a Marie?
agnes		No... do you?
martha		Why should I?
agnes		I don't know.
mother miriam		Well... what do you think? Is she totally bananas or merely slightly off centre... or maybe she's perfectly sane and just a very good liar.
martha		What's your opinion?
mother miriam		I believe Agnes is different.
martha		From other nuns...  Yes I... I've noticed.
mother miriam		From other people!  I believe she is not crazy, nor is she lying.
martha		How could she have a baby and know nothing of sex or birth?
mother miriam		Because she's an innocent. She's a slate that's hasn't been touched except by God.
mother miriam		 In her case it isn't. She's had very little schooling. Her mother kept her home almost all the time and when her mother died Agnes came here, to us. She's never been out there Doctor. She's never seen a movie or a television show. She's never even read a book.
martha		If she's so innocent, how come she murdered a child?
mother miriam		She didn't! This is manslaughter, not murder. She didn't consciously kill that baby. She'd lost a lot of blood. She was unconscious by the time we got to her.
martha		So, someone else could have done it.
mother miriam		No... not in the eyes of the police.
martha		And in your eyes?
mother miriam		I've already told you what I thought.
martha		That she was unconscious, yes! So someone easily could have come in the room and killed the...
mother miriam		You don't really believe something like that happened do you?
martha		It's possible isn't it?
mother miriam		Who?
martha		One of the other nuns found out about the baby and... and wanted to avoid a scandal.
mother miriam		That's absurd!
martha		That possibility never occurred to you?
mother miriam		No-one knew about Agnes' pregnancy. No-one. Not even Agnes.
martha		Is Father Martineau in please?
housekeeper		 ???
martha		 ???
housekeeper		 Wipe your feet.
housekeeper		Pere Martineau...  ???
father martineau		 They arise at five in the morning... and they're in bed by nine at night. Even if a man could get to them, he would probably find them praying. That's why I see that the real question is not only how he got in, but when.
martha		And you're the only man to see them?
father martineau		I promise you Doctor, even if I had the inclination, how could I possibly catch her? She would have to be a very slow and patient nun.  Ah no... they're a very special and rare people those Sisters. Only a few of them left in this modern world, consecrated to the praise of God.
martha		Hello, Mama  ... brought you something.
mama		Shut up, I'm trying to watch this.
martha		It's your favourite...
mama		Who are you?
martha		It's Martha, Mama.  There you go.
mama		Marie brings me icecream too you know. Chocolate... my favourite.
martha		I thought cherry-vanilla was your favourite.
mama		Not any more... now I like chocolate.
martha		 Did you have a good week Mama. Are they treating you all right?
mama		You know Martha never comes to see me. You watch it, she's going straight to hell... after all the things she said to me. Then she marries that son of a bitch of a Frenchman... has an abortion. I knew that one wouldn't work out. Not like you Marie. You got married to God.
martha		 Marie's dead Mama.
mama		I remember when you    was a little girl Marie. You come back    from the movies and you'd say - Mama    that ending was so sad... and I'd tell    you they had all the happy endings locked    away in a vault in Hollywood.  And you believed me.
martha		Mama, that wasn't Marie, that was me!
mama		 Who are you?
martha		I... I'm Martha, Mama.
sister anne		The convent was built for over fifty. Not many of us left... just us and the chickens.
martha		How do you survive?
sister anne		Oh, we own the land around here. But we rent it out. We keep a few acres for ourselves,  some wheat, corn, some vegetables.
martha		Well that's a lot of land. You must have help. Do you have field hands that help you?
sister anne		No. We work the land alone. No-one but Sister Marguerite and I are permitted contact with the public.
martha		Sister Anne, which was Agnes' room?
sister anne		Oh that one there, in the corner.
martha		The one up on the third floor?
sister anne		Yes.
martha		Uh huh.
mother miriam		This convent is locked solid. The only one that has a key is Sister Marguerite and she wouldn't let Christ in after dark.
martha		Well, it's been known to happen in the day too. Maybe Agnes went to him.
mother miriam		Oh come on, you've talked to her. She doesn't even know how babies are born, let alone made.
martha		When did you first learn about her... innocence, the way she thinks?
mother miriam		Shortly after she came to us.
martha		And you weren't shocked?
mother miriam		I was appalled, just as you are now.
martha		And what happened?
mother miriam		She stopped eating completely...
mother miriam		Agnes, it has come to my attention that you have stopped eating. Why is this? AGNES  I've been commanded by God.
mother miriam		 He talked to you Himself?
agnes		No.
mother miriam		Through someone else?
agnes		Yes.
mother miriam		Who?
agnes		I can't say.
mother miriam		Why?
agnes		She'd punish me.
mother miriam		One of the other Sisters?
agnes		No.
mother miriam		Who?
agnes		 Because I'm getting fat.
mother miriam		Oh, for Heaven's sake.
agnes		I am, there's too much flesh on me.
mother miriam		Agnes...
agnes		I'm a blimp.
mother miriam		Why does it matter whether you're fat or not...
agnes		Because...
mother miriam		... You needn't worry about being attractive here.
agnes		I do, I have to be attractive to God.
mother miriam		He loves you the way you are.
agnes		No he doesn't. He hates fat people.
mother miriam		Who told you this?
agnes		It's a sin to be fat.
mother miriam		Why?
agnes		Look at the statues, they're thin.
mother miriam		Agnes...
agnes		That's because they're suffering... suffering is beautiful, I want to be beautiful.
mother miriam		Who tells you these things?
agnes		Christ said it in the Bible, he said - suffer the little children, I want to suffer like a little child.
mother miriam		 That's not what he meant.
agnes		I...    I am a little child but my body keeps    getting bigger and soon I... I won't    be able to fit in, I... I won't be able    to squeeze into Heaven.
mother miriam		Agnes dear, Heaven is not a place where...
agnes		No... I mean... I mean look at these. I've got to lose weight, I'm a blimp.
mother miriam		Oh my dear child.
agnes		 God blew up the Hindenburg. He'll blow me up, that's what she said...
mother miriam		Who?
agnes		Mommy I'll get bigger and bigger every day and then I'll pop but... but if I stay little it won't happen.
mother miriam		Your mother tells you this?... Agnes your mother is dead.
agnes		But she watches... she listens.
mother miriam		Nonsense, I'm your mother now and I want you to eat.
agnes		I'm not hungry.
agnes		No I don't... the host is enough.
mother miriam		My dear, I don't think a communion wafer has the recommended daily allowance of anything.
agnes		Of God.
mother miriam		 Yes, of God.
agnes		I'm being punished.
mother miriam		Why?
agnes		I don't know.
mother miriam		Dear Jesus...
agnes		It started this morning and I can't get it to stop.
martha		Why didn't you take her to a doctor?
mother miriam		It was healed by the following morning and she started eating again...
martha		She had a... a hole in the palm of her hand! She could have bled to death.
martha		She has it now.
mother miriam		I know what you're thinking, she's a hysteric pure and simple.
martha		Not simple, no.
mother miriam		I saw it. Clean through the palm of her hand. Do you think hysteria could do that?
martha		It's being doing it for centuries. She's not unique, she's just another victim.
mother miriam		God's victim. That's her innocence. She belongs to God.
martha		And I intend to take her away from Him. That's what you're afraid of isn't it?
mother miriam		You bet I am.
larry		Here you are. Don't let anyone know where you got them.
agnes		Last Tuesday, I didn't eat all of my lima beans... hid them under my spoon.
father martineau		Yes...
agnes		 I thought... thoughts... about...
father martineau		Speak up, I can hardly hear you.
agnes		 I thought ugly thoughts about Sister Marguerite.
leveau		Would you tell me why the hell this is taking so long.
martha		Look there are a lot of unanswered questions here.
lyon		Martha, your job is to diagnose, not to heal and play detective. Who do you think you are?
martha		I know my job. Don't tell me my job Lyon. My duty as a doctor is to...
eve		Martha, you have to make a decision on her sanity as quickly as possible and not interfere with due process of law.
martha		No... no, excuse me Eve. As quickly as I see fit.
eve		The longer you take to make a decision, the more difficult it will be for us.
martha		Why?
eve		The bishop is breathing down our necks.
martha		And the sooner she goes to prison, the better off she'll be?
leveau		 ???
martha		I don't believe this. I don't bloody believe this.
lyon		Well the bishop will be very upset about this.
martha		I'm fighting for this woman's life, not some bloody bishop.
martha		You liked Sister Paul?
agnes		She was kind to me. She told me I was beautiful.
martha		 What else did she tell you?
agnes		She said all of God's angels would want to sleep beside me if they could. I liked that.
martha		Where's that?... I promise I won't tell, would you take me?
martha		Sister Paul was in her eighties?   Did she climb up here often?
agnes		No, only when she felt like it. She brought me up here last winter and the next day she died.
martha		 No wonder... wait... Agnes... Agnes how do you feel about babies?
agnes		Oh, they frighten me, I'm afraid I'll drop them. They have a soft spot on their heads and if you drop them so they land on their heads they become stupid. I was dropped on my head, that's why I don't understand things.
martha		Like what?
agnes		 Numbers... you can spend your whole life counting and never reach the end.
martha		 I don't understand them either. Do you suppose I was dropped on my head?
agnes		I hope not. It's a terrible thing to be dropped on your head.
martha		Oh, I've got to give up smoking. Agnes ... wait a minute... Agnes slow down.
agnes		She said you could see the whole world from up here. But it looks much better far away than it looks close up.
martha		Beautiful...
agnes		And sometimes I get under here... it makes a wonderful sound.
martha		What happens if the bell rings and you're under there?
agnes		Oh, it's even more wonderful then.
martha		It's like hiding from my mother when I was a little girl.
agnes		Where did you go?
martha		Oh, no place as wonderful as this. Agnes... have you ever thought of leaving the convent for something else?
agnes		No. There is nothing else. Just being here at night helps me sleep.
martha		You have trouble sleeping?
agnes		I get headaches. Mommy did too... oh, but she wasn't stupid. She knew things that nobody else knew.
martha		What things?
agnes		She knew what was going to happen to me. That's why she hid me away.
martha		How did she know that?
agnes		Somebody told her.
martha		Who?
agnes		I don't know.
martha		Agnes...
agnes		You'll laugh.
martha		I promise I won't laugh. Who told her?
agnes		An angel, when she was having one of her headaches.
martha		Did your mother see angels often?
agnes		No.
martha		Do you?
agnes		No.
martha		Do you believe she really saw them?
agnes		 No, but I can never tell her that.
martha		Why not?  Mmm?
agnes		She'd get angry.
martha		Agnes, did you love your mother?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Did you ever want to be a mother yourself?
agnes		I could never be a mother.
martha		Why not?
agnes		Well I don't think I'm old enough and besides I don't want to have a baby.
martha		Why not?
agnes		Because I don't want one.
martha		If you did want one, how'd you go about getting one?
agnes		From someone who didn't want to have a baby.
martha		Like you?
martha		How would that person get one if they didn't want one?
agnes		 A mistake...
martha		Agnes, how did your mother get you?
agnes		A mistake... it was a mistake...
martha		Agnes, I don't believe you know nothing about sex...
agnes		I can't help it if I'm stupid.
martha		... that you don't remember getting pregnant...
agnes		Not my fault.
martha		... and that you don't believe you carried a child.
agnes		I was a mistake.
martha		What the child?
agnes		Everything... I don't have children.
martha		Agnes...
agnes		Don't touch me like that! You don't touch me like that, I know what you want from me, you want to take God away. You should be ashamed, they should lock you up people like you.
mother miriam		You hate us don't you?
martha		What?
mother miriam		Nuns... you hate nuns.
martha		I hate ignorance and stupidity.
mother miriam		The Catholic Church...
martha		I haven't said anything against the the Catholic Church.
mother miriam		Catholicism is not on trial here. I want you to deal with Agnes without any religious prejudice or you turn this case over to someone else...
martha		How dare you tell me to run my affairs!
mother miriam		It's my affair too.
martha		How dare you think I'm in a position to be pressured...
mother miriam		I'm only interested...
martha		...    or bullied or what ever you're doing. Who    the hell do you think you are? You go    around here expecting applause for the    way you treated this child.
mother miriam		She is not a child.
martha		And she has a right to know that there's a world out there filled with people who don't believe in God...
mother miriam		???     
martha		???  ... virginity, right Mother? Poverty, chastity and ignorance is what you live by.
mother miriam		I am not a virgin, Doctor. I was married for twenty three years, two daughters. I even have grandchildren... surprised? It might please you to know that I was a failure as a wife and mother. My children won't even see me any more, that's their revenge. I think they tell their friends that I've passed on. And don't tell me I'm making up for past mistakes Doctor Freud. 
martha		Then help her.
mother miriam		I am...
martha		No, you're shielding her. Let her face the world.
mother miriam		What good would it do. No matter what you decide it's either the... the prison or the nut house and the differences between them are pretty thin.
martha		There's another choice.
mother miriam		What?
martha		Aquittal.
mother miriam		How?
martha		Innocence. Legal innocence. I know the judge would be happy for any reason to throw this case out of court.
mother miriam		All right, what do you need.
martha		Answers.
martha		When would Agnes have conceived the child?
mother miriam		Oh, some time in January.
martha		Do you remember anything unusual happening at the time?
mother miriam		Earthquakes?
martha		Visitors to the convent.
mother miriam		Nothing.
martha		Do you have a... a diary or a day book?
mother miriam		Yes.
martha		Take at look at it.
mother miriam		There's nothing here.
mother miriam		 Oh, Dear God...
martha		What is it?
mother miriam		The sheets...
martha		What sheets?
mother miriam		Oh, Dear God, I should have guessed...
mother miriam		Sister Marguerite says you have been sleeping on a bare mattress Sister. Is that true?
agnes		Yes Mother.
mother miriam		Why?
agnes		In the medieval days the nuns and monks would sleep in their own coffins.
mother miriam		We're not in the Middle Ages, Sister.
agnes		It made them holy.
mother miriam		It made them uncomfortable. And if
agnes		No.
mother miriam		Then tell me. Where are your sheets?
agnes		I burnt them.
mother miriam		Why?
agnes		 They were stained.
mother miriam		How many times have I burned into your thick skull and the thick skull of your fellow novice, that menstruation is a perfectly natural process and nothing to be ashamed of.
agnes		Yes, Mother.
mother miriam		Say it!
mother miriam		Mean it!
mother miriam		A few years ago one of the Sisters came to me in tears, asking for comfort, comfort because she was too old to have any children. Not that she wanted to, but once a month she had been reminded of that possibility.
agnes		It's not that... it's not that...
mother miriam		What do you mean?
agnes		It's not my time of month.
mother miriam		Should you see a doctor?
agnes		I don't know. I don't know what happened Mother, I woke up... there was blood on the sheets, but I don't know what happened.  I don't know what I did wrong, I don't know and I should be punished.
mother miriam		For what?
agnes		I don't know... I don't know...
martha		No.
monsignor		Well you're probably right about that. It certainly can't help Sister Agnes to have this investigation continued for any length of time.
martha		Why do you call it an investigation? I never have.
monsignor		Your mother was a resident of Saint Catherines home before you moved her.
martha		What does this have to do with..?
monsignor		And you had a sister who died in the convent.
martha		Who told you this?
monsignor		Do you still go to church?
martha		What business is it of yours..?
monsignor		Oh, we just wonder if you can be very objective about this case.
martha		Look, Father, ah... just because I don't subscribe to the... to the beliefs you subscribe to...
monsignor		 But what you believe makes no difference to us whatsoever Doctor. But it does
martha		I don't understand. Are you expecting me to..?
monsignor		Well somone's got to suffer for this Doctor. You've got to be merciful and quick. Excuse me.
martha		Agnes, I'm here because I want to help you.
agnes		I'm not sick.
martha		But you're troubled... aren't you?
agnes		That's because you keep reminding me. If you go away then I'll forget.
martha		And you're unhappy.
agnes		Everyone's unhappy, you're unhappy aren't
martha		Agnes...
agnes		Answer me!    You never answer me.
martha		Sometimes, yes.
agnes		Only you think    you're lucky because you didn't have    a mother who said things to you and did    things to you that maybe weren't always    nice but that was because of me, because    I was bad, not her.
martha		What did you do?
agnes		I'm always bad.
martha		What did you do?
agnes		I breathed!
martha		Agnes. What did your mother do to you?  What did she make you you do?
agnes		No...
martha		You can tell me.
agnes		I can't.
martha		She's dead isn't she?
agnes		Yes.
martha		She can't hurt you any more.
agnes		She can.
martha		How?
agnes		She watches... she listens.
martha		Agnes, I don't believe that. Tell me. I'll protect you from her.
agnes		She...
martha		Yes?
agnes		... makes me...
martha		Yes?
agnes		... take off my clothes and then... she makes fun of me.
martha		She tells you you're ugly?
agnes		Yes.
martha		And that you're stupid?
agnes		Yes.
martha		That you're a mistake?
agnes		She says my whole body's a mistake.
martha		Why?
agnes		Because she says if I don't watch out I'll have a baby.
martha		How does she know that?
agnes		Her headaches.
martha		Oh, yes.
agnes		And then...
martha		What?
agnes		She touches me down there with a cigarette.  Please Mommy, don't touch me like that any more. I'll be good, I won't be a baby any more.
martha		Agnes, oh Agnes, Agnes I want you to do something. I want you to pretend that I'm your mother. Oh yes, only this time I want you to tell me what you're feeling, alright?
agnes		I'm afraid.
martha		Please!    I want to help you. Let me help you.
agnes		Alright.
martha		Agnes, you're ugly!... what do you say? Of course you do. Agnes, you're ugly!... what do you say?
agnes		No I'm not.
martha		Are you pretty?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Agnes, you're stupid.
agnes		No I'm not.
martha		Are you intelligent?
agnes		 Yes I am.
martha		You're a mistake.
agnes		 I'm not mistake, I'm here aren't I. How can I be a mistake if I'm really here. God doesn't make mistakes, you're a mistake...
martha		Oh Agnes, oh Agnes, it's alright, it's alright, it's alright, it's alright, I love you.
agnes		Do you really love me or are you just saying that?
martha		I really love you.
agnes		As much as Mother Miriam does?
martha		As much as God loves you.
martha		Agnes?  Who?     Mother Superior?
elderly nun		 ???
martha		What?
elderly nun		Look into the convent records.
martha		Sister...
martha		 Oh, Good afternoon Sister, I... I'm looking for some biographical data on Sister Agnes, and Mother said I might find it here.
martha		Thank you.
martha		You lied to me
martha		 Your niece!
mother miriam		I didn't tell you because I didn't think it was important.
martha		No, it just makes you doubly responsible doesn't it?
mother miriam		I never saw Agnes until she set foot in this convent. My sister ran away from home. We lost touch with her. And when my husband died and I came here, she wrote to me and asked me if I would take care of Agnes in case anything happened.
martha		And Agnes' father?
mother miriam		It could have been any one of a dozen men from what my sister told me.
martha		Like keeping her home from school?
mother miriam		Yes.
martha		Listening to angels?
mother miriam		She drank too much. That's what killed her.
martha		Do you know what she did to her?
mother miriam		I don't think I care to know.
martha		She molested her!
mother miriam		Oh, dear God.
martha		There is more here than meets the eye isn't there? Lots of dirty little secrets.
mother miriam		 Oh God, if only I'd known.
martha		Why didn't you? You knew she was keeping her home from school. You knew she was an alcoholic.
mother miriam		I knew that after the fact.
martha		Why didn't you do anything to stop her?
mother miriam		Because I didn't know... 
martha		Oh, God.
martha		Larry...
larry		Marty, what are you doing here?
martha		Larry there's got to be something missing.
larry		I gave you the pictures Marty, what else do you want?
larry		What? You think that the girl is innocent?
martha		I don't know.
larry		You got to be crazy.
martha		Larry...
larry		What's the matter with you, you've seen the reports. It's a cut and dried case.
martha		Maybe there's something that's not in the report that should be.
larry		You're too involved Marty.  Jesus look at you. Why don't you turn this case over to someone else?
martha		Thanks. 
larry		 If I find anything I'll call you.
martha		I've gotten the court's permission to hypnotise her.
mother miriam		And my permission?
martha		I'd like yours too.
mother miriam		We'll see about that.
martha		Don't deny it!
mother miriam		I haven't decided yet.
martha		The woman's health is at stake.
mother miriam		Her spiritual health.
martha		I don't give a damn about her spiritual health.
mother miriam		I know you don't.
martha		Sentence her and be done with it, that's what you're saying and I...
martha		An unhappy woman...
mother miriam		She's happy with us and she could go on being happy if she was left alone.
martha		Then why did you call the police in the first place Mother, huh?
mother miriam		Because I am a moral person.
martha		Bullshit!
mother miriam		Bullshit yourself!
martha		Catholic Church doesn't have a corner on morality...
mother miriam		Who said anything about the Catholic Church...
martha		You just said...
mother miriam		What the hell has the Catholic Church got to do with you?
martha		Nothing...
mother miriam		What have we done to hurt you? And don't deny it, I can smell an ex-Catholic a mile away. What did we do? Burn a few heretics, sell some indulgences? That was in the days when the Church was a ruling body. We let governments do those things today. So what did we do to you eh? You wanted to neck in the back seat of a car when you were fifteen and you couldn't because it was a sin?
martha		 It wasn't sex. It was a lot of things, but it wasn't sex. You know when I was in the first grade my best friend was run
mother miriam		Stupid woman... and that's all?
martha		That's all? That's enough!   She was a beautiful little girl.
mother miriam		And what has that to do with it?
martha		I wasn't. I wasn't. She was the pretty one. She died, why not me? I never said my morning prayers. And I was ugly, I was scrawny, I had buck teeth and freckles all over my face, do you know what the nun called me, Sister Mary Clitus, called me Polkadot Livingston.
mother miriam		So you left the Church because you had freckles?
martha		No, because I... yeah, yeah I left the Church cause I had freckles.
mother miriam		When I was a child I used to hear my guardian angel. She sang to me 'till I was six years old. That's when I stopped listening. But I remember the voice. A few years ago I looked at myself and saw nothing but a nun who was certain of nothing. Not even of Heaven. Not even of God. And then one evening I saw Agnes standing by
martha		My sister died in a convent. And it's her voice I hear.  Does my smoking bother you?
mother miriam		No, it reminds me.
martha		Would you like one? Huh?
mother miriam		I'd love one.
mother miriam		I'm out of prac... 
martha		All right?
mother miriam		Fine thanks...
martha		Do you suppose the saints would have smoked if tobacco had been popular back then?
mother miriam		Undoubtedly. Not the ascetics of course but, well Saint Thomas More...
martha		 Long, thin and filtered.
mother miriam		Saint Ignatius would smoke cigars and stub them out on the soles of his bare feet. 
martha		Hand rolled.
mother miriam		Even Christ would partake socially.
martha		Saint Peter?
mother miriam		Pipe!
martha		Right...
mother miriam		Mary Magdelen?
martha		 Oh, you've come a long way baby.
mother miriam		And Saint John would chew tobacco.
martha		Right.  What do you suppose today's saints are smoking?
mother miriam		There are no saints today. Good people yes, but extraordinarily good people... those I'm afraid we are sorely lacking.
martha		Do you think they ever existed?
mother miriam		Yes I do.
martha		Do you want to become one?
mother miriam		Become?     One is born a saint.
martha		Well you can try, can't you, to be good?
mother miriam		Yes, but goodness has very little to do with it. Not all the saints were good, in fact some of them were a little crazy. But... they were still attached to God. Agnes has that birth. 
martha		Do you think Agnes is still attached to God?
mother miriam		Listen to her singing.
martha		 I'd like to begin.
mother miriam		Begin what?
martha		The hypnotism. Do you still disapprove?
mother miriam		Would it stop you if I did?
martha		No.
mother miriam		May I be present?
martha		Of course.
mother miriam		Then let's begin.
martha		You're listening to a chorus of angels. The music surrounds you like a... warm and, comfortable pool of water. And while you're sleeping, you're going to be able to recall, all the things that we want you to remember. And when I count to three and clap my hands, you'll no longer be hypnotised. Can you hear me.
agnes		Yes.
martha		Who am I?
agnes		Doctor Livingston.
martha		And why am I here?
agnes		To help me.
martha		Good. Would you like to tell me why you're here?
agnes		Because I'm in trouble.
martha		What kind of trouble?  What kind of trouble Agnes?
agnes		I'm frightened.
martha		Of what?
agnes		Of telling you.
martha		But it's easy. It's just a breath with sound. Say it. What kind of trouble?
agnes		 I had a baby.
martha		How did you have a baby?
agnes		It came out of me.
martha		Did you know what was going to come
agnes		Yes.
martha		Did you want it to come out?
agnes		No.
martha		Why?
agnes		Because I was afraid.
martha		Why were you afraid?
agnes		Because I wasn't worthy.
martha		To be a mother?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Why?
agnes		May I open my eyes now?
martha		No not yet Agnes, very soon but not yet. How did the baby get into you?
agnes		It grew.
martha		What made it grow? Do you know?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Would you like to tell me?
agnes		No.
martha		Did anyone else know about the baby?
martha		Will she be angry?
agnes		She made me promise not to.
martha		Who?     Who made you promise?  Let's    go to your room. It's the night about    six weeks ago when you were very    sick.
agnes		I'm afraid.
martha		Oh don't be, I'm here. It's alright. I want you to tell me what you did before you went to bed.
agnes		I ate.
martha		Hm hmm. What did you have for dinner?
agnes		Fish...  ... brussel sprouts.
martha		You don't like brussel sprouts?
agnes		I hate them.
martha		And then what happened?
agnes		We went to chapel for vespers.
martha		Hm hmm.
agnes		I left early because I wasn't feeling very well.
martha		What is it?
agnes		Someone's following me.
martha		Who?
agnes		Sister Marguerite I think.
martha		Was it Sister Marguerite who knew about the baby?  Alright Agnes, I want you to see your room as you saw it on that night.
agnes		My bed.
martha		What else?
agnes		A crucifix.
martha		Above the bed? Any... anything else? What do you you see, something different? What is it?
agnes		 A wastepaper basket.
martha		Do you know who put it there?
agnes		No.
martha		What do you think it's there for?
agnes		For me to get sick in.
martha		Are you ill?
agnes		Yes.
martha		What do you feel?
agnes		I feel as if I've eaten glass.
martha		What do you do?
agnes		I have to throw up...
martha		Which one?
agnes		I don't know which one 
martha		Of what?
agnes		Of me. Oh... God! My God...  Water... it's all water...
martha		Why isn't anyone coming?
agnes		 Oh God... I don't wanna...
mother miriam		 Stop her!
martha		What is it?
martha		Who?
agnes		Go away, I don't want you here.
martha		Is someone in the room with you?
agnes		No... don't hit me please...
mother miriam		Stop this, she'll hurt herself  I'm not going to allow this.
martha		 NO... no... I said leave her alone.
martha		Alright Agnes... it's alright. One, two three...  It's alright... it's me, Doctor Livingston, it's alright, alright. Thankyou Agnes, thankyou. How do you feel?
agnes		Frightened.
martha		Do you remember what just happened?
agnes		 Yes.
martha		That's good. Do you feel well enough to stand?
martha		There you go. It's alright, it's alright, it's all over. It's alright Agnes, that's right, that's right.
man		Oh... very interesting I guess...  Excuse me...
martha		 That's how he got in... or she got out.
man		Oh excuse me, what did you say?
martha		Nothing. May I take some notes?
man		Oh yes, 
office girl		checks her lipstick in the reflective metal walls. The lift stops and the Sisters get off.
mother miriam		Is the Doctor in her office?
helen		Ah, who shall I say is calling?
mother miriam		 General MacArthur.
helen		Just a minute please, you can't go in there.
martha		 It's... it's alright Helen, just close the door.
mother miriam		I've just met with the bishop. We're taking you off the case.
martha		 You're what?
mother miriam		If we want to hire a psychiatrist for Agnes. we'll find our own, thank you. 
martha		One that will ask the questions you want asked.
mother miriam		 One that will approach this matter with some objectivity and respect.
martha		For the Church?
mother miriam		For Agnes.
martha		You think she's a saint?
mother miriam		She's been touched by God, yes.
martha		How? How? She hallucinates, stops eating and bleeds spontaneously. Is that supposed to convince me she shouldn't be touched. Give me a miracle.
mother miriam		The father!
martha		Who is he?
mother miriam		Why must he be anybody?
martha		 My God, you're as crazy as...
mother miriam		Stop laughing, I don't say it's the truth, I'm saying...
martha		How  ?
mother miriam		Don't be ridiculous.
martha		Well give me a reasonable explanation
mother miriam		A miracle is an event without an explanation. If she's capable of putting a hole in her hand without benefit of a nail, why couldn't she split a cell in her womb?
martha		This is insane.
mother miriam		There as no man in the convent on that night and no way for any man to get in or out.
martha		You're saying God did it?
martha		But how did it happen?
mother miriam		You'll never find the answer for everything God did.
martha		I thought you didn't believe in miracles today Mother?
mother miriam		But I want the opportunity to believe. I want the choice to believe.
martha		But what    you are choosing to believe is a lie    because you won't face the fact that she    was raped... or seduced... or that    she did the seducing.
mother miriam		She is an innocent.
martha		But she is not an enigma Mother. Everything that Agnes has done is explainable from modern psychiatry. One, two, three, right down the line.
mother miriam		That's what you believe she is?     The sum of her psychological parts?
martha		That's what I have to believe...
mother miriam		Then why are you so obsessed with her? You're losing sleep over her?  You're thinking about her all the time. You're bent on saving her. Why?
martha		There's a tunnel out of the crypt into the barn. Did you know about that? There's an answer Mother. That's how she got out.
mother miriam		That's crazy. How could she find out about it?
martha		Somebody told her.
mother miriam		Who? That tun... that tunnel hasn't been used in fifty years.
martha		Oh, would you stop lying Mother!
mother miriam		Why would I lie?
martha		Because it's murder we're talking about. Aren't you concerned about what she told us about the other person in her room.
mother miriam		I'm concerned about her health.
martha		Who was that person Mother?    Was it you?
mother miriam		If you believe this is murder, it is the Crown attorney you have to talk to, not me. And definitely not Agnes.
martha		All I want is one more week.
leveau		Why?  You've done nothing to show any progress.
martha		Yes, that's because I'm getting to her.
leveau		You're getting to all of us Martha, let's face it.
martha		I'll have a decision by next week.
leveau		It's gone on long enough. You're out.
martha		Oh Joe... Joe she didn't kill the baby.
leveau		 You have proof?
martha		I'll have it.
leveau		When?
martha		Next week.
leveau		 No, no, no...
leveau		No!
martha		Tomorrow... tomorrow, I'll get it by tomorrow. I will.
leveau		Yes, demain 
mother miriam		This is permission to take her apart.
martha		Where is she?
mother miriam		Hasn't she had enough?
martha		I have a few more questions to ask her.
mother miriam		My God, but you're determined.
martha		Who knew she was pregnant?
mother miriam		Why do you insist upon pressing...
martha		Was it you?
mother miriam		Is it because she's a nun?
martha		Did you know she was pregnant?
mother miriam		Yes.
martha		And you didn't send her to a doctor.
mother miriam		I didn't guess until it was too late.
martha		For what?     An abortion?
mother miriam		Oh, don't be ridiculous.
martha		Too late for what?
mother miriam		I don't know... too late to stop it.
martha		The baby?
mother miriam		The scandal...
martha		You went to the room to help with the birth.
mother miriam		She didn't want any help.
mother miriam		That's a lie.
martha		You hid the wastepaper basket in her room.
mother miriam		I didn't hide it. I put it there for the blood and the dirty sheets.
martha		And the baby.
mother miriam		No!
martha		You tied the cord around its neck.
mother miriam		I wanted her to have it when no-one else was around, they would have taken the baby to a hospital and left it with them, but it was such a difficult birth, there was so much blood and I panicked.
martha		Before or after you killed the child?
mother miriam		I left it with her and I went for help.
martha		I doubt that's what she'd say.
mother miriam		Then she's a liar.
martha		Agnes, can you hear me?
agnes		Yes.
martha		I want you to remember if you can a night last January. The night Sister Paul died. Do you remember.
agnes		She said Michael.
martha		What did she mean?
agnes		The statue. She had shown it to me the day before.
martha		And the passage to the barn?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Why?
agnes		So I could go to him.
martha		Who?
agnes		Him.
martha		How did she know about him?
agnes		She'd seen him too.
martha		Where?
agnes		From the belltower the day she before she died.
martha		So she sent you?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Are you frightened?
agnes		Yes.
agnes		Hallo...
agnes		... where are you?
agnes		Is it you?
agnes		Halos...
agnes		His blood... my God...
martha		Oh Agnes...
agnes		It's bleeding... I'm bleeding... my God it won't stop, I can't get it to stop.  Let go of me, I wish you were dead.
martha		 Agnes... Agnes...
agnes		Stay away from me...
martha		Agnes it had nothing to do with the hand of God. He did a terrible thing to you, do you understand?
agnes		No...
martha		He    frightened you and he hurt you. It's not    your fault. It's his fault. Tell us who    he is so we can find him. Stop him    from doing this to other women.
agnes		Not your fault...
martha		Agnes who did you see?
agnes		I hate him...
martha		Of course you do. Who was it?
agnes		I hate him for what he did to me.
martha		Yes.
agnes		For what he made me go through.
martha		Who?
agnes		I hate him.
martha		Agnes, who did this to you?
agnes		God!  It was God.  And now I'll burn in hell because I hate him.
martha		Agnes you won't burn in hell. It's alright to hate him.
mother miriam		That's enough.
martha		Agnes, what happened to the baby?
mother miriam		 She can't remember.
martha		What happened to the baby?
agnes		It was dead.
martha		It was alive wasn't it?
agnes		I don't remember.
mother miriam		 Oh, don't do this!
martha		Wasn't it!
agnes		YES!
martha		Mother Miriam was with you wasn't she?
martha		She took the baby in her arms?
agnes		Yes.
martha		You saw it all didn't you?
agnes		Yes.
martha		And then... what did she do?  Agnes what did she do?
agnes		She... left me alone with that little thing, and I looked at it, and I thought this is a mistake. But it's my mistake, not Mommy's. God's mistake.
martha		What did you do?
agnes		I put her to sleep.
martha		H... how?
agnes		I tied the cord around her neck... wrapped her in the bloody sheets... and stuffed her in the trash can.
leveau		In view of the situation as it now stands, and the testimony given here this morning, it seems quite clear that the defendant was in no manner responsible for her actions. It is therefore the judgement of this court that she be returned to the convent of Marie Madeleine where she will be cared for under proper medical supervision by a visiting physician.
agnes		 Charlie Sweet... Charlie Sweet... Charlie's a...
leveau		Please, remove her from the court.
leveau		Would someone please remove the defendant from the courtroom. 
****Dialogues from script :Air_Force_One.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Airplane.txt****

shooting script		June 11, 1979 Revised 6/15/79
elaine		No, but thank you very much.
shirley		Jack, isn't that Fred Bliffert over there in the blue turtleneck? Maybe he's on our flight to Chicago.
jack		Yeah, I think he is.  Hey, Fred!
elderly woman		Go, O.J., go!!
security lady		Please put your metal objects on this tray.
businessman		Taxi!
striker		Back in a minute.
striker		Elaine!
elaine		 Ted!
striker		I came home early and found your note. I guess you meant for me to read it later. Elaine, I've got to talk to you.
elaine		I just don't want to go over it any more.
striker		I know things haven't been right for a long time, but it'll be different. If you'll just be patient, I can work things out.
elaine		I have been patient and I've tried to help, but you wouldn't even let me do that.
striker		Don't you feel anything for me at all any more?
elaine		It takes so many things to make love last. Most of all it takes respect. And I can't live with a man I don't respect!
striker		 What a pisser.
oveur		This is Captain Oveur.
oveur		 I've got it!
turnansky		There's a passenger on your Chicago flight two-oh-niner, a little girl named Lisa Davis -- en route to Minneapolis. She's scheduled for a heart transplant and we'd like you to tell her mother that we found a donor an hour ago.
turnansky		We have the heart here ready for surgery and we must have the recipient on the operating table within six hours.
turnansky		I want you to make sure she is kept in a reclined position and that a continuous watch is kept on her I.V.
oveur		All right. Give me Hamm on five, hold the Mayo.
striker		Look, you'll be back in town tomorrow night. We'll have dinner -- talk it over.
elaine		I won't be back. I've requested the Atlanta run.
striker		Elaine, not yet. I promise you I really can change.
elaine		Then why don't you take the job that Louie Netz offered you at Boeing?
striker		You know I haven't been able to get near an airplane since the war. And even if I could, they wouldn't hire me because of my war record.
elaine		Your war record? You're the only one keeping that alive. For everyone else it's ancient history.
striker		You expect me to believe that?
elaine		It's the truth. What's hurt you the most is your record since the war. Different cities, different jobs, and not one of them shows you can accept any real responsibility.
striker		But if you'll just give me...
elaine		It's too late, Ted. When I get back to Chicago, I'm going to start my life all over again. I'm sorry.
basta		Any word on that storm lifting over Salt Lake, Clarence?
oveur		Unlikely, Victor. I just reviewed the Area Report for 1609 hours through 2400 hours. That's an occluded front stalled over the Dakotas -- backed up all the way to Utah.
basta		If it decides to push over into the Great Lakes it could get plenty soupy. How about the southern route, around Tulsa?
oveur		I double checked the terminal forecast and winds aloft. IFR ceilings all the way.
basta		Where do they top out?
oveur		Well, there's some light scattered cover at twenty thousand with icing around eighteen.
basta		Looks like the original flight plan over Denver is still the best bet.
oveur		Denver it is.
murdock		Sorry, Clarence. Latest weather report shows everything socked in from Salt Lake to Lincoln.
oveur		 Hi, Roger. Good to have you aboard. Victor, this is Roger Murdock.
basta		How do you do, Roger?
jack		What did you think of 'Great Expectations?'
shirley		Well, it wasn't all that I had hoped.
girl		Oh, Bill, I'm going to miss you so much.
soldier		You promise you'll write.
girl		Every day.
airport steward		Better get on board, son.
striker		Can you tell me if Elaine Dickinson is on this flight?
striker		I'd like one ticket to Chicago. No baggage!
striker		Smoking, please.
randy		Fourteen-B. It's halfway down on your right.
striker		Thank you.
striker		Yes.
striker		No. I've been nervous lots of times. I used to be a pilot myself...during the war.
elaine		We'll be taking off real soon so we better fasten you in tight.
lisa		Thank you. Oh Mother, this is so exciting.
elaine		That's good advice. You relax and I'll be back after we take off.
oveur		Two-zero-niner to ground control. We are loaded and ready to taxi.
soldier		Good-bye, darling.
girl		Oh, good-bye, Bill! Have your picture taken as soon as you get there and send me one!
soldier		I will.
girl		Don't you go getting fat or anything.
soldier		Don't worry, I won't. Okay, here -- hurry!
girl		Oh, but it's your watch. You shouldn't. You'll need it.
soldier		Good-bye, darling.
girl		Oh, Bill, I'll keep it. I'll keep it with me all the time.
soldier		So long, darling. Good-bye. Take care of yourself.
girl		Bill! Bill! Good-bye, Bill.
soldier		Good-bye, darling.
girl		Good-bye, darling. I love you. I love you, darling.
soldier		Good-bye, darling.
oveur		Roger.
murdock		 Huh?
oveur		Roger.
murdock		 Huh?
basta		 Request vector...over.
oveur		 What?
murdock		We have clearance, Clarence.
oveur		Roger, Roger. What's our vector, Victor?
randy		Do you feel all right, sir?
striker		Oh -- I haven't flown for a long time.
elaine		Would you like something to read?
elaine		How about this leaflet: 'Famous Jewish Sports Legends?'
elaine		Ted, what are you doing here?
striker		Elaine, I've got to talk to you.
elaine		You...you shouldn't have come. I don't have time now.
elaine		Excuse me.
striker		Yes, I know. Things used to be different. I remember when we first met. It was during the war.
striker		We laughed, we talked, we danced, I never wanted it to end and I guess I still don't. But enough about me. I hope this hasn't been boring for you.
striker		It's just that when I start to talk about Elaine, I get so carried away -- I lose all track of time -- not unlike Oliver in 'Jesus: the Man.'
milton		I happened to be passing, and I thought you might like some corfee.
bernice		That's very nice of you. Thank you.
bernice		Ah, won't you sit down?
milton		Thank you. Cream?
bernice		No, thank you. I take it black. Like my men.
milton		Were you vacationing in Los Angeles?
bernice		Well, it really wasn't a vacation. You see, I'm a teacher in the New York City school system, and I was attending a seminar on visual aids to education. Are you from L.A.?
milton		No. I'm from Washington, D.C. I'm a lobbyist for the Small Businessmen's Assocation.
elaine		Would you like to order dinner now?
joey		When can I see the cockpit, Dad?
joey		Aw, gee whiz.
elaine		I tell you what, Joey. I'll talk to the Captain and see what I can arrange.
joey		Gee! That'd be swell!
elaine		Would you gentlemen care to order your dinners?
randy		May I take your dinner order?
elaine		Oh, Ted, I never knew I could be so happy. These past few months have been wonderful. Tomorrow why don't we drive up the coast to that little seafood place and...
elaine		What's the matter?
striker		My orders came through. My squadron ships out tomorrow. I'll be leading a very important mission.
elaine		Oh, Ted, please be careful. I worry about you so much.
striker		I love you, Elaine.
elaine		I love you.
oveur		Roger, Denver.
elaine		We have a visitor.
oveur		Hello.
murdock		Hi.
elaine		This is Captain Oveur. Mister Murdock and Mister Johnson. This is Joey Hammen.
murdock		Come on up here. You can see better.
oveur		Joey, here's something we give our special visitors. Would you like to have it?
joey		Thank you. Thanks a lot!
oveur		Have you ever been in a cockpit before?
joey		No, sir. I've never been up in a plane before.
oveur		Have you ever seen a grown man naked?
murdock		Do you want me to check the weather, Clarence?
oveur		 No, why don't you take care ot it?
elaine		We'd better get back now.
oveur		Joey can stay up here for a while if he'd like to.
joey		Could I?
elaine		Okay, if you don't get in the way.
murdock		Flight two-zero-niner to Denver radio. Climbing to cruise at forty-two thousand. Will report again over Lincoln. Over and out.
joey		Wait a minute. I know you. You're Kareem Abdul Jabbar. You play basketball for the Los Angeles Lakers!
murdock		I'm sorry, son, but you must have me confused with someone else. My name is Roger Murdock. I'm the co-pilot.
murdock		Ah, Victor, why don't you get the coordinates on the altitude vector and find out the ratio of direct velocity over engine speed?
joey		You are Kareem. I've seen you play. My Dad's got season tickets!
murdock		I think you should go back to your seat now, Joey. Right, Clarence?
oveur		No, he's not bothering anyone. Let him stay up here.
murdock		All right. But just remember, my name is Roger Murdock.
murdock		I'm an airline pilot.  Ah, Clarence, according to my calculations, with this tailwind we ought to be able to make up an additional fifteen minutes over the Rockies.
joey		I think you're the greatest. But my Dad says you don't work hard enough on defense.
murdock		 Denver Control, this is Flight two-zero- niner intersecting Victor Airway seven- niner-niner.
joey		...and that lots of times you don't even run down court.
murdock		We are turning left to a heading of zero- niner-niner.
joey		...and that you don't really try, except during the playoffs.
murdock		The hell I don't! I'm out there busting my buns every night.
murdock		Listen, kid, I've been hearing that crap ever since I was at UCLA. Tell your old man to drag Unseld and Lanier up and down the court for forty-eight minutes.  Ah...Denver Control, this is Flight two- zero-niner continuing on a heading two- niner-niner...niner, ah...niner...niner.
striker		Elaine, just hear me out. I know things haven't been right for a long time. But it will be different...like it was in the beginning. Remember?
elaine		I remember everything. All I have are memories.
elaine		Mostly I remember...the nights when we were together. I remember how you used to hold me...and how I used to sit on your face and wriggle...and then afterwards how we'd watch until the sun came up. When it did, it was almost like...like each new day was created...only for us.
striker		That's the way I've always wanted it to be, Elaine.
elaine		But it won't be. Not as long as you insist on living in the past!
elaine		You got a telegram from headquarters today.
striker		Headquarters!? What is it?
elaine		It's a big building where the generals meet. But that's not important right now. They've cleared you of any blame for what happened on that raid. Isn't that good news?
striker		Is it? Because of my mistake six men didn't return from that raid.
elaine		Seven. Lieutenant Zipp died this morning. Ted, Doctor Sandler says you'll be out in a week. Isn't that wonderful?
striker		I wish I could say the same for George Zipp.
elaine		Be patient, Ted. No one expects you to get over this immediately.
striker		All right. Take five.
elaine		I found a wonderful apartment for us. It's got a brick fireplace and a cute little bedroom with mirrors on the ceiling. And...
striker		That's Captain Geline. He thinks he's a pilot, still fighting the war.
elaine		What's his problem?
striker		That's Lieutennt Hurwitz. Severe shell shock. He thinks he's Ethel Merman.
randy		Excuse me, sir. Would you like some coffee before we serve dinner?
striker		No. No thank you.
randy		Would either of you like another cup of coffee?
randy		Excuse me, Sister?
sister angelina		Yes?
randy		There's a little girl on board who's ill and...
sister angelina		Oh yes, I saw. Poor child.
randy		Could I borrow your guitar? I thought I might be able to cheer her up.
sister angelina		Of course.
randy		Is it all right if I talk to your daughter?
randy		 Hi!
lisa		Hi!
randy		I'm Randy.
lisa		I'm Lisa. Oh, you have a guitar!
randy		I thought maybe you'd like to hear a song.
lisa		Oh, I'd love to.
randy		Okay, this is one of my favorites.
randy		 'I've traveled the banks of the River Jordan, to find where it flows to the sea.'
randy		'I looked in the eyes of the cold and the hungry and saw that I was looking at me.'
randy		 'And I wanted to know if life had a purpose, and what it all means in the end. In the silence I listened to the voices inside me, and they told me again and again.'
randy		'There is only one river. There is only one sea.'
randy		'And it flows through you, and it flows through me. There is only one people, we are one and the same.'
randy		 'We are all one spirit, one name. We are the Father, we are the son.'
randy		'In the Dawn of Creation. We are one.'
oveur		Hey, we've been waiting for you. A little bit late tonight.
elaine		Who wants to be first?
murdock		Go ahead, Clarence, I got it.
elaine		How's the weather?
murdock		Not so good. We've got some heavy stuff ahead of us. It might get rough again unless we can climb on top. But our airspeed is holding steady at six hundred ten knots.
elaine		That's great. By the way, Joey Hammen asked me if you would autograph this basketball.
striker		After the war, I just wanted to get as far away from things as possible. So Elaine and I joined the Peace Corps. We were assigned to an isolated tribe, the Molombos.
elaine		Also, Supperware products are ideal for storing leftovers to help stretch your food dollar. This two quart "Seals-M-Rite" container with a special "Close-M-Tite" lid keeps hotdog buns fresh for days and prevents sugared cereals from sticking.
elaine		Meat and dairy products are protected against unwanted refrigerator odors when sealed in this non-slip pastel colored "Freez-o-leer".
striker		I think they're getting the hang of it! When we re-enlist I'll teach them baseball!
elaine		Ted, I don't want to stay here. It's time for us to go back home -- to the plans we made before the war.
striker		A lot of people made plans before the war. Like George Zipp.
striker		We did come back to the States. I tried a number of jobs...Well, I could go on for hours, but I'd probably start to bore you.
striker		You know, I really couldn't blame Elaine. She wanted a career. I was offered a job at Boeing but I couldn't bring myself to take it...
shirley		Oh, I can't stand it.
jack		What is it?
elaine		Yes?
shirley		My, stomach. I haven't felt this awful since we saw that Lina Wertmuller film.
elaine		I'll see if I can find some Dramamine.
shirley		OOOOOO.
elaine		Captain, one of the women passengers is very sick.
oveur		Airsick?
elaine		I think so, but I've never seen it so acute.
oveur		Find out if there's a doctor on board, as quietly as you can.
oveur		Joey, have you ever been in a Turkish prison?
elaine		I'm sorry I had to wake you. I'm just looking for a doctor. There's nothing to worry about.
elaine		Sir. Excuse me, sir. I'm sorry to have to wake you. Are you a doctor?
elaine		We have some passengers who are very sick. Could you come and take a look at them?
elaine		A hospital? What is it?
elaine		Certainly.
oveur		 Victor, we're running into a heavy storm, can you...
oveur		Victor! Roger, take over!
oveur		I can't tell.
oveur		No. I mean I'm just not sure.
oveur		Well...not for another two hours.
oveur		No, I mean we can't land for another two hours. Fog has closed down everything this side of the mountains. We've got to go through to Chicago!
oveur		 Get him out of there!
oveur		What is it, Doctor? What's happening?
elaine		Well, we had a choice. Steak or fish.
elaine		He had fish.
randy		We have two more sick people, and the rest of the passengers are worried.
oveur		I'll take care of the passengers. Elaine, find out what the two sick people had for dinner.  This is Captain Oveur speaking.
oveur		Meanwhile, relax and enjoy the rest of your flight. Okay? Okay!
oveur		That should do it.
oveur		 Chicago, this is flight two-zero-niner. We're in trouble.
dispatcher		We read you. Stand by, two-zero-niner.
randy		Yes?
randy		Well, the doctor will be with you in just a moment. One thing: do you know what he had for dinner?
randy		Oh, it's nothing to be alarmed about. We'll get back to you very quickly.
elaine		Doctor Rumack, Mister Hammen ate fish. And Randy says there are five more cases, and they ate fish, too.
elaine		He had fish, too.
elaine		Just how serious is it, doctor?
oveur		 Turn...on...automatic pilot.
elaine		Uh, automatic pilot...automatic pilot?
elaine		There it is!
elaine		This is Elaine Dickinson. I'm the stewardess. Captain Oveur is passed out on the floor, and we've lost the co-pilot and navigator, too. We're in terrible trouble. Over.
elaine		Hi, Steve!
elaine		Yes. Yes, it is. Over.
elaine		I'm standing over Oveur. Over.
hinshaw		No thanks.
hinshaw		How about Sal Mineo?
elaine		Three hundred twenty miles per hour.
elaine		Thirty-five thousand feet.
elaine		No, wait. Now it says thirty-four thousand feet. It's dropping! It's dropping fast! Why is it doing that?
elaine		Oh, my God! The automatic pilot! It's deflating!
elaine		Okay, but please hurry! We're dropping fast!
elaine		Yes. Yes, I can see it.
elaine		No.
elaine		Well...
elaine		No. No one that I know of.
carey		Hello, I'm Paul Carey from the airline. I'm here to pick up Captain Kramer.
carey		 Well, to tell the truth, they really didn't fill me in on many of the details. Just told me to pick up Captain Kramer.
carey		Yeah, something like that, but as I say, they didn't have time to tell me very much.
carey		Well...the airline business...does have... its moments...
carey		...but after...awhile...you begin to...  ...get used to it.
carey		I'm...in a...argh...navigator training program.
kramer		It's unbelievable! How many times have I warned those people about food inspection?
kramer		The airport management, the F.A.A., and the airlines, they're all cheats and liars! All right, let's get out of here.
randy		Sorry to bother you. We were just looking for someone with flying experience.
striker		You see, the day we left the village it was raining, so we had to take a special jeep to the main road...
striker		In fact, we were lucky to even get a jeep since just the day before the only one we had broke down -- it had a bad axle...
randy		Excuse me, sir. There's been a little problem in the cockpit and I was wondering...
striker		The cockpit? What is it?
randy		It's the little room at the front of the plane where the pilots sit. But that's not important right now. The first officer is ill and the Captain would like someone with flying experience to help him with the radio. Do you know anything about planes?
striker		Well, I flew in the war, but that was a long time ago. I wouldn't know anything about it.
randy		Would you go up, please?
jack		Would ya like a little whiskey, ma'am?
striker		 The stewardess said...
striker		Both pilots!
striker		Surely you can't be serious.
striker		Well, I flew single-engine fighters in the Air Force, but this plane has four engines. It's an entirely different kind of flying...all together!!!
striker		Besides, I haven't touched any kind of plane in six years.
hinshaw		Would anyone care for a roll and coffee?
kramer		 No, we can't do that; the risk of a flameout is too great. Keep him 24,000. No, feet!
kramer		One of the passengers is going to land that plane.
carey		Is that possible?
kramer		Possible, but it's a hundred to one shot. Thousand to one. I know this guy.
carey		You do? Who is it?
kramer		His name is Ted Striker. I flew with him during the war. And that won't make my job any easier tonight.
kramer		Ted Striker was a crack flight leader up to a point. But he was one of those men who, well, let's just say he felt too much inside. Maybe you know the kind.
kramer		It takes a certain type to perform under pressure. Striker didn't have it.
kramer		Ate his heart out over every name on the casualty lists. The upshot of it is that he went all to pieces on one particular mission. Let's just hope it doesn't happen again tonight.
striker		Let's see, altitude twenty-four thousand feet, level flight, air speed four hundred sixty knots, course zero niner zero, trim, mixture, landing gear, balance.
elaine		Ted! What are you doing? You can't fly this plane!
striker		That's what I've been trying to tell these people.
striker		Let's see. Those are the flaps, that's the thrust, this must turn on the landing lights.
striker		 Mayday!
hinshaw		It's the Russian New Year! We'll have a parade! They'll serve hot hors d'oeuvres!
striker		Yeah, I was just trying out the landing lights.
randy		Calm down. Get hold of yourself!
jack		Stewardess, let me handle this.
jack		Get hold of yourself! Get hold of yourself!
sister angelina		 Doctor, you're wanted on the phone.
sister angelina		Everything will be all right. Please get hold of yourself.
kramer		All right, Steve, let's face a few facts.
kramer		As you know, I flew with this man, Striker, during the war. He'll have enough on his mind without remembering those days when -- well, when things weren't so good.
kramer		Let me tell you something, Steve. Striker was a top-notch squadron leader -- a long time ago...
kramer		...but my feeling is that when the going gets rough upstairs tonight, Ted Striker's gonna fold up.
kramer		Very well then. Put Striker on the speaker.
kramer		Striker, Striker, this is Captain Rex Kramer speaking.
striker		 Yes, Captain Kramer. Read you loud and clear.
kramer		All right. It's obvious you remember me.
kramer		So what do you say you and I just forget about everything except what we have to do now?
kramer		You and I are going to bring this plane in together.
kramer		Before we start, I'd like to say something. I know that right now things must look pretty rough up there.
kramer		But if you do what I tell you, when I tell you to do it, there's no reason you can't bring that plane in.
striker		Let's not kid each other, Kramer. You know I've never flown a bucket like this. I'm going to need all the luck there is.
kramer		Stand by, Striker.  All right, Striker, have you ever flown a multi-engine plane before?
kramer		Shit!
kramer		 All right, Striker, now you listen to me and you listen close. Flying is no different than riding a bicycle...it just happens to be a lot harder to put baseball cards in the spokes. Now, if you just follow my instructions...
kramer		First, I want you to familiarize yourself with the controls. Later we'll run through the landing procedure.
kramer		All right. Now I'd like you to disengage the automatic pilot. But watch any violent movement of the controls, like you used to make in Spitfires and Phantoms.
striker		 Okay, I'm going to unlock the automatic pilot.
striker		Yes! The stewardess is here with me!
striker		The radio's all yours now. And keep an eye on that number three engine. It's running a little hot.
elaine		 Rain.
striker		And a little ice.
elaine		And a little ice!
striker		Sluggish. Like a wet sponge.
elaine		 Sluggish. Like a wet sponge.
striker		 It's a damn good thing he doesn't know how much I hate his guts.
elaine		 It's a damn good thing you don't know how much he hates your guts.
black dude		Oooooooh.
randy		Can I get something for you?
black dude		Cain fo' gwine sho fi cun for.
randy		I'm sorry. I don't understand.
randy		Tell him to relax and I'll be back as quickly as I can with some medicine.
black dude		 Shi man I ain neba mo fo gwine ain.
sister angelina		'...I sit by the telephone for hours. I love when men send me flowers. I enjoy being a girl.'
jack		How ya doing, honey?
shirley		Oh Jack, I'm so warm. I'm burning up.
jack		Here.
milton		After my wife died, I felt like a fifth wheel. You know, so many years being with one person -- a very wonderful person -- makes you always think of yourself as part of a pair...When Ethel passed away, I was lost. I couldn't function socially and I couldn't function in business.
bernice		Well, after a thing like that you wouldn't be expected to.
milton		But I think it's time we stopped talking about me. A woman like you -- why haven't you ever married?
bernice		Well, I'm afraid that's a question that's all too easy to answer.
milton		I know the answer -- Career. A smart woman like you became so involved in your work, you didn't have time for marriage.
bernice		I wish I could fool myself into believing that that's the reason. The truth of the matter is, nobody ever asked me.
milton		You know, here we are having coffee together, and discussing education and business and economy...and we don't even know each other's names...full names I mean.
bernice		Mine's Eleanor. Eleanor Schiff.
milton		That's a lovely name. Mine's Milton...Milt Ettenhenim. But my friends call me 'Bubbles.'
randy		Would you care for a soft drink?
hinshaw		This? Why, I could make a hat or a broach...
horse		 Did you finish? Was I good?
randy		Would you care for another drink?
elaine		Doctor Rumack says the sick people are getting worse and we're running out of time.
jack		 What's going on? We have a right to know the truth!
striker		 Chicago, the passengers are beginning to panic. When do we start down?
kramer		 Not just yet, we'll have you in radar range any second now.
kramer		 I don't understand it. He should have been in range ten minutes ago.
gunderson		 About two more minutes, Chief.
kramer		That's impossible. They're on instruments!
kramer		This is gonna be a real sweat.  Gunderson, let me know when you get anything.
hinshaw		Would you like half of my provolone and roast beef?
hinshaw		I think Florence Henderson knows about it!
hinshaw		What are the chances of returning something to Montgomery Ward the week after Christmas?
newscaster		Striken Airliner Approaches Chicago!
jack kilpatrick		Shana, they bought their tickets, they knew what they were getting into. I say, let 'em crash!
striker		Yes, everything they've got. How are the passengers doing?
striker		Surely there must be something you can do.
jack		No, I'm not dead.
sister angelina		'What you want, Baby I got, What you need, You know I got it. All I'm askin' for Is a little respect When you come home.'
randy		Doctor Rumack, I'm scared. I've never been so scared. And besides, I'm twenty-six and I'm not married.
dispatcher		Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy.
kramer		 No, the risk of fire is too great. If she starts burning, you write off all those people who can't get out of there on their own power.
kramer		 No. A belly landing isn't all that simple. It takes a good pilot to keep from smearin' himself all over the runway.
kramer		 His only shot's with the wheels down. I've seen foam tear a man's guts out.
kramer		 That's a risk we'll just have to take.
striker		Rats! I've lost number three.
elaine		What happened, Ted? What went wrong?
striker		Oil pressure. I forgot to check the oil pressure. When Kramer hears about this, the shit's gonna hit the fan.
kramer		I told him to watch that oil temperature. What the hell's he doing up there?
kramer		Striker, that plane can't land itself! It takes a pilot who can handle pressure.
hinshaw		It happened to Barbara Stanwyck!
striker		He's right. I can't take the pressure. I was crazy to think I could land this plane.
elaine		But Ted, you're the only...
striker		I don't care. I just don't have what it takes. They'd be better off with someone who'd never flown before.
hinshaw		And Liz Taylor is getting larger!
kramer		All right, but let's wait until they reach the control area.
striker		I know what you're going to say, so save your breath.
striker		George Zipp said that?
striker		 Excuse me, Doc, I've got a plane to land.
striker		I'll take it, Elaine.
striker		Listen to me, Kramer. Doctor Rumack says the sick people are in critical condition and every minute counts. We've got to land now!
striker		No dice, Chicago. I'm giving the orders, and we're coming in...I guess the foot's on the other hand now, isn't it, Kramer?
kramer		I know. I know. But it's his ship now, his command; he's in charge, he's the boss, the head man, the top dog, the big cheese, the head honcho...
kramer		 'Passengers Certain to Die?!?!?!?!?!'
hinshaw		 There's a sale at Penny's!
kramer		 You, Neubauer. You, Macias.
hinshaw		Me John. Big tree.
hinshaw		Wagon train comes three, maybe four day away.
kramer		 Stand by, Striker. I'm going to the tower. And good luck.
hinshaw		 The tower! Oh! Rapunzel! Rapunzel!
randy		In a moment we'll ask you to assume crash positions. Your life jackets are located under your seat.
striped controller		We're all ready, sir.
striped controller		Captain McCroskey, this is Captain Roberts. Captain Kramer, this is Captain Colosimo. Captain Hinshaw, Captain Gatz. Captain Kramer, Captain Gatz. Captain Hinshaw, Captain Roberts.
kramer		All right. Colosimo, you'll work the relay. Roberts, double check all air traffic within five miles.
kramer		And get that finger out of your ear. You don't know where that finger's been! Gunderson?
gunderson		Yes, Captain?
kramer		Did you decide on a runway yet?
gunderson		Runway niner. It's the longest, and directly into the wind.
hinshaw		And the foliage looks so pretty this time of year.
kramer		 Striker, you're going to have to work fast. After this message, do not acknowledge any transmission unless you want to ask a question. Do you understand? Striker, Striker, do you read me?
hinshaw		Just like Gerald Ford!
hinshaw		 Where did you get that dress? It's an eye- sore!
gunderson		 Eight miles. Turn right to heading zero eight niner.
kramer		 You are now eight miles from the airport. Turn right to a heading of zero eight niner, throttle back slightly and begin to lose altitude to fifteen hundred feet.
kramer		 Steve, I want every light you can get poured on that field.
kramer		 Tower to all emergency vehicles. Runway is niner.
kramer		 Civilian equipment, number three.
hinshaw		 It's a twister! It's a twister! Toto!... Auntie Em!
randy		It won't be long now. Try not to worry.
gunderson		He's all over the place! Nine hundred feet up to thirteen hundred feet! What an asshole!
kramer		Watch your altitude, Striker. It's too erratic. You can't come straight in. You've got enough fuel left for two hours flying. You've got to stay up there 'til we get a break in the weather.
striker		I'll take it, Elaine.  Listen, Kramer, I'm coming in. Do you hear me? I'm coming in right now! We have people up here who will die in less than an hour, never mind two. I may bend your precious airplane, but I'll get it down! Now get on with the landing check. I'm putting the gear down now.
randy		Mr. Striker, the passengers are ready.
striker		Thank you, Randy. You better leave sweetheart. You might get hurt in here.
elaine		Ted...
striker		Yes?
elaine		I wanted you to know -- now -- I'm very proud.
striker		Tell them the gear is down and we're ready to land.
elaine		 The gear is down.
businessman		Well, I'll give him another twenty minutes, but that's it.
milton		I'm sure we'll both make it...but just in case one of us...well, is there a message you'd like me to give someone?
bernice		No. I'm all alone.
milton		Just in case I don't have a chance to say goodbye, I want you to know that I haven't spent so many pleasant hours for many years.
bernice		That's a very nice compliment, and I'd like to say that...you've done the same for me.
kramer		Now, Striker...hold your present heading, put down full flap, bring your air speed back to a hundred and thirty-five, then I want you to take hold of the throttle...
hinshaw		And stick it in your ear.
kramer		And stick it in your ear.
hinshaw		 I'll be good, I will, I will.
gunderson		Captain, he's dropping off fast. Almost seven hundred.
kramer		Striker, get back to a thousand feet!
gunderson		He's below seven hundred now and he's still going down! 675! 650! 625! 600!
kramer		Striker, you're coming in too low! What's your altitude?
gunderson		He's right on the heading.
kramer		All right, he's on final now! Put out all runway lights except niner.
kramer		Turn on your landing lights, Striker. It's the switch above your right knee.
kramer		All right, now just listen carefully. You should be able to see the runway at three hundred feet.
kramer		Aim to touchdown a third of the way along. There's a slight crosswind from the right, so be ready for it.
kramer		If you land too fast, use your emergency brakes. The red handle is right in front of you.
kramer		If that doesn't stop you...
kramer		If that doesn't stop you, cut the four ignition switches over the co-pilot's head.
striker		See them, Elaine?
elaine		Uh-huh.
kramer		Do you see us now? You should be able to see the field now.
kramer		Yeah -- too quiet.
kramer		 Striker, you're coming in too fast!
kramer		 Sound your alarm bell now.
randy		All right, now, everybody get in crash positions.
elaine		Airspeed one twenty-five, one thirty...
hinshaw		Just kidding!
elaine		...one thirty-five, one forty.
kramer		Striker, now listen to me. You're coming down too fast!
striker		It's stuck. It won't move!
kramer		Bring it down! Easy!
kramer		Remember your brakes and switches! Get ready to flare it out! You're coming in too fast! Watch your speed!
kramer		You're coming in too hot! Put down full flaps! Watch your nose!
kramer		Now ease her down! Down!
kramer		Lift the nose! Throttle back!
kramer		The brake! Pull the red handle!
kramer		 Hold her steady, hold her steady!
kramer		Pull a lever!
kramer		Push a button!
kramer		 You're too low! You're too low!
randy		Can we help arrange hotel accommodations or a rent-a-car during your stay in Chicago?
hinshaw		 Wheel me to the West Wing. I wish to view the Degas.
striker		 Yeah, we're okay.
kramer		Ted, that was probably the lousiest landing in the history of this airport. But there are some of us here...
randy		Hurry now. Please be careful.
kramer		...Lonliness, that's the bottom line. I was never happy as a child. Christmas, Ted, what does it mean to you? For me, it was a living hell. Do you know what it's like to fall in the mud and get kicked? In the head? By an iron boot? Of course you don't. No one does. That never happens. Sorry, Ted. Dumb question. Strike that.
****Dialogues from script :Airplane_2__The_Sequel.txt****

older nun		No tongues, Father.
guide		All lunar shuttle landings are handled by these computers and simulated on these video units.
controller 1		 You're programmed on R-two-niner and locked, Lunar eight six.  Over.
captain		 It's out of our hands now, gentlemen.
kruger		Commissioner, we both know the Mercury shuttle needs another month of pre-launch testing.
commissioner		Forget it.  The boys on the board want that shuttle to go on schedule.
kruger		And what do the boys on the board know about safety, Commissioner?  Let me talk to them.
commissioner		Bud, get wise to the political realities. The boys on the board are under a lot of pressure from the boys downtown.
kruger		And I'll be the one they'll hang if there's a screw-up.
commissioner		Listen, Bud, the boys downtown are under heavy fire from the boys in Washington. That's why they're putting pressure on the boys on the board.
kruger		Well, you tell the boys on the board to tell the boys downtown to let the boys in Washington know that the press has been nosing around my people in the front office.
commissioner		You handle your front office people, I'll handle the press and leave the boys in Washington to the boys downtown and the boys downtown to the boys on the board.
kruger		Commissioner.
commissioner		What?
kruger		I just wish it was that simple.
controller		 This is Mercury One control.  We have condition green.  Mark launch 'T' minus two hours and counting.  I repeat, we have condition green.
rumack		This condition isn't as bad as it could be if it were a lot worse.  Take these pills.  Here's some water.
controller		What is it, doctor?
rumack		Two parts oxygen, one part hydrogen. It'll make the pills go down easier.
worker		 This is Mercury station six!  Get me the Sarg and fast!
businessman		Would you like to buy a rose to help bail out Chrysler?  We're an all-profit organization and need all the money we can get.
simon		 Here.
businessmen		 IACCOCA, IACCOCA, IACCOCA, IARAMA.
simon		For the best little computer officer on the Mercury mission.
elaine		 Simon.
simon		Who would believe that Elaine Thompson was once a stewardess on the Denver-Chicago run.
elaine		And I can hardly believe that I'm engaged to someone like you, Simon.  I'm a very lucky woman.
simon		Women and the space program have come a long way, sweetheart.  But after the wedding, no more complicated computers for my little girl.
elaine		But, darling, they've offered me a chance to head up the computer analysis division for the Jupiter probe.
simon		You're heading up the division in charge of babies for Mr. and Mrs. Simon Kurtz.
simon		And that's an order, Lieutenant.
sarg		 Marge, you better go without me.  We've got a condition red.
marge		 We've got a condition red with our marriage.  I think you're in love with that shuttle, not with me.  I want a divorce, Sarg.
sarg		Is there someone else, Marge?  Is that it?
marge		Sarg, there's been someone else for fifteen years.  You were just too involved in your work to see it.
sarg		Don't wait up for me, sweetheart.  We're testing the retro-rockets tonight.
marge		You just can't see it, can you, Sarg.
sarg		We'll talk tomorrow, hon.  I promise.
john		That's us.
jimmy		Will Scraps be able to sit with us, Dad?
john		We'll have to check, Jimmy.  It's a pretty long trip to Mercury.
porter		Can I help you folks?
john		 Thanks.
porter		 Is that your puppy, son?
jimmy		Yeah, his name is Scraps and he's going to Mercury with us.
porter		No dogs are allowed on the shuttle, son.
jimmy		But they said...
porter		 Scraps will have to be shot.  I can do it for you here if you like.
jimmy		Scraps!!!
porter		 Just joking.  Blanks.  See, Scraps is fine.
alice		It was just a joke, Jimmy.
sarg		There's no way this wiring could have passed inspection without Simon Kurtz's okay!
kruger		 Just patch up the damage and get that ship ready to fly.  That's an order, mister!
sarg		You've got it, mister.  But you can tell your boys on the board for me that this thing stinks to high heaven of kickback.
kruger		You heard it, boys.  Now, what do you say?
all boys		Fuck him!
sarg		 Ted Striker was right six months ago when he test-piloted this sucker.  And what did he get for telling the truth?  A one-way ticket to Palukaville.
voice		You're too low, Striker!  You're too low!
boy		Senor Ted!
soldier		 Traficante de drugas o communista?
peasant		 Traficante de drugas, traficante de drugas!
soldier		 Traficante de drugas o communista?
soldier		Communista!
young man		 We've lost all our travelers' checks!
young woman		What are we going to do?!
clerk		Calm down.  What kind were they?
young man		American Excess!
clerk		I'd say you're fucked.
ted		 Next thing I know, I'm the chief test pilot for the XR-2300, NASA's first Mercury shuttle.  That is, until I report she's got more flaws than the Titanic.
ted		Now I'm testing old F-l8s for some crazy Generalissimo who thinks there's a commie behind every tree in the Amazon.
boy		Senor Ted!  Look!
ted		My God!  They're launching the ZR-2300. Do you know what that is, Jose?
boy		The muffler bracket for a '78 Pinto.
ted		No, that's an XR-2200.  The XR-2300 is the Mercury shuttle.  They can't do it!
ted		Taxi!
ted		Houston, Texas.
driver		Houston, Texas, senor??
ted		Right at the corner, left at the light. Here's a map and step on it!
son		We finally made it, Ma.  Mercury.  We're gonna start all over agin.  A whole new life.
son		Where the soil is rich.
son		And the union strong.  Where men are free to realize their true potential.
porter		Can I help you?
son		Where black men and white men, working together, can move mountains.
driver		That'll be eight hundred and seventy-four zillion quastavitas.
ted		Here's three bucks.  Keep the change.
driver		Thank you!!
porter		You folks need any help?
stella		Thanks, but we have a terrific woman in on Thursdays.
porter		Say, isn't that Dr. Barrington, the world- renowned agronomist?
stella		Yes.
porter		It's a privilege to meet you, sir, I'm familiar with all your work.
stella		Let's go, Daddy.  We have to check in.  He was never appreciated at the Institute.
porter		Ah, yes, the Institute, I'm familiar with it.
stella		Now he's D-Y-I-N-Ging and wants to be buried on Mercury.
porter 2		Say, wasn't that Dr. Barrington, the world-renowned agronomist?
porter 1		That's right.  Are you familiar with his work?
porter 2		No, but the missus sure is.
ted		 I have to stop that flight.
businessman 1		Don't worry about the Viatex account. It's a buy-sell option.  We can't get hurt in either case.
businessman 2		Just keep on top of their legal people, Bob.
businessman 1		Don't sweat it.
agent		 We can take your in-flight dinner orders here, if you like.  Today there's lobster or rack of lamb.
traveller		The lobster sounds nice.
ted		 Where can I find mission control?
agent		 Information's over there.
ted		Thanks.
agent		 Today there's the swill or the slop.
traveller		The slop sounds nice.
man		 What's the fastest animal on earth?
info agent		The cheetah.  Next.
woman		Should I fake my orgasms?
info agent		Yes.  Next.
info agent		 Over there.  Next.
ted		Mission control?
info agent		 It's over therrrrrrr!
ted		That's strange.  I just came from over there.
frank		I'll meet you on board.  I've got some business to attend to.
simon		 Frank's the best pilot in the program.
elaine		I'm so excited, Simon.
simon		I guess this is a first for you.
elaine		No, I've been excited before.
elaine		 Te...!
ted		That's not important now, Elaine.  We have to talk.
elaine		Ted, we've been worried sick ever since you escaped from the Ronald Reagan Institute For The Mentally Feeble.
ted		Are you on the Mercury mission?
simon		That's right, Striker.  And we're getting married when we return.
ted		It's got to be stopped!
elaine		But, Ted, the invitations have already gone out.
ted		I mean the Mercury flight.  It's not safe and, Kurtz, you know why.
simon		You're still crazy, Striker.  Come on, sweetheart.
elaine		What did Ted mean?
simon		Elaine, he's still sick.
simon		You're seeing bugs where they don't exist, Striker.
ted		 Look at this wiring.  It's shorting out under high temperatures.
simon		You're tired, Striker, overworked.  That wiring meets all the safety specifications.
ted		I know you've been subtly spreading the word that I'm having a breakdown.
newsie		Shuttle test pilot goes mad!
jacobs		Sir, these are the designs for the flight uniforms.  I think the captain's is to die.
simon		 Good, good, no, no, good.  What's this?! I said no studded dog collars, Jacobs.
ted		You won't get away with this, Simon!
elaine		Ted, what's wrong?
ted		 Ask Simon.
elaine		Ted, you're overworked.  You've been flying yourself into the ground.
ted		There's nothing wrong with me!
elaine		Let's relax tonight, just the two of us. I'll make a quiet Italian dinner just the way you like it, with spaghetti.
ted		You're as bad as the rest of them, Elaine!  Look!  It's all here!
elaine		No!  Wait!  You're hurting him!
simon		Elaine!  Ted's a danger to himself, he's a threat to this mission and his behavior does absolutely nothing to promote peace in the Middle East.
elaine		 Simon, why has he become so... so...
simon		So mentally ill?
ted		 I'm perfectly sane.
stella		Excuse me, are you alright?  I noticed you talking to yourself.  I'm a nurse.  Can I be of some help?
ted		Uh... oh, thank you.  It's nothing.
stella		You don't have to thank me, I'm a nurse. This is my father, Dr. Barrington.
ted		Not Dr. Barrington, the world renowned agronomist?
stella		Yes.  He's dying a-n-d wants to be buried on Mercury.
ted		I'm familiar with your work, Doctor. You'll have to excuse me, I have to go.
stella		You don't have to excuse yourself.  I'm a nurse.  I understand.
simon		Meet me onboard, sweetheart.  I have to pick up a few things at the drugstore.
elaine		 Don't be too long.
druggist		Uppers, downers, coke, speed, hash, Tampax.
ted		Elaine.
elaine		Ted, please.  You're just making things difficult for yourself.
ted		Elaine, what happened to us?
elaine		Ted, I loved you and I'll always love you. But I need Simon.  He's stable.  He's a good provider.  I want that at this stage of the game, Ted.  He might have his faults, but Simon doesn't know the meaning of the word fear and I need that in a man.
simon		 What does this word mean?
druggist		 'Fear,' to be afraid or over-anxious.
ted		Elaine, someone has to listen to me.  I'm going right to mission control.
elaine		Ted, you should go right back to the hospital.
elaine		Eat this spaghetti, Ted.  It'll make you feel a lot better.
elaine		Who's that, Ted?
ted		Sammy Davis Junior.  Terrible car accident.  He hasn't been the same since.
ted		Elaine, when are you going to realize Simon Kurtz put me in here to get me out of the way.
elaine		And when are you going to realize, Ted, that your mental hygiene is the most important thing right now.
elaine		What's his problem?
man		It does work... No, it doesn't.
ted		His name's David Stockman.  He's been here twenty years, that's all he says.
elaine		Ted, you must remember what the doctor said, the first step on the road to sanity is admitting that you're sick.  Now take your electro-shock and you'll be back at the space center in no time.  And by the way, Ted, I'm leaving you for Simon.
elaine		I just can't go on living with a man who refuses to deal with reality, Ted.  I have to go now.  Believe me, it's best for all concerned.
ted		No goodbyes, Elaine.  Just go.
elaine		If that's the way you want it.
ted		That's the way I want it.  Just turn the radio on and go.
elaine		Goodbye, Ted.  I don't want to hurt you.
frank		Carol's not going to give me a divorce that easily, Jane.
jane		I'm worried about her, Frank.  She could do something senseless, something violent.
frank		You're the one who's not making sense, Jane.  Carol's not the violent...
frank		Carol!
frank		No!  This is senseless!
ted		 I might have two tens.
sergeant		 When is this senseless killing going to stop?
detective hallick		Senseless or not, Sergeant, there's a pattern here.  This is the 12th victim this week with a chalk mark around the body.  I want this whole area cordoned off!  I want everyone in this terminal booked and beaten until they talk.  I want an M.O. on everyone who has seen THE SOUND OF MUSIC and I want the entire population of Hawaii off that rock and into the water within one hour.
detective hallick		Sergeant.  I said cordon off, not accordian off!  Now dust this area for prints.
detective hallick		And run a check on their plates.
detective hallick		 When will this senseless killing end?
photographer		Super!  Great!  Super!  Terrific!  Super!
kruger		That's right, Commissioner.  Senselessly murdered just minutes ago.
commissioner		That just doesn't make any sense.
kruger		I wonder how your boys in Washington are going to take this one.
commissioner		I told you, leave the boys in Washington to the boys downtown and the boys down...
kruger		You've made your point, Commissioner. There's only one other pilot who can handle that shuttle and that's Clarence Oveur.  He's got a lunar flight today.  I want him pulled.  Jacobs, pull Oveur!
jacobs		Not in your size, but I have a cardigan.
commissioner		I'll trust you on this, Bud, but I'm a little nervous about Oveur's record.
simon		Captain Oveur?
oveur		Mr. Kurtz, I presume.
simon		We don't have much time.  Let's move. I'll explain everything.
hair krishna		Chanting or non-chanting?
controller 1		This is Mercury launch control at "T" minus fifty-eight minutes and counting. All systems are go.  Clear launch area.
simon		That's how dry cleaning works.  Now I'd like to quickly go over the digestive system of amphibians.
oveur		Do you think it's necessary to explain everything?
simon		I'll meet you on board.  There's something I have to take care of first.
ted		I have to see Bud Kruger.
receptionist		Do you have an appointment, sir?
ted		No, dammit.  It's a matter of life or death.
receptionist		You'll have to be more specific than that, sir.
ted		All right, it's a matter of death.
receptionist		 Death, death.  How about the first Thursday in March, ten o'clock.
receptionist		You can't go in there!
ted		Don't try to stop me!
receptionist		But that's not a door.  The door's over there.
ted		That's strange.  I just came from...
wife		Take this, Joey.  It's my last few bucks. You'll need a hot meal when you get there.
joe		We've spent everything on these operations.  Is it really worth it?  We've pawned your mother's wedding ring.  The kids have no winter clothes...
wife		 Joey, what's more important, the kids' clothes or your sexual potency.
joe		 I don't want to hear that word!
wife		Okay, Joey.  The Doc says you gotta relax. This hospital in Des Moines is the best sex clinic in the country.
joe		All right.  Here.
wife		What...?
joey		Insurance.  Everyone buys it.
wife		All right.  Goodbye, Babe.
wife		Joey!  Remember, sexual impotence is nothing to be ashamed of!
joe		 Time, Newsweek, the Lifesavers, and the second time bomb from the right.
scott		 My God, Dr. Spock!  You've got a meltdown in the Reggie Bars!
dave		I'm telling you, Edith, space travel is safer than driving a car.
scalper		Mercury seats.  I got a pair.  I got aisle seats, window seats.  Check 'em out.
simon		Gentlemen, this is Captain Oveur.  He's taking over for Frank Morgan.
simon		Morgan was senselessly murdered about an hour ago.
simon		We won't know until after the autopsy.
oveur		Good to be aboard, gentlemen.
simon		Captain Oveur, your navigator, Mr. Unger, and your first officer, Mr. Dunn.
oveur		Unger.
unger		Oveur.
dunn		Oveur.
oveur		Dunn.
simon		And I think everyone knows Elaine.
terrorist		 Is flight to Miami, yes?
guard		No.
terrorist		Thank you.  Thank you.
dentist		Open.
sven		Mercury, Krista.  A whole new world to be depressed about.
krista		Ya, Sven.
child 1		Will we die, Pappa?
sven		We all die, Ingrid.
child 2		Will we die soon, Pappa?
sven		Soon?  What is the real meaning of 'soon'?
oveur		 Atmosphere control.
unger		 Atmosphere control, check.
oveur		 Anti-gravity.
dunn		 Anti-gravity, check.
elaine		 That's odd.
oveur		 What's your temperature reading, Mr. Unger.
unger		 Ninety-eight point six.
controller 2		There seems to be some fog rolling in from the west.
controller 1		Mike, give me a density reading.  I just hope it's not too heavy.
controller 3		 The fog, the fog, the torment clouded my mind.  Derision, contempt...
controller 1		That's heavy.
mary		 Welcome aboard.  Isn't that Dr. Barrington, the world renowned agronomist?
stella		Yes -- he's dying and wants to be buried in the new l-a-n-d.
mary		 Welcome aboard.  Can I take your case?
joe		 No!
henry		There's a whole new world in front of us, Ma.  Where the dictatorship of the proletariat will lead workers and peasants into socialism without the revisionist diversions of bourgeois liberals, Trotskiests, or disillusioned Maoist terrorism.
mary		 Doesn't he realize that a weak proletariat needs a strong liberal bourgeoisie in a joint struggle against monopoly capitalism?
psychiatrist		We can't begin to help you until you admit that you are sick, Ted.  Sick Ted, sick Ted, sick Ted...
sarg		 Jack, I got a bad feeling in my gut about this mission.
worker		What'd you have for dinner?
sarg		The fish, why?
oveur		We should be ready to launch as soon as this fog lifts.
mary		Can I hang that for you, sir?
man		Thanks.
unger		It looks like that weather is clearing.
ted		Elaine.
elaine		Ted!  What are you...?
ted		I have to get in there.  I have to stop this flight.
elaine		Ted, we're taking off!
ted		Let me by, Elaine.
mary		Please take your seats.
ted		Elaine!
simon		Whenever your're ready, Captain.
oveur		Yes, sir, commander.  This is Mercury One.  Everything seems A- okay up here and ready for count-down.
elaine		Ted seemed to get worse after I told him about Simon, Doctor.
rumack		The human brain is a highly complex organ, Elaine, perhaps the most complex next to the bladder.  This area, this area, here, here, here, under here, here...
rumack		So you see, our task isn't made any easier by Ted's refusal to admit that he's sick.
elaine		What can I do, Doctor Rumack?
rumack		You can eat balanced meals, exercise, and take Geritol.
elaine		I mean for Ted.
rumack		You can be gentle with him, Elaine.  He's been working out a lot of his aggressions here in the garden.
elaine		Is that a good sign, Doctor?
rumack		It does the job.
elaine		Hello, Ted.
elaine		 I brought you some spaghetti.
elaine		What are you doing, Ted?
ted		I've got it, Elaine!  I've figured out what's wrong with the shuttle!
elaine		Ted.
ted		Not now, Elaine!
elaine		Ted!
rumack		The brain is an amazingly complex organ, Elaine.
elaine		Is he making any progress, Doctor?
rumack		Yes -- last week that pile of mud was only this high.
oveur		Gentlemen, let's get this bucket into space.  Ignition set.
controller 1		Mark 'T' minus thirty seconds.
oveur		 Ignition.
controller 1		Three...
jacobs		Stop!  One shot.
jacobs		Wonderful!
controller 1		Two, one.
oveur		Jettison booster stages one and two.
unger		 Booster jettisoned.
oveur		Shut down accelerators.
dunn		Accelerators down.
oveur		Elaine, ask ROK for a field interference scan.  Those sun spots might give us a problem with our communications.
elaine		 Yes, sir.
elaine		 That's really strange.
elaine		Intermitant failure in scan mode "R". Analyze.
rok		Negative.
elaine		 Repeat analysis.
rok		Negative.
elaine		 That's not possible.
rok		Cut the Doubting Thomas shit, Elaine.  I know where I'm coming from on this.
mary		I guess this is pretty exciting for you.
girl		Yes, it is.  How long will the trip take?
mary		Our actual flight time is over fourteen months, but due to the time-space variant at sub-light speeds, our onboard flight time will be just over eighteen hours.
girl		Gee, Mom, how does that work?
woman		 How many times do I have to tell you, I'm not your mother!  I've never seen you before!
man		Hallucinating again, Rhonda?
girl		 I don't know what it is.
man		Maybe it's the brand of glue you've been sniffing.  Why don't you try this, NO-HI. It gives you all the pleasure of glue without the brain damage.
testa		Something to read, sir?
joe		 Do you have PSYCHO MONTH?
testa		I think so.  Here you are.
mary		 Would you like something to read?
texan		I don't read a whole lot, but what have you got, hon?
mary		TIME, NEWSWEEK, BUSINESS WEEK, and the TALMUD...
mary		The twenty-four volume dissertation on the Hebrew law.
texan		Let me try that Talmud.
mary		 And you, sir?
ted		 Oh... Popular Electronics.
psychiatrist		You must admit that you're sick, Ted.  Sick Ted, sick Ted...
texan		 Wanta switch when we're finished?
ted		Here.  I need some oxygen.
simon		Have you got it straightened out now?
elaine		I think so.
simon		That's my girl.
rok		Elaine, I'm sorry about that little outburst a moment ago.
elaine		That's okay, ROK.
rok		Can I say something of a personal nature to you?
elaine		Go ahead.
rok		You have great tits.
elaine		 Simon, I'm going to check ROK's secondary readout unit.
simon		Roger.
oveur		 Yes, Mary?
mary		Would you like a little breakfast, Captain Oveur?  Over.
oveur		A couple eggs and juice would be nice, Mary.  Over.
oveur		No.  Poached.  Over.
oveur		Just poached on toast.  Over.
mary		 I don't think we do poached eggs on toast over, Captain Oveur.  Over.
oveur		That's how I want them.  Poached.  Over.
mary		All right, Captain Oveur.  Over.
oveur		Poached!  Not over!  Over!
mary		You should really put that case in the compartment above your head, sir.
joe		 That's okay.
mary		 I can help you if you can't get it up.
joe		I said, no!
jimmy		I sure an glad they let Scraps ride up here with us.
john		I bet Scraps is going to love Mercury.
jimmy		Do you think things will be a lot different on Mercury, Dad?
john		It's going to be terrific.  A whole new world, new kids to play with.
alice		You're going to love it, Jimmy.
jimmy		No more headlines about the rape trial and the fraud charges?
john		 How many kids get a chance to live on another planet.
jimmy		No more kids yelling, 'Your old man's a thieving rapist'?
john		 Look, a man can make an honest mistake!! Anyway, she was asking for it!  They're all asking for it all the time!!
psychiatrist		You must admit that you're sick, Ted... sick, Ted... sick, Ted...
dunn		We seem to have a malfunction in disposal unit four, sir.
oveur		You better check it, Unger.
uger		 Done.
dunn		Yes?
ted		Elaine.
elaine		Ted.  I don't know why you got on this flight.  I don't know what you're trying to prove.
ted		Elaine, we have to go back.
elaine		We can't go back.  We had something very special, but it's all over.
ted		Elaine, I mean the mission has to be aborted.  This ship should never have passed FSA inspection.  This thing is held together by string and chewing gum.
elaine		Ted, get a grip on yourself.  You should never have left the hospital.
ted		Then you do think I'm insane.
elaine		I've never used the word insane, Ted.
ted		 What word would you use, Elaine?
elaine		The word is sick.  Ted -- very, very, very sick.
ted		What would you say if I told you the toilet just blew up in my face.
elaine		I'd use the word insane.
ted		There's something dangerously wrong with this ship, Elaine.  I know its the wiring. That toilet's just the tip of the iceberg.
elaine		Ted, a toilet's not going to kill anyone.
stella		You've been hurt.
ted		I'm getting over it.  If a relationship isn't working, you can't force it.
stella		No, I mean your head.  Sit down.  I'll take a look at it.  I'm a nurse.
stella		Do you want to talk about it.
ted		I opened this panel and a vacuum cleaner hit me.
stella		No.  I mean your relationship.
ted		We were in love but I'm not sure I know what love is anymore.
stella		Love's the same as it always was.  It's people who change.
ted		People change in relation to each other. Love changes on its own.
stella		Not if the people change together in relation to that love.
ted		Sure.  But that's only when the love itself goes unchanged.
stella		Then the relationship remains the same and the love changes only when there's change in the two people who share that love.
ted		I just wish it was that simple.  We really were in love.  You know how it is when you laugh all the time.
stella		No.  It's hard to L-A-U-G-H when your father's dying.
ted		Well, we laughed.  We laughed all the time.
ted		That's our story.
dunn		 Sir, I've got an overload in disposal unit four.
oveur		You better check on it, Mr. Dunn.  I'll stay here and fly the ship.
oveur		Dunn.
dunn		Sir?
oveur		You better take this.
mary		Mind if Jimmy here takes a look around, Captain?
ovuer		Of course not.  Come on in, Jimmy.  That's strange.
simon		Now what?
oveur		That's an asteroid field.  There shouldn't be anything like that in this sector unless...
simon		Unless?
oveur		Unless those sunspots are interfering with our scanner or...
simon		Or?
oveur		Or we're off course, but...
simon		But?
oveur		But we couldn't be off course.  Our coordinates are computer-locked barring...
simon		Barring?
oveur		Barring a computer failure.  There was talk of sub-par wiring in this ship.  I hope that's just talk.
oveur		Come on up, Jimmy.  Say, that's some puppy.  What's his name?
jimmy		Scraps.
oveur		Can I hold him?
jimmy		 Sure.
oveur		 He's a boy dog.
jimmy		Yeah.
oveur		Do you like it when Scraps sleeps on his back, Jimmy?
ted		They kept me in the asylum for eight months.  I know everyone in those places claims they're sane, but I was different, I was sane.
elaine		Holy shit.
stella		Ted, I want you to relax.  Let your mind go back, back past your youth, past your childhood to your mother's womb.
stella		Try to remember your birth.  Was it difficult?
doctor's voice		Striker, listen to me!  This is Doctor Krane!  You're twisted around, Striker. You've got to come out feet first!  You're too low in the womb!  You're too low, Striker!  You're...  ... too low...
stella		Ted, are you okay?  Here, take one of these stress pills.
elaine		 Request; comprehensive electrical systems check.
rok		Systems check positive.  Look, Elaine, I...
elaine		Request; life support systems check.
rok		Life support check.  Elaine, it's obvious you've been ignoring me.  You're a woman. I can relate to that.
elaine		 Request; self-analysis of ROK hardware and software systems regarding behavioral changes.
rok		There's nothing wrong with me, Elaine. What about tonight -- just you and me.  We can be alone.  I can get rid of everyone else on the ship -- I've already proven that.
jimmy		Do you want to talk about it, Commander?
dunn		Did you feel that?
mary		 Yes I did...
dunn		Felt like a large asteroid.
mary		Yes it did.  Mr. Dunn, can I ask you a personal question?
dunn		What is it, Mary?
mary		Um...  Do you people scream right when you... you know.
testa		Hand me your cup.  This is very hot.
dave		Thank you.  And, stewardess, can you please tell my wife that there is nothing that can go wrong.  I think she'd like to hear it from you.
elaine		I don't think we have any alternative, Captain.
oveur		I see.  What do you think our alternatives are?
elaine		We have to disconnect ROK's higher brain functions without disturbing his regulatory system.
oveur		Roger.
elaine		You can do it from up here, Captain.
oveur		I'd rather sit down for this one, Elaine.
elaine		No, I mean you can do it from the cockpit.
oveur		Roger.  You better get back there and monitor the regulatory unit.
mary		Captain, the coffee machine is jammed and I don't like it.
oveur		Have you tried it with a little cinnamon?
testa		Captain Oveur, Dunn and Unger have been sucked out through disposal unit four!
oveur		Both together?!
oveur		All right, calm down.  Here's how we're going to play it.
oveur		Mary, I want you here.  Testa, you move across here past Dawkins' pick and get the ball at the top of the key from Irving.
rok		What are you doing, Captain?
rok		I wouldn't do that, Captain.
oveur		 Sox... zip...
simon		 We're off course, heading right through that asteroid field and right at the... at the sun!
controller 3		McCrosky?  He hasn't handled a tower in twenty years.
controller 4		Ever since Reagan fired the controllers, he's been completely senile and hasn't done a day's work.
controller 3		Pretty much the same as Reagan.
nurse		It's for Mr. McCrosky.
nurse 2		Do you think we should bother him?  He's been acting a bit odd lately.
nurse 1		He's fine.  He just thinks he's Lloyd Bridges.
nurse 1		The phone's for you, Mr. McCrosky.
nurse 1		 Here, let me help you.  I think it's the space centre.  Now, let's not get too excited.
elaine		Simon!  Captain Oveur!
oveur		 Mets... nine... Phils... three... Cubs... four...
elaine		Simon, what's happening?!
simon		He tried to disconnect ROK.  It gassed him.  That computer is running this ship and we're heading right for the sun.
elaine		Can't we change course?
simon		We're computer locked and the manual navigation unit is down.
elaine		Then Ted was right!
simon		My career is shot.
elaine		Your career!  What about the lives of those people out there.  Simon, what happened to the man I thought I loved?
elaine		I've got to get Ted.  Just don't come apart on me now, Simon.
terrorist 1		This is flight to Miami, yes?
elaine		No.
elaine		 Please, ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.  Listen to me!
elaine		We've been thrown off course just a tad.
passenger		What's that mean?
elaine		In space terms, about 70 million miles.
elaine		The bumps you feel are car-sized asteroids smashing into the hull.
elaine		Also, we're heading right for the sun and can't seem to change course.
passenger		Are you telling us everything?
elaine		Not exactly.  We're also out of coffee.
bob		I've always loved you, darling.  I was unfaithful just once.  Remember Jill, my first secretary?  Forgive me.
bob		That's all behind us now.
passenger		We're going to crash!!
terrorist 1		God is great!!
terrorist 2		Death to America!!
terrorist 3		The yellow pencil is on the table of my aunt!!
elaine		There is absolutely nothing to worry about!
elaine		Your crew is in complete control of the situation.
controller 1		Yes, sir.
controller 1		Yes, sir! Welcome home, sir!
controller 2		 Here are the navigational charts, sir.
controller 3		Yes, sir.
controller 4		Here's all the available information on the sun.  That thing's hot, sir.
jacobs		First the earth cooled.  Then the dinosaurs came but were too big and died and everything got rotten and turned into oil and the Arabs bought Mercedes Benzs and then there was the best TV special on Judy Garland.  Then we lost the war with Albania.  Then...
elaine		Ted, Ted.  Listen to me, Ted.  You were right all along.  Ted, we've lost the crew and Simon's turned to jelly!
jimmy		Do you want to talk about it now, Commander?
elaine		My God.
stella		He's finally come to terms with his own psychosis.
elaine		But he was right!  He's not crazy!
stella		Miss, I'm a nurse with a dying F-A-T-H-E- R, I know what I'm talking about.  Now I'm going to need fresh sheets, gauze, Q-tips, and all the vaseline you have on board! Now!
stella		 I'll need all the boiling water you can get your hands on!
man		Are you a nurse?
stella		Yes.  The washroom's down there on your right.
stella		 And not too much!
sergeant		Can I help?
stella		Keep an eye on that side of the ship.
mary		 I'll need all your boiling water.
testa		We should be out of this momentarily. There's nothing to worry about.
alice		Thank you.  That makes me feel so much better.
guard one		 Damn!  I want that patient shot on sight!
ted		Maybe you gotta be crazy to end up behind the eight ball like this.  Anyway, you find out pretty fast who your friends are when you're on the lamb.
ted		 I'm going out for cigarettes and a fifth of bourbon.  Don't wait up for me.
ted		Virgin wool.  Nothin' but headaches.
professor 1		And I say essence precedes existence.
professor 2		You're crazy!  Existence precedes essence.
professor 1		Essence!
professor 2		Existence!
ted		The last thing I wanted was Elaine to see me down on my luck.  Well, it was just my luck.  In she walked with a group from the space program.
elaine		 I don't know who you are or how you lost your sight, but I'll never forget this night as long as I live.
simon		Striker.
ted		Kurtz, you're drunk.  Who's in command of this ship?
simon		That damn computer has taken over.  I'm getting out.
ted		Then Elaine was right.
simon		Don't talk to me about Elaine.  Outta my way!
ted		 Pull yourself together!  We've got to...
simon		Father, what should I do?
controller 1		 Let me try, sir.  Come in, Mayflower. Over.  Come in.  Over.  Damnit!
controller 2		 Let me try, sir.  Come in.  Over.  Damnit!
controller 3		Let me try, sir.
controller 5		Give 'em the lead!
stella		 I'm afraid that leg's going to have to come off.
stella		Wait.  This isn't your chart.  You just had a touch of air sickness.  You'll be fine.
woman		I'm terrified.
stella		 And I'm a nurse.  Everything will be okay. Pass it on.
jimmy		Are you feeling okay, mister?
ted		I'm feeling just fine, son.  Just fine.
elaine		Simon, I...
elaine		Hello.  This is the Mayflower.  Over! Come in, anyone.
elaine		This is Elaine Thompson.  I'm five-six, 123 pounds with brown hair and I'm sitting down and facing the front.
jacobs		Maybe she's got her shit together.
ted		Elaine!
elaine		Ted!
ted		Elaine, what's going on?
elaine		Ted, there's no time to explain.
oveur		Packers... seven... Vikings... three...
elaine		Ted, I was wrong about you.
ted		We all make mistakes, Elaine.
elaine		How could I ever have doubted you?
ted		That's all behind us now, Elaine.  And no matter what happens, I want you to know I've always loved you.
elaine		I love you, Ted.
elaine		 Ted, this reminds me of twenty years ago over Chicago.
ted		 This is Mayflower One calling mission control.  Do you read me?  Over.
ted		 The name's Ted Striker and I'm sitting down and facing the front.
controller 3		If you say so.
controller 1		Could be those sunspots.
jacobs		Could be your dishwashing detergent.
jacobs		 Me!  Me!  Me!
commissioner		The boys downtown are taking the heat from the boys in Washington and the boys...
commissioner		Bud, the President wants an explanation.
kruger		Forget it.  I was reading.
commissioner		I was reading too.
kruger		What's the story?
commissioner		Some southern plantation owner falls in love with this poor...
kruger		I was asking McCrosky, Commissioner.
controller		 Sir, we've restored radio transmission.
kruger		Give it to me straight, McCrosky -- what's it look like.
kruger		Not the radio, the situation.  I want to know exactly what your people think.
stella		General Walker is here, Billy.  He wants to talk to you.
general walker		Billy, if we get through this thing alive, I'd like you to get this letter to my mother.
ted		 An electrical fire in the core has played havoc with the ROK-4000 computer.  It's locked us on a direct line with the sun and there's no way we can go to manual. Captain Oveur already tried it and he's...
ted		... become an intolerable bore.  The rest of the crew has been lost and we're out of coffee.  Also, we're starting to feel the sun's heat pretty bad.
man one		It's eight-thousand square feet with great parking and a twenty-year lease with option to buy.
man two		You can't lose, Al.
man three		He can lose.  I've seen it happen a thousand times.
jacobs		I wish I could talk like that -- so macho yet so sensitive.
testa		The cabin temperature is rising.  The passengers want to know what's happening up here.
ted		Let us handle this end of things.  Now what's the coffee situation?
testa		It just won't drip!  I've tried everything.  And the passengers are dropping like flies from the heat.
ted		Elaine, I'm going back there.  Just hold onto that stick and try to control this hunk of tin as best you can.
elaine		Ted, please be careful.
officer		 It doesn't look good.  The drip seems to be jammed up pretty bad.
officer		 To tell you the truth, sir, I don't really know.
controller 3		 Eighty-three.  What's that mean?
officer		Mr. McCrosky, Mr. Coffee.  Coffee, McCrosky.
london times		"DEEP SPACE DEATH CERTAIN"
jerusalem post		"THEY SHOULDN'T HAVE GONE IN THE FIRST PLACE"
anchor 1		Four alarm fire rages through downtown Buffalo!
anchor 2		Mercury shuttle heads for sun.
anchor 1		 Four alarm fire guts Tokyo apartment.
anchor 2		 Mercury mission in death struggle.
anchor 1		 Four alarm fire in downtown Moscow clears way for glorious new tractor factory.
anchor 2		 Capitalist, imperialist adventurism ends in space disaster.
woman		If this country was run by vegetarian women who's old men deserted them after knocking them up instead of by meat-eating males, this thing never would have happened.
enquirer		 I never forget a face.  'Texas doctor claims sex with chicken cures baldness?'
star		'Severed legs grow back after Utah man finds Christ?'
ted		 Check.
passenger		Is this a coffee bean?
all passengers		 He's got a bean!!
ted		 It looks like the solder point has melted.
detective hallick		Who's in charge here, Mister?
detective hallick		Hallick, homicide.
jacobs		Jacobs, Pisces.
kruger		Kruger, Sagittarius.
commissioner		Commissioner, Aquarius.
detective hallick		We have information that one of your passengers is carrying a bomb and might be suicidal.
detective hallick		We have our methods.
kruger		And what methods are those?
detective hallick		Have you heard of the Heimlich method?
detective hallick		Exactly.
detective hallick		Good.  This is the passenger's wife.  Mrs. Joe Salucci.
detective hallick		The way I read it, blowin' up a plane in space leaves no traces, if you know what I mean.
kruger		I'm not exactly sure what you mean, Captain.
detective hallick		No blood.  No body.  No bones.  No eyes. No ears.  No throats.
kruger		He's impotent.
commissioner		He's suicidal.
all		And he's stupid!
ted		 Contact.
controller 2		 Here are the tests we ran on their computer.  I had them xeroxed for you.
controller 2		Upside-down, but I turned each page over and put them in order.  I'm afraid that computer is totally capable of taking control of that ship.
controller 3		 These are their position calculations. They've got about ten minutes before they start to burn up.
controller 4		 Sir, your headlights are on and your doors are locked!
elaine		Ted, we've only got ten minutes.
ted		 Not now, Elaine.
elaine		I mean until we start to burn up.
ted		We're closer to the sun than I estimated.
ted		 This is Striker.
kruger		 Look, Striker, I don't know how you got into that driver's seat but I want Simon Kurtz on that radio and I want him now!
ted		 Kurtz was the one who got us into this mess in the first place.  You people knew this ship wasn't ready to fly.  You played God with over a hundred lives, Kruger, and for what -- the prestige of your precious space program.
elaine		That was very well put, Ted.
kruger		 Striker, you're heading right for the sun, so don't you think it's a little late for that bleeding heart liberal crap now?
elaine		He's got a point, Ted.
ted		 Call me a bleeding heart, but if we get through this thing I'm preparing a paper on alternative spending directives recommending the transfer of space program funds to low cost housing.
kruger		 Just put Kurtz on that radio!!
jacobs		Someone's car wouldn't start.
jacobs		I'll get the cards and bridge mix.
sarg		That's my little girl, my little darlin', my sweetheart, my honey, and you want to blow her belly out with that bomb.  If you blast here in the computer core and the fuselage doesn't give way here and the main communication lines to the cockpit hold here and this baby here doesn't jam this little old unit up here and throw about two tons of hot steel through here like a hot knife through butter and the upper and lower...
sarg		I have no point.
controllers		No sir.
controller 3		Should a man in his forties have a circumcision?
ted		Well, Elaine, this might be it if those guys on the ground don't think of something.
elaine		I just want you to know, I love you Ted and always will.
ted		That might be the news we've been waiting for.
ted		 Roger.
elaine		A b...
ted		Which passenger is Joe Salucci?
mary		Sixteen 'C', why?
ted		He's carrying a bomb.
mary		A b...
ted		No, a bomb.  Now, as discreetly as possible, I want you to move the passengers into the lounge.
mary		What should I say?
ted		Anything.  Just don't let Salucci think we're onto him.
mary		Would everyone not carrying a bomb please move to the lounge.
joe		 Don't anyone move!
ted		Mr. Salucci, listen to me.
ted		Joe, you don't want to blow that thing and kill all these innocent people.
joe		I don't want to live anymore.
ted		Joe, the insurance policy won't help your wife and kids.  You bought auto insurance, not life insurance.
joe		What?
ted		 That's right, Joe.  Now, no one's going to hurt you and no one has to know what's wrong with you.
joe		You're sure?
ted		I'm sure.
jimmy		 That's the guy from the terminal who can't get it up!!
all controllers		He's got the bomb!!
jacob		This is just like an election in Iran.
ted		This heat's getting unbearable.
elaine		But it is a dry heat, Ted.
ted		 I know what you're going to say, McCrosky -- knock out the wall between the cockpit and cabin and hang plants.
elaine		The b...
ted		 Why, you'd have to be crazy to try a stunt like that.
doctor's voice		You're too low in the womb, Striker! You've got to come out feet first!
ted		 Elaine.  I'm going back there.
elaine		Ted... I love you.  Be careful.
jacobs		How about a show just like Hollywood Squares but with kids.  Gary Coleman could host.
mary		Now I want everyone to move to the front of the cabin.
mary		That's fine.  Stay calm.  We just want everyone as far away from the blast as possible.
rok		What are you doing, Ted?  Why are you wearing that mask, Ted?
elaine		Simon!  Wait!  What are you doing?!
simon		I've lost the ship and now I've lost you, Elaine.  I'm getting out.
elaine		Simon, I didn't want it to end like this. We can be friends!  You'll die out there.
simon		Maybe.
elaine		Simon, what are you saying?!
simon		I'm saying, I can't take the singles scene again, Elaine.
elaine		Simon, no!
jimmy		You want to talk about it now, Commander?
commissioner		Give me the President of the United States.  Tell him it's the Commissioner.  I don't know how the old man's going to take this.
aid		Houston, sir.
president		 This is the President... What?!... What?!
commissioner		I don't think that shuttle's going to make it, sir.
president		Damnit, Mister, the dignity and integrity of this presidency depends on the success of that mission.  And that's my last word!
commissioner		Yes, sir.
aid		What's our strategy on this one, sir?
president		I work for the people of these United States, Frank.  I have to do what's best for them.  Al, kill social security, cancel school lunches only for the poor, dismantle welfare, close all hospitals and public toilets, green light the MX-6, invade Brazil, and bring my horse around after my nap!
elaine		Simon just ejected!
ted		Sit down, Elaine.  If this bomb trick works we just might make it.  Simon was a fool to eject now.
elaine		You mean...
ted		That's right -- premature ejection.
elaine		What will happen to him, Ted?
ted		The sun will heat that thing to over 450 degrees within seconds.  He'll roast like a pig on a spit.
ted		 Are you afraid?
elaine		Not when I'm with you, Ted.
ted		I guess you'd have to be a fool not to be afraid at a time like this.
stella		I'm a nurse.  I can't afford to be afraid, Father.
jimmy		 Are you afraid, Scraps?
scraps		 Now how about a little scratch on the inner thigh?
testa		Fifty-six percent of the passengers are afraid.  Twenty-nine percent are not afraid.  Eight percent are undecided and seven percent think Israel should give back Finland.
ted		You better strap yourself in, Testa.  Mission control, this is Mayflower.  Over.
ted		 We've got about 60 seconds before that thing blows.  We're set to reprogram for Mercury at zero point five WORP.
jacobs		Last spring we did Europe in nine days.
mary		Heads between the knees!  Between your own knees, Father!
ted		 Elaine!  Set course change!
elaine		 Set!
ted		Now!
elaine		 Compute!
ted		Here goes.
ted		 Point five WORP!
stinson		Al Hammil?
controller 3		Not anymore.  It's Rex Kramer, now.
controller 3		No, Rex Kramer.
kramer		I know this guy, Ted Striker.  I flew with him during the war.  He was a crack pilot but he didn't have it in the crunch... That is...
kramer		Until that day over Chicago.  He brought that busted up 767 out of that storm like a paper glider coming outta the baby blue.
kramer		But flying that shuttle is a whole different ballgame.
kramer		What's the latest, Lieutenant?
officer		They'll hit our atmosphere in about three minutes, if they hold together.  They've lost their computer and are coming in at zero point five WORP on manual control, sir.
kramer		Down scope!
kramer		He'll never bring that thing in on manual, but I guess Striker's their only hope.
kramer		It's his ship now.  He's the top dog.
kramer		The big man.  The numero uno honcho.
kramer		The head cheese.
officer 2		Sir, we have radio contact.
testa		 We're travelling at one half the speed of light.  There is nothing to worry about. However, you might experience some temporary metabolic changes.
elaine		Ted, the lever!
ted		 Kramer, the WORP control handle just came off in my hand.
ted		There are no more handles, only switches.
ted		 Just switches, lights, and knobs.
kramer		 Okay, Striker.  You're going to have to pull that lever panel off.
ted		 Screw driver!
elaine		Will this work, Ted?
ted		Thanks.  I've got something that might work.
kramer		What the hell is a man doing with a... forget it.  It'll have to do, Striker.
ted		It's working.
kramer		 Okay, Striker.  We have you on visual. Just keep her level.
ted		She's coming apart!
ted		I'm trying but she's fighting me!
elaine		Ted, that's Alpha Beta!
kramer		 Now, Striker, there are a few things you have to keep in mind as you get close to the planet's atmosphere.
kramer		 First and foremost you have to make one very important decision.
elaine		Ted!  We're not stopping!!
kramer		 Now, once you've made that decision you have to be very clear about your responsibility to those people on that ship.
elaine		Ted!
mary		 Seat backs up.  Thank you.
mary		 Sir, you really must take your seat.
kramer		 We're all with you on this one, Striker. Now get ready to position landing gear, cut engines, and fire your retrorockets.
kramer		 Timing's of the essence on a lame duck approach, Striker.  Don't fight her.  Hold her steady.  Nose up.
kramer		 Timing's everything, Striker!  Fire your retro-rockets!
elaine		Ted, what's going to happen to us?
crawl		FAR, FAR AWAY IN THE DEEPEST REGIONS OF OUR VAST SOLAR SYSTEM, A SMALL, BRAVE GROUP OF PIONEERS EMBARK ON A BOLD NEW ADVENTURE.  THEIR MISSION:  TO OPEN UP A NEW FRONTIER.  THEIR GOAL, TO BUILD A BRAVE NEW WORLD.
creature		Hello, we'd like you to have this flower. We're with the Church of Mercurial Consciousness.  Would you like to make a donation?
****Dialogues from script :Aladdin.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Ali.txt****

sonny liston		 Gonna fuck you up. Gonna beat you like I's your daddy...
angelo dundee		TIME!
angelo dundee		TIME!!!
cassius		Sonny Liston: you ain't no champ! You a chump!  You want to lose your money, bet on Sonny. He know I'm great. He will go in eight!
a man		 ...210... Cassius Clay weighs 210 pounds.
cassius		 You sure you got that right...?
the man		218. Sonny Liston...the heavyweight champion of the world weighs 218 pounds...
bundini		Pounds of what?!
cassius		Pounds of ugly! He so ugly, sweat run backwards off his forehead to get away from his face! C'mon, bear! I turn you into a rug!! Rumble right now, man!
sonny liston		 Keep talkin', punk-ass faggot! I'll fuck you up like I's your daddy...
cassius		You whup me, I'll crawl out of the ring on my knees and catch the next jet plane out of the country.
jimmy cannon		 That a promise?
cassius		 ...you be the first eatin' his words!
the doctor		 210 over 110?! I can't let him in the ring in this condition!
reporters		 ...odds 7:1 against you. Big bet's whether he'll knock you out in the first round or third round or kill you altogether. You scared of him?
cassius		I'm scared of no man. I give Sonny Liston talking lessons, boxing lessons and falling down lessons.
cassius		"Black Muslim"'s a press word...
angelo dundee		Man's religion's his own business. What kinda question's that?
angelo dundee		 Howard!
howard cosell		...cannot stand you, Cassius.   He really wants to kill you...
cassius		Howard Cosell, you are an instigator!  How you get that way? When I'm done with Liston, I'm comin' for you!
doctor		 It doesn't come down, I cancel this fight. You call me in an hour with his blood pressure.
bundini		 I'm called Bundini, rhymes with Houdini. He was a Jew, too...some other people call me Fastblack...or Daddy Mac...
cassius		Who Shorty?
bundini		I call him Shorty 'cause he like 'em circumcised. Original people. Like Moses. And I was a babe in a basket, too. I was born on a doorstep with a note 'cross my chest that read, "Do the best you can for him, world." I had to suck the first nipple come along. I didn't run away from home...I been runnin' to home.
cassius		...I study every fight. 'Til I got a plan. Wear him down two through four. Drop him in the fifth round. So the p'diction ain't a p'diction. It's a plan. And 'cause of all the poppin' off I do, I know I gotta win! That's the truth. And why I'm tellin' you?
bundini		'Cause I'm gonna be your Inspiration. Your motivator. In your corner. Can I be in your corner, young man?
cassius		 Yeah...
bundini		 Ain't spent much time in Miami. Where the water?
pacheco		120 over 80?  You should be asleep...
cassius		When you get back?
rudy		I'm gonna find Mom and Dad.
cassius		You could have stayed. Nobody gotta hide when they with me.
angelo dundee		 He's right.
cassius		He was supposed to kill me.   Well, I'm still alive.
announcer		 He's opened a cut on Liston. Liston's never been cut!
cassius		 He's nothin' to me...
cassius		...my eyes!
cassius		 My eyes! I can't see...somethin' in my eyes!
cassius		 Cut 'em off! Cut 'em!   I'm blind.
angelo dundee		No. You quit, it's over! Get out there. Be a yardstick. This is the big one, daddy. Get out there and run!
howard cosell		 ...Clay, a round ago, looked like he'd about had it, but in round six...
cassius		I upset the world! I am the greatest! I am the greatest!
howard cosell		What made him so easy for you?
cassius		I told you. Didn't I tell you?
howard cosell		Was there any single point you knew you had him?
cassius		I had him in the first round. 'Cause I'm the greatest!  Sam... Hey, Sam! Let him up.
gordon davidson		...I don't care what should have been ordered! We need a victory party right now. 
girl		Why's he so scared?
cassius		The Mummy! "I can't get away from the mummy!" Yeah, but that mummy too slow to catch anybody.
sam cooke		Hey!   The mummy always gets his man...
cassius		No, he don't!  Now, don't believe that stuff on television...
a reporter		The people look to you. Do you plan on being a people's champ, like Joe Louis?
cassius		 But not like Joe Louis, exactly...
a reporter		 Mr. Clay...?
reporters		 You a card-carrying member?    Aren't Black Muslims a hate group?
cassius		 "Card-carrying"...? Don't need no "card." You got a Christian card? 750 million people believe in Islam. I'm one of them.
cassius		I'm going to be a people's champion. But I don't have to be the way you want me to be. I'm gonna be what I want. And I'm free to think any way I want...
cassius		 ...watchin' a show on termites...they knockin' down this house, here.
cassius		Six million in your house and you don't know it. Where?
cassius		Africa? No. Only Rome.      Yeah, man, let's go!
cassius		When we leaving?
cassius		 What is it?
cassius		 Tore out a picture of Emmett Till when I was little. Couldn't take my eyes to it...couldn't look at it. Barb-wire around his neck to a 75- pound cotton-gin fan. Took out his eye. The cruelty to it...I couldn't look at it...couldn't throw it away.
cassius		I thought, "What I do wrong to be so low that people could do that to people like me?" It made me feel ashamed. And that makes no sense. But that's what it was.
cassius		You can fix that...
elijah muhammad		Only after long service and high merit in the spiritual and physical rebirth of Afro-American people...is one granted an original name. But you are special. A world champion. So there is a gift I wish to give you. From this day forward you will be known as Muhammad Ali...which means "one worthy of praise," and Ali means "most high."
cassius		 "Worthy of praise..." Thank you!
elijah muhammad		 Be very careful what you say...your words reflect on the nation of Islam, now.
cassius		Yes, sir.
elijah muhammad		 I do not feel this is a wise course anymore.
cassius		 This is a great honor, Messenger...
a neighbor		One more.  Thank you.
ali		When the contract run out. I want black lawyers and managers. Chauncey Eskridge on North La Salle Street...
ali		I don't need no "protectin'" from myself. Why I need protecting from myself by them...?
ali		I ain't one of their thoroughbreds! Or their charity things. "Let's do somethin' for that well-behaved colored boy, Cassius." I ain't well-behaved nothing! I am a man.
ali		That's right.
ali		No one "made me"...
ali		 No one's in that ring but me!
ali		I know who I'm not...I'm not drinkin'! Goin' back on my wife! I am not prayin' to no blue-eyed, blonde-haired Jesus. I ain't...
odessa clay		You didn't get it from me...your words, your sense of humor, what makes you angry, what makes you a fighter. You got that from your daddy...
ali		You saying I'm just like him?
odessa clay		I'm saying, if he was your age today, he'd do the same as you. And he knows that.
betty shabazz		 Malcolm?
betty shabazz		Go anyway. Don't put it off.      It's not safe here. ONE OF HIS CHILDREN  Mommy...the bath's ready...
ali		 Hey, man, where they put the real pilot? What you doin' up here?
pilot		 Here, Mr. Clay, sit down...
ali		No, man, I meant...in L'ville, when I growed up, they barely let black folks drive buses.
the pilot		Here we are. Cote d'Ivoire...Africa.
marlin thomas		 Anything?
the man		...on the phone with his wife. She's having a hard time sleeping...baby's kicking a lot...
marlin thomas		Motor Pool, here, have a Chevy parts catalogue...?
ali		Hey, man!!!
ali		We just got here now...  And, maaan, the brothers were flyin' a DC 8. Flippin' switches, navigatin', filing flight plans, talkin' French...
ali		Man, where should I go?   We're planning on Egypt.
bradley		 Un moment...
bradley		 Il n'y a pas de quoi. Cela m'a fait grand plaisir. Faites-lui mes compliments.
marlin thomas		Malcolm bumped into Cassius Clay. Muhammad Ali...whatever he calls himself...
bradley		I thought that was all over. Is Clay going to support Malcolm's U.N. resolution?
marlin thomas		I don't know.
bradley		Find out. We'll pick up on Malcolm in Liberia ourselves.
ali		 ...shouldn't have quarreled with the Honorable Elijah...
ali		You shouldn't have quarreled with Elijah Muhammad.
ali		Sonji...Sonji Roi...
sonji		 What you keep sayin' my name for?
ali		'Cause I love it, girl. How long you been workin' for Herbert?
sonji		'Bout a year. I sell "Muhammad Speaks" over the phone...
ali		What kind of name is that?
sonji		My father named me after Sonja Henie.
ali		What's your father do?
sonji		He was shot in a poker game when I was two. He don't do nothin'. Sonja, on the other hand, was an ice skater, and my mother died when I was eleven.
ali		So who raised you?
sonji		Godparents, but I been on my own, doing my own thing...
ali		Whatcha doin' tomorrow?       Go ridin' with me.
sonji		No.   I gotta work, you know.
ali		I square it with Herbert.       I got a record player in my car.
sonji		A record player?     C'mon.    How come it don't skip?
ali		Got springs and stuff.
sonji		Herbert said you met The Beatles.
ali		Yeah. Only one of 'em's smart...the one with the glasses.
sonji		...he's my favorite.
ali		People all screaming and fainting. I asked him, "This the way they act when you get big?"
sonji		What he say?
ali		He said, "Champ. The more real you get, the more unreal it gonna get."
sonji		Wow...
ali		Let's go...
sonji		Yeah...
ali		 Where you live?
sonji		I'm takin' you there...
ali		I think I gonna keep you around forever, girl.
sonji		 Well, I'm not too busy right now, so...I'll think on it.
ali		Herbert said you weren't a Muslim.
sonji		Cover my hair? No make-up?     Long dresses? Honey, please.  Were you a virgin?
ali		Why?
sonji		 'Cause you so "gone" off a little good time.
ali		I'm no virgin...but I may as well be.  I ain't jokin'! I always know when I know. See this face? I mean, you got a pretty face for a girl's face, but you ever seen somethin' as pretty as me? Now, you about five-foot-three...that's too small. But I overlook that, too, 'cause...
sonji		 Thank you so much.
ali		...'cause of your spirit!
sonji		My "spirit"...?
ali		Yeah.   'Cause you too much fun!
sonji		You serious?
ali		But you gotta be a Muslim.
sonji		Huh? How you do that? Step over a broom...shazaam...you a Muslim?
ali		Maaan, I ain't never been with a girl like you.
sonji		Baby, maybe you ain't ever gonna be with any other.
herbert		What?
ali		That's right.   I wanna marry her.
herbert		You can't marry that girl! She was a date! Have some fun! She's not your wife! You don't marry this girl.  Sign there. Management papers. My father will kill me.
bundini		True love!
bingham		Watch what you signing, Ali.
herbert		 Nothing to do with you.
bingham		You talkin' to me, or someone walk inna room, fat boy? Anything's do to with me I think's to d-d-do with me...I'm st-st-still a Christian.
ali		 And get me a kosher cook...lady who cooks at Malcolm's temple. Put my brother on the payroll. 50g a year for drivin' and jivin'.
herbert		Lana Shabazz...
ali		Yeah. How 'bout it, Howard. You be my official full-time photographer.
bingham		I ain't goin' on your payroll. I like it freelance. Emphasis on "free."
herbert		Muhammad. She's not...for you. When I met her, she was working at a cocktail lounge with a bunny tail on her backside.
bundini		What were you doin' down at a cocktail lounge, Herbert? Sellin' "Muhammad Peeks"?
herbert		 Sober up and say something to this man, Bundini. You supposed to be his "inspiration."
bingham		You been s-s-saving it up, training, Champ. You can't unleash it on this girl all sudden. You may kill her! Maybe you should spread it around more before you tie it down.
ali		No. Marriage is the cornerstone of Muslim life.
herbert		Sonji Roi is not a Muslim!
ali		She gonna be a Muslim, now!  So fix it up, Herbert.
joe smiley		The idea was...to...make...Malcolm smaller, you know? Diminished; obscure? Not to turn him into a messiah. 
joe smiley		Thyroid. I got a stab wound in 1961. They took it out. We gotta talk about this guy, too.
ali		 What you drinkin'?
bundini		What am I drinkin'? Water's what I'm drinkin', champ! I'm a natural man...
ali		What's goin' on?     We're late.
bundini		Come on in...!  What's that?
room service		 What you wanted, isn't it...a water glass with vodka...?
bundini		That was before...
room service		Before what?
bundini		Before you showed up...
sonji		I fine runnin' around in all these cute short things for you. I submissive to you. But I ain't gonna be submissive to the Brother X's and what they think. They askin' me questions alla time anyway.
ali		What questions?!
sonji		I don't drink. I don't smoke. I converted to Islam for you and...
sonji		All except the dress! I ain't puttin' no bleached-out, double- ugly bedsheets on this body, honey! I'm normal!
the gathered		Wa-Alaikum-Salaam...
crazy man		Ambushed!
ali		What? CRAZY MAN  They killed Malcolm...they shot Malcolm.
ali		 You were the first...you walked me forward, my brother...you were the first...
sam cooke		 "Been a long, long time comin', but a change gonna come, yes it is..."
ali		meets Liston, nails him with a straight right. Ali begins baiting him, dancing. Liston tries to cut off the ring, jabbing ineffectually. Ali lets Liston in, pulls back, then pivots on his right foot, throws a short right and RAMP INTO SLO-MO...to see Liston not see it coming.
ali		Get up, sucker! Get up and fight! No one gonna believe this!
howard cosell		It's over; it's over!
sonji		You okay?  What's wrong?
ali		Why you done up like that?
sonji		I'm dyin' and...'cause this is how I dress! I dyin' for you out of worry...
ali		"Worry"...?
sonji		Yeah. And all you care about is if I look dull enough?
ali		The world looks at me, girl! What if I straightened my hair, live in the white suburbs? How I am says something!
sonji		 Well, sorry you don't like how I am...
ali		 Where's Herbert?
ali		What do I do...?
herbert		If you want, have no contact with her for ninety days. Then you make a public statement of divorce in the mosque, and Islamic law will be satisfied.
bundini		"Satisfied?"...satisfaction is not makin' it with the woman who send you to the moon?
ali		Please stay, Brother Herbert.
ali		I ain't dead!
cosmetologist		You got the prettiest eyes...
ali		Yeah?
bundini		He so pretty, when you look up "pretty" in the dictionary, he too pretty to be there.
ali		Huh?
ali		What you talking about?
bundini		Champ.   It's Eskridge...
ali		 You know about this?
ali		...I flunk their draft board test. Now, without testing if I am "wiser" or "worser," they decide I can go into the Army.
howard cosell		Cassius, it is my opinion you...
ali		 And I'm not Cassius Clay. That's a slave name. I'm a free man. I'm Muhammad Ali.
howard cosell		 You know, I apologize to you. On the air. Your name is Muhammad Ali. You have the right to be called whatever you want.
ali		 You make a lot of mistakes for a so-called educated man. You really go to law school?
howard cosell		Yes, Muhammad. And to think I gave up a lucrative practice for the likes of you.
ali		I'm the best thing that ever happened to you, Howard Cosell. Without me you be a tall white man with a microphone in his mouth.
howard cosell		 And without me...you'd be a mouth.
howard cosell		 Have a little coffee with your sugar...?
ali		Keep talking. You were saying something half-smart...
howard cosell		They want to make an example out of you.
ali		Why? I'm no Stokely Carmichael, H. Rap Brown...
howard cosell		All they are is political. They tell people how they ought to be. But you are the HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION of the WORLD. You're important. And they don't like your militancy, your politics. So, they'll make an example out of you.
ali		...of a good "Ne-gro," who do what he told?
howard cosell		Yes. Or, to demonstrate here is what happens to your ass if you don't...
chauncey eskridge		 You do six weeks basic...you go into the Reserves...you don't go to Vietnam...you get to box...you even get to keep the money...
herbert		 The Messenger would not object if you joined under these terms.
ali		I stay out of jail and I get to fight. HERBERT  All you have to do is accept the induction. And life goes on.
chauncey eskridge		They call your name. You say yes.
ali		 Yes.
a man		 Federal Bureau of Investigation. Mr. Clay, you're under arrest for refusing induction...
ali		 That's a joke, man...!
bingham		You know what you j-j-just said...?
lipsyte		From Europe to China...every home in America...the world's gonna know what the heavyweight champion of the world said about the U.S. war...
ali		So what?  I ain't gonna be what anybody else want me to be. I'm not afraid to be what I want. And think how I want.
ali		 People are following me...
bob arum		I got almost nowhere I can promote a fight for you. Plus, I think they're going to vacate you from the crown.
ali		What?
bob arum		Yeah.   If you're convicted.
ali		They gonna take away what no fighter in the world can?
bob arum		And New York may revoke your boxing license.
chauncey eskridge		You sure you want to do all this?  Your next three to four years are every heavyweight's prime. And there are few of those years...
ali		What 'bout Terrell?
bob arum		We'll know if we can fight Terrell in Illinois this afternoon. Terrell's running his mouth. He said if you're called, you should serve...
ali		 Motherfucker. He got a deferment for bein' too tall, or havin' flat feet. Why don't he serve for me? Tellin' me what I should do...
bob arum		 I got to get you some fights.    Fast.
commissioner		You understand we could take away your license to fight Terrell in Illinois?
ali		Yes.
commissioner		Are you prepared to apologize? About your unpatriotic remarks that you made?
ali		Apologize? No.
commissioner		You said that you were the people's champion.
ali		 Yes, sir!
commissioner		Do you think you're acting like the people's champion...?!
ali		Yes, sir. I am not going to apologize to you. This isn't a courtroom. And I don't have to sit here and answer your questions.
ali		I ain't draft dodgin'! I ain't goin' to Canada. I ain't burnin' my draft card. I ain't burnin' the flag. I'm stayin' right here. And you want to throw me in jail? Go ahead. I'll do my time. I been in jail four hundred years. I'll be in jail four, five more. But I ain't goin' ten thousand miles to help murder and kill poor people for you. 'Cause if I'm gonna die, I'll die now, right here, fighting you. If I wanna die. You my enemy, not Vietcong or Chinese or Japanese. You my opposer when I want freedom. You my opposer when I want justice. You my opposer when I want equality. You want me to go somewhere for you, but you won't even stand up for me in America, for my rights and beliefs, you won't even stand up for me here at home.
ernie terrell		 Tell Clay he can get on after me.
ali		What...?
ernie terrell		Get on the scale after...
ali		 What you call me...?
ernie terrell		Only thing I knows you as:   Cassius Clay!
ali		 Announce it right here or from flat on your back!
ali		What's my name, motherfucker?!
ali		 If the court would give me my sentence right now instead of waiting and stalling.
judge ingraham		 Fast enough? Your attorney will lodge an appeal. While you're out on bond, I order your passport surrendered. I'll not have you benefitting yourself by fighting abroad...
ali		Watch now...
belinda		 See, you don't need to fight no more...
ali		So what's fresh, girl?
belinda		 Everything fresh!
ali		 What's the freshest of the freshest?
belinda		 Doughnuts just came out...
ali		 645 pounds. I'd still be pretty...but I be fat pretty...
belinda		You don't remember when you met me once before...long ago...
ali		 I remember something...   Wha's your name?
belinda		You know my name! You came to my school, right before you win the title. Interviewed you for the school paper. I was eleven.
ali		You had a long braid...
belinda		Yeah! You called me little Indian girl, then.
ali		That was you?
belinda		I loved you then, like all those kids. I never stopped. I still do.
ali		You see the Ellis-Quarry fight?
chauncey eskridge		Yes... We'll be in front of the U.S. Court of Appeals next month. We'll lose. Then we appeal to the Supreme Court.
ali		Ellis the champ? Man. I beatin' on him since we was sixteen. They give Ellis to Joe Frazier? Frazier'll kill him. Then they out of juice. Where's the gate? So they gotta let me fight. I fight Ellis in a phone booth...middle of Times Square...you think that draw a crowd?
chauncey eskridge		Draw a crowd or not draw a crowd, Muhammad, is NOT going to make a difference with your boxing licenses. They don't want you to fight.  ACLU's handling your case against the New York Boxing Commission. They discovered New York's got actual ex-murderers and ex-rapists currently licensed to fight. But revoked yours...?
ali		Tijuana? CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE No. State Department refused permission for the one-hour visa. No fight in Tijuana. Look...
ali		Can't fight here. Can't fight outside the country...
chauncey eskridge		I know people in the restaurant business...want to start up a chain. Muhammad Ali's "Champ Burger"..."Muhammad Malts," "Fist Full of Fries"...all of that.
ali		Why I want to be in the restaurant business?!
chauncey eskridge		'Cause you need the money.
ali		How much all this gonna cost?
chauncey eskridge		Too much.    They do that to you, too, you know.
ali		 Look out!
customer		Hey, champ!
ali		Not then...
belinda		First time? 1961...Sister Khalilah introduced you at assembly. You said you would be heavyweight champion of the world by the time you were twenty-one!
ali		I always tell the truth...
belinda		I was eleven. I interviewed you for the student paper. You called me "little Indian girl," 'cause I wore my hair real long, in a braid...I told you..."Man, you scribble! You can't even write! You ought to go back to school until you do it better..."
jimi hendrix		 "There must be some kind of way outta here, said the joker to the thief..."
jimi hendrix		"No reason to get excited, the thief, he kindly spoke. There are many here among us, who feel that life is but a joke."
jimi hendrix		"But you and I, we've been through that, and this is not our fate. So let us not talk falsely now, the hour it's getting late..."
chauncey eskridge		...struck out at the appellate level in New Orleans. So we're heading back to the Supreme Court...
ali		Thought we already got turned down there.
chauncey eskridge		I'm petitioning on a conscientious objection basis. Religious belief. We'll petition that your sincere religious belief prohibits you from shooting people. I believe they'll hear that...
ali		Where the money come from, Chauncey? Herbert tell me I'm runnin' on empty. Put aside "how do that happen"? Licenses all revoked. No passport. I can't fight here. Can't fight abroad.  And what happen if I lose the Supreme Court?
chauncey eskridge		It's all over. You go to jail for five years.
jimi hendrix		"Outside in the cold distance, a wild cat did growl, two riders were approaching, and the wind began to HOWL!"
bingham		Ellis doesn't belong in there.
ali		 Man give him a shot, he took a shot.
bingham		I saw Bundini in New York.
ali		How's he?
bingham		...bad shape. You better get your belt b-b-back... Belinda brings coffee to Bingham...
bingham		You call your parents, Ali?
belinda		No, he didn't. I told them about the one on the way...myself. 
bingham		You p-p-p-promised you'd call them.
ali		I'll call 'em, I'll call 'em...  May-may! It go in one end and come out the other.
belinda		You wanna try changing her, for the experience?
ali		You so much better at it, mama.
belinda		That happen, you promise me you put some new people around you.
ali		I need Angelo, Rudy, Ferdie --
bingham		Ali, she's talkin' about "Brother" Herbert.
belinda		Where are they when we need them? You got Gene Kilroy droppin' off groceries like charity. Borrowin' money from my folks. So...?
frazier		 Norton's big and strong, but...
howard cosell		 Hold on one second...we have a caller. Go ahead.
howard cosell		Let's tell it like it is. With your court and boxing problems, Muhammad, can you get a fight promoted?
ali		I ain't interested in the paycheck, I'd fight Joe Frazier for free in a phone booth in Times Square, if I wasn't broke. I still will.
howard cosell		Did you say you were broke?   How can you be broke?
howard cosell		You've made more money than all previous heavyweight champions combined. What about your management? Surely they have provided for you...
ali		I'm saying it's time for everybody to quit lying! Muhammad Ali is the champ! I have to, I'll get the fight on myself.  And if they offer me money, I ain't gonna turn it down.
elijah muhammad		Get me my son, Herbert, on the telephone!
elijah muhammad		Mr. Muhammad Ali desires to do that which the Holy Qur'an teaches him against. I am, therefore, suspending Mr. Ali from the practice of Islam. He may no longer appear in temple, pray or teach, or have any conversation with any Muslim whatsoever. Furthermore...he may no longer use the name of Muhammad Ali. Henceforward, he will revert to his old slave name, Cassius Clay.
belinda		Muhammad...?
ali		You can't call me that no more.
belinda		Hell, I can't. I'm defying them by talking to you. And being with you.
ali		Whyn't you call an ambulance or a doctor?
landlady		 Wouldn't let me. Said he knew you...and to call you, Mr. Ali... He's not been out for three days...
bingham		Bundini!
bundini		 Watchu' doin' here? Gimme that short dog!
ali		What's wrong with you, man?!
bundini		Nothin' wrong with me!
bingham		A mystery...d-d-d-daylight...
bundini		 Leave me alone!
ali		I leave you alone.   You called me!
bundini		That were a week ago...
ali		What you shame yourself like this for, maaan...?! Why you shame yourself?!
bundini		Lemme alone!  I'm flyin'! The Sky Chief talk through me. I know the word!
ali		You know "low." You so low, the curb look like up!
bundini		 Yeah? The king gotta go home to his throne! From the root to the fruit...!
ali		Those rhymes is old.    Forget 'em.
bundini		 Yeah...
ali		 Yeah.
bundini		Forgive me, Muhammad.    Take me back...
ali		No. There's no "back" to take you to...
ali		 ...you can't do what you do best in the world. And how you feed your family? From prison? Who take care of your kids? And is Allah, is God with me?
howard cosell		 Don't bother me. I'm a world- famous broadcaster and you're an ex-champion with diminished skills. I can't be seen you, it would be calamitous to my reputation.
ali		Put me on, Howard. HOWARD COSELL Muhammad, I'd do anything for you. But I got bosses who only give a damn about Nielsen ratings.
ali		I guarantee...it will be a historical and momentous night!
ali		...what Heavyweight Champion of the World? I'm not the champ. I am retired, finished, out of the game. And I ain't gonna let myself grieve and suffer none. But I know I will not fight again...
howard cosell		I thought you were resolute in your resolve to regain your crown...
ali		If tomorrow they say: "We want you to fight Joe Frazier. Madison Square Garden. Millions and millionses of dollars. Here's your license back." I will tell them: "I am sorry, but I am done."
howard cosell		What about Frazier?
ali		You'll have to wonder...what me and Smokin' Joe would have looked like.
howard cosell		You surprise me, Muhammad...
ali		Howard, you losing your hearing along with your hair? Don't put questions to it!  I am through fighting. 'Cause I got a bigger and more important match comin' up. The U.S. government. A heavier contender. HOWARD COSELL Do you think you're going to jail?
ali		I don't know, but it's going to be a shocking and terrible fight. In fact, they might wish they let me stay in boxing.
howard cosell		Joe Frazier told me on this show he would knock you out.
ali		There you go, agitatin'. 
ali		I don't wanna fight no more.   Not with you...
ali		Who dress you, Joe?   You look like Dale Evans.
frazier		Shut up.    Get in.
ali		To be closer to you, honey.
frazier		Fuck you.
ali		There be two undefeated heavyweight champions! And they ain't fighting!
frazier		I wanna fight you! Said it a hundred times. The Man won't let you fight no more. What you complainin' to me for? ALI 'Cause you gotta get behind this and we gotta do this.
frazier		We..."gotta" do nothin'!!!
ali		You wanna get this on, Joe?     You and me? Or not?!
frazier		What about your license?
ali		I can fight in Atlanta.
frazier		How's that? What about the Boxing Commission?
ali		Georgia ain't got no state boxing commission. And Atlanta got a black city council; a liberal Jewish mayor, Sam something. It all set. I do a prelim in Atlanta with Jerry Quarry. But we got to get the steamroller movin' now.
frazier		What I got to do?
ali		You announce that if I beat Quarry you give me the title shot.  So what you say...maaan?
frazier		My daddy was a sharecropper. I worked in a slaughterhouse...right on that corner. I came up from nothing.  What I got, I got with this. And I already got the title. So I got nothing to win and everything to lose.
ali		But you know you ain't the champ yet.
frazier		 All right. You beat Quarry, I'll get inna ring and fuck you up...
ali		 I'm fine. Thanks.
angelo dundee		TIME!!
bundini		Take me back, boss.
ali		You want me to take you back?
bundini		I'm clean. 
ali		 You can't hit what you can't see.
bundini		You the man! You Superman! Ain't no kryptonite in this ring tonight!
belinda		 ...you don't need their management...
herbert		As-Saalam Alaikum...Brother Muhammad...
ali		All praise to Allah...  ...Alaikum Salaam...
herbert		 The Messenger has lifted the suspension, Muhammad. Congratulations.
ali		You saying I can be a Muslim again, Herbert?
herbert		Yes.
ali		 I never stopped. Like I never stopped being champ.
herbert		I begged my father to reinstate you.
ali		When? After I promoted Quarry fight? After I won it?
herbert		We can get you Frazier.
ali		I already got Frazier.
herbert		We can get you five million dollars for Frazier.
ali		Are we talking management, talking money or talking religion?
herbert		When you...
ali		 When I got leery and talked up how come I'm broke, then came the suspension. Now, you explain that to me, my brother...?
herbert		It's my father... ALI  I love the Nation, Herbert. I love Elijah Muhammad. But it don't own me.
herbert		My brother!
ali		Yeah...
bingham		You b-b-becoming a Christian? Forgive and forget?
howard cosell		Muhammad, you T.K.O.'ed 'em...
ali		What are you talking about, Howard? Quarry?
howard cosell		 You won an 8-0 unanimous decision. You're free.
ali		I'm free. ANGELO DUNDEE What are you talking about?
ali		Supreme Court set me free.
bundini		That's 'cause they know the king is gonna go home to his throne. And they know everybody's with you, now. And they wanna be on the RIGHT side!
announcer		Ladies and gentlemen, fifteen rounds of boxing for the heavyweight championship of the world...
announcer		And in the opposite corner, the current heavyweight champion of the world, Smokin' Joe Frazier...!
ali's eyes		deep in his focused concentration. His attention so arrow like it reminds us of the younger man in the Liston fight...pure purpose.
angelo dundee		Hell of a fight, champ...
ali		Shut up! I lost.  Get outta here...
rudy		Go on!   Everybody out!
angelo dundee		 It was still a hell of a fight.
ali		Where's Belinda?
pacheco		She fainted... They took her to the aid station. She's okay.
ali		My hands was in sand, Angie.     My feet in water...
angelo dundee		Maybe we shoulda had more time between Blin and this, you know...to get back into...
ali		Woulda, shoulda, coulda...  After three-and-a-half years, this...from how far back...comeback is.
press		Were you robbed?
ali		I lost. You lose, you don't shoot yourself. The world goes on.
another reporter		Joe said he didn't think you wanted to fight him again...
ali		 Oh, how wrong he is.
belinda		My God.    They killed you!
pacheco		Get away from her.     What is that?
ali		I ain't dead, baby!     C'mon.
ali		I can move my jaw with my tongue. He got me...
pacheco		 It's broke. I think...I think your jaw's broke.
pacheco		nods to Dundee. Dundee starts to reach. Ali snatches Angelo's hand holding the towel. Angelo's about to end the fight...
ali		Ain't stoppin' nothin'...!  Nothin' stoppin'...!
herbert		Now that Smokin' Joe's run out of tomato cans to beat up, I finally got Yank to commit to a rematch with you in about six months. Frazier said he'd be happy with three mil... 
ali		 Foreman call me one time after he won the Olympics...
howard cosell		 DOWN GOES FRAZIER! DOWN GOES FRAZIER!
bingham		 B-b-be easy gettin' a Frazier fight now. He ain't the champ of anything except getting knocked down.
ali		So.
angelo dundee		So we only eked this one out. And George Foreman makes Frazier look like a sissy.
pacheco		You see their fight?
howard bingham		You mean the Joe Frazier falling- down lesson?
pacheco		And Foreman is 24. You are 32 years old. I don't want to see your head get turned into someone's bull's-eye.
angelo dundee		...but, you go? We're the corner, same as always. But it ain't gonna be easy.
ali		 You think I still got the tools?
angelo dundee		You got the tools, Daddy.     But they different.
ali		 Well, you better sharpen 'em up. 'Cause we goin' to Africa. BUNDINI The motherland. From the root to the fruit. We gonna rumble...in the jungle.
ali		It's time to be heavyweight champion of the world again.
bundini		Yeah, man!
don king		"Rumble in the Jungle!"     That's the name I given it.
reporters		Don. Zaire? Why not Antarctica? What's wrong with New York City?
don king		Because you miss the significance. I dream, as Martin Luther King once dreamt, that a man could be judged by the content of his mind. This is about black men helping black men, overcoming four hundred years of racial depression to the dawn of a new day of liberation...financial and otherwise.
ali		Man, you crazy.
don king		Ten million dollars. With one stroke of the pen, you split the world's biggest emolumation of the history of sports!
ali		 What are they saying, man?!!!    Why they saying that?
ali		 What?!
ali		Ali, boma ye!
ali		 Fast. Six left jabs flash from his chest and shoulder, followed by a right hook and left and right uppercuts.
kids		Ali, boma ye!
ali		 Ali, boma ye George Foreman!
teenager		 You beat them, Ali!
ali		Foreman?   I kill him!
ali		 ...even if I die here. If it kill me, no matter what...I gotta win.
ali		Howard! How many you ugly sportswriters in there got me over Foreman? Don't lie.
howard cosell		 Some of us...Norman, me...are worried. How you gonna dance against George?? He's sparring with a middleweight, training to cut you off. He gets you against the ropes, he can knock you out with either hand.
ali		 What's the odds?
howard cosell		Two-and-a-half-to-one. Against. We're worried you're going to get hurt.
ali		This'll be the biggest upset since Sonny Liston. I want all of you to write it down! This fight is no contest!
howard cosell		Muhammad, I'm sorry. I have to ask.  Are you really fast enough, anymore? To beat George Foreman? Many people believe you don't have the same skills, that you are not the same man you used to be ten years ago.
ali		Howard. I didn't want to talk about this, especially in front of everybody. But I talked to your wife! And she told me you're not the man you used to be...two years ago!
ali		Salaam Alaikum, brothers!  The champ is here!
belinda		Here's your water.
ali		Bottled water. Frozen steaks. Brought all this stuff like Africans don't have steaks...
belinda		You could pick up parasites...
ali		They eat it.
belinda		You're seeing what you want to see, Muhammad...
ali		Mobutu eats it...
belinda		Mobutu is taking care of Mobutu and stealing all the wealth and sending it to Switzerland...
ali		 So? What's that do with any of why we here?
belinda		 We're here 'cause Don King got Mobutu to put up ten million dollars. Don King don't give a damn about Africa. He worse than Herbert.
ali		Here come "Herbert."
belinda		Yeah. 'Cause where was he when we was broke and borrowing money? And Bundini and all them that "love you"? Disappeared, is where they were.  All over you when you got it and drop off you when you don't...
ali		Money? I do "money-making" whenever I want. Money is easy.
belinda		 And Don King fit right in...that double-breasted hipster is now a dashiki-wearing rip-off.
ali		Don King delivered the first black- promoted championship fight in Africa!
belinda		Don King talks black, lives white and thinks green! Why you defending him and "brother" Herbert? 
ali		'Cause clean-cut Muslims parading on the South Side of Chicago don't get this done! I got to put honkeys with connections and bad- ass niggers to it, too.
belinda		 And now they got you up against George Foreman. Do they give a damn you could get killed?
ali		That what this is? Think I gonna lose? Puttin' doubt on me?
belinda		 I think: why is my Muslim husband letting himself get strung up on a cross...? It means, "tell me."
ali		Sure.
belinda		I'll be back before the fight.  If that's all right, my husband...
don king		 Champ! Champ! George had an accident.
angelo dundee		 What are you talking about?
don king		Got cut. Right above his right eye. His sparring partner's elbow. Split it open, so...
angelo dundee		Can he fight?
don king		Not for six weeks.
angelo dundee		Are you tryin' to pull something, Don? Ali wants his title. And he wants it back in Zaire. George leaves, he ain't comin' back. George don't like it here.
don king		How right you are, my suspicious and short Italian brother. And my fiduciary responsibility to this first all-black promotion is like a garden in the African sun. It must grow! It must bloom! It cannot flower in the gloom and shade of postponement to some dome. Like the Astrodome, the Super-dome, any dome outta Zaire, where it be deprived of light and bled of water. 'Cause what gonna bleed...is money. A hemorrhage of cash.  ...blood on the floor. Double hotel costs. Double travel costs. Airplanes. Food and beverage...
angelo dundee		 What do you expect us to do, Don?
don king		 Muhammad. Find a way to get George to stay. Be Moses in reverse: do NOT let my people go! Stay the fuck right here, in Egypt, if you'll pardon my Swahili.
bingham		L-l-l-lingala.
don king		What?
bingham		Lingala.   They s-s-s-speak Lingala.
don king		Who cares?
angelo dundee		 If George goes? You forfeit five million. You crawl back to Cincinnati. You ain't promotin' a charity raffle...
don king		 If George goes? George goes, my champion, I will get you Joe Frazier. Ali-Frazier III...the fight everybody want to see. INT. PRESS CONFERENCE
ali		 Truth is...George knocked hisself out.
don king		 You bad!
ali		I'm a bad man!
don king		Ain't no doubt about it.
ali		And you tell the same thing to George.
don king		 We will reschedule the fight, and to ensure George is ready, we are thinking of postponing from September 24th to October 30th.
reporter		What about the concert, Don? DON KING That would go off as planned on September 22nd and 23rd.
ali		 Uh-huh. I want all helicopters guarded! Private boats. Private jets. I want the airport -- I'm serious -- I want President Mobutu and all his paratroopers. Mobutu and all his paratroopers. I want all of you "Zaireans" to be on guard! Watch all strange boats tryin' to slip away! They might be takin' him out.
angelo dundee		The bus station. It's Ali kidding on the square. A serious point delivered not seriously to be taken seriously.
ali		Yeah. Watch the bus station. Watch everything! Elephant caravans. He might sneak out by elephant.
angelo dundee		What you say?
don king		I ain't talkin' to you!
ali		 Hey!!!
veronica		I don't think so.
ali		What's your name?
veronica		Veronica Porche.
ali		Like the sports car.
veronica		 Yes.
ali		But with a little something extra.  Veronica, I know you now. C'mere, sit down.
veronica		Don brought me here, but I'm not "with"...anybody.
ali		Where you from?
veronica		L.A. But my people are from Louisiana. We're Creole. So I'm African, French, Spanish, my mother's grandfather was Jewish.
ali		 Well...they all came together real nice.
veronica		You know...  What you think?
veronica		Ali, boma ye.
plimpton type		...she's an African "succubus." Means witch doctor.
bundini		Succubus? Suck my dick. They ain't room in Africa for more than one witch doctor. And that's B'dini.
ali		You been to Hong Kong?   Taiwan? Thailand?
veronica		No.
ali		I can't go there. All the ladies out there from Indonesia, Japan, Hawaii, India...  The women were so pretty...
bingham		'B-b-b-bout Hong Kong, man?!   You know what I heard?
news cameraman		Champ...
ali		 Let's go for a ride.
ali		So why you glad we still here?
veronica		Holdin' this in Africa make people proud. All over the world. They're proud of you. Anybody can fight in Vegas.
ali		That's one job.    I got two...
veronica		Islamic faith help you to that?
ali		Listen, girl, as a Muslim, I am busted out and failed in the eyes of God. I shoulda discovered Islam at 50! 'Cause I am weak on women. They take my eyes and my heart follow...causing me to be a lovin' husband and a terrible husband...!  ...okay, rest of me, let's go!!
ali		 Faster! Faster!
dundee		 TIME!
holmes		You can't lead a right hand.   Not at him!
ali		Why not?
holmes		Too long...to get it there. Man, I mean, to think you could hit him with a right lead...it's insulting... Nobody would lead a right...
bundini		I got him! Lock him up.
sadler		 Hey, hold up, chump!   Make this chump turn me loose.
ali		Hey! Look! Look at George Foreman's trainer, feelin' me up on purpose! On the side, to see if I'm in shape!
irene		Can I have your autograph?
ali		We'll, you ain't gonna find no fat! Watch out!!
sadler		 Give me that thing!
bingham		 Muhammad. Give her an Ali button!
sadler		No, you ain't.  All right, give my wife an Ali button.
ali		She's gotta put it on.
sadler		Give my wife one. BINGHAM Bo'dini, you got Ali buttons?
ali		"George" buttons is all I got. In my bedroom! All over the bed! Everywhere! To remind me...of all of ya'. All of ya'! Reminds me of all ya'!
ortf interviewer		 Pardon. Vous tes de l'ambassade des Etats-Unis? Vous avez une prdiction?
ortf interviewer		 Excuse me. You are from the U.S. Embassy? Do you have a prediction?
bradley		 Je suis avec l'Agence amricane d'informations. Il ne m'est pas permis d'exprimer mes prfrences entre deux citoyens des Etats-Unis.
bradley		 I'm with the U.S. Information Agency. I'm not allowed to take favorites among two United States citizens...
angelo dundee		 He gone?
ali		Yeah.
belinda		Hello, Muhammad. Bingham.    Mr. Cosell.
howard cosell		 Hi...Mrs. Ali.
ali		When did you get in?
belinda		Just now. Muhammad, may I have a word with you, please?
belinda		What is going on?
ali		You know what's going on. 
belinda		But I don't have to have it thrown in my face. I don't have to read about it and have people call me up on the phone about it...
ali		I didn't mean for it to come out...
belinda		Oh, hell, Muhammad, you got no discretion. You never did. You humiliate me!
ali		I know that.
belinda		Then why you got to be visible with women?
ali		I didn't mean for it to be...
belinda		I live with the casual ones.  But this, this...I can't hold it together anymore. ALI I don't want to hurt you. It's wrong. You're a good wife to me.
belinda		Then why do you disrespect me this way?!
ali		I respect you.   I always respect you.
belinda		Do you love her?
ali		I follow my heart.
belinda		"You're following your heart"?  And what happens now?
ali		I fight George.  I didn't come this far to quit.
belinda		Neither of us did.
bingham		Belinda?
mobutu		 Invite Monsieur Idi to join me now... The Banker? The American?
lieutenant nsakala		 Countdown! Countdown!
rudy		Countdown is on, bro.   Five minutes.
ali		Thanks to Allah... 
lieutenant nsakala		 Four minutes!
angelo dundee		Give us a moment. Alone.  Hey. This is my religion!
ali		Why?
angelo dundee		Where you at?
ali		 Foreman ain't no mummy. He's knocked out eight out of eleven before the end of the third round. He the most dangerous fighter I ever fought.
angelo dundee		I'd worry if I was hearin' anything else.
ali		And I can't WAIT!
lieutenant nsakala		Three minutes!
angelo dundee		Dance.   That's the most important...
bundini		 Forget every battle of man against man, of mind against mind, of soul against soul. This is the one. This is the greatest.
lieutenant nsakala		Two minutes!
bundini		The prophet's come back to claim his own! Get the pretender off that throne!
lieutenant nsakala		 One minute!
the people		Ali! Ali! Boma ye, Ali!       Ali! Boma ye!
the people		Ali, boma ye! Ali, boma ye!      Ali, boma ye!
angelo dundee		George is playing prima donna.   He wants to make you wait.
crowd		Foreman!   Foreman!   Foreman!   Foreman!
clayton		Now, both of you know the rules. When I step back, I want a good, clean break.  No hitting below the belt, no kidney punches, no...
ali		Motherfucker, you 'bout to discover you ain't nothin'.
clayton		Ali, be quiet!
ali		 You been hearin' about me for years. All your life you been hearin' about Muhammad Ali. Now you gotta face me.
clayton		Ali, I'll disqualify you. Now, I want a good, clean, sportsman fight...
ali		 You never should have come to Africa.
clayton		 Now go to your corners and come out fighting when you hear the bell, and may the best man...win...
ali		 Legs heavy...air's heavy...like sand...
angelo dundee		...keep moving. Don't let him put you into the corner. Stay off the rope!
ali		That all you got...?   That it?
angelo dundee		Get off the ropes! Get off the ropes! Get off the ropes! Dance!
ali		 ...I cannot take.
bundini		Dance, dance!
dundee		Get off the ropes!   What are you doin'?!
ali		George!    Show me something.
ali		 ...been here before.
ali		 Open the door, Richard...outta this room... Put on your coat, man...get out...
angelo dundee		 Get off the goddamn ropes!!
ali		Took somethin' away from him, Angie, that round...
bundini		You gotta move! Stick and MOVE!
ali		 They don't know what's happenin'.
ali		 Take it! Terrify him with what you can take...
ali		 Eight more rounds... You runnin' outta gas?
ali		 Now...
bradley		 Ce soir, le Zaire a t le sujet central dans le tous les centres europens. Flicitations, Monsieur le Prsident pour la vie.
bradley		 Zaire was the center of the world tonight in every banking capital, all over Europe. Congratulations, President for Life.
mobutu		Yes. 
london banker		What's on the menu...?
ali		 Maan, everything is crazy.
belinda		...I didn't come this far to quit.
ali		You think you got a chance, chump? Now you in trouble.
****Dialogues from script :Alien.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Alien_3.txt****

first draft		March 29, 1990
brother kyle		Well would he guess the ascending of the star, Wherein his patient's fortunes settled were. He knew the course of every malady, Were it of cold or heat or moist or dry. Brother John, would-be Doctour of Physick.
brother kyle		Tend you quickly he will, with bottles from a shelf. But heals not, so easily, The ills which plague himself.
brother john		 Enough.
brother john		 Put those lungs of yours to better use.
brother kyle		Yes, Doc Tor.
john		Keep this from getting wet.  Go home at late afternoon mealtime and don't come back to work today --
burned monk		But John --
john		I'll tell the Abbot.  Just rest today. You're lucky you only burned yourself on the side of the furnace.  If some of that glass had gotten on your arm --
john		-- it would've burned clean through to the other side.
john		That's late afternoon.  Now get on.
burned monk		Thank you, John.  I --
john		You're welcome.  Go!
kyle		Good work.
john		All right, but I'm no Father Anselm.
kyle		You're yourself, that's better...
kyle		The Abbot will be pleased.
john		Don't.
kyle		Don't what?
john		Please don't tell him.  At least until I know if there's an infection.
kyle		You want to be the Abbey's Physician, and you haven't learned the first rule: Don't worry about the patient.
kyle		I shouldn't have. Sorry.  Look, I know how you must --
john		You don't, but thanks anyway.
kyle		Not coming down?
john		I have someone waiting for me.
john		Come on, Mattias.
philip		Brother John.
john		Brother Philip.
philip		Feeding the mind instead of the body again?
john		My training has taught me to feed what's hungry.
philip		As did mine.  As long as you're alone. Enjoy yourself -- and remember, no book leaves the library.
john		How could I forget?  Have a good meal...
john		Perfect.
abbot		Mind?  Just Philip, if he knew.  I passed him on the way up.  He said you'd come in alone.  I knew better.
abbot		Hello, Mattias.  How are you, boy?
abbot		You know what Philip says about Mattias' hair and his breathing.  You'll have to take him out of here.
john		He likes when I read to him and -- I can't --
abbot		 Someone must have left this one unlocked. Take the book with you.
john		Father, I --?
abbot		Kyle tells me you did a good job at the glassworks today.
john		I'll reserve judgement until the patient lives.
abbot		It will get easier.  Father Anselm was... an unexpected loss.  You'll do fine.
abbot		Just have it back before the end of lunch. Oh -- And I didn't see you in here.
john		Thank you.  Let's go upstairs, boy.
john		In the year of our Lord 1348 I, Brother Gerhado of the Minorite Abbey helped bury the Abbot and my sixty fellow monks, day by day, one by one, until I am the only one left.  I stayed as long as I could bear it, then with my dog --
john		- fled.  I have put this to parchment lest this pestilence - this Black Death - stay my hand.  This was finished by another hand...
kyle		John!  Wait -- !  Don't go in!
computer voice		 Seal broken...seal broken...
woman		...taking pod four.  The Crew of the SS Sulaco and all Marine commandoes are dead. Ship's sensors have interrupted the hyper sleep cycle.  An overlooked alien egg has hatched.  Bishop and Hicks have been killed. Xenomorphs have infested the cruiser.  Newt and I are taking pod four.  The Crew of...
kyle		John - what is it?  Is this a Supply ship?
john		No.  No supplies.  Kyle, there's someone in here --
second monk		This is forbidden.
kyle		John.  Just get the hell out of there --
john		I don't want to stay.  I have to get her out before this sinks.  You come in, give me a hand --
kyle		Her?  Look, this is not the supply ship, so this is technology forbidden to us. Get out of there now!
john		All right --
first monk		 A space ship...
second monk		 A woman...
kyle		You shouldn't have gone in --
john		I'm supposed to be a doctor.
john		She could've been lost.
first monk		Been a long time since I saw either.
second monk		It isn't sinking.  Look at it.  What are we supposed to do with it?
kyle		What was it like in there --?
john		Lights.  So many lights --
third monk		Tow it in.  Bring it in.
second monk		It's evil.
first monk		It's just technology.
second monk		Evil technology.  Look at these fish --
third monk		The Abbot will know what we should do with it --
kyle		Just lights?
john		Machines.  Buttons.  Metal.
second monk		See?  Just look at the fish.
third monk		The Abbot will know.
second monk		They're boiled.  These fish are boiled.
john		Thousands of lights.  Like the stars. Like Heaven on Earth.
ripley		Wait.  New...
ripley		AAAAAAAAAAAARGH!
john		You're out of it.  Out of it...
abbot		How is the woman, John?
john		I don't think she's here yet.
john		She is close, though.
ripley		What the hell --?
ripley		This must be a dream.  A bad one.
ripley		Who are you?
abbot		I am the Abbot.  Leader of this Colony. And you?
ripley		Ripley.  How did I get here?
abbot		Your vehicle crash landed.  Brother John found you and brought you here.
ripley		Where is here?
abbot		This is the Minorite Abbey within the manmade orbiter Arceon.
ripley		Can I use a radio to --
abbot		We have no radio here.  We are a monastic order that has renounced all modern technology.  We live the old way.  The pure way.
ripley		Uh, I - I still don't feel 100%.  Whoever took me out of the stasis tube must not have run the full D-F program... Where's Newt?
ripley		There was a little girl with me --
abbot		You were alone.
ripley		No.  She was with me.  I put her in her stasis tube -- We launched when the --
abbot		You were the only living thing found aboard that vessel.
ripley		 Oh, God.  Newt.
abbot		What came with you?
ripley		Listen -- there is a danger here.  It came with me.  How long have I been here?
abbot		Almost two days --
ripley		 Loose for two days.  This planet could be overrun within the week.
ripley		Look, there's a xenomorph --  An Alien creature.  A killer.  A monster. And now it's here.
ripley		Calm down, Ripley.  Okay, I was with a platoon of Colonial Marines on a mission to planetoid LV426.  We left Earth six months ago - maybe a year --
abbot		 Wait a moment --
abbot		Leave us.
abbot		Continue.
ripley		We launched in the Cruiser Sulaco from Gateway sub-orbital space station --
abbot		Not possible.
ripley		What do you mean?
abbot		When we left Earth seventy years ago, it was on the brink of a New Dark Age. Technology was on the verge of destroying the planet's environment.  A computer virus was threatening to wipe away all recorded knowledge.  There didn't seem to be any way it could be averted.  In the almost forty years since we were towed out here in hypersleep, the news that came with occasional supply ships only got worse. Finally, the ships stopped coming.  We had to resign ourselves to the fact that worst had come to pass, and the Earth no longer existed.
ripley		 Uh...All right... Forget the Earth - How many people do you have here?  Let's worry about them.  Warn them --
abbot		Your mind is troubled.  You need to rest some more.
ripley		I don't need rest - I need to get to your people.  You've got to get to them -- tell them about the alien --
abbot		I have had enough for now.
ripley		Enough?  Didn't you hear what I said? It could wipe out the entire population of this planet.  It may have started already - Have there been any unusual deaths since I got here?
abbot		No.  And there won't be.
abbot		Bolt it.
john		What is it -- What's wrong?
abbot		Your patient is in a dangerous mental state.  Nobody gets in or out until I say so.
john		But I.  Her meals --
abbot		Nobody.
john		Father, I don't understand --
hysterical monk		Brother John!  You're here!  The Abbot said you'd -- I need -- you're the medic --
john		What?!
hysterical monk		My Sandy -- she's ill --
john		Huh?  A woman?
hysterical monk		Sandy.  My ewe.
john		One of your sheep?  Jesus Christ. Call a vet.
hysterical monk		Father Anselm was the vet.
john		You're no help.  Okay, let me get my bag. All creatures great and small...
hysterical monk		I just gave her dinner and she keeled over.
john		So would I.  It's freezing in here.
hysterical monk		Been using the wood from the walls for the fire in my cabin.
john		Haven't we all...
john		May be pneumonia.  Pitch some of that hay around her.  Stop this damn cold breeze.
john		First, I'll --
john		Wait a minute...
hysterical monk		What is it?
john		I don't know.  It's all over the ground. Some sort of --
hysterical monk		What?!  WHAT?!
john		Jesus!  Help m --
ripley		Idiots...I'll --
ripley		What the -?
abbot		You heard Brother Graham tell of the devil inside sheep's wool --
abbot		An evil brought by this woman in her vessel of technology.
ripley		This can't be happening.
ripley		You must listen to me!  You're all in terrible danger!  It came with me on the ship --
abbot		We know that.  At first we believed its arrival was a good omen.  But it has only brought pestilence.  Dead sheep.  Dead fish.
ripley		Yes, the ship brought it.  Not evil. It brought the Alien.  I told you, it's here.
abbot		We know the name of the evil it brought. It brought technology.  Technology to destroy our planet, as surely as it destroyed the Earth.
ripley		I was on the Earth less than a year ago. It's still there.  People, cities, all still there!
abbot		 All dead.
ripley		 It's still there!
abbot		You could not have been on the Earth a year ago, because there is no Earth to be on -- for at least twenty years.
ripley		I haven't been floating in space for twenty years.  Let me get to my ship and I'll prove it.
tribunal member		This woman is a danger.  She denies The New Dark Age.  She denies reality.
ripley		This is reality.  There is a Xenomorph loose on this planetoid - a alien -- it must have stowed away on my ship -- must have killed --  Explodes out of you - keeps growing into some sort of monster.  Kills you -- Kills all of you...
ripley		Who are you people?  Look at you -- all of you -- the way you're dressed.  This isn't the Middle Ages.  You're in space -- on a artifical planet.  What are you doing out here?
ripley		Isn't there anyone here who will listen?
ripley		 I guess not.  I can't believe this...
abbot		Then there is no choice.
abbot		 The evil is inside you.  I cast you down. To be sealed away.  And God have mercy on your soul.
ripley		You won't be able to fight it... You don't know what it is --!
ripley		You've sentenced yourselves to death!
abbot		No trouble?
abbot		I had that wood earmaked for the Cloister next winter.  Well, we might not get to the winter if we don't take care of this. By winter time we can start taking the penitent cells apart.  No one in them.
abbot		Neither are we --
abbot		Go ahead.
john		This woman.  Ripley.  I tended her --
abbot		Yes, and you did a good job.  You shouldn't feel responsible.  You couldn't have known --
john		Please, sir, let me finish.  I feel that there may be something to what she says.
abbot		There isn't.
john		I don't understand what you are doing.
abbot		This colony is my responsibility.  I am protecting the colony.
john		From what?  This woman?  You never gave her a chance.  How can you be so sure you're right?
abbot		A better question is what makes you think I'm wrong?
john		You didn't see this thing -- this demon -- Brother Graham and I -- we both saw it.
abbot		 And what was it?
john		I -- I don't know what it was.  But I don't think Ripley was a party to it.
abbot		She admits she brought it.
john		But she tried to warn us --
abbot		You know that's how the devil works. Deception.
john		But I believe her.  I don't know how to describe it -- A feeling.
abbot		You haven't seen a woman in thirty years. Where does this feeling originate, John?
john		 Here.
abbot		I believe you.  But your feelings are fooling you.
john		It's - It's her conviction.  I just think --
abbot		Don't think.
abbot		It's been a long night.  For all of us. You really don't understand what you're dealing with here.
john		That's what she said.
abbot		These are ideas which threaten the very system we live under.  The creature is dead and the woman is gone.  Forget them. Both.  Go read.  Go fishing.  Go anywhere, but leave this alone.
john		But I --
abbot		Alone.  I'll get Philip to let Mattias into the Library, all right?  For your own good, just stay out of this.
abbot		I mean it.
john		 Yes, Father.
worker		Here you go, woman.  Something from your ship.  Something to keep you company --
ripley		You fucking idiots!  You're dead! You're all dead!
ripley		 Dead...
ripley		Christ.  Jesus Christ.  It's here.  Here. Shit.  Here.  I can't get rid of it...
ripley		Newt.  This isn't what I wanted...
ripley		 Don't stare at me!
john		 Picks his way through the mess.  Like a man possessed he fumbles through book after book.  The first golden rays of daylight filter through the huge stained glass windows.  John rapidly flips through the Medieval tome in front of him - past an illustration of Satan depicted as having a FACE on his ASS -- further still -- then stops. This is it.  We can't see what the illustration is, but we see his REACTION:  His eyes open wide as saucers.  SLAMS the book closed as if the image would strike blind.  He turns to Mattias as if to say something -- Decides not to wake the sleeping dog.  John wraps the book's chain around his hand and puts one foot up against the shelf.  Pulls -- SPANKT! The old chain gives way.  Face set, he loops the shoulder strap of his burlap medical bag over his shoulder.  Clutches the book to his chest, gently pets his sleeping dog and goes...
john		Now find John and have him brought to me immediately.
abbot		Start in the library.  And keep it quiet.
kyle		Hey!  Watch it!
kyle		What?  What is it?
john		I -- Abbot.  Must --
kyle		John - relax.  Take a deep breath - Christ, now I sound like you --
kyle		Is that it, John?  Is it the book --?
john		 Yes.  Devil.
whispering monks		He's got it...
whispering monk		He's infected...
kyle		Everything's gonna be fine.  Now, let's see the --
john		Don't humor me -- I'm --
kyle		Sure.  Everything's gonna be fine...
kyle		Wait -- JOHN!
ladders		 Extending down through huge open areas beneath the upper level. Past vast underground viaducts that held up by wooden rafters. Beyond that - a great underground sea that marks the center of the planet - below that, the cells. And Ripley.
john		 Can smell the dank air from the lower tunnels. He MUST go down -- The hard way. He climbs into the darkness...
abbot		Cold tonight --
abbot		And every day.  Never this bad.  Taken so much wood out of the structure the surface wind blows right through the colony.  Right under the floor --
abbot		Matthew?  Matthew?  Jesus, what's wrong?
other monks		 In their stalls as the toilets reject a torrent of gore! Blood and viscera spraying the walls -- converting the Abbey into an abattoir.  CUT TO: SPACE  Angle on the Orbitor Arceon:  An orb of wood hands peacefully against a tapestry of celestial seas.  RIPLEY V.O. Death...
ripley		Wherever I go.
ripley		Thanks, but no thanks, Anthony.
anthony		You waiting for meat?  They don't bring me meat because they know I'm an android. Really don't need it.  Bread's better for you anyway.  Harder to digest, so it makes you feel fuller than you are.
ripley		Not hungry.
anthony		Mmmm.  Just a little crunchy.
ripley		Waste of time.
anthony		You don't eat, you'll starve to death, girl.
ripley		That was the plan when they put me down here.  And why should you care?
anthony		Because I'm a synthetic person you don't think I can care?
ripley		Believe me, that's a discussion you don't want to have with me.
anthony		You told me you had a bad experience and a good one with androids --
ripley		That's one of each.  That means you could go either way.  I'm tired of talking about this.
anthony		You've still gotta eat.  You gotta fight the bastards --
ripley		I'm tired of fighting.  Maybe I'll be dead before he finds me.  Maybe he won't get the satisfaction.
anthony		He?  You make it sound like this Alien has a personal score to settle with you. The biology you describe:  Queen laying eggs, larvae, drone -- that's very insectoid.  Insects usually don't bear grudges.
ripley		And Androids usually aren't the prisoners of lunatics that believe they're ancient Greeks.
anthony		Medieval Monks.
ripley		Whatever.
anthony		And they've only chose to live the life style, they don't believe they're --  What's that?
john		 Ripley!
anthony		Hey -- you knocking -- cut it out -- You're going to wake everybody up.
anthony		Brother John?
john		Anthony?  Thought you dead fifteen years.
anthony		Made too good for that.  What're you doing?
john		I -- I'm looking -- the Abbot --
anthony		What?  You look like you've seen the devil.
ripley		I was right, wasn't I?  You've seen it, you've seen the Alien?
ripley		I can tell you have.  I was right. It came with me.  Go away.
ripley		Listen, priest, or whatever you are, I know what you want.  I can't help you. I couldn't help any of the others. Just stop what you're doing.  Go away. Do you understand?
ripley		You going to stay, Father?  But you're not going to talk.  Okay.  Then you can listen.  You should listen.  Your Abbot was right.  I am guilty.  But not of heresy.  Of murder.
ripley		The murder of the crew of the Nostromo. That was when I first met the Alien.
ripley		No, not the same one that's here now. Or maybe it is.  Maybe they're all the same one.  I couldn't save my crew then. I should have been able to.  But I couldn't. When I went the second time --
ripley		Then I met Newt.  Newt.  I fought -- stayed alive to keep Newt alive. Hoped maybe that would make up for...
ripley		Now he got her too.  What's the point?  Just go away.  Leave me in here.  If you let me out you'll want me to help you and it will start all over again. Let it end.
ripley		I can't help you.
john		Puh.  Please.
ripley		It never ends.
anthony		It must be able to take on some of the characteristics of the animal it grows in. Maybe they are from some sort of aggressive soldier race -- warring parties drop the eggs on opposing planets --
ripley		And the alien takes on the form of the creature that finds it, assuming that animal is the dominant life form on the planet.  So when it gestates in a man --
anthony		It's a biped.  In a sheep or cow, a quadroped.
ripley		Shit.  I just didn't think it could do that to animals.
john		Wait a minute - I thought you were the expert on this monster.
ripley		Is that the only reason you came to get me out?  Because I knew about this thing?
john		Yes.  I mean no.  I mean, that was part of it.  Look.  I never thought you were wrong. I was wrong not to say anything.  I was afraid to speak up.  It's hard to be a monk, you know?
ripley		Thank you.  If anything, you're honest.
john		We all are.  Took vows.
ripley		I don't know about the Abbot.
john		I'm sure he thinks what he did was right.
ripley		Is that speaking up for someone?
john		No.  Charity.
ripley		All right, let's forget about the past and get on to our survival.  No more prisoners behind us?
anthony		Not for years.
ripley		Okay -- If the Alien's had a few days to lay his eggs our only hope is to get off this - What is this?
john		Arceon.
anthony		Satellite.
ripley		Get to my ship and get off this Satellite.
john		We can't.
ripley		We can't what?
john		Leave Arceon.  Can't leave the library --
ripley		A Tape Library?
john		Books.
ripley		So?
john		The reason we are out here.  Like the Monks who guarded Monastery Libraries on remote islands off England during the First Plague --
ripley		There must be books on other colonies --
john		Some of these books survived the burning of the Libraries of Alexandria.  They contain knowledge that exists in no other record.  Their value is unestimable.
john		We're supposed to protect them.
ripley		 And what does an android have to do with all this?
john		He's a spy.
anthony		The Company planted me here.
ripley		The Company?  What does the Company have to do with this?
anthony		They built this prison.
ripley		Prison?
john		Colony.
anthony		Prison.  They are all political heretics.
ripley		You left that part out.
john		The order was more of a counter culture, a reaction to the Technology that was beginning to take over everyone's lives. It was a simple enough idea - Read, don't watch disk.  Walk, don't pump more carbons into the air.  The earliest members renounced technology.  Started to collect the remaining books.  Nobody would have noticed if it hadn't been for the Virus.
ripley		Your Abbot talked about that.  The New Plague.
anthony		A computer virus.  A bad program.  By this time the Corporate structure was transglobal, all the world's data storage systems were linked.  It spread through two countries before it was stopped.
john		After a scare like that, thousands flocked to our retreat.  People started clamoring for written information.  For our books. They abandoned the modern ways --
ripley		I think I can see how this comes out. They gave up their possessions.
anthony		This was a threat --
ripley		To the Company.
john		They sold the technology.  A movement to live simply was quickly twisted by Federal agents into a political movement against the Company-controlled World Government.  Too much was at stake.
ripley		Too much profit.
john		We were sentenced as political dissidents. This orbiter is our gulag.  All the men were packed up with all our books, and towed into space.  Ten thousand men.  The eldest died very quickly.
ripley		The Company had such a sense of irony. Sending you out on this wooden tub.
anthony		I was placed among them as a sensor. Keeps tabs on the movement.
ripley		So how'd they find out about you?
anthony		I told them.  After the supply ship's stopped coming I saw no point in keeping up the charade.  Since I was a sort of walking reminder of technology, they cast me down.
ripley		Join the club.  I figured this wasn't planned.  You don't have to be a genius to see it wouldn't be prudent to try to preserve man's written works for generations -- without women.
ripley		And I don't know about your New Plague, but I was just on Earth and everything's fine.
ripley		I was right about the Alien, wasn't I? Means I must be right about the Earth.
john		 Perhaps.
ripley		That's better than nothing.  Come on.
ripley		At any rate, let's forget about the Earth completely - whether you're right or I'm right what's important is getting the hell out of here.  From here my ship is...?
anthony		In Heaven.
ripley		Right.  And this is...
anthony		This orbiter was patterned after a medieval concept of the universe --  They call the top half "Heaven - "
john		The Abbey, the fields --
anthony		The bottom half is "Hell."  Where we are.
ripley		Aptly named.  What's in the middle?
john		The sea.
anthony		Really.
ripley		Work with me here.  How far is it back to the surface of the planet?
john		As a stone falls --- Five miles through the center.
ripley		And the elevator -- the thing they lowered me down in?
anthony		It's smart.  First he cuts their escape off, then works his way down through the monastery level by level until there isn't a thing left alive.  Interesting...
ripley		Well, you start appreciating him more than me and I'll find a way to shut you down, capisce, Andy?  How do we get up?
john		There are ladders.
ripley		Five miles with the Alien between us and there?  Good luck, boys.
john		You can't --
ripley		Can't what?  Not help you go to your deaths?  I've had my fill of that.
john		I need you.  I can't do it alone.
ripley		I've fought these creatures twice before.  It take a lot to kill these things.  Heavy artillery.
anthony		We don't have weapons here.
ripley		How about something we can make weapons from?  Do you have anything like that -- any modern things here?
john		We renounced technology.  It was those things that caused the Plague.
ripley		This is a man-made planet.  Something has to be recirculating your air, your water.
john		God?
ripley		Please.
john		I don't know.  I just took it for granted.
ripley		Most people do.  Without some sort of technology we haven't got a chance.
anthony		There is technology.
anthony		A room.  A Technology room.  Fresh air and water come out.
ripley		An atmosphere processing plant --
anthony		The heart and lungs of Arceon.
ripley		Where is it?
anthony		One level beneath the underground sea.
john		That's five levels up --
anthony		 On the other side of the orbiter.
john		A chance.
ripley		All right.  You've got me - so far. But here's the deal:  I don't know how many of your brethren are going to be alive when we get up there, but if we make it to my ship, you're all coming with me.  We'll take as many of your precious books as we can carry, but we're going.  I'm not going to fight this thing again to end up alone again.  Understand?
ripley		We're all dead anyway.  We might as well go fi --
ripley		Ugh - I'm all right.
ripley		Still thawing out.  I hate hyper sleep... Come on.
the monks		 Descend the ladders single file.  Fear is in all of their faces though most have only heard the stories.  They move cautiously into the wheat.  Spread out through the field in the jaggedly drawn skirmish line.
the abbot		 The Bald Tribunal Monk's dried blood splattered on his cassock, stands atop an empty wooden wagon.  From this vantage point he watches
abbot		 Stay together.  Together...
abbot		Run!  RUN!
abbot		No - NO.  The --
ripley		What?
john		Those things you said before --
john		I read about it in psychology books. Sometimes when people outlive someone they cared for, they transfer some of the guilt for that person's death to themselves.
ripley		I got a belly full of that from the Psychtechs when I was on Earth.  Yeah. "Survivor Guilt syndrome," or something like that.  But that's not what I was thinking about.  I was thinking about my "friend" up there.
ripley		He was on the pod.  He killed Newt but not me.  Why not me?  It's almost like he's playing with me.  Maybe they have some sort of race memory.  Maybe he knows what I did to his "mother." That's why he didn't just kill me. That would be too easy.  He has to torment me.
john		You make it sound human.
ripley		Hell, I don't know what it is.
john		I think I do.
ripley		 Down the corridor HEARS the scream, turns back -- sees Anthony fighting with himself, struggling against John's grasp -
anthony		 Balanced precariously on the top of the ladder in the real world as he fights against the demons in his android mind -- He JERKS -- Pulls his left ankle out of the grasp of the DEMON SHEEP -- OFF the ladder - forty foot drop waiting below him...
john		Jesus Christ.  Ripleeeee -!
anthony		 SEES a horrible BIRD-DEMON grasping his hand in its beak -- BITING through his wrist.  He waves his staff in the air -- He aims for its head: CRACK -! WHACKS John's hand with his staff --  John HOWLS in pain - LETS GO --  Anthony TEETERS BACK ON ONE FOOT, arms waving in the air --  Ripley's hands SHOOT OUT -- GRAB Anthony's cassock -- STOP his fall.  Anthony's eyes open wide at the sight of this new horror -- A terrible, wet, black cable-armed CREATURE that's latched itself onto his cassock -- Long, shiny head. Ripley has become the Alien.  WHACK! Anthony HITS the Creature with his staff -- HITS Ripley on the head. WHACK! Again.  In the face.  John tries to take hold of Anthony's staff arm -- WHACK! The cane WHIPS against the side of his head, knocking him back. Ripley sets her feet and pulls on Anthony's cassock -- Opens her mouth - GRUNTS --  ANTHONY sees the terrible Alien open it's maw to devour him.  WHACK! His staff connects with the bridge of Ripley's nose. She sees flashes of light -- loses her balance -- Pitches forward, starts to go over with Anthony --  JOHN GRABS THEM!  Wraps his arms around the struggling pair and like a sumo wrestler LIFTS and FALLS backwards - carrying the three of them into the corridor -- WHUMPH!  They land on the floor in a heap. Anthony continues to FLAIL ABOUT --  Ripley and John pin him to the floor between them. Finally, the vision leaves him. He loses consciousness.
ripley		Thanks.
john		You're welcome.
ripley		I'm all right.
john		Hold this against your nose.  It'll stop the flow.
john		I'm a doctor.
anthony		No - please.  Just let me sit. Awhile.
anthony		Damn it.
ripley		What was that?
anthony		The reason I'm down here.
john		Visions.
anthony		Dreams.
ripley		Androids can't dream...
anthony		That's probably what they thought when they built me.  But my brain is cyber- organic - patterned after the human brain - it functions the same way a human brain does.  It accumulates random images and sensations during waking hours, but unlike the human brain that sloughs them off during sleep --
ripley		Androids don't sleep.
anthony		Right.  Maybe they've fixed this on later models, but I don't.  Do you know what happens to the human brain when it is deprived of sleep?  It starts to run off the dreams while you're awake, as hallucinations.  Same thing with me. For twenty years I absorbed data on this planetoid.  A little after we lost contact with Earth the visions started.  They thought I was insane.  I had to explain that it was because I was an android. They liked that even less.
ripley		What did you see?
anthony		What I always see.  Images of Monsters. Demons.
john		They're portents.  They stand for an evil yet to come.
anthony		Just images I've absorbed from those old books and have no way to get rid of.
ripley		I saw the inside of your cell.
anthony		 My head is full of them.  I try to get them out any way I can.
john		You need sleep.
anthony		I know that.  I'll settle for rest.
ripley		Stay with him.
john		No.  We all need rest.  You especially.
john		Doctor's orders.
john		Besides, you see what happens when you get ahead of us.  We should stay together.
ripley		All right.  He's still above us, anyway.
john		What do you mean?
ripley		I've faced this evil twice before - I guess I've gotten sensitive to it --  You're really a Doctor?
john		See my bag?
ripley		What's that book?
john		Just a book.
ripley		I don't buy "just a book" from a guy who says we can't leave the planet without the library.
john		It's just... a medical book I might need.
ripley		You don't have any food in there, do you?
john		Only if you can eat bandages.
ripley		In a few hours that's going to sound good.  Going in and out of suspended animation - Christ I probably haven't eaten in a year.
anthony		 You should've eaten the bread.
john		You all right?
ripley		Aces.
john		You weren't hurt when I landed on you? Bruised a rib?
ripley		Are you sure you're a doctor?
john		Sort of.  My father passed on when we first came here.  The Abbey's Physician - Father Anselm - took me in.  He really raised me --  Taught me what he could before he passed away.  He was schooled on Earth.
ripley		Well, I'm just hungry.
john		You haven't eaten since I took you out of your tube.
ripley		You did that...
ripley		You burned yourself on the escape pod.
ripley		Thank you, I guess.
anthony		Enough rest.  There's beasties afoot.
john		Blood.  Mixed with sea water.
anthony		We're getting close to the center of the arc -- near the sea.
ripley		Blood.
john		Getting close...
ripley		The Abbot.
john		Father --
ripley		 What are you doing down here, father? You look like you've seen something that doesn't exist.
abbot		I was their spiritual leader.  I was not prepared to lead them in battle. Not against that thing.
john		No one could be.
ripley		I thought you said the evil was inside me -- that sealing me up was the answer to all your problems?
abbot		Destruction.  The destruction YOU brought to us!
ripley		I only tried to warn you.
abbot		What are you doing with this woman --?
john		We are going to the Technology Room. Trying to find some way to fight --
abbot		You don't join the devil to fight the devil.
anthony		She's helping us --
abbot		Look who defends the deceiver -- the one who isn't even human.  John, can't you see what is happening?  On ancient Earth, during the Black Death - many believed that God had abandoned them, so they appealed to the Devil.  Flocked to him hoping to save their bodies - losing their souls in the bargain.
ripley		Father, we're all on the run from the same monster so let's not resort to the fire and brimstone routine.  I've been enlightened about your "movement." Pretty funny to be tried for heresy on a planet of heretics.
john		Please.
abbot		All right.  I was trying to keep you quiet.
john		Sir --?
abbot		I do what I have to do to keep the Brotherhood together.  We all gave up believing in Earth a long time ago.  How do you think they would feel if told their exiled was in vain?  That the holocaust they were trying to avoid never occured?  Those men up there have grown to live with it.
ripley		And with you as their leader.
abbot		You threatened the status quo.
ripley		So you, protector of knowledge and truth, lied to them.
abbot		Only about you.  The rest I still believe.  If Earth still orbits its sun there is no way it could have survived being reduced to Barbarism.
ripley		You're as bad as the Company.
john		Ripley --
ripley		That's why you ran.  After all your talk death stared you in the face and you were afraid.
abbot		Not afraid of death.
ripley		The Alien.
anthony		The Organism.
abbot		The Devil.
abbot		What was that?
anthony		Man trap.
anthony		In case anyone tried to get in and tamper with the technology.
abbot		What do we do?
ripley		Don't move.  Don't breath.
abbot		We can't just stand here and wait.
ripley		Floor's too unstable to try to walk around them.
abbot		John - what are you doing?
ripley		He's thinking like a leader.  Everyone: Grab wood.  Spring the traps.  Clear a path.  Good work, Father John.
john		Brother.
ripley		Brother.  Let's go.
the four		 Slowly make their way down the corridor, one hand holding a candle high, the other poking a piece of wood into the trap in front of them... SNAP-SNAP...SNAP. SNAP. walking carefully around the yet unfired traps....
john		I just - are you allright?
ripley		Tied.  Without sleep, food -- I just feel my age.  Figuring hyperspace time, I'm almost a hundred.
john		Hello?
john		I think this is it.
abbot		Technology.
ripley		Yeah - a hundred years ago.  An antique.
abbot		 Go ahead.
ripley		Go ahead and what?
abbot		Open the door, woman.
ripley		I'll get to it, but listen to me -- you may dress like you're living in the middle ages but you can't treat me like your chambermaid, or whatever Monks had.
the alien		 Adapted itself to look like WOOD.  It's body changes -- transmutes -- Cable-like sinew snaking over grained limbs to approximate the more traditional bio- mechnoid alien appearance...!
anthony pov		 The weary android sees the Alien as a conglommoration of his many Medieval images of demons.  He hears the Alien's hollow, raspy breath.  It glides towards him...  Anthony steps back directly INTO A TRAP as his mind goes -- SNAP!! The STEEL JAWS spring shut on his left ankle. Milky blood-fluid starts to flow.  He finds himself in the same predicament as his vision -- Ankle pinned, the Alien's appendages circling him -- He screams.  AAAAAAAAAAAARGH --!
abbot		OPEN IT!!
the alien		 Steps towards Anthony -- Snap-snap-SNAP-AP-!! Traps snap closed on its tail, its legs --
john		 Picks up Anthony's staff. Begins to FLAIL away at the demon.
abbot		What's wrong?!
ripley		Shit.
john		 WHACKS the Alien with Anthony's staff -- Again.  Again.  The creature will not let Anthony go. The Android writhes in its grasp, his face now a blistered, pulpy mass, eyes gone.
ripley		 Finishes hot wiring.  The keyboard hums to life. Her fingers FLY across the keys --
the alien		 Tail wraps around John's waist -- Pulls him towards it -- LIFTS him - turns him upside down --  Lips PULL BACK --  John's hands GROPE at the floor --  Sharp metal teeth SPREAD --
john		 His hand closes around the end of one of the traps -- He brings it up -- SNAP!! It SLAMS closed on the Alien's extended Tongue -! The Beast bellows!! Whips its head from side to side -- Can't shake off the trap -- ACID BLOOD sprays out --! Lands as pools of FIRE on the wooden floor.
ripley		It's open!!
john		 PRIES Anthony's ankle out of his trap. Scoops up his staff, drags the moaning Android -- Back up the corridor --
abbot		Close it -- close it -- it's coming -
ripley		We wait.  John!!
the alien		 Acid Blood DISSOLVES the traps' steel jaws.  PULLS itself free. Head whips towards the escaping Monks -- if it had eyes they would narrow to slits in anger -- RUNS up the hall --
abbot		Hurry --
john		HURRY!!
the alien		 Yards away -- Limping.  Hissing. ANGRY.
the keyboard		 Acceptance tone "bings." The Door starts to slide down --  The Alien is feet away -- INCHES...  The door seats itself closed with a solid THUD.  Ripley, panting, rests eyes closed against the rough wooden door.  A beat. She turns to the room for the first time and finds --
windmills		 Real Man of LaMancha wood and cloth windmills.  Two story high arms slowly rotating.  Moving enormous volumes of air through the wind tunnel-like room.  As far as the eye can see. Turning, creaking. WHOOSH...WHOOSH... But no electronics.  No radio.  No weapons. This is the Technology Room.  Ripley collapses to the floor and loses consciousness.  DISSOLVE TO:  INT. SULACO ESCAPE SHIP #4   Yellow warning lights PULSE.  Those goddamned STROBES are flickering on and off.  Steam blasts out overhead pipes.  The blue-spark pilot light muzzles of a FLAME THROWER shyly pokes out from behind a console.  It's owner cautiously follows...
ripley		 She's breathing heavy. She's wearing a sweat soaked tank top. Her eyes flit from side to side.  Then up.  Then down. She pokes the weapon out ahead of her and moves into the pod. She silently crosses the distance to Newt's sleep tube:
ripley		No.  NO!  I beat you!  I beat you mother fucker!!
john		I thought we'd lost you.
ripley		What are you writing?
john		Last will and testament.  Just kidding.
ripley		Is he --?
john		Resting.  He'll be fine.
anthony		No I won't.  He's a terrible liar.
ripley		I'm sorry.
anthony		It's ironic.  I guess my visions were prescience after all.  How will I ever resolve that with my artifical con- science?
abbot		Do you see what you've delivered us into?
ripley		Yeah.  Lead me not into temptation to kick your -- ahh --
ripley		Oh shit.
ripley		Where is the Big Boy -?
abbot		On the other side of that door. Waiting for us to starve to death.
ripley		It's playing with us.  It could get in here any time it wants.
abbot		Why should he enter?  He knows that one of the people in this room is in league with him.
john		Sir.  We're all in the same coracle, so to speak.
abbot		Maybe more than one of us.
ripley		Let's talk about the facts, Mr. Abbot.
ripley		This is your technology?
abbot		Even this is forbidden to us.
ripley		Well then, the facts are that we're screwed.
ripley		An Eco system.  Nothing to recycle your atmosphere except the green plants.  Winds generated down here --  Windmills use the natural surface winds to turn wheels underground, create tides on the seas to recirculate your water...
anthony		More than that.  There are pumps beneath the floor - I can feel their vibration.
ripley		Probably pumping this air through charcoal filters.
ripley		It gets colder all the time here, right?
john		Yes...
ripley		Your wood burning fires throw soot into the atmosphere, building the cloud layer - cutting off the sun's rays - cooling the planet, forcing you to burn more wood.
anthony		The Greenhouse Effect.  It's how the Earth almost destroyed itself in the late 20th century.
ripley		Don't you see?  This is a planet set to self destruct.  Not in ten minutes or two hours but soon.  Your atmosphere here is finite.  If the plants die the fires will eat up all the oxygen - this planetoid will be dead - Everyone will die.
abbot		It's here.  I was just hoping I would be dead long before it came to this.
john		What?
abbot		We're supposed to die here.  That's the point.
ripley		Wait a minute -- you were exiled --?
abbot		The punishment for our crime was death.
anthony		This planet is the supreme triumph of planned obsolesence.  A certain amount of primitive materials with an atmosphere processing system as fragile as a real environment but not replenishable.
abbot		Poetic justice for the anti-technologists. The Company's best work.  You know, I used to be a corporate executive.  Middle range V.P.  Then my wife got hit by a speed craft. I chucked it all and joined the order. Be a monk -- see the world.  Being here, being chairman of the board...
ripley		No, now I understand why I landed here. To join you happy lunatics in your deaths.
john		Ripley, wait --
abbot		Where can she go?  She's trapped.  Trapped inside her own prison.  A prison in her mind.  Inside her mind.  Dancing. Sparklets of light - dance with the june bugs in the recesses of ourmindstheyare coming to danceintheshadowof...
abbot		RidingthewildwindsofchangeNoescapeNo escapeforthewickedEvilEvilthynameis woman.Woman.Womanheiscoming.Heiscoming foryouuuuuuuuu --*
ripley		BASTARD!!  It came out of his fucking head!
anthony		I didn't have to see that to know what that means.
ripley		He sent him to us.  That bastard outside. I can't get away from him.  He's fucking with my mind.  He's my punishment!
anthony		I'm confused.  Before you said it came out of the torso, not the head --
ripley		I don't feel like a discussion of Alien biology.
john		Ripley, don't --
ripley		I should just wait for the air to run out...
john		I believe - I know - that we can win -- there is an answer in our books.
ripley		Your books?  Your books are gone, Brother. Your world is gone.  Once that thing starts to lay its eggs, all your brothers - if they aren't already - are dead.
ripley		What?
anthony		There are several inconsistancies between this and the other Aliens you described.
ripley		Give it up.
anthony		I think this is important.  This may help us fight it.  The creature that I fought in the hall - when I first saw it, it had camoflaged itself to look like wood.
ripley		Wood?  When I saw it in my room it looked the way it did before -- black, mechanical -- unless that was a dream.
anthony		I don't think it was.  I think that this creature, if it is the efficient predator that you say it is, has the ability to adapt to its environment.
ripley		Then the reason they've always looked the same to me is that I only ever saw them in the same environment.
anthony		Or this may be an as yet unseen stage of development -- you saw a queen -- This could be like a King ant -- more highly advanced than the drone, bred for survival -?
john		How does this explain the thing that came out of the ewe's chest?  The Abbot's head?
ripley		Maybe it can deposit different types of eggs.  The chest burster is probably dormant until the host eats - The first one I ever saw came out of Kane after he started to eat --
ripley		No.
john		No what?
ripley		No, we're not beat yet, Father --
john		Brother --
ripley		Brother.  Not yet.  If he's taunting me, then maybe we can use that.  We can beat this bastard.  We can get to my ship. We can live.
anthony		Don't have second thoughts.  Blind and crippled I would only slow you down. Give him time to figure out what you're doing.  Just leave me my staff.
ripley		Okay.  Good luck.
anthony		Ripley, I know.  Good luck.
ripley		Sit tight.
ripley		He could be waiting on the other side of that door.  We might not get ten feet before he kills the three of us.
john		We had better go, then.
john		Must be day on the surface of the planet.
ripley		Where is the light coming from?
john		Mirrors.  Reflect the outside light down great shafts -- through lenses.  That's what they make in the glass factory. Lenses.  Look --
john		Opens to the surface.  Water flows in and out.  I don't know how.  There's one at either end.  I came down on the other side.
ripley		What do we do?
john		We cross.
anthony		Now the seer can only see what God wants him to.  Forty years on a planet of Monks and I've finally found religion.
anthony		John?  Ripley?
anthony		Well come then.  I haven't got forever.
ripley		Your hands okay?
john		They'll be fine.  You've been on a boat before.
ripley		I was a warrant officer on a ship -- but I did all my sailing in space.
ripley		How old were you when they towed this satellite out here?
john		Five.  The Abbot said they put us to sleep for the thirty years it took to get here.  We've had almost forty more.  Until now.
ripley		What happened to your mother?
john		Never had one.  I mean, never knew her. I mean, I did, once.  She left my father when he joined the movement.  If she hadn't I wouldn't be here.  They kept the other children with the women, on Earth.  That was too long ago now.  Like a dream.
ripley		Did you know that I was a mother?
john		The girl in the ship with -?
ripley		No.  On Earth.  I never mentioned my daughter.  My daughter.  I have - had I guess, by now - a daughter on Earth. Kathy.  She was nine when I signed on to the Nostromo.  Mommy will be home before you know it I said.  My shares would have set us up good.  Then I lost sixty years floating around in a rescue pod.  Thanks to the Alien.  I came home to face a bitter, 70 year old woman.  My daughter.  A little girl who's mother never came home.
john		Jesus Christ.
ripley		They said I should have been happy to be alive.  Funny, huh?  That's why I went back the second time.  Not so I could fight it -- You can't fight it -- So I could let it kill me.
john		You didn't choose to get lost in space.
ripley		Thanks for the try Father --
john		Brother.
ripley		Brother, but I'm not looking for absolution. I couldn't be a good mother to my daughter. I couldn't be a good mother to Newt.  But I can be a good mother to you.  I can make sure you survive.
ripley		Blood.
john		From the levels above.
john		He must have slaughtered all --
ripley		Don't think about it.  Don't think about what's up there.  Just row.
a shape		 Passes underneath the boat.  A swimming CREATURE.  The Alien. Thanks to the reflective qualities of water, it appears HUGE. Dwarfs their coracle.
ripley		Holy shit.
john		There's Andrew.  And Raphael.  Peter...
ripley		Stop.  How far?
john		We're right below the Abbey now.
the monastery		 Flickering fires lit the first few floor windows. Ripley takes a step towards it -- Reaches back and pulls John...
john		This is the glassworks.  They have tools here --  Kyle --
kyle		 Can't see my baby. Don't see my baby.  Bay be.
john		Kyle.  Brother Kyle.
kyle		Cards on the floor, fifty two pickup. Black king on red queen, put the ace up --
john		Kyle goddammit!
ripley		John - it's too late --
kyle		Ace up.  Put the ace up.  Redaceupup. Blackaceup.Up.Pup-pup-pup-chaka- boomloommawhacka -- Booomalooma looma --
john		Keep singing, my friend.
john		I killed him.  I'm a doctor and I killed him.
ripley		You had to.  You're supposed to end suffering.
ripley		Let's get the hell out of here.
ripley		He's made a mess.
john		No.  He hasn't been up here yet.  I did this.
john		Here - philosophy - we'll start here --
john		Mattias!
ripley		I'm glad.  Really.  But we've probably only got a few minutes before this entire place goes up in flames.  Just grab whatever books you want and --
the alien		 Standing in the open doorway. It's in bad shape from the man traps. Lost a foot.  Tongue hanging out, useless. Parts of it look like wood.  Parts of it look like wheat.  It carries Anthony's waterlogged, limp body -- POPS off his head like a grape from the bunch. Tosses the corpse at Ripley's feet.  I could swear it's trying to smile.
john		Easy, boy...
ripley		Is there another way out?
john		Not that will do us any good.
john		We hurt it.
ripley		You wanna give it a bandage?  Look -- Where is my ship from here?
john		On the roof directly above this room.
ripley		Here's the plan --
john		But the books --
ripley		Forget the books!
ripley		Shit.
mattias		 Snaps and barks at the Alien -- Leaping about to dodge its claws. Draws its attention --
john		No!  THE BOOKS!!
ripley		Don't --!
john		Are you all right?
ripley		 Tries to pull herself up to the floor above -- The next level is a raging fire.  She can only hang and DROP.  She DOES -! Falls the two stories. Bends her knees and ROLLS on impact.
john		Ripley -!
ripley		Aargh.  I'm fine.  Let's get the fuck out of --
john		Ripley - the lever!!
john		Saw that happen to a bottle once.
ripley		 Beat... Beat him - ugh --
john		We've got to get to the Library --
ripley		Don't worry.  Ship.  Just --
ripley		Don't be stupid --
john		Some of them!  I've got to save some of them!  Mattias!!
ripley		They're lost.  You did your best.  If you get out, it wasn't in vain. We've got to live!!
john		The Library --
ripley		I told you -- the Earth is still there --
ripley		Not working.
john		What does that mean?
ripley		It means I don't know how long I was in hyper sleep.
john		It means the Abbot could've been right --
ripley		It means my clock isn't working.  We have to get out of here.  Even if he was right this ship's onboard computer is filled with man's knowledge.
john		Not everything.  Some things will be lost forever.
ripley		Then man starts over.  He's done it before.
ripley		Okay.  The seals weren't broken so we're probably clear.  But those dead monks out there are going to start hatching soon.  Let's get ready to take off.
john		What can I do?
ripley		Here, I need a compressor tank from in that compartment.
john		Hey!  What?!
john		Hey - I'm locked in.
ripley		I know.  I locked you in.
john		What?
ripley		I'm not going with you.  I've got one inside me.
john		What?!  You can't --
ripley		I figured it out.  That's why it didn't kill me.  He must have impregnated me when I was in the stasis tube.  It hasn't come out yet because I haven't eaten, It's still dormant.  So either I eat and it kills me or I don't eat and I starve to death.  Either way I die.
ripley		What, an exorcism?  No good.
john		You can't do this.  Ripley - listen to me - you're confusing feeling of guilt for actual sin - I can help you --
ripley		 I've set a time lock.  When the pod escapes the Colony's gravitational pull this compartment will open.  Then all you have to do is get into the Stasis tube with Mattias and press the blue button.  With any luck a freighter or something will pick you up.  Good luck.
john		NO!  No, Goddammit - you can't do this. You can't let it win.
ripley		It always wins.  We killed it, but it's still inside me -- You're my last chance. If I can keep you alive it'll make up for all those I've lost.
john		Listen to me!  You have to let me try! Ripley:  You're MY only chance!
john		I told you Father Anselm raised me. He raised me and when he was dying I couldn't do anything to save him.  I didn't know enough.  It was my fault he died.  If you don't let me try to save you my body will live but my soul will be dead.
john		Please.
ripley		What is this stuff?
john		 Something that will make you well. Something that will make you sick.
ripley		I don't --
john		Shut up and drink.
ripley		Why?
john		Choking.  It was the only way.  He drops the open book in front of her: She sees the etching.
john		They knew.
ripley		But you --
ripley		You'll die --
john		You... are from the real world.
john		Stay -- both of you.
ripley		No - wait!  John!
brother john		 Dawn's rays are peeking through the battered ceiling as he walks slowly across the smoking roof. Into the inferno that is the burning Abbey.  Ripley watches as John and the alien horror inside him are INCINERATED.  The heat of the flames grows. She must pull back -- Reaches up for the door handle. It closes with a THUD.  She rolls onto her back. She weeps.  For the first time in years. She's been absolved.  CREeeek -!! The escape pod SHIFTS. Ripley's eyes SNAP open --  The Roof beneath the Pod is beginning to GIVE WAY.  Ripley rolls onto her stomach and drags herself to the pilot's chair.  Pulls herself into the seat. Straps herself in --
john's parchment		 Ripley picks it up and unrolls it. She hears John's voice:  JOHN V.O. I, Brother John Goldman of the orbiter Arceon, Minorite abbey and gaol, know the Abbot was wrong.  There is a great evil here.  I have seen it.  I put pen to paper now lest this plague - this creature stills my hand.  I have gone down below - both to try to warn the others and get the woman - Ripley - get from her some clue as to how to battle this evil, or at least to make my peace for not defending her.  She believes there is still and Earth and I hope she is right. I hope she will be able to find out. I hope she can find some rest for the devils that torment her.  Ripley looks at the elapsed time counter on the command console.  Pulls a pen from it's holder.  She adds:  RIPLEY V.O. Whether the Earth exists or not, whether we end up in Heaven, or Hell, or the cold vacuum of space, she has.  She sets her course. Gets back into her tube. Closes the lid.
deep space		 The escape pod moves through the jet-black void...
arceon		 Dwindles into the darkness behind her, a smouldering, slowly dying ember...  THE SCREEN GOES BLACK
****Dialogues from script :Alien_Nation.txt****

crais		That was the scene in California's Mojave Desert three years ago today -- the historic first view of the Newcomer ship upon its dramatic arrival.  As with the assassination of John Kennedy, who among us does not remember exactly where he was that October nineteenth morning, when news first broke: that people have landed... from another star.
fedorchuk		I remember where I was -- pissing off my balcony at the neighbor's dog!
alterez		 Get to the goddamn ball scores!
crais		These "Newcomers," we soon learned, were a genetically-engineered race, adapted for hard labor in almost any environmental condition.  In effect, their ship was a slave ship... washed ashore on Earth with no way to get back to where they came from...
fresno housewife		When the Newcomers were first let out of the ship, they were quarantined in a camp not ten miles from the town here.  You can imagine how the people around here felt about that.  But once they were releases from the camp and we got a chance to know them, we saw what nice, quiet people they really are...
fedorchuk		Hey, Henry, how you doin' tonight? Workin' hard?
fedorchuk		You got your green card, buddy?  You didn't leave home without it?
sykes		Jeez... they call that gang-bang a game...?
sykes		Take a hike.
sykes		Why's it have to be sour milk that these guys get wasted on?  What the hell's wrong with Jack Daniels, or Thunderbird for chrissakes?  Slagtown.  Shit...
sykes		Hope their plumbing's the same.
tuggle		It is. 
sykes		How can I go?
tuggle		Put on your wash-and-wear suit and your clip-on tie, have your landlady tie your shoes for you, and show up at the church.  Simple.  Me and Carol are going.
sykes		What?
tuggle		Hey, look -- we've known Kristin since... since she was conceived in that cabin up in Big Bear. Remember?  You and Edie banged the wall so hard, me and Carol were picking plaster out of our hair for a week...
sykes		Goddammit, Tug -- I want to see Kristin get married, okay?  But--
tuggle		But you're bummed because your ex and her new husband are paying for the whole thing.
sykes		Shit, if Kristin had to get married where I could afford it, we'd be holding the reception at Buddy's Burgers.
sykes		Uh-oh... Check it out.
sykes		Does that look at all suspicious to you?
tuggle		Whatever gave you that idea?
tuggle		This is one-Henry-seven, we've got a possible two-eleven in progress at Porter's Mini-Mart, corner of Court and Alvarado.  Requesting backup.
sykes		Let's do it, partner.
sykes		You got your vest?
tuggle		Of course.  Right in the trunk of the car.
sykes		Yeah, that's comforting.  Mine, too.
tuggle		Watch the driver.  I'm going for a better angle on the door.
sykes		I got him.  Don't get pinned.
sykes		 Aw, shit.
sykes		Get outta there!
tuggle		I can't!  Do you mind!
sykes		I'll cover you!  Get outta there!!
old man		Can I get out now?
tuggle		Move it!
sykes		Aw shit, Tug, Jesus!  Goddamn it!
human cop		Whoa, whoa... hold it.  Take it easy.  You okay?
jetson		I am all right.
human cop		I better call in.
jetson		Your hand will require attention.
sykes		Get the hell away from me!  I don't need your goddamn help.
natuzzi		Looks like a standard combat pump- action.
minkler		It is.
natuzzi		So what punched holes clear through that car out there?
minkler		BRI Sabot slugs.  These puppies are nasty.  Two plastic sabots fall away in flight leaving a fifty-caliber slug going two thousand feet per second.  Tug might as well've been hiding behind a rosebush.
natuzzi		Pretty heavy artillery for knocking over a liquor store.
minkler		Yeah?  So why the extra fire power?
jetson		Perhaps because even the larger caliber handguns aren't always effective against my people.
sykes		 You saying there's some connection to this other homicide?
female cop		Hey, give me a hand with this woman, will ya Jetson?  We've got to get her to Division for her statement and she won't budge.
jetson		 Excuse me.
sykes		So, you think there's a connection, or what?  Hey!
kristin's voice		 Danny thought Tug was the greatest -- but, then, who doesn't?  Anyway, love you, talk to you soon.  'Bye.
sykes		So what've you got on Tuggle's killers?
fedorchuk		Jesus, Sykes -- it's been less than ten hours.  Me and Alterez are on it, okay?
sykes		You don't have squat.
fedorchuk		You ever try to make a case in Slagtown?  The list of Newcomer informants is about as long as the list of Mexican war heroes...
alterez		Up yours.
fedorchuk		... Nobody talks to nobody down there.  Half of them don't speak English and the other half only when it suits them.  It's gonna take some time.
sykes		Yeah, I know it's gonna take time. Like until the Ice Capades opens in Hell, with you two on it.
warner		Nobody wanders off!  I got an announcement.  Get your asses back in here.
warner		I'll make this short.  This is a directive from Chief Evaner, who is acting on orders from the Mayor, who is under mandate from the Federal Bureau of Newcomer Relations.  As of nine o'clock this morning, one Newcomer uniform officer has been promoted to the rank of Detective, third grade.
warner		And we've got him, gentleman.  Volunteers for duty with the new detective should see me in my office... otherwise I will choose a volunteer myself.  That is all.
fedorchuk		Unbelievable bullshit.
alterez		How long has this Slag been on the force?  A year, max -- right?
detective		I don't know about the rest of you, but I sure as hell ain't gonna sit still for this.  I'm calling the union, pronto.
fedorchuk		Where the hell is he going?
warner		Yeah, Sykes?
sykes		Captain.  I'd like to volunteer for duty with the new detective.
warner		... All right.  Detective Sergeant Sykes, this is Detective... Jetson.
jetson		We have met.
goldrup		Victor Goldrup, Mayor's office. Congratulations, gentlemen.
warner		 You are to have nothing to do with the investigation into Bill Tuggle's death.  You know that.  Leave that for Fedorchuk.
sykes		 Departmental policy.
warner		 You?
jetson		Yes, sir.
warner		Good.
sykes		There's another case I'd like to take.  A homicide -- a Newcomer named Hubley.
warner		Granger and Pitts are already on it.
sykes		Granger and Pitts have one hell of a caseload... and I would have thought with Jetson here being the first Newcomer plainclothes, and Hubley's body being found over in the Newcomer community...
warner		Don't tell me what to think.
goldrup		He's got a point.  That's the sort of thing we should be doing with this early advancement program...
sykes		... and we work my hours.  I'll do the driving, you do the paperwork. You gotta learn it so you might as well do it all.
jetson		 Sergeant... I'd like to thank you for what you're doing.
sykes		What's that?  Look, Jetson.  Get this straight in your head.  We're not pals, we're not married, and we ain't gonna take long moonlight walks together... We're just partners.  And don't call me Sergeant.  Call me Sykes... or Matt if you have to.
jetson		I am George.
sykes		Wait a minute.  George?  George Jetson?
sykes		 Man, somebody really hung one on you!  I've heard some good ones for you guys... Humphrey Bogart, Harley Davidson.  I guess the people at immigration got a little punchy after a while, coming up with names for a quarter of a million of you. You weren't at the back of the line, were you, George?
jetson		My true name is Ss'tangya T'ssorentsa'.
sykes		Gesundheit.  You don't mind if I stick to George, do you?
sykes		Anyway, what's it matter to you if we think it's funny, right?  Whatta you care?
jetson		That is exactly so.  It is like your name... Sykes.  I'm sure it doesn't bother you at all that it sounds like "ss'ai k'ss", two words in my language which mean "excrement" and "cranium".
jetson		"Shit... head".
sykes		Let's talk Hubley.
jetson		 His body was discovered three days ago, in an alley off of Central Avenue, near downtown.
sykes		With two BRI Sabot slugs in the chest.
jetson		 Through the chest.  Rupturing both the primary and secondary hearts.
sykes		 Nice signal, dickwad!
jetson		He was employed at the Northwest Petroleum Refinery in Torrance.  He was manager of the Methane Facility. He was also a principle partner in a real estate venture to develop low- cost housing for Newcomers.
sykes		Terrific.  A real pillar of the community.  Was Hubley missing anything when they found him?  Was he ripped off?
jetson		 There was no wallet... but he was still wearing a watch and two rings.
sykes		The guys at the mini-mart last night made a half-assed stab at the money in the till -- but I don't think that's what they were there for.  I think we got us a couple'a executions on our hands, George...
jetson		The murder at the mini-mart is not our case.  The Captain said--
sykes		Look, you want to fit in here, right?  You want to learn how to get along?
jetson		Yes.
sykes		Well, there's a thing about partners, about being somebody's partner.  You do for each other. And other people's rules don't mean shit.  It's the rules set up between the two of you, that's all that counts.  Understand?  Okay.  Well, my friend and partner was shot last night and I'm after the shitbag that did it.  As my partner, I'm asking you to respect me and help me find him.
jetson		And as my partner, I ask you to respect me and my desire not to break with procedure.
jetson		What is wrong?
sykes		 Nothing's wrong.  I just want to get something straight.  You agree that there's a good chance these two shootings are somehow related, right?
jetson		Well... yes, quite possibly.
sykes		Possibly.  Good.  Well, would you be willing to accept the theory, George, that... possibly... by examining the evidence from one case we might shed some small ray of light on the other?  Does that sound unreasonable to you?
jetson		Yes... no, it is not unreasonable. Although I--
sykes		Great.  Well, I'm sure glad that's settled, aren't you?
sykes		I think we're really starting to click now, George -- hmmm?
winter		You know I've been over all this with Fedorchuk and Alterez this morning...
sykes		Come on.  You got nothin' better to do, cushy county job like yours.
winter		Yeah, right.  Don't push your luck. Anyway, according to the sheet, the guy you nailed outside by the car--
sykes		The human?
winter		Yeah... he was one Martin Helder. White male, twenty-seven.  Let's see... wrap sheet shows one armed robbery conviction, a couple for sale of a controlled substance. Oh yeah, and he was wired on coke when you stopped his clock.
jetson		Have you identified this one?
winter		So far he's a John Doe.  Or a Sam Slag, if you like.
winter		No I.D. on him and -- well, you know, no fingerprints -- so it could be tough.  Your buddies this morning went through the mug book but couldn't make a facial match.
sykes		Fedorchuk couldn't find his ass with his hands in his back pockets.
winter		 You took this gut out, too, didn't you?
sykes		Yeah.
winter		Lucky for you, you got him in both of his... well, what we loosely refer to as... hearts.
sykes		Lucky nothing.  I had to empty my damn gun into him.
winter		That's the way these people are. You don't hit both pumps you just piss them off.
winter		Oh, here's an extra headshot if you need one.  We're just about to start cutting in.  You're welcome to stick around if you want.  It's really fascinating stuff.
sykes		Yeah, I'll bet.
sykes		What's this?  What's going on?
jetson		Nothing.
sykes		 Nothing?
jetson		 Shouldn't we examine their personal effects?
jetson		What is this?
sykes		 You need this for anything?
ortiz		Nope, got my own.  Anything you guys don't use gets stuffed away in storage.
sykes		Get the picture?
jetson		 And that fits?
sykes		Well... Yeah, it's rubber.  It stretches.
jetson		And still it fits?
sykes		What is this stuff?
jetson		It is a resin.
jetson		 Newcomers working near methane gasses at oil refineries must paint it on their boots to protect against sparks.
sykes		How the hell do you know that?
jetson		A large number of my people were hired by refineries because the methane fumes are not harmful to us. My spouse's brother is one.
sykes		So the Slag they're cutting into upstairs worked at a refinery just like Hubley worked at a refinery.  Okay, next step -- I gotta go talk to the wife of the Slag store owner blown away last night.
jetson		I believe I should interview the widow alone.
sykes		Why the hell--?!  Great, fine.  You talk to the wife.
sykes		Well, one of the men didn't like him so much...
sykes		We think he could'a been involved, yeah.  You know him?
sykes		 Who else can I ask around here?
sykes		I think you're gonna find he's taken the rest of his life off.
sykes		That where Anderson worked?
sykes		Jesus.  Welcome back Ozzie and Harriet...
jetson		Mrs. Porter is not taking her husband's death well.
sykes		 Did you learn anything?
jetson		A week ago two men came to see her husband.  After they left, he was very frightened.  She identified one of the men from a photo I showed her.  It was Hubley.
sykes		Aw-right.  What about the other guy?
jetson		She didn't know him.  But she said her son might.
sykes		Did you talk to him?
jetson		He has not been home since that day. But she told me where to find him.
mayor		... Our guest speaker tonight has done so much in his community and for his community in such a short period of time.  And I must say, as the founder of the first Newcomer owned and operated corporation in Southern California, he certainly has come quite far in the last few years.  Granted, not as far as he came in the years before reaching Los Angeles.
mayor		 As Mayor of this city, it gives me great pleasure to introduce someone who has so readily made our city his home... and all of us who live here, his friends.  Ladies and gentlemen, William Harcourt.
harcourt		Thank you all for that very warm reception.  I'm particularly grateful because I actually had the gall to write that in my notes: "Thank you all for that very warm reception".  Imagine how embarrassed I would've been if it hadn't have been such a warm reception.
sykes		William Harcourt?
harcourt		Yes...
sykes		I'm Sergeant Sykes, and this is Detective Jetson, Los Angeles Police Department.
harcourt		 Sergeant... Detective.  I wasn't aware there were any Newcomers at the rank of Detective yet.
jetson		I am the first.
harcourt		Congratulations.  This is my administrative assistant, Rudyard Kipling.
sykes		 Listen, we just need a minute of your time...
jetson		We'd like to ask you about a business associate of your, Warren Hubley.
harcourt		Yes, I heard about poor Warren. Tragic.
sykes		You were partners with him on some Slag -- uh, Newcomer real estate thing.
harcourt		That's right.  He and I, along with seven or eight others.  Listen, gentlemen, I will be happy to assist you in any way I can -- unfortunately, at the moment, I'm overdue at another function.
harcourt		Mr. Mayor...
mayor		William, I was wondering if you wouldn't rather ride with Luisa and me.  Two limousines trying to make it across town in all this traffic, we're bound to be later than we already are.
harcourt		Excellent idea.  Ray, I wonder if you know two of your police officers... Detective Jetson and Sykes.
mayor		 We really should be going.
harcourt		 Congratulations again on your promotion, Detective.  Remember... you're out there setting an example in our community.  I'll be keeping an eye on you.
kipling		That cop, the human, he was the one who killed Anderson and the driver.
harcourt		This is becoming a serious breach of security.
kipling		He didn't recognize me.
harcourt		It is his new partner that I'm worried about.
sykes		Go on ahead.  I'll be right in.  What'd you dig up for me?
maffet		You said you wanted the biggest thing I could find... Well, this is it.
sykes		What is it?
maffet		Casull .454 Magnum.  You're talking twice the impact energy of .44 Magnum hot loads.
sykes		 Only holds five.
maffet		Yeah, the shells are too big for six in an cylinder.  Hell, Matt, you don't need but one.
sykes		 No... two.
sykes		Well, let's see what you got, Cochise.  Gimme six, rapid fire.
sykes		 How long you been shooting?  That's pitiful.  Whattya gonna do if somebody draws down on you, wave your scores on the written exam at 'em?
jetson		Why did you do it?
sykes		Why'd I do what?
jetson		Agree to work with me?  You don't like me... you don't like any of us. You have nothing but contempt for us.  And yet you become an outcast from your club of detectives by making me your partner...
sykes		My partner is dead!  Because one of you bastards killed him -- then disappeared into a rathole down in Slagtown, where he's home and dry, 'cause nobody sees nothing, nobody says nothing...
sykes		 But he didn't figure on you, George. You're going to get me through that wall of silence.  You're going to make them talk to me.  You're going to help me find that Slag son-of-a- bitch.  Comprendo?  And if Fedorchuk and the boys in the bullpen don't like it, screw them... and if the Captain doesn't like it, screw him... and if all the Slags down in Slagtown don't like it... well screw them too!
sykes		 Okay, just stay back and do what I do.  Watch and learn, watch and learn...
sykes		I can't see dick in here.
sykes		 Which one'a you Slags is Porter?
voice		 Who wants to know?
sykes		 Who said that?
jetson		 At the end of the bar.
sykes		My name is Sykes.  I'm--
alien voice		Ss'ai k'ss?
offender		 Careful, ss'loka', you might hurt yourself.
sykes		You Porter?
jetson		No, Matthew.  I believe this is the one you want.
sykes		Your name wouldn't happen to be Porter, would it?
jetson		Uh, Matthew...
sykes		 Back off, George.
jetson		But I-- .
sykes		I'll handle it.
sykes		 Is your name Porter?
porter		Ss'kya'ta'.
sykes		 What's that?
jetson		Screw you.
sykes		 Screw me?  That can't be right.
porter		Ss'kya ta' ss'loka'.  Ss'trokya' ss'lato na'!
jetson		 You don't want to know.
sykes		Tell me.
jetson		Your mother mates out of season.
sykes		 That's very colorful.  But see -- now I've got a problem.  I don't seem to be getting much cooperation from you, Porter.  So I guess we're gonna have to take this little session down to my office, ya know?
jetson		Matthew, you don't have to-- .
sykes		Stay back!  I'm okay.
porter		Don't they teach you anything about us in cop school, little ss'loka'?
jetson		Enough.
porter		 It fits you.
sykes		You know that guy?
jetson		 From quarantine, when my people first arrived here.  He and I were housed together.
sykes		How could a straight-arrow like you ever pick a roommate like him?
jetson		In the camps, we were lodged four to a room.  The selection process was entirely random.  We did not get to stay with our friends... or families...
jetson		You don't know what your father and these two men were arguing about?
porter		I told you -- I was in the back of the store.  I just heard voices, muffled like.
sykes		One of the two men was Hubley, right?  What about the other one? Did you know him?
porter		Yeah... I seen him around.  High- roller dude named Strader.  Joshua Strader.  Runs a club on the west side.  Encounters.
sykes		Yeah, I heard of it.
porter		That's all I know.  You want anything more, you ask somebody else.
jetson		I am sorry about your father.
jetson		If I may make a suggestion... We have different weak spots than you do.  Next time, a blow to the nerve plexus under the arm, here, will produce the effect I think you were looking for.
sykes		Yeah, sure.  I knew that...
kid		 Six forty-two.
sykes		I don't think I could ever learn to read that shit.  How long did it take you to learn English?
jetson		Three months.  We learn quickly.  We adapt.  It is our strength... what we were bred for, to adapt to hostile environments.
jetson		 Thank you.
sykes		My neighbor's kid has a Newcomer girl in his class.  She's six years old and in seventh grade already...
sykes		Oh, God.  I think I got yours here...
sykes		 Which one is that?  Raw what?
jetson		 This is mole.  It's good.
sykes		I'll bet.  Would it really put you out if they tossed that on the grill for a minute or two?
jetson		Our bodies do not assimilate the nutrients if the food has been cooked.
sykes		Oh, that's real attractive.  You got fur in your teeth, George.  Come on, man, we're gonna be talking to people... jeez.
sykes		So what was that other word for Human... Slow ka?
jetson		Ss'loka'.  It means literally "small but intelligent creature".  It loses much in the translation.
sykes		And what was that one about my mother?  That was a good one.
jetson		Ss'trokya ss'lato 'na'.
sykes		Yeah, that's it.  Say it slow.
jetson		You are Cassandra?
cassandra		That's right.
jetson		We are with the Police Department. This is Sergeant Sykes, and I am--
cassandra		 Ss'ai k'ss?  Perfect.
sykes		We're looking for your boss -- Strader.
cassandra		He's not here.  Why ask me?
jetson		The young woman at the front said you might know where he is.
cassandra		She did, did she?  Well, she was wrong.  Excuse me, I have to change.
sykes		No problem.
sykes		Look, we're not here doing an interview for the school paper. This is a homicide investigation... and if you don't stop jerkin' us around, I'm ready to start playin' hardball.
cassandra		 Oooh.  Hardball.  That sounds interesting.  Are you going to strike me?  You could tie me up and then do whatever you want with me... I've got my own ropes.
sykes		 Does that cost extra or you throw them in?
cassandra		You've got me all wrong.  I don't charge money for something that I myself find pleasurable...
jetson		I am going out to the car.  I will meet you there.
cassandra		Look, I don't know where Mr. Strader might be.  He comes and he goes.
sykes		 The girl out front mentioned Strader's assistant, somebody named Watson.  Maybe he knows.
cassandra		 Todd?  Todd doesn't know either.
cassandra		 I know... Why don't you hang around for a while, let me entertain you? It's Matt, right?  Now tell me the truth, have you ever... made it... with one of us?
sykes		Not unless I got real drunk and nobody told me about it later.
cassandra		A virgin.  I find that very arousing...
sykes		There's lots of things I haven't done, but his ain't high on the list.  Don't take it personally.
cassandra		I think you're just a little scared now, about what you might find once the lights go out.  A little scared... and a lot curious.  Maybe more than you want to admit.  But doesn't that turn you on, that curiosity and fear, swirling together?  Think of it as broadening your horizons.
sykes		I like my horizons narrow.
cassandra		 Your voice is saying no, but your body is saying yes.
sykes		My voice, body, and everything else is saying I'll be back in two hours for Strader, and he better damn well be here.
sykes		Freeze!  Now!
sykes		 Fire escape!  End of the hall!
sykes		 How'd you like that, huh?  Whammo! Both barrels.  Dropped him like a bag of cement.
sykes		Who is he?
jetson		Todd Watson.  The assistant manager.
watson		I don't believe this.  Look at my suit.  Look at what you made me do to my car.
sykes		 Your girlfriend put up a better fight than you did, pal.
jetson		We are looking for your employer, Joshua Strader.
watson		He's out of town.
jetson		Why did you run?
watson		Because you two were chasing me.
sykes		We were chasing you because you ran, you dumb son-of-a-bitch.
jetson		When will Strader return?
watson		Who knows.  He's the boss -- he doesn't have to check in with me.
sykes		 Watson... this is my partner here's first coupla days, and he wants to make a good impression.  Me, though, the way I feel -- this could be my last day, know what I mean?  And I'm ready to rain on you like a cow pissin' on a flat rock.
watson		Look -- Mr. Strader hasn't been around for a coupla days.  He didn't tell me where he was going or when he'd be back.  I swear it.
sykes		 What do you think?
jetson		I believe he is probably lying.
sykes		Through his ass.  Next time you see him, tell him to call me... unless you want us to keep coming back on you like a bad case of herpes.
sykes		George, you can handle the women from now on, you mind?
quint		 Okay, scrape him up.
harcourt		Any progress?
quint		My arm's gettin' tired and so far, zip.
kipling		He is ss'verdlatya ss'alo to Strader.
quint		What's that mean?
kipling		Duty-bonded.  His allegiance to Strader is above pain or life.
quint		You tellin' me this guy would die before he'd screw his boss and work for us?  Nobody's that dumb.
kipling		It is something you couldn't comprehend, Quint.
harcourt		I understand you have been resisting my offer Mr. Watson.  Your sense of duty to Mr. Strader is noble, but -- no longer an issue, I'm afraid...
harcourt		 I will not make this offer again.  I want you to work for me, to manage the nightclub as Strader's successor. If you do, you will know a wealth and comfort our people never dared imagine...
watson		Sss'k'a ta'!
harcourt		It is such a pity to die for an outmoded value.  Mr. Quint, I believe it's time for our friend's swimming lesson.
harcourt		 It's important to learn new skills. Essential to your growth as a person.
quint		You never seen this before, have you, Billy?  oh, man, you ain't gonna believe it... seawater is like battery acid to these guys... I don't know what it is, some kinds chemical reaction.  Whatta you think it is, Watson?  Whoa, hold him.  What I love about the surf is you can never tell how far up it's going to come until it... whoops, got a little wet there.
quint		Last call, sucker.  One... two... THREE!
kipling		When we picked him up, he was talking to those two cops -- the two who came to question you about Hubley.
harcourt		This is getting out of hand.  I want you to deal with it.  Immediately.
harcourt		 We must learn to embrace the things we fear... and from that grow strong.
jetson		 Would you mind?
sykes		 So, she keeps you on a pretty short leash, does she?
jetson		My wife?  She worries about me.
sykes		Yeah... I know the routine.
jetson		You are married?
sykes		Was.  Divorced.
jetson		We mate for life.  Divorce... is a strange concept to us.
sykes		It's like having an eleventh finger removed.  It hurts like hell, but you never really needed the damn thing in the first place.
jetson		Your home is quite disordered.  I thought perhaps you had been burglarized when I walked in.
sykes		 I appreciate your honesty, George.
sykes		Ignore the bitch on the left, that's Edie.  I call her Edi Amin... This is Kristin, my daughter.  It's kinda an old picture... she's twenty now. Getting married, in fact... on Sunday.
jetson		Human children can be very beautiful.  Getting married?  Congratulations. You will be taking Sunday off, then...
sykes		 She doesn't need her burn-out of a father there...
jetson		 And this is Richard.  My son.  He's four years old.  We named him after the former President, Richard Nixon.
sykes		You open to a piece of advice?  Tell people you named him after Richard Burton, the actor.  Just take my word for it.
sykes		... and so, and so the doctor says, "If this is the thermometer, then where'd I leave the pen?"  You're not... you don't think that's funny?  George, work with me, I always get a laugh with that one. Look, if the doctor's got the thermometer in his hand, then where's his pen gotta be?
jetson		 In the other man's rectum.
sykes		 Nada, huh?
sykes		 Your health...
jetson		Ta ss'trakyona'...
jetson		There is so much our two peoples don't understand about each other.
sykes		No shit, Holmes.  You're only from another goddamn planet, for chrissakes.
jetson		You humans are very curious to us. You invite us to live among you, in an atmosphere of equality we've never known before.  You lay before us a beautiful green world, full of freedoms and opportunities... You give us ownership of our lives for the first time... and you ask no more of us than you do of yourselves: to live by the rules... rules that aren't made to keep one people subordinate to another, but rules that exist to preserve equality.  You aspire to very high ideals here.
jetson		 I hope you can understand how special your world is... how unique a people you humans are.  So it us all the more painful and confusing to us that so few of you seem capable of living up the the ideals you set for yourselves.
sykes		Don't count on me, George.  I never had any ideals.
jetson		We don't understand the hatred, the contempt.  But we must bear it... we must not react in anger... because our situation here is still fragile. The separationists would see us returned to the quarantine camps. The fundamentalists say we have no more human rights than dogs or cats. But the prejudice we face here is so insignificant compared to the pain that we've known before.  And that is why we are so grateful.
sykes		Yeah, well... except I did hear you eat your dead.
jetson		 Only on Fridays.
sykes		You son-of-a-bitch.  You're okay.
jetson		I'm going home.
sykes		Yeah, go home.  Get some sleep.  You do sleep, don't you?
sykes		What a wildman...
sykes		This better be good news or money.
jetson		Hold this.  I feel very terrible.
sykes		Where'd you get this?!!
jetson		A man, a human, was wiring it to your car.  I didn't get a good look at him.  I must call my wife...
jetson		She's going to divorce me.
sykes		George, she's not gonna divorce you. You mate for life, remember?
jetson		She's very progressive.  I'm certain she's considering it.
secretary		You guys are looking for somebody named Strader, right?
sykes		Yeah.
secretary		Fedorchuk and Alterez just phoned in.  They found him.  Or at least what's left of him, washed up on the beach at Zuma.
secretary		 They're still there if you wanna catch them.
sykes		Well, let's roll, George.
jetson		 To the... to the beach?
sykes		Come on, let's go, dude.  Surf's up!
sykes		All right, okay.  Keep your pantyhose on.  Jeez, when in doubt, freak out, for chrissake.
sykes		 It's all right, George.  It's cool. Just wait here, all right?  I'll be back in a coupla minutes.
jetson		Thank you.
fedorchuk		Found his wallet in his jacket pocket.  Joshua Strader, big as life.
coroner's tech		Jesus, what a mess.  It's gonna be a bear to make a positive determination, but it looks to me like he was shot before being tossed in the drink.  At least twice--  -- here, and here.
sykes		How're you two doing on Tuggle's killer?
alterez		The store owner's son is in a street gang, so now we're thinking maybe it's gang related.
sykes		Yeah, that's real good.  You guys follow up on that for a coupla months.
fedorchuk		Look at your dildo partner.  He's too scared to even come down to the sand.  You're not gonna get wet standing here, moron!
sykes		I'd like to see you next to a sea of hydrochloric acid, Fedorchuk... see how much surfin' you'd do.
sykes		Cute.
fedorchuk		Well, if it isn't Detective Jetson. Forget you hip waders, big guy?
sykes		Lay off, asshole.
fedorchuk		I may be an asshole, but at least I'm a real detective, not some outer shit space thing.
sykes		Yeah?  you're a real honest-to-god detective...?
sykes		 Then detect these!
jetson		What was that about?
sykes		 Nothing.
sykes		... So we've got three guys dead. All Newcomers, all killed the same way -- execution style.
jetson		Warren Hubley was in middle management at a refinery... Joshua Strader operated a successful bar and nightclub...
sykes		... and Porter ran a piece of shit mom-and-pop mini-mart.  So what the hell's the connection?
sykes		You guys finished the postmortem on Strader yet?
winter		 You mean the Blob?  They're finishing up now.
jetson		Is Bentner here?  I must speak with him.
winter		He went home early -- his kid was sick.
winter		 Yeah, but he left something for you.
winter		 Does this have something to do with the test he ran that he wouldn't tell me about?
sykes		 What kind of test?
winter		Looking for some foreign compound in the blood of that alien you dropped the other day.
sykes		Did he find anything?
sykes		 Well?
jetson		It is nothing.
sykes		What's this nothing shit?  It wasn't nothing yesterday when you asked Bentner to run that test and he looked like he was about to shit peach pits, and it's not nothing now.  Don't lie to me, George, you're bad at it.
jetson		 You must leave me alone on this.
sykes		No, see, I don't leave you alone... I'm your partner.  I don't work that way... Tug didn't work that way.
sykes		 No secrets, goddammit!  You don't hold back from me.  Whatever is going on, you're gonna tell me now!
jetson		 No.  I cannot involve you.  This is not your concern.
sykes		The hell it isn't, when somebody wires up enough C-4 explosive to my car to turn me into pink mist!  TELL ME!  What is it?
jetson		 ... It is called ss'jabroka'.  To us it is a potent narcotic.
sykes		How potent?
jetson		Like your cocaine, I suppose.  The "high" lasts several hours.  We would receive small amounts of it... as a reward for our labor.
sykes		We?  You've taken it?
jetson		We all did.
sykes		Where did he get it?  Was there any of it on the ship?
jetson		No... I am sure not.  That is why I am so concerned... someone must now be producing it here.  But none of my people know how to make it.  The process was carefully guarded.
sykes		 Why didn't you tell me sooner? Why'd you hold out on me?
jetson		Your people don't know about this part of out past.  And they can't know -- It would threaten our entire existence here.
sykes		George... look me in the eye... George, you don't ever lie to me again.
jetson		I must trust you, Matthew.  I cannot stop this without you.
sykes		George?  How about you drive...
sykes		There's gotta be some other connection.
operator		Here's Hubley.  Left Quarantine on November thirtieth, relocated first to Riverside, then moved to Los Angeles early in February the following year.  Field of expertise: chemical manufacturing.  Looks like he passed up several other better paying jobs waiting for that one at the refinery.
sykes		Try Joshua Strader, will ya, darlin'?
operator		For you, anything.
operator		 Released on November twenty-ninth. Came immediately to L.A.  Ten weeks after arriving he took over the abandoned club which is now Encounters.
jetson		 Now the store owner, please.  Cecil Porter.
operator		Released December one.  He and his wife moved first to Modesto, then Coalinga, California -- wherever that is -- settled in L.A. in April.  Field of expertise: organic chemical engineering.  He and his wife have one child, a son.
sykes		Yeah -- we met him.  Wonderful boy... close personal friend of George's here.
operator		I'm sorry, Matt.  Nothing here seems to be matching up...
sykes		Holy shit...  You and the store owner's son -- that punker!
jetson		... Quarantine.
sykes		Can you dig up their Quarantine records in this thing?
operator		Sure.  Just a minute.
operator		 Porter was in Lodge seven seven two.
harcourt		Quite lovely...  What is your name again?
cassandra		 Cassandra.
harcourt		 I will have to remember that...
jetson		They had months in quarantine to develop the plan.  Porter, with his chemistry background, must have somehow come up with the formula for the drug.  Hubley manufactured it -- at the refinery.  Strader, through the nightclub, established a distribution network.  And Harcourt--
sykes		Harcourt was the brain who brought it all together.
sykes		Okay, George -- we gotta play this real smart.
jetson		If the drug is here, we must destroy it.
sykes		No, George -- you're missing the point.  The drug is evidence.  We need to have the evidence, ya know?
sykes		 That's the guy...
sykes		So much for playing it smart...
sykes		 Is that it...?
sykes		Uh, George...
jetson		 Where is the drug?  Where have they taken it?
jetson		 WHERE?!
sykes		George, uh... you're gonna break his little chest bones...
jetson		Stay out of this, Matthew.  Tell me where the drug has been taken or I will crush your lungs against this wall.
sykes		Don't piss him off, O'Neal.  When he gets like this, I can't control him. I've seen this before.  He got like this once -- I saw him jerk a guy's spine out and show it to him. Nothing I could do.  I hadda go throw up.
jetson		How much?
jetson		Where have they taken it?
sykes		George, c'mon -- lighten up.  It's a beauty of a case.  Don't sweat it -- we got him by the short hairs. He ain't gonna make any more of the shit.
jetson		The fifty kilos, Matthew.  I have to find it.  I can't let it get out on the street.
sykes		Why?  What's the big goddamn deal?
sykes		(continuing; as Jetson starts the car You destroy that drug, you destroy the case.  Don't blow the whole thing now by not following procedure.
jetson		 Fuck procedure.
sykes		Hey!!
sykes		GEORGE!  GODDAMMIT!!
sykes		Police.  Get out.  I need this thing.  Out, now!
jetson		I am here to take Harcourt.  Where is he?
cassandra		In there.
jetson		 Show me.
harcourt		 It's been a long time, hasn't it, gentlemen?
human dealer		What is it?
harcourt		A sweet indulgence from out past... resurrected for our future.
harcourt		 Please feel free to sample the quality.  The experience will be everything you remember it to be...
alien dealer		Where'd you get it?
harcourt		I arranged to spend some time with three very resourceful men.  With a certain amount of coaxing, one of them was able to reconstitute the formula for me.  They worked very well together. Unfortunately, they are no longer with us... but I was fortunate enough to reap the benefit of their endeavor.
human dealer		Let me try some.  Jesus!  Tastes like detergent!
harcourt		And that's all the effect it will have on you.  But when my fellow Newcomers learn they can obtain it here, they will work very hard... to make as much money as they can... to give it to me.
voice		You haven't told him all of it.
quint		He's got the C-4 charge!
quint		 Just take it real casual, buddy. Keep your finger on that button and don't do nothing squirrely.
harcourt		If you release that button, you not only kill us, but yourself.
jetson		To get you and that--  -- I would do it.
jetson		Everyone up against that wall. Very slowly.  Except you.
harcourt		One small matter seems to have escaped your attention.  That--  -- is not on any books as a controlled substance.  Legally it might as well be fifty kilos of... grape jelly.
jetson		The charge is murder... and conspiracy to commit murder. Hubley, Porter, Strader... probably others.
cassandra		You... you killed Strader?
cassandra		Where's Todd?!  Did you do something to Todd?!
harcourt		Todd?  Who is Todd.  Ah, poor Mr. Watson.
jetson		NOOO!
kipling		I got it!
harcourt		Kill them both.
kipling		Here?
harcourt		 Do it!
alien dealer		Don't shoot, man -- we're unarmed -- look!
sykes		You okay?
cassandra		 Yeah...
harcourt		Here!
jetson		This way!
jetson		Slow traffic on your right... you're clear at the left rear...  Careful, red light ahead...
jetson		Yellow light ahead turning red...
jetson		 Red light!  Red light!
jetson		Green light, Matthew.  Green light!
sykes		Shit!
jetson		Ss-ai!
sykes		Move your goddamned cars!
jetson		There!
sykes		Move a finger, Harcourt, and you're history...
harcourt		No, Sergeant -- not history...  Eternity...
jetson		With Harcourt and Kipling dead, I assume you will be requesting reassignment now.
sykes		 ... Still, I gotta tell you, George, for a quiet guy, you're sure hell on wheels once you get going.  I'd kinda hate to miss your next two days as a detective.
wiltey		I'll give you guys a lift to the station.  They're waiting to take your statements on the shootings.
sykes		 And it's shooting.  Singular.
wiltey		They said two.
sykes		Nope.  I didn't shoot Harcourt... he o.d.'d.
driver		So it's just me and her left in the hot tub, right?
attendant		You and the blonde?
driver		No, man, the redhead.  The blonde's gone in the house with some other guy.  But a few minutes later she comes back out, alone, when me and the redhead are going at it fast and furious in the tub, ya know... and she sees us, and... she climbs right in with us...
attendant		You're full of shit!
driver		I swear it!  If I'm lyin', I'm dyin'...
jetson		You are certain this is the route they would have taken?
wiltey		I'm not positive -- but probably.
sykes		 What's this about, George?  I know that look.
jetson		 There!  Go back.  Down that side street.
jetson		No!  We must do this alone.
sykes		Do what?!  George-- ?!
wiltey		Oh, God...
wiltey		I'm calling for back up, now.
jetson		Wiltey, no.
sykes		What is this?!
jetson		 ... It's Harcourt.
sykes		Harcourt is dead.
jetson		No he's not.  Not if he overdosed on the drug.  Massive amounts trigger a... a change.  Your body functions seize up, you appear to be dead, but it's really a state of incubation.  When you emerge you're...
sykes		 Tell me about it...
sykes		I never thought I'd say this, but -- for once in my life I think I'm willing to wait for back-up.
jetson		We can't let him get away.
sykes		Why the hell are you so dead set against back-up?
jetson		 Because... because of what will happen if humans see what we are capable of becoming.
sykes		But there's no more drug.
jetson		You understand that.  But how many others will?
wiltey		There he is!
jetson		Wiltey!
harcourt		 Looking for me, Sergeant?
jetson		On that boat -- out there!
captain		Hey!
jetson		Take it down!  Take it down!
jetson		 ALL THE WAY!
pilot		I CAN'T IT'LL DITCH!
jetson		 Take it up!
pilot		What the hell was that down there? It was weird.
sykes		Looked like every other damn slag to me.  Just plain ugly.
sykes		How do I look?
jetson		You look very good.
kristin		Ready, Daddy...?
sykes		George, uh... I want to apologize now, in advance, for all the rotten things I'll ever say or do to you over the years.
jetson		That is all right, Matthew.  After all, you are only human.
sykes		 What a wildman...
****Dialogues from script :Alien__Resurrection.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Alien_vs.txt****

cassie		Ah, negative on that request commercial freighter 'Nan-Shan'.  I've already got an inbound on that approach pending a beacon-fix.  Hold on my mark until I get back with some confirmation.  Rimward Traffic Control out.
parsons		That's the second time I ran it, and it still reads the same.
cassie		Better tell the boss.
parsons		Toss you for it.
hiroko		Fuck!  Holo off.
hiroko		What kind of 'something'?
hiroko		I'm on my way.
urioste		You didn't wipe your feet coming in.
kamen		Well, it's okay.  You didn't tell me it was monsoon season going out.
parsons		Hey, buenos dias, cowboy.  When d'you blow in?
kamen		Just got back.  Missed anything?
parsons		Ahh, don't pay any attention to Urioste. She's still pissed that Noguchi wouldn't let her go off on your hunting trip.
kamen		Wasn't my trip, I just did the driving. 'Sides, freezing my butt off out in the wet taking pot-shots at the local wildlife isn't my idea of a good time, either.
parsons		Where'd you leave them?
kamen		Camped out by the navi-beacon out on Linson's Range.  They're making their own way back tomorrow.
cassie		MarsCo went belly-up on the Dow Jones.
kamen		Shit.  When?
cassie		Yesterday.  We got the Network feed from Gateway; it was the top story on 'Sixty Seconds'.  Biggest market crash since twenty-four.
kamen		Fucking great.  I invested some money in them.
cassie		You win some, you loose some.
kamen		I lose 'em all, that's why I'm still out here on this rock.  Anything else you wanna ruin my day with?
cassie		No, but I got something that might interest you.
hiroko		What've you got?
cassie		A pair of incomings.  They popped-up on the medium-range about thirteen twenty-four local time.
parsons		We figured on it being a magnetic anomaly, but we ran a back-trace just to make sure.
cassie		Yeah.  Turns out they dropped straight out of hyperspace.
hiroko		Sounds like a couple of escape shuttles.
parsons		That's what we thought.
hiroko		Have you got an updated Lloyds' Almanac to cross-reff them through?
parsons		Done it already.  Nothing matches.
cassie		And if you thought that was interesting, watch this...
kamen		Jesus.
parsons		Yeah, exactly.  Those're pre-programmed course adjustments you're looking at.
kamen		Tactical nukes, maybe?
hiroko		Where're they headed?
cassie		We ran a trajectory simulation.  If they carry on along that path, it's possible they'll make intra-orbital insertion.
hiroko		I don't know what to make of this.  Get a copy of the telemetry relayed back to Antarctica Traffic Control.  Better alert the nearest RimCorp Base, too.
parsons		Fort Powell.  What do we tell 'em?
hiroko		Just give them the facts.  They can leap to their own conclusions.
ackland		Little fuckers move too fast.  Let's do a sweep and catch 'em on the other side.
minh		Crazy idiots.
beauvais		Ahhh, they're just letting off some steam; don't let 'em get to you. Ackland and York aren't such bad guys when you get to know 'em.  Just a couple of weekend warriors...
minh		Thanks.
beauvais		Good argument for gun-control.  What are you going after, rhino?
minh		Nah.  I just wanna squeeze off a few rounds.  'Sides, they tagged the rhinos for the migration project, so they're protected.  They'll dock you a month's pay for just mentioning it.
kamen		See that sheathing on the suspension? Eaten away.  Same thing with the pumps on the base air purifiers.  The algae out here just isn't good on these new plastics.
hiroko		We haven't used Big Bertha since we relocated the generator module. That was four months ago.  I can't ask for them to keep bringing spares in on the shuttle, it's already costing too much as it is.
kamen		If you want these things kept in working condition, that's the only choice you've got.
diller		Maybe she wouldn't be so tetchy if she got laid every once-in-a-while.
guttierez		You offering?
diller		Nah.  Freeze my dick off.
hiroko		I don't know.  I think we'll have to run it on a rota; one month down, one month operational.
diller		Miss Noguchi!  You're wanted in admin.
hiroko		Thanks.
cassie		Seven minutes ago, the third course change in an hour.  Those incomings are going to skim past the communications platform just a little too close for comfort.
hiroko		Can we move it to a different orbit in time?
parsons		Already working on it.
hiroko		Get off an all-bands emergency distress, and put it on a repeater.
kamen		Relay station like us out in the middle of the boonies; why bother? All you're gonna do is punch a temporary hole in the traffic control net.  That'd be small potatoes even for terrorists.
parsons		Can you patch me a temporary loop on DCMGS?
cassie		Okay, give me the numbers.
parsons		They've changed their heading again.
hiroko		Compensate!
parsons		Punch me in a solution for their delta-vee.
cassie		What do you need?
parsons		A three-second burn to port, on my mark.
cassie		It's on the board.
cassie		Picking up velocity.
hiroko		Match it!
parsons		Not gonna make it...
parsons		Goddammit!
york		Shit!  What's that?
ackland		Meteor, I guess.
ackland		D'you feel any impact shock?
ackland		Me either.  I tell you, I used to be with a mining outfit on Callisto, and when something like that hits... believe me, you know about it.
york		Do you wanna head back and call it in?
kamen		Hey, boss.  Wondered where you'd gotten to.
hiroko		I just... wanted to be put on my own for a while.  Clear my head.
kamen		Didn't feel like whoopin' it up with the rest of us blue collars, huh?
hiroko		I've got a lot of thinking to do.  'Sides, the room was getting too crowded for me.
kamen		Not too much of the socializing type, then?
hiroko		No, not really.  More sort of the  'claustrophobic' type.
kamen		Is that a fact.
hiroko		Uh-huh.  Used to get it pretty bad.  I'd wake up in a cold sweat and want to claw open a vacuum hatch.
kamen		How long you been out here for now, anyway?  Three months?
hiroko		Four.
kamen		And before that?
hiroko		Six month stint on Datus.
kamen		Only six?
hiroko		What is this?  'Twenty Questions'?
kamen		Just curious.  There's a lot of talk goes around.
hiroko		I don't know.  I guess I've just never found anywhere I really felt at home.
kamen		What is that?
hiroko		Real man' drink.
kamen		Seltzer?
hiroko		Want some?
kamen		I'll stick with my own.
hiroko		Any luck raising Ackland's party?
kamen		Nothing.  With the satellite down, we can't transmit over the mountain range. He's most likely sitting there wondering why he can't raise us.
hiroko		First light, we'll take a chopper out there and tell them to head back.
kamen		'We'?  You wanna fly out there with me?
hiroko		Sure.  Do me good to stretch my legs.
kamen		Don't worry about it.  If the Network goes by the book, like everyone figures they will, a Marine gunboat from Powell'll drop-by for a look- see in four-or-five days.  They can go poke around out there and find whatever it was hit us.  All we've gotta do is sit tight.
hiroko		Do you think Ackland'll sit tight?
kamen		There'd have to be a helluva good reason for him not to.
ackland		Found anything?
york		Nada. No radiation... no movement... nothing.
ackland		Well, just keep looking.  It's gotta be... whoa, Jesus!
york		What is it?
ackland		It's a rhino.
york		Is it dead?
ackland		No, it's still breathing.  Kinda clammy though.  Are you sure your stick's not broken.
york		Yeah, it's fine.
ackland		God, I hope that thing didn't bring down a virus.
york		I told you we... what's that?
ackland		Looks like a spore.  Fungus of some kind, maybe?
york		Bloody big if it is.  Top's open.
ackland		It's hollow.  Think our rhino must've ate something that didn't agree with him.
york		Let's get back and call this in.
ackland		Wait a minute.
york		What is that... is that metal fragments?
ackland		This is very fucking weird.
york		Another one?
ackland		Yeah.  This's closed.
cut to		...A SHORT DISTANCE ACROSS THE CLEARING.  SOMETHING is watching them from the trees; something with a heat-vision P.O.V.  A PREDATOR.  We see the flare of ACKLAND's gunshots, then SNAP IN to see the multi- colored from of his body toppling over, trailing a purplish FACEHUGGER, before we...
york		Oh, God; oh, shit; oh, God.
cut to		A PREDATOR-VISION SHOT, watching the color-bloom of YORK dragging ACKLAND's body away from the crater.  It CLOSES IN on the FACEHUGGER, giving us a muted X-ray-type VIEW of circulatory fluid pumping around the HUGGER and into ACKLAND.
beauvais		Jesus Christ!  What happened?
york		Give me a hand with Ack.
beauvais		How bad is... oh my God.
beauvais		What is that?
york		Don't... uuh... don't know.  Help me... uuh... help me get him inside. Shit!
beauvais		Have you tried prising it off?
york		I wanted to get him back here; get him back to base.
minh		Forget it.  We lost the satellite link. It's dead.
beauvais		We've got no option.  We're gonna have to get it off.
minh		Oh man...
york		Get real, Beauvais!  That thing might chew his fucking face off for all be know!
beauvais		Minh...
minh		Yep...
beauvais		How do you know it's not already?
york		I don't, but I think we should just wait and let the Doc take a look...
kamen		Wake up.  We're at the beacon.
kamen		Looks like trouble.
hiroko		Fabrique Nationale tactical autoloader. Uses twelve mill hollow 'O' rounds, with through the barrel smart laser-sighting. Sure, I can handle this.
kamen		Okay.  Watch were you point it...
kamen		Yeah.  Somebody won.
hiroko		Check out the tent.
hiroko		Hold on...
kamen		Jesus palomino...
kamen		Wait a minute, Doc...
revna		Is this it?
kamen		Yeah.  Found it curled up in a corner of the tent.  Any idea?
revna		Never come across one of these before. Maybe the original survey team did.  I'll run it through records and see what comes up.
kamen		Hey, Jan.  See if you can get someone to check out the chopper.
guttierez		What's the problem?
kamen		She was running a little sluggish on the way back.  Think the turbines might be playing up.
guttierez		Give me twenty minutes and I'll do it myself.
kamen		Appreciate that.
revna		Where're the bodies?
hiroko		Bagged and in the back.  They're not a pretty sight.
hiroko		I'm going to need you to co-sign the report.  Until we come up with something, this'll be treated as first degree murder.
kamen		Agreed.
hiroko		When we get the link back, and I send this in, I.C.C.'ll throw a fit.
kamen		Ah, don't worry about I.C.C.  They're the least of your problems right now.
hiroko		What do you mean?
urioste		Sorry.  Can I have a word?
hiroko		Sure.  What's up?
urioste		Three-Pump failed a half-hour ago.  The algae must have clogged up an intake duct.
kamen		Think I spoke too soon...
hiroko		Again?  How long before we start noticing the difference?
urioste		I reckon it'll be another day before the smell gets unbearable. Beauvais usually fixes it, but... ah...
hiroko		Can you handle it?
urioste		Sure, I can manage.  But I'm not going into the Pit on my own.
kamen		Yeah, no problem.  Ask Diller, he's good with his hands.
cassie		I'll go along with that.
parsons		Parsons.      Yeah.  Hold on.
ackland		Hey, c'mon Doc, I feel fine.  Really.
revna		Headache?  Dehydration?
ackland		The head's okay, but I could sink a six-pack.
revna		Forget that.  I want you off alcohol for at least seventy-two hours. I've got some toxin build-up tests still to run.
kamen		What happened out there, Ack?
ackland		We... watched a meteor hit over Linson's.
hiroko		A meteor?
ackland		Yeah, it impacted really off.  We went out to the crash-site... and... uh... that's... that's all.
kamen		Nothing else?
ackland		No.
kamen		Show him 'Fido'.
revna		Ring any bells?
ackland		Not really, no.  Ugly little sonuvabitch. What is it?
kamen		We thought you might be able to tell us. I found it by your cot at the camp.  You were out cold.
ackland		What did York say?
hiroko		York's vanished.
ackland		Vanished?
hiroko		Beauvais and Minh are dead, Ackland.  York's gone awol, unless you can help us go some way toward disproving our suspicion, he's the prime suspect right now.
ackland		Can I... um... have some water?  Please?
revna		Sure.
kamen		Do you believe him?
hiroko		Ackland?  I don't know him well enough to say.  If we were back on Earth we could run him though an Aldhoven test and find out for sure. There's not much we can do out here.
kamen		You should try this seasoned stuff.  It's good.
guttierez		Got a present for you.
hiroko		Oh, I've been looking for this!  Where was it?
guttierez		You left it in the chopper.  Oh, and before I forget, Don?  I ran that test you wanted on the turbines.
kamen		And...?
guttierez		And, nothing.  They checked out just fine.
diller		What's the matter, girl?  You smell something?
cassie		Rhinos look a little antsy,
diller		Yeah.  Never seem 'em act like this before.
cassie		Do you hear that?
diller		Yeah...
cassie		I don't believe it.
diller		He looks in a bad way.  Help me get him up to Infirmary.
cassie		Wait a minute...
ackland		Oh.  Oh God...
revna		What is it?
ackland		It's nothing, Doc.  Just a... touch of indigestion... something.
revna		Do you want a tablet?
ackland		Uh-huh.
revna		That sounds nasty.  I'll give you a couple of Demazine.
ackland		Yeah...
revna		Hold on, it's alright.  I'm gonna give  you a shot...
hiroko		What happened?
diller		York just turned up outside.  We're trying to get him into Infirmary.
cassie		The door's sealed from inside.  Doc Revna's in there, and it sounds like Ackland's going nuts.
hiroko		Force the door.
diller		Can't.  It's pressure sealed.
guttierez		Here...
diller		Thanks.
hiroko		Get after it, don't let it get away!
cassie		Oh my God...
parsons		It left a melted trail on the deck all the way down to here...
hiroko		What is that?
diller		Secondary fluidic shunt for the sewage system.  I found the grating ripped right off.  The little fucker was strong.
hiroko		Where does that lead to?
parsons		Central Pumping.  All the waste gets  treated, broken-down, and flushed out into the swamp.  If it wanted a quick exit then it really lucked- out.
hiroko		You've checked that end?
guttierez		Not yet, no.
hiroko		Do it.  I don't want that thing on my installation.  I want it caught and destroyed.
kamen		Cornering it shouldn't be a problem.  Each part of this station is basically a self-sufficient deep-space transport module running off external couplers.  If we disconnect them and seal off every section, we've got a ceiling of about thirty-six hours on internal power.  That should give us ample time to find it.
hiroko		Alright.  Pull some trackers and headsets out of stores, and I'll sign a release for the weapons.  Cassie, organise a team roster and put it on the board.
diller		Okay.
hiroko		One final point.  Killing this sonuvabitch ought to be a reward in itself.  However, just to add a little incentive... I'm authorizing a hefty bonus in the next pay-packet for whoever does.
york		...I mean, these... these mothers were... were huge.  They look like bushmen, but they had all this hi-tech shit strapped all over 'em. They must've wasted Beauvais and Minh inside thirty seconds.  Minh got off a couple of shots from that cannon of his, but he might as well have been using a B-B gun.  I don't know how the hell I made it out of there alive.
kamen		Don't worry about it, Yorkie.  You're safe now.  Go get come rest.
hiroko		So, what do you think?
kamen		What do I think?  I think if those Marines from Powell don't shift their butts getting here, we're gonna get caught up to our necks in the middle of something we shouldn't.
de vries		C'mon, man.  One more sweep.
guttierez		One more sweep... one more sweep.  I'm getting tired of one more fuckin' sweep. We're been lookin' for this thing for three days now, and found zip.
de vries		Ah, quit griping.  Keeps you in shape doesn't it?
guttierez		Hey!  I was in shape before we started doing this.
de vries		Listen to that...
guttierez		Listen to what?
de vries		That's what I mean.  This is the quietest I've ever heard it.  It's unnatural.
guttierez		De Vries?
de vries		Yeah?
guttierez		Next time you have a thought like that? Keep it to yourself.
de vries		Something spooking the rhinos?
guttierez		I dunno.
diller		What is that...is that it?
urioste		No.  I... think that's a regulator valve. Hold on.
urioste		Are you getting anything?
urioste		They're always like that.  Head-Office are real cheap when it comes to spares.  Wave that thing in the corner...
diller		The room's clean.
urioste		Great.
guttierez		That's real peculiar behavior.
de vries		Hey, Guttierez?
guttierez		What?
de vries		Take a look at this.
guttierez		One of 'em must have escaped.
de vries		That's impossible, man.  This fence is high-tensile.  The breaking tolerance'd stand up to the strain of a rhino, easy. I know, I put it up.
guttierez		There's no way a rhino'd survive that drop.
de vries		Goldsmith's gonna be plenty pissed at losing one of her babies.
guttierez		That's a fact.
de vries		What?
guttierez		Just got a reading...
kamen		How's it going?
parsons		Yeah, 'Good Evening' to you, too.
kamen		You should hit the sack, too.
parsons		Nah, I'll stick it out for another hour or so.
kamen		What time's sundown?
parsons		'Bout five minutes.
kamen		Give me a yell is something happens.
parsons		You got it, cowboy.
guttierez		It's up there somewhere...
de vries		What?  Are you nuts?  Just the two of us?
guttierez		I've seen this mother, De Vries.  We can bag it, no problem.
de vries		Forget it, man.
guttierez		C'mon De Vries.  Think of the bonus.
de vries		Fuck the bonus.  I hate heights.  You wouldn't get me up there even if it wasn't night.
de vries		What the hell are you doing?
guttierez		Hey, fair enough.  If you won't come, I'll handle it myself.
de vries		Wait a minute!
guttierez		What?
de vries		I'll come with you.
guttierez		Anything you say, Mammacitta.
de vries		Careful of that edging there...
guttierez		Yeah, I got it.
de vries		Where's that flashlight?
guttierez		It's moving slow.  About... eleven metres. On the left.
thomas		The door to the food storage locker was smashed open.  It must have come straight out of here.
hiroko		Alright.  Keep your eyes peeled.
guttierez		Hold it, hold it...
de vries		What's wrong?
guttierez		I'm picking up another signal.
de vries		What?  Where?
guttierez		Just behind us, over to the right.
de vries		Can't see a thing.  Are you sure?
guttierez		Yeah, I...
de vries		How?
guttierez		I dunno.  Might be a glitch.
de vries		Oh, man.  That's no glitch!
guttierez		It's alright, it's cool...
de vries		Is it still moving?
guttierez		No, he's stopped; he's totally still. Just take it nice and easy, babe. Nice and easy...
guttierez		Holy shit...
de vries		Oh, nice going, man!  It was a lemur! A goddamn lemur!
guttierez		Uh... sorry about that, boss.  Everything's fine.  False alarm, that's all.
de vries		Hey, look; let's forget it.  There's nothing up here.
urioste		I've dropped my torch into the water. Give me about... uh... a meter- and-a-half's worth of slack.
diller		Annie!
guttierez		The hell was that?
kamen		Kev, wha...?
parsons		Oh my God...
hiroko		Move!  Get out of the way!
hiroko		Get the door!
hiroko		No!
predator		No!
thomas		Come on, man.  Leave it alone.
guttierez		Oh, God.  Dear Lord Jesus...
de vries		This is like a bad dream, man.  A bad fucking dream.
hiroko		Rob?  I want you to evac everybody from the non-connective modules into admin. That goes double for anybody...
hiroko		Are you okay?
kamen		I'll survive.
de vries		What's with the dog?
guttierez		Hey; c'mon now, girl.  It's alright.  Let's just get this knot undone...
kamen		Jan!
de vries		Get out of there, man!
thomas		Catch this!
guttierez		Chew on this!
guttierez		Get your ass out of here, boss!
hiroko		Oh my God...
cassie		Shit.
guttierez		De Vries!
thomas		Yo' momma, boneface!
hiroko		What?
kamen		I'm out of ammo.  Get inside, get inside!
hiroko		They're in with the rhino!
de vries		Jesus!
parsons		Seal everything now!
cassie		What's happening?
parsons		Cassie, thank Christ!  We're under attack.
cassie		We're what!?
york		The son-of-bitches got into 'E' wing! They're ripping it apart!
parsons		Fuck!  Somebody get over there with some guns!  Now!
cassie		How many of them are there?
parsons		Too many.
de vries		Over there, on the right!
thomas		These bastards ain't so tough!
thomas		Is that thing working?
guttierez		Shit!  The casing's cracked!
de vries		Use mine.  Channel twenty-six.
de vries		Hurry up and figure that thing out, man!
guttierez		What?
thomas		We've got company!
de vries		I'm jammed!
thomas		You're what?!
de vries		It's locked solid...
thomas		Quick, give me the clip!
hiroko		Holo on!
kamen		Come on!
hiroko		That's the wrong way!
kamen		Detour.  Other way's blocked...
de vries		You got any slugs left?
guttierez		Yeah.  Uh...
thomas		Yes!
de vries		Try again, man...
guttierez		Matt!  Open these damn doors right now, I'll ream your ass so bad these things out here'll seem like the Easter Bunny in comparison!  Swear to God!
thomas		Open the doors!  Open the goddamned fucking doors!
de vries		That's it!  We're dead!
guttierez		Move!
matt		Close it up, close it up!
hiroko		Hurry it up.
kamen		Don't wait for me!
kamen		Run!
york		Jesus Christ!
hiroko		Cassie...!
cassie		It you don't... uh!... move your ass, you're gonna need a helluva diet to get through here!
york		Hurry up, we're losing it!
cassie		Behind you!
hiroko		Kamen!
cassie		It's too late!
hiroko		Nooooo!
york		It's going!
parsons		Miss Noguchi?
hiroko		What's the story?
parsons		Everything on this module is locked and sealed.  We've lost 'B', 'C', and 'E' wings, but 'E' was the only one we didn't manage to totally evacuate.
hiroko		How many... how many people are missing?
cassie		Unconfirmed reports of eighteen or so far, but the numbers are all over the place.
hiroko		What's our weapons situation?
driscoll		Shit!  Our armory's a big blue box from the back shelf of stores.  We got about two clips left for an autoloader, and that's it.
hiroko		Auto-shop?
cassie		Auto-shop's sealed, but those boys are cut-off.
hiroko		Has anybody talked to them?
cassie		Not yet.
hiroko		Do it.
driscoll		What the hell...?
parsons		Don't panic, people.  We've just switched over to internals.
hiroko		They knocked out the external feeds.
parsons		Looks like it.
cassie		Thirty six hours?
parsons		Give or take.
cassie		We're not gonna make it, are we?
hiroko		Get the auto-shop on-line.
parsons		Communications to auto-shop go through an F.O. link off the main trunk. That's down with the other feeds.
hiroko		Well... try the headset.
matt		I'm tellin' you, it's impossible.  Nothing can grow and reproduce this fast.
thomas		Yeah.  Right.  You wanna go outside and tell them that?
de vries		What's keeping those fucking Marines, man? They should'a been here by now!
thomas		Maybe they ain't coming.  Maybe they don't even know we've got problems...
guttierez		I don't wanna hear that kind of crap, Thomas.  They're coming.  Just a matter of time, that's all...
grease monkey		Yo!  Guttierez!
parsons		Through now.
hiroko		Jan, it's Hiroko.  What sort of shape are you in down there?
hiroko		Kamen didn't make it, Jan.
hiroko		Can you make it back?
hiroko		What's that?
cassie		Oh, man...
hiroko		Alright, let's keep calm.  We've got to have an option of some sort... there's got to be a way out of this.
york		Oh yeah?  Like what?
cassie		Well, what about those other things outside; those warriors?  Maybe we can cut some kind of deal...
matt		Well, it occurred to me that we could use the overhead crane to load the admin module onto the back of Big Bertha.  That way we could put a bit of distance...
hiroko		That sounds promising.  Can we operate the crane from here?
driscoll		Nah.  It's got programmable facilities, but it was never rigged for remote operation.  Someone'd have to go up to the cab to get it up and running.
hiroko		Which mean physically going outside.
driscoll		Yeah.
hiroko		Is this the suit?
driscoll		Uh-huh.
york		This is fuckin' lunacy!  You're not gonna make it across the platform on foot!
cassie		Shut up, York.
hiroko		No, he's right.  Has anyone got a bike near here?
redheaded girl		I have.
hiroko		Let me have the keys.
redheaded girl		Uh... the Hyundai racer.  Yellow and black stripes.
york		Oh, yeah.  Real inconspicuous...
hiroko		Listen, I don't care if it's pink and purple polka-dots as long as it gets me there in one piece.  Somebody loan me a headset.
driscoll		No, go back.  Second clasp from the bottom.
hiroko		How much air-time have I got?
cassie		About thirty minutes.  Those are slimmed-down tanks, so no stopping to admire the scenery.
hiroko		Deal.
cassie		We've dumped the whole data-base from one of the cleaning remotes into the helmet. It'll project the route through the sewer system onto the inside of the glass as you go.
driscoll		Yeah, I stripped down a motion tracker and hardwired it through to the helmet pick-ups, too.  That's also on the display.
hiroko		Sounds great.
parsons		It's not all good news.  We had to take off the helmet lights.  You'll be going in blind.
hiroko		What?  Why?
driscoll		We had to.  They were just too cumbersome for some of the conduits you're gonna have to negotiate.  Besides, all the crap floating around reduces visibility to the extent where I doubt having helmet lights would have make that much difference, anyway.  Maintenance lights down there oughta be enough to do the trick.
hiroko		How tight are these shafts?
cassie		Tight.  We chose a route we felt would reduce the chance of you running into any Aliens.
parsons		There's still time to back-out.
hiroko		Forget it.  I wouldn't ask somebody to do something I wouldn't do myself.  Where's the disk?
parsons		Don't lose it.
hiroko		Don't worry.  I won't.
driscoll		Here.  If you got to use 'em, make 'em count.
hiroko		Thanks.
parsons		Let's just run through it one more time so I know you've got it straight.
hiroko		Okay, I pull the access panel off of the console.  Insert the disk, and press the green enabling button...
hiroko		Sorry.  Two green enabling buttons...
parsons		Right.  When you've done that, don't waste any time getting out of there.  Once that crane starts moving...well, it's bound to provoke some kind of response.
york		You'll need this for the gratings. Trigger finger to operate, thumb button to switch over to the rivet gun.  The sensors'll choose blade or socket heads automatically.
hiroko		Right.      Okay, I'm set.
parsons		Alright, let's open her up.  Carefully, now...
cassie		All clear...
hiroko		Okay.  Okay.
cassie		Are you alright?
parsons		What?  What's wrong?  What is it?
hiroko		It's alright.  I'm okay.
parsons		Seal it.
york		Suicide run, man.  Fuckin' suicide run.
hiroko		Thanks, Cassie.
grease monkey		Okay.  Back.  Back.  Little bit more...
guttierez		She just set off!
matt		Okay, people.  Let's hustle...
thomas		They're comin' up through the pit!
de vries		Over there!
thomas		Mother-fucker!
hiroko		You betcha.
parsons		What is it?
girl		Auto-shop.
guttierez		Rob?  We got problems.
parsons		Where is she?
cassie		Comin' up the Central Reservoir.
parsons		Quick!  Run a trace on the culvert leading off the auto-shop maintenance pit.
cassie		I found it...
parsons		And?
cassie		Drains right into the Central Reservoir.
parsons		Get her on-line.  Now!
hiroko		What was that?  I don't copy.
cassie		I can't reach her.  Too much signal break-up.
parsons		Keep trying!
hiroko		Come on...
hiroko		Okay, I make it to the crane.  You...
parsons		We copy, boss.  Nice going.
hiroko		Yeah, well don't get too carried away; we're only halfway home. Talk...
parsons		Driscoll; you're up.
driscoll		I hear you...
hiroko		Access panel... access panel...
parsons		Right.  Auto-shop, you all set?
hiroko		Alright.  Here we go...
hiroko		Okay, I'm out of here!
parsons		Blow those suckers, Driscoll!
driscoll		Bolts blown!
hiroko		No!
guttierez		Shit!
matt		Yee-haa!  Demolition derby, baby!
de vries		Hotter 'n hell out there!
parsons		Okay, people.  Hold on tight...
guttierez		Take the wheel, Roy!
de vries		C'mon, man!  Let's shag it!
hiroko		Rob, it's Hiroko.  Come in.
cassie		Hiroko, it's Cassie.  What's...
cassie		But...
hiroko		No 'buts'.  Just do it.  Noguchi out.
de vries		Nice buns...
guttierez		Can you handle it?
de vries		Piece of cake.
guttierez		Move it baby, or they're gonna be chewin' on my cojones!
de vries		Couple more seconds!
de vries		That's it!  We've got it!  Get us out of here.
guttierez		C'mon sweetheart.  Do your stuff...
guttierez		Get down!
hiroko		Look.  Don't take this the wrong way, but when I imagined the cavalry coming to my rescue... they never looked like you.
kamen		Hiroko...
hiroko		What can I do?
kamen		I can... feel it moving around inside me. You've got to kill me.
hiroko		I... I can't!
kamen		You have to...
hiroko		No!
hiroko		Come on!  Come on!
hiroko		If you don't move your ugly butt, we're gonna end up barbecued!  Come on!
hiroko		Okay, Butch.  I can play cavalry, too...
hiroko		C'mon!  Jump!
hiroko		Shit!
hiroko		Watch your shots!  If you hit the engine you'll blow us both to hell!
broken tusk		Chew...on...this...!
matt		Holy shit!
hiroko		We've lost the starboard engine!  We're going down!  Hold on!
hiroko		We've gotta get you out of here.
broken tusk		Not...a pretty...sight...
hiroko		Yeah.  Why not.
****Dialogues from script :Aliens.txt****

first draft		May 28, 1985
leader		 Internal pressure positive.  Assume nominal hull integrity.  Hypersleep capsules, style circa late twenties...
leader		 Lights are green.  She's alive. Well, there goes out salvage, guys.
ripley		 Terrible.
ripley		How long have I been on Gateway station?
ripley		Jones!
ripley		 Come here Jonesy you ugly old moose...you ugly thing.
man		Nice room.  I'm Burke.  Carter Burke. I work for the company, but other than that I'm an okay guy.  Glad to see you're feeling better.  I'm told the weakness and disorientation should pass soon.  Side effects of the unusually long hypersleep, or something like that.
ripley		How long was I out there?  They won't tell me anything.
burke		 Well, maybe you shouldn't worry about that just yet.
ripley		How long?
burke		All right.  My instinct says you're strong enough to handle this...Fifty-seven years.
ripley		Fifty-seven...oh, Christ...
burke		You'd drifted right through the core systems.  It's blind luck that deep-salvage team caught you when they...are you all right?
ripley		No...noooo!
doctor		Hold her...Get me an airway, stat! And fifteen cc's of...Jesus!
ripley		 No.. I've slept enough.
ripley		We made it, Jones.  We made it.
ripley		 Dumbshit.
burke		Sorry...I've been running behind all morning.
ripley		Have they located my daughter yet?
burke		Well, I was going to wait until after the inquest...
ripley		Is she...?
burke		 I'm sorry.
ripley		Amy.
burke		 Cancer.  Hmmmm.  They still haven't licked that one.  Cremated.  Interred Parkside Repository, Little Chute, Wisconsin.  No children.
ripley		I promised her I'd be home for her birthday.  Her eleventh birthday.  I sure missed that one.  Well...she has already learned to take my promises with a grain of salt.  When it came to flight schedules, anyway.
ripley		You always think you can make it up to somebody...later, you know. But now I never can.  I never can.
burke		 The hearing convenes at 0930.  You don't want to be late.
ripley		You read my deposition...it's complete and accurate.
burke		Look, I believe you, but there are going to be some heavyweights in there.  You got Feds, you got interstellar commerce commission, you got colonial administration, insurance company guys...
ripley		I get the picture.
burke		Just tell them what happened.  The important thing is to stay cool and unemotional.
ripley		Do you people have earwax, of what?  We have been here three hours.  How many different ways do you want me to tell the same story?
van leuwen		Look at it from our perspective. You freely admit to detonating the engines of, and thereby destroying, an M-Class star-freighter.  A rather expensive piece of hardware...
van leuwen		The shuttle's flight recorder corroborates some elements of your account.  That the Nostromo set down on LV-426, an unsurveyed planet, at that time.  That repairs were made.  That it resumed its course and was subsequently set for self-destruct.  By you.  For reasons unknown.
ripley		Look, I told you...
van leuwen		It did not, however, contain any entries concerning the hostile life form you allegedly picked up.
ripley		Then somebody's gotten to it... doctored the recorder.  Who had access to it?
eca rep		Would you just listen to yourself for one minute.
van leuwen		The analysis team which went over your shuttle centimeter by centimeter found no physical evidence of the creature you describe...
ripley		 Like I said.
insurance man		 Are there any species like this 'hostile organism' on LV-426?
eca rep		No.  It's a rock.  No indigenous life larger than a simple virus.
ripley		I told you, it wasn't indigenous. There was an alien spacecraft there. A derelict ship.  We homed on its beacon...
eca rep		To be perfectly frank, we've surveyed over three hundred worlds and no one's ever reported a creature which, using your words...  ...'gestates in a living human host' and has 'concentrated molecular acid for blood.'
ripley		Look, I can see where this is going.  But I'm telling you those things exist.  Back on that planetoid is an alien ship and on that ship are thousands of eggs.  Thousands. Do you understand?  I suggest you find it, using the flight recorder's data.  Find it and deal with it -- before one of your survey teams comes back with a little surprise...
van leuwen		Thank you, Officer Ripley.  That will be...
ripley		 ...because just one of those things managed to kill my entire crew, within twelve hours of hatching...
van leuwen		Thank you, that will be all.
ripley		That's not all, Goddamnit!  If those things get back here, that will be all.  Then you can just kiss it good-bye, Jack!  Just kiss it goodbye.
burke		You had them eating out of your hand, kiddo.
ripley		They had their minds made up before I even went in there. They think I'm a head case.
burke		 You are a head case.  Have a donut.
van leuwen		It is the finding of this board of inquiry that Warrent Officer Ellen Ripley, NOC-14672. has acted with questionable judgment and is unfit to hold an ICC license as a commercial flight officer.
van leuwen		Said license is hereby suspended indefinitely.  No criminal charges will be filed at this time and you are released on own recognizance for a six month period of psychometric probation, to include monthly review by an ICC psychiatric tech...
ripley		 Why won't you check out LV-426?
van leuwen		 Because I don't have to.  The people who live there checked it out years ago and they never reported and 'hostile organism' or alien ship.  And by the way, they call it Acheron now.
ripley		What are you talking about. What people?
van leuwen		Terraformers...planet engineers. It's what we call a shake 'n' bake colony.  They set up atmosphere processors to make the air breathable...big job.  Takes decades.  They've already been there over twenty years.  Peacefully.
ripley		How many colonists?
van leuwen		Sixty, maybe seventy families.
ripley		 Sweet Jesus.
elevator passenger		Do you mind?
lydecker		You remember you sent some wildcatters out to that plateau, out past the Ilium range, a couple days ago?
simpson		Yeah.  What?
lydecker		There's a guy on the horn, mom-and-pop survey team.  Says he's homing on something and wants to know if his claim will be honored.
simpson		Christ.  Some honch in a cushy office on Earth says go look at a grid reference in the middle of nowhere, we look.  They don't say why, and I don't ask.  I don't ask because it takes two weeks to get an answer out here and the answer's always 'don't ask.'
lydecker		So what do I tell this guy?
simpson		Tell him, as far as I'm concerned, he finds something it's his.
jorden		 Look at this fat, juicy magnetic profile.  And it's mine, mine, mine.
anne		Half mine, dear.
newt		And half mine!
jorden		I got too many partners.
newt		Daddy, when are we going back to town?
jorden		When we get rich, Newt.
newt		You always say that.  I wanna go back.  I wanna play 'Monster Maze.'
tim		You cheat too much.
newt		Do not.  I'm just the best.
tim		Do too!  You go in places we can't fit.
newt		So!  That's why I'm the best.
anne		Knock it off!  I catch either of you playing in the air ducts again I'll tan your hides.
newt		Mom.  All the kids play it...
jorden		 Holy shiiit!
jorden		Folks, we have scored big this time.
anne		You kids stay inside.  I mean it!  We'll be right back.
anne		Shouldn't we call in?
jorden		Let's wait till we know what to call it in as.
anne		 How about 'big weird thing'?
tim		Cheater!
newt		Timmy...they've been gone a long time.
tim		 It'll be okay, Newt.  Dad knows what he's doing.
anne		Mayday!  Mayday!  This is Alpha Kilo Two Four Niner calling Hadley Control. Repeat.  This is...
bon		 Best decision I ever made, Bill. We'll be starting a new life from scratch, in a clean world. No crime.  No unemployment...
burke		Hi, Ripley.  This is Lieutenant Gorman of the...
burke		Ripley we have to talk.  They've lost contact with the colony on Acheron.
ripley		No.  There's no way!
burke		Hear me out...
ripley		I was reamed, steamed and dry-cleaned by you guys...and now you want me to go back out there?  Forget it.
burke		Look, we don't know what's going on out there.  It may just be a down transmitter.  But if it's not, I want you there...as an advisor.  That's all.
gorman		You wouldn't be going in with the troops.  I can guarantee your safety.
burke		These Colonial Marines are some tough hombres, and they're packing state-of-the-art firepower. Nothing they can't handle...right, Lieutenant?
gorman		 We're trained to deal with these kinds of situations.
ripley		 What about you?  What's your interest in this?
burke		Well, the corporation co-financed that colony with the Colonial Administration, against mineral rights.  We're getting into a lot of terraforming...'Building Better Worlds.'
ripley		Yeah, yeah.  I saw the commercial.
burke		I heard you were working in the cargo docks.
ripley		 That's right.
burke		Running loaders, forklifts, that sort of thing?
ripley		 It's all I could get.  Anyway, it keeps my mind off of... everything.  Days off are worse.
burke		What if I said I could get you reinstated as a flight officer? And that the company has agreed to pick up your contract?
ripley		If I go.
burke		If you go.  It's a second chance, kiddo.  And it'll be the best thing in the world for you to face this fear and beat it.  You gotta get back on the horse...
ripley		 Spare me, Burke.  I've had my psych evaluation this month.
burke		Yes, and I've read it.  You wake up every night, sheets soaking, the same nightmare over and over...
ripley		 No!  The answer is no.  Now please go.  I'm sorry.  Just go, would you.
burke		Think about it.
burke		 Yello?  Oh, Ripley.  Hi...
ripley		Burke, just tell me one thing. That you're going out there to kill them.  Not study.  Not bring back.  Just burn them out...clean ...forever.
burke		That's the plan.  My word on it.
ripley		All right.  I'm in.
ripley		And you my dear, are staying right here.
spunkmeyer		Arrgh.  I'm getting too old for this shit.
drake		They ain't payin' us enough for this.
dietrich		Not enough to have to wake up to your face, Drake.
drake		Suck air.  Hey, Hicks...you look like I feel.
hudson		This floor's freezing.
apone		Christ.  I never saw such a buncha old women.  You want me to fetch your slippers, Hudson?
hudson		Would you, Sir?
hudson		Hey, Vasquez...you ever been mistaken for a man?
vasquez		No.  Have you?
frost		Hey, hand job, you take my towel?
spunkmeyer		 I need some slack, man.  How come they send us straight back out like this?  We got some slack comin', man.
hicks		You just got three weeks.
spunkmeyer		I mean breathing, not this frozen shit.
dietrich		Yeah, 'Top'...what about it?
apone		You know it ain't up to me.  Awright!  Let's knock off the grabass.  First assembly's in fifteen...let's shag it.
vasquez		Who's the fresh meat again?
ferro		She's supposed to be some kinda consultant...  ...She was an alien once.
hudson		Whoooah!  No shit?  I'm impressed.
apone		Let's go...let's go.  Cycle through!
hudson		Hey, 'Top.'  What's the op?
apone		Rescue mission.  There's some juicy colonists' daughters we gotta rescue from virginity.
spunkmeyer		Shee-it.  Dumbass colonists. What's this crap supposed to be?
wierzbowski		Cornbread, I think.  Hey, I wouldn't mind getting me some more a that Arcturan poontang.  Remember that time?
hicks		 Looks like that new Lieutenant's too good to eat with us grunts.
wierzbowski		 Yeah.  Got a corn cob up his ass, definitely.
bishop		I'm sorry you feel that way about Synthetics, Ripley.
ripley		You never said anything about an android being here!  Why not?
burke		Well, it didn't occur to me.  It's been policy for years to have a synthetic on board.
bishop		I prefer the term 'artificial person' myself.  Is there a problem?
burke		A synthetic malfunctioned on her last trip out.  Some deaths were involved.
bishop		I'm shocked.  Was it an older model?
bishop		Well, that explains it.  The A/2's were always a bit twitchy. That could never happen now with out behavioral inhibitors.  Impossible for me to harm or, by omission of action, allow to be harmed a human being.  More cornbread?
ripley		Just stay away from me, Bishop! You got that straight?
wierzbowski		She don't like the cornbread either.
apone		Tench-hut!
gorman		At ease.  I'm sorry we didn't have time to brief before we left Gateway but...
hudson		Sir?
gorman		 Yes, Hicks?
hudson		Hudson, Sir.  He's Hicks.
gorman		What's the question?
hudson		Is this going to be a stand-up fight, Sir, on another bug-hunt?
gorman		All we know is that there's still no contact with the colony and that a xenomorph may be involved.
wierzbowski		A what?
hicks		 So what are these things?
ripley		I've dictated what I know on these.
apone		Tease us a bit.
spunkmeyer		Yeah...previews.
ripley		Okay.  It's important to understand this organism's life cycle.  It's actually two creatures.  The first form hatches from a spore...a sort of large egg, and attaches itself to its victim.  Then it injects an embryo, detaches and dies. It's essentially a walking sex organ. The --
hudson		Sounds like you, Hicks.
ripley		 ...then it...emerges.  Moults. Grows rapidly --
vasquez		I only need to know one thing.
ripley		Yes?
vasquez		Where they are.
drake		Yo!  Vasquez.  Kick ass!
vasquez		Anytime.  Anywhere.
hudson		Somebody said alien...she thought they said illegal alien and signed up.
vasquez		Fuck you.
hudson		Anytime.  Anywhere.
ripley		 Am I disturbing you conversation Mr. Hudson?
ripley		I hope you're right.  I really do.
burke		 I suggest you study the disks Ripley has been kind enough to prepare for you.
gorman		Are there any questions?  Hudson?
hudson		How do I get out of this chicken-shit outfit?
gorman		All right.  I want this to go smooth and by the numbers.  I want DCS and tactical database assimilation by 0830.  Ordnance loading, weapons strip and drop-ship prep details will have seven hours...
bishop		 Attention.  This concluded final maneuvering operations.  Thank you for your cooperation.  You may resume work.
burke		Still nothing from the colony?
gorman		Dead on all channels.
frost		Clear, please.
hudson		Excuse me.
ripley		I feel like a fifth wheel here.  Is there anything I can do?
apone		I don't know.  Is there anything you can do?
ripley		 I can drive that loader.  I've got a Class Two rating.  My latest career move.
ripley		Where you want it?
apone		Let's move it, girls!  On the ready line.  Let's go, let's go.
hudson		I am ready, man.  Ready to get it on.  Check-it-out.  I am the ultimate badass...state of the badass art.  You do not want to fuck with me.  Hey, Ripley, don't worry.  Me and my squad of ultimate badasses will protect you. Check-it-out...
hudson		Independently targetting particle-beam phalanx.  VWAP! Fry half a city with this puppy. We got tactical smart-missles, phased-plasma pulse-rifles, RPG's.  We got sonic eeelectronic ballbreakers, we got nukes, we got knives...sharp sticks --
hicks		Save it.
hudson		Sure, Hicks.
burke		Here we go.
ferro		Initiate release sequencer on my mark.  Three.  Two.  One.  Mark!
ferro		 Switching to DCS ranging.
spunkmeyer		Two-four-o.  Nominal to profile. Picking up some hull ionization.
ferro		Got it.  Rough air ahead.
ferro		 Stand by for some chop.
ripley		How may drops is this for you, Lieutenant?
gorman		Thirty-eight...simulated.
vasquez		How many combat drops?
gorman		Well...two.  Three, including this one.
ferro		Turning on final.  Coming around to a seven-zero-niner.  Terminal guidance locked in.  Where's the damn beacon?
gorman		Let's see.  Everybody on line. Drake, check you camera.  There seems to be a...
gorman		 ...that's better.  Pan it around a bit.
apone		Awright.  Fire-team A.  Gear up. Let's move.  Two minutes. Somebody wake up Hicks.
ripley		That the atmosphere processor?
burke		Uh-hunh.  One of thirty or so, all over the planet.  They're completely automated.  We manufacture them, by the way.
gorman		 Hold at forty.  Slow circle of the complex.
gorman		 Okay, let's do it.
apone		Awright!  I want a nice clean dispersal this time.
vasquez		You staying in here?
ripley		You bet.
vasquez		 Figures.
gorman		 Set down sixty meters this side of the telemetry mast.  Immediate dust off on my 'clear,' then stay on station.
apone		Ten seconds, people.  Look sharp!
gorman		 First squad up, on line.  Hicks, get yours in a cordon.  Watch the rear.
apone		Vasquez, take point.  Let's move.
apone		Sealed.  Hudson, run a bypass.
apone		First squad, assemble on me at the main lock.
gorman		 Second team, move up. Flanking positions.
gorman		Quarter and search by twos.  Second team move inside.  Hicks, take the upper level.  Use your motion trackers.
hicks		Nothing.  No movement.
burke		Looks like my room in college.
ripley		Wait!  Tell him to...  ...Hicks.  Back up.  Pan left. There!
hicks		 You seeing this okay?  Looks melted.
burke		Hmm.  Acid for blood.
hicks		 Looks like somebody bagged them one of Ripley's bad guys here.
hudson		Hey, if you like that, you're gonna love this...
apone		Second squad?  What's your status?
hicks		 Just finished our sweep. Nobody home.
apone		 The place is dead, Sir.  Whatever happened, we missed it.
gorman		All right, the area's secured. Let's go in and see what their computer can tell us.  First team head for operations. Hudson, see if you can get their CPU on line.  Hicks, meet me at the south lock by the up-link tower...
gorman		 ...We're coming in.
hudson		 He's coming in.  I feel safer already.
vasquez		 Pendejo jerkoff.
hudson		 Sir, the CPU is on-line.
gorman		Okay, stand by in operations.  Let's go.
ripley		 Burke!
wierzbowski		Scare you?
ripley		Christ, Wierzbowski!
wierzbowski		Sorry.  Hicks said to keep an eye on you.
gorman		 Looks like you company can write off its share of this colony.
burke		 It's insured.
front		Sir, you should check this out...
frost		Right ahead here...
wierzbowski		Last stand.
gorman		No bodies?
frost		No, Sir.  Looks like it was a helluva fight.
ripley		 Over there.
burke		Are these the same...?
ripley		Watch it, Burke...
hicks		 It likes you.
burke		These are dead.  There's just the two alive.
ripley		 They killed him getting it off.
hicks		Poor bastard.
hicks		Behind us.
ripley		One of us?
gorman		 Apone...where are your people? Anybody in D-Block?
apone		 Negative.  We're all in Operations.
hicks		It's moving.
vasquez		Which way?
vasquez		You fuck!
ripley		 Come on out.  It's all right...
hicks		Ow!  Shit.  Watchit, she bites.
ripley		It's okay, it's okay.  It's over... you're going to be all right now... it's okay...you're safe...
gorman		 What's her name again?
dietrich		 Rebecca.
gorman		Now think, Rebecca. Concentrate.  Just start at the beginning...
gorman		Where are your parents?  You have to try...
ripley		 Gorman!  Give it a rest would you.
gorman		Total brain-lock.
dietrich		 Physically she's okay. Borderline malnutrition, but I don't think any permanent damage.
gorman		Come on, we're wasting our time.
ripley		Here, try this.  A little instant hot chocolate.
ripley		 Poor thing.  You don't talk much do you?  That's okay by me.  Most people do a lot of talking and they wind up not saying very much.
ripley		Uh oh.  I made a clean spot here.  Now I've done it.  Guess I'll just have to do the whole thing.
ripley		Hard to believe...there's a little girl under all this. And a pretty one at that.
burke		 What's he scanning for?
gorman		PDT'S.  Personal-Data Transmitters. Every adult colonist had one surgically implanted.
hudson		If they're within twenty klicks we'll read it out here, but so far...zip.
ripley		I don't know how you managed to stay alive but you're one brave kid, Rebecca.
newt		N-newt.
ripley		What did you say?
newt		Newt.  My n-name's Newt. Nobody calls me Rebecca except my dork brother.
ripley		Well, Newt it is then.  My name's Ripley...and people call me Ripley.
ripley		Pleased to meet you.  And who is this?  Does she have a name?
newt		Casey.  She's my only friend.
ripley		What about me?
newt		I don't want you for a friend.
ripley		Why not?
ripley		Oh, Newt.  You mom and dad went away like that, didn't they?
ripley		 They'd be here if they could, honey.  I know they would.
newt		 They're dead.
ripley		Newt.  Look at me...Newt.  I won't leave you.  I promise.
newt		You promise?
ripley		Cross my heart.
newt		And hope to die?
ripley		 And hope to die.
hudson		Hah!  Stop your grinnin' and drop your linen!  Found 'em.
gorman		Alive?
hudson		Unknown.  But, it looks like all of them.  Over at the processing station...sublevel 'C' under the south tower.
hicks		Looks like a Goddamn town meeting.
gorman		Let's saddle up.
apone		Awright, let's go girls, they ain't payin' us by the hour.
newt		I was the best at the game. I knew the whole maze.
ripley		The 'maze'?  You mean the air ducts?
newt		Yeah, you know.  In the walls, under the floor.  I was the ace.  I could hide better than anybody.
ripley		You're really something, ace.
gorman		 Forty meters in.  Ramp on axial two-two.  Access to sublevels.
gorman		 B-Level.  Next one down.
gorman		 We're not making that out too well.  What is it?
hudson		 You tell me.  I only work here.
gorman		What is it?
ripley		I don't know.
gorman		 Proceed inside.
ripley		 Oh God...
dietrich		 Looks like some sort of secreted resin.
gorman		They ripped apart the colony for building materials.
ripley		And the colonists...When they were done with them.  Newt, you better go sit up front.  Go on.
frost		Hotter'n hell in here.
hudson		Yeah...but it's a dry heat.
ripley		They're right under the primary heat exchangers.
burke		Yeah?  Maybe the organisms like the heat, that's why they built...
ripley		That's not what I mean.  Gorman, if your men have to use their weapons in there, they'll rupture the cooling system.
burke		 She's right.
gorman		So.
ripley		So...then the fusion containment shuts down.
gorman		 So?  So?
burke		We're talking thermonuclear explosion.
gorman		Shit.  Apone, collect magazines from everybody.  We can't have any firing in there.
wierzbowski		Is he fucking crazy?
hudson		What're we supposed to use, man?  Harsh language?
gorman		 Flame-units only.  I want rifles slung.
apone		Let's go.  Pull 'em out.
hicks		 I always keep this handy. For close encounter.
apone		 Let's move.  Hicks, back us up.
gorman		 Any movement?
hudson		Nothing.  Zip.
dietrich		Sir!
woman		Please...God...kill me.
apone		Flame thrower!  Move!
hudson		Movement!
apone		Position?
hudson		Can't lock up...
apone		 Talk to me, Hudson.
hudson		Uh, seems to be in front and behind.
gorman		We can't see anything back here, Apone.  What's going on?
ripley		 Pull you team out, Gorman.
apone		Go to infrared.  Looks sharp people!
hudson		Multiple signals.  All round. Closing.
vasquez		Let's rock.
gorman		 Who's firing?  I ordered a hold fire, dammit!
hudson		 Let's get the fuck out of here!
hicks		 Not that tunnel, the other one!
crowe		 You sure?  Watch it...behind you.  Fucking move, will you!
ripley		 GET THEM OUT OF THERE!  DO IT NOW!
gorman		Shut up.  Just shut up!
gorman		Uh,...Apone, I want you to lay down a suppressing fire with the incinerators and fall back by squads to the APC, over.
apone		 Say again?  All after incinerators?
gorman		I said...
apone		Dietrich?  Crowe?  Sound off!  Wierzbowski?
hudson		 We're getting juked!  We're gonna die in here!
apone		Yeah.  Right.  Right!  Fuck the heat exchanger!
gorman		 I told them to fall back...
ripley		 They're but off!  Do something!
ripley		 Newt, put your seatbelt on!
gorman		Ripley, what the hell...?
gorman		 What are you doing?  Turn around!  That's an order!
vasquez		Drake!  He's down!
hicks		He's gone!  Forget it, he's gone!
vasquez		 No.. No, he's not.  He's --
hicks		 Let's go!
hicks		Get on the Goddamn door!
hicks		It's okay...we're clear.  We're clear.  Ease up.
hicks		Sounds like a blown transaxle. You're just grinding metal.
ripley		Newt?  Where's Newt?
ripley		You okay?
hudson		Jesus...Jesus...I don't believe it.
hudson		 I'm all right, leave it!
hicks		He's alive.  I think he's paralyzed.
vasquez		He's fucking dead!
vasquez		 Wake up pendejo!  I'm gonna kill you, you useless fuck!
hicks		Hold it.  Hold it.  Back off, right now.
ripley		Looks like it stung him.
hudson		Hey...hey!  Look, Crowe and Dietrich aren't dead, man.
hudson		They must be like Gorman.  Their signs are real low but they ain't dead!
ripley		You can't help them.  Right now they're being cocooned just like the others.
hudson		 Oh, God.  Jesus.  This ain't happening.
spunkmeyer		Need anything else?
vasquez		All right, we can't blow the fuck out of them...why not roll some canisters of CN-20 down there. Nerve gas the whole nest?
hudson		Look, man, let's just bug out and call it even, okay?
ripley		 No good.  How do we know it'll effect their biochemistry?  I say we take off and nuke the entire site from orbit.  It's the only way to be sure.
burke		Now hold on a second.  I'm not authorizing that action.
ripley		Why not?
burke		Well, I mean...I know this is an emotional moment, but let's not make snap judgments.  Let's move cautiously.  First, this physical installation had a substantial dollar value attached to it --
ripley		They can bill me.  I got a tab running.  What's second?
burke		This is clearly an important species we're dealing with here. We can't just arbitrarily exterminate them --
ripley		Bullshit!
vasquez		Yeah, bullshit.  Watch us.
hudson		Maybe you haven't been keeping up on current events, but we just got out asses kicked, pal!
ripley		Look, Burke.  We had an agreement.
burke		I know, I know, but we're dealing with changing scenarios here.  This thing is major, Ripley.  I mean really major.  You gotta go with its energy.  Since you are the representative of the company who discovered this species your percentage will naturally be some serious, serious money.
ripley		You son of a bitch.
burke		 Don't make me pull rank, Ripley.
ripley		What rank?  I believe Corporal Hicks has authority here.
burke		Corporal Hicks!?
ripley		This operation is under military jurisdiction and Hicks is next in chain of command.  Right?
hicks		Looks that way.
burke		Look, this is a multimillion dollar operation.  He can't make that kind of decision.  He's just a grunt!  No offense.
hicks		 Ferro, you copying?
ferro		 Standing by.
hicks		Prep for dust-off.  We're gonna need an immediate evac.  I think we'll take off and nuke the site from orbit.  It's the only way to be sure.
burke		This is absurd!  You don't have the authority to --
ripley		We're going home, honey.
ferro		Spunkmeyer?  Goddammit.
ferro		 Where the fu --
ripley		Run!
hudson		 Well that's great!  That's just fucking great, man.  Now what the fuck are we supposed to do, man? We're in some real pretty shit now!
hicks		Are you finished?  You okay?
newt		I guess we're not leaving, right?
ripley		I'm sorry, Newt.
newt		You don't have to be sorry.  It wasn't your fault.
hudson		 Just tell me what the fuck we're supposed to do now.  What're we gonna do now?
burke		 May be could build a fire and sing songs.
newt		We should get back, 'cause it'll be dark soon.  They come mostly at night.  Mostly.
hicks		This is all we could salvage.  We've got four pulse-rifles with about fifty rounds each.  Not so good. About fifteen M-40 grenades and two flame throwers less than half full...one damaged.  And We've got four of these robot-sentry units with scanners and display intact.
ripley		How long after we're declared overdue can we expect a rescue?
hicks		About seventeen days.
hudson		Man, we're not going to make it seventeen hours!  Those things are going to come in here, just like they did before, man... they're going to come in here and get us, man, long before...
ripley		She survived longer than that with no weapons and no training.
ripley		So you better just start dealing with it.  Just deal with it, Hudson...because we need you and I'm tired of your bullshit.  Now get on a terminal and call up some kind of floor plan file. Construction blueprints, maintenance schematics, anything that shows the layout of this place.  I want to see air ducts, electrical access tunnels, subbasements.  Every possible way into this wing.
hudson		Aye-firmative.  I'm on it.
bishop		I'll be in medical.  I'd like to continue my analysis.
ripley		Fine.  You do that.
ripley		This service tunnel is how they're moving back and forth.
hudson		Yeah, right, it runs from the processing station right into the sublevel here.
ripley		All right.  There's a fire door at this end.  The first thing we do is put a remote sentry in the tunnel and seal that door.
hicks		We gotta figure on them getting into the complex.
ripley		That's right.  So we put up welded barricades at these intersections...  ...and seal these ducts here and here.  Then they can only come at us from these two corridors and we create a free field of fire for the other two sentry units, here.
hicks		Outstanding.  Then all we need's a deck of cards.  All right, let's move like we got a purpose.
hudson		Aye-firmative.
newt		 Aye-firmative!
vasquez		 Testing!
hudson		Hudson here.  A and B sentries are in place and keyed.  We're sealing the tunnel.
hicks		 Roger.
hicks		Here, put this on.  Then I can locate you anywhere in the complex on this --
hicks		Just a...precaution.  You know.
ripley		 Thanks.
hudson		Uh, what's next?
ripley		Now you just lie here and have a nap.  You're exhausted.
newt		I don't want to...I have scary dreams.
ripley		I'll bet Casey doesn't have bad dreams.
ripley		Nothing bad in here.  Maybe you could just try to be like her.
newt		Ripley...she doesn't have bad dreams because she's just a piece of plastic.
ripley		Oh.  Sorry, Newt.
newt		My mommy always said there were no monsters.  No real ones.  But there are.
ripley		 Yes, there are, aren't there.
newt		Why do they tell little kids that?
ripley		Well, some kids can't handle it like you can.
newt		Did one of those things grow inside her?
ripley		I don't know, Newt.  That's the truth.
newt		Isn't that how babies come? I mean people babies...they grow inside you?
ripley		No, it's different, honey.
newt		Did you ever have a baby?
ripley		Yes.  A little girl.
newt		Where is she?
ripley		 Gone.
newt		You mean dead.
newt		Ripley, I was just thinking... Maybe I could do you a favor and fill in for her.  Just for a while.  You can try it and if you don't like it, it's okay. I'll understand.  No big deal. Whattya think?
ripley		I think it's not the worst idea I've heard all day.  Let's talk about it later.
newt		Don't go!  Please.
ripley		I'll be right in the other room, Newt.  And look...I can see you on that camera right up there.
ripley		Here.  Take is for luck.  Now go to sleep...and don't dream.
ripley		 How is he?
bishop		I've isolated a neuro-muscular toxin responsible for the paralysis.  It seems to be metabolizing.  He should wake up soon.
ripley		Now let me get this straight. The aliens paralyzed the colonists, carried them over there, cocooned them to be hosts for more of those...
ripley		Which would mean lots of those parasites, right?  One for each person...over a hundred at least.
bishop		Yes.  That follows.
ripley		But these things come from eggs...so where are all the eggs coming from.
bishop		That is the question of the hour.  We could assume a parallel to certain insect forms who have hivelike organization. An ant of termite colony, for example, is ruled by a single female, a queen, which is the source of new eggs.
ripley		You're saying one of those things lays all the eggs?
bishop		Well, the queen is always physically larger then the others.  A termite queen's abdomen is so bloated with eggs that it can't move at all.  It is fed and tended by drone workers, defended by the warriors.  She is the center of their lives, quite literally the  mother of their society.
ripley		Could it be intelligent?
bishop		Hard to say.  It may have been blind instinct...attraction to the heat of whatever...but she did choose to incubate her eggs in the one spot where we couldn't destroy her without destroying ourselves.  That's if she exists, of course.
ripley		 I want those specimens destroyed as soon as you're done with them. You understand?
bishop		Mr. Burke have instructions that they were to be kept alive in stasis for return to the company labs.  He was very specific.
ripley		Burke!
burke		Those specimens are worth millions to the bio-weapons division.  Now, if you're smart we can both come out of this heroes.  Set up for life.
ripley		You just try getting a dangerous organism past ICC quarantine. Section 22350 of the Commerce Code.
burke		You've been doing your homework. Look, they can't impound it if they don't know about it.
ripley		But they will know about it, Burke. From me.  Just like they'll know how you were responsible for the deaths of one hundred and fifty-seven colonists here --
burke		Now, wait a second --
ripley		 You sent them to that ship.  I just checked the colony log... directive dates six-twelve-seventy-nine. Signed Burke, Carter J.
ripley		You sent them out there and you didn't even warn them, Burke. Why didn't you warn them?
burke		Look, maybe the thing didn't even exist, right?  And if I'd made it a major security situation, the Administration would've stepped in.  Then no exclusive rights, nothing.
burke		It was a bad call, that's all.
ripley		Bad call?  These people are fucking dead, Burke!  Well, they're going to nail your hide to the shed... and I'll be there when they do.
burke		 I expected more of you, Ripley. I thought you would be smarter than this.
ripley		Sorry to disappoint you.
hicks		They're coming.  They're in the tunnel.
hicks		Guns A and B.  Tracking and firing on multiple targets.
hudson		They must be wall to wall in there.  Look  at those ammo counters go.  It's a shooting gallery down there.
hicks		B gun's dry.  Twenty on A. Ten.  Five.  That's it.
ripley		They're at the fire door.
hudson		Man, listen to that.
bishop		 Bishop here.  I'm afraid I have some bad news.
hudson		Well, that's a switch.
bishop		That's it.  See it?  Emergency venting.
ripley		How long until it blows?
bishop		I'm projecting total systems failure in a little under four hours.  The blast radius will be about thirty kilometers.  About equal to ten megatons.
hicks		We got problems.
hudson		I don't fucking believe this. Do you believe this?
ripley		And it's too late to shut it down?
bishop		I'm afraid so.  The crash did too much damage.  The overload is inevitable, at this point.
hudson		Oh, man.  And I was gettin' short, too!  Four more weeks and out. Now I'm gonna buy it on this fuckin' rock.  It ain't half fair, man!
vasquez		Hudson, give us a break.
ripley		 We need the other drop-ship.  The on one the Sulaco.  We have to bring it down on remote, somehow.
hudson		How?  The transmitter was on the APC.  It's wasted.
ripley		 I don't care how!  Think of a way.  Think of something.
hudson		Think of what?  We're fucked.
ripley		What about the colony transmitter? That up-link tower down at the other end.  Why can't we use that?
bishop		I checked.  The hard wiring between here and there was severed in the fighting.
ripley		Well then somebody's just going to have to go out there.  Take a portable terminal and go out there and plug in manually.
hudson		Oh, right!  Right!  With those things running around.  No way.
bishop		 I'll go.
ripley		What?
bishop		I'm really the only one qualified to remote-pilot the ship anyway. Believe me, I'd prefer not to.  I may be synthetic but I'm not stupid.
ripley		All right.  Let's get on it.  What'll you need?
vasquez		Listen.  It's stopped.
hicks		Well, they're into the complex.
bishop		This duct runs almost to the up-link assembly.  One hundred eighty meters.  Say, forty minutes to crawl down there.  One hour to patch in and align the antenna. Thirty minutes to prep the ship, then about fifty minutes flight time.
ripley		It's going to be closer.  You better get going.
bishop		 See you soon.
hicks		 They're in the approach corridor.
ripley		 On my way.
hicks		Twenty meters and closing. Fifteen.  C and D guns down about fifty percent.
ripley		Now many?
hicks		Can't tell.  Lots.  D gun's down to twenty.  Ten.  It's out.
ripley		They retreated.  The guns stopped them.
hicks		Yeah.  But look...
hicks		Newt time then can walk right up and knock.
ripley		But they don't know that.  They're probably looking for other ways to get in.  That'll take them awhile.
hudson		Maybe we got 'em demoralized.
hicks		 I want you two walking the perimeter. I know we're all in strung out shape but stay frosty and alert. We've got to stop any entries before they get out of hand.
hicks		How long since you slept? Twenty-four hours?
ripley		 They'll get us.
hicks		Maybe.  Maybe not.
ripley		Hicks, I'm not going to wind up like those others.  You'll take care of it won't you, it if comes to that?
hicks		If it comes to that, I'll do us both.  Let's see that it doesn't Here, I'd like to introduce you to a close personal friend of mine.
hicks		M-41A 10mm pulse-rifle, over and under with a 30mm pump-action grenade launcher.
ripley		What do I do?
hicks		Just pull it in real right.  It will kick some.  When the counter here heads zero, hit this...
hicks		Just let it drop right out.  Get the other one in quick.  Just slap it in hard, it likes abuse. Now, pull the bolt.
hicks		You're ready again.
ripley		What's this?
hicks		Well, that's the grenade launcher ...you probably don't want to mess with that.
ripley		Look, you started this.  Now show me everything.  I can handle myself.
hicks		Yeah.  I've noticed.
ripley		How do you feel?
gorman		All right, I guess.  One hell of a hangover.  Look, Ripley... I...
ripley		Forget it.
gorman		You still want to kill me?
vasquez		 It won't be necessary.
ripley		There, there.  Sssshh.  It's all right.
bishop		 Now, if I did it right...
female voice		Attention.  Attention.  Automatic fueling operations have begun. Please extinguish all smoking materials.
ripley		 Newt.  Newt, wake up.
newt		Wah...?  Where are...?
ripley		 Sssh.  Don't move.  We're in trouble.
ripley		 Hey...hey!
ripley		Hicks!  Hicks!
hicks		 He's at the up-link tower.
burke		 Excellent.
newt		Mommy...mommmyyyyy...
newt		Mommy...I mean, Ripley...I'm scared.
ripley		I know, honey.  Me too.
hicks		Vasquez, Hudson, meet me in medical!  We got a fire!
hicks		The corner!  Ready?
hudson		Do it!
ripley		 Burke...it was Burke.
hudson		 I say we grease this rat-fuck son of a bitch right now!
hicks		 I don't get it.  It doesn't make any Goddamn sense.
ripley		He wanted an alien, only he couldn't get it back through quarantine.  But if we were impregnated ...whatever you call it...and then frozen for the trip back at just the right time...then nobody would know about the embryos we were carrying. We and Newt.
hicks		Wait a minute.  We'd know about it.
ripley		The only way it would work is if he sabotaged certain freezers on the trip back.  Then he could jettison the bodies and make up any story he liked.
hudson		Fuuuck!  He's dead.  You're dogmeat, pal.
burke		This is total paranoid delusion. It's pitiful.
ripley		 You know, Burke, I don't know which species is worse.  You don't see them screwing each other over for a fucking percentage.
hicks		 No offense.
ripley		Just find someplace to lock him up until it's time to --
ripley		They cut the power.
hudson		What do you mean, they cut the power?  How could they cut the power, man?  They're animals.
ripley		Newt!  Stay close.  Let's get some trackers going. Come on, get moving.  Gorman, watch Burke.
ripley		 Anything?
hudson		There's something.
hudson		It's inside the complex.
vasquez		 You're just reading me.
hudson		No.  No!  It ain't you.  They're inside.  Inside the perimeter. They're in here.
ripley		Hudson, stay cool.  Vasquez?
vasquez		 Hudson may be right.
hicks		 It's game time.
ripley		Get back here, both of you.  Fall back to Operations.
hudson		This signal's weird...must be some interference or something. There's movement all over the place...
ripley		 Just get back here!
hudson		Movement!  Signal's clean.
hudson		Range twenty meters.
ripley		 Seal the door.
hudson		Seventeen meters.
hicks		Let's get these things lit.
ripley		They learned.  They cut the power and avoided the guns.  They must have found another way in, something we missed.
hicks		We didn't miss anything.
hudson		Fifteen meters.
ripley		I don't know, an acid hole in a duct.  Something under the floors, not on the plans. I don't know!
hudson		Twelve meters.  Man, this is a big fucking signal.  Ten meters.
ripley		They're right on us.  Vasquez, how you doing?
hudson		Nine meters.  Eight.
ripley		Can't be.  That's inside the room!
hudson		It's readin' right.  Look!
hicks		Well you're not reading it right!
hudson		Six meters.  Five.  What the fu --
ripley		Medical!  Get to medical!
ripley		Burke!  Open the door!
newt		Look!
hudson		 Let's go!  Let's go!
hicks		Fuckin' A!
hicks		 Hold you fire!
ripley		 Locked.
hicks		Stand back.
gorman		You can't use those in here!
vasquez		Right.  Fire in the hole!
hicks		 Thanks a lot!  Now I can't hear shit.
vasquez		 What?
newt		Come on!  This way.
ripley		Stay behind me.
newt		Come on.  Crawl faster.
ripley		DO you know how to get to the landing field from here?
newt		Sure.  Go left.
newt		Go right.
hicks		 Bishop, you read me?  Come in, over.
bishop		 Yes, I read you.  Not very well...
bishop		 The ship is on its way.  ETA about sixteen minutes.  I've got my hands full flying... the weather's come up a bit.
hicks		All right, stand by there.  We're on out way.  Over.
ripley		Back.  Go back!
vasquez		 Losing fuel.
vasquez		 You always were an asshole, Gorman.
newt		This way.  Come on, we're almost there!
ripley		Newt, wait!
newt		Here!  Go up.
newt		Just up there --
newt		Riiiiipppleee --
ripley		Newt!
newt		 Mommy...where are you?
newt		 Moooommeeee...
ripley		 Hicks, get down here.  I need that locator.
ripley		 Newt!  Star wherever you are!
hicks		This way.  We're close...
newt		Here!  I'm here.  I'm here.
ripley		Climb down, honey.  We have to cut through this grate.
ripley		Newt!  Newt!
ripley		No!  Noooo!
hicks		 She's gone!  Let's go!
ripley		No!  No!  She's alive!  We have to --
hicks		All right!  She's alive.  I believe it.  But we gotta get moving!  Now!
ripley		Come on, you can make it. Almost there.
ripley		HOW MUCH TIME?
bishop		PLENTY!  TWENTY-SIX MINUTES!
ripley		WE'RE NOT LEAVING!
bishop		Ripley...
ripley		She's alive.  They brought her here and you know it.
bishop		In seventeen minutes this place will be a cloud of vapor the size of Nebraska.
ripley		Hicks, don't let him leave.
hicks		 We ain't going anywhere.
ripley		See you, Hicks.
hicks		Dwayne.  It's Dwayne.
ripley		Ellen.
hicks		 Don't be long, Ellen.
voice		Attention.  Emergency.  All personnel must evacuate immediately.  You now have fourteen minutes to reach minimum safe distance.
burke		Ripley...help me.  I can feel it...inside.  Oh, God...it's moving!  Oh gooood...
ripley		Here.
voice		You now have eleven minutes to reach minimum safe distance.
newt		 I knew you'd come.
ripley		Newt, I want you to hang on, now.  Hang on tight.
voice		You now have two minutes to reach minimum safe distance.
ripley		BISHOP!
ripley		 BISHOP!
ripley		 Close your eyes, baby.
voice		You now have thirty seconds to reach...
ripley		Punch it, Bishop!
ripley		It's okay, baby.  We made it.  It's over.
bishop		I gave him a shot, for the pain. We'll need to get a stretcher to cart him up to medical.
bishop		I'm sorry if I gave you a scare but that platform was just becoming too unstable...
bishop		I had to circle and hope things didn't get too rough to take you off.
ripley		You did okay, Bishop.
bishop		Well, thanks, I --
ripley		 Go!
ripley		Here!
ripley		Get away from her, you bitch!
ripley		 Come on!
bishop		Not bad for a human.
newt		 Mommy...Mommy?
ripley		Right here, baby.  Right here.
newt		Are we going to sleep now?
ripley		That's right.
newt		Can we dream?
ripley		Yes, honey.  I think we both can.
****Dialogues from script :All_About_Eve.txt****

addison's voice		The Sarah Siddons Award for Distinguished Achievement is perhaps unknown to you. It has been spared the sensational and commercial publicity that attends such questionable "honors" as the Pulitzer Prize and those awards presented annually by the film society...
addison's voice		The distinguished looking gentleman is an extremely old actor. Being an actor - he will go on speaking for some time. It is not important what you hear what he says.
addison's voice		However it is important that you know where you are, and why you are here. This is the dining room of the Sarah Siddons Society. The occasion is its annual banquet and presentation of the highest honor our Theater knows - the Sarah Siddons Award for Distinguished Achievement.
addison's voice		These hollowed walls, indeed many of these faces, have looked upon Modjeska, Ada Rehan and Minnie Fiske; Mansfield's voice filled the room, Booth breathed this air. It is unlikely that the windows have been opened since his death.
addison's voice		The minor awards, as you can see, have already been presented. Minor awards are for such as the writer and director - since their function is merely to construct a tower so that the world can applaud a light which flashes on top of it and no brighter light has ever dazzled the eye than Eve Harrington. Eve... but more of Eve, later. All about Eve, in fact.
addison's voice		To those of you who do not read, attend the Theater, listen to uncensored radio programs or know anything of the world in which we live - it is perhaps necessary to introduce myself. My name is Addison deWitt. My native habitat is the Theater - in it I toil not, neither do I spin. I am a critic and commentator. I am essential to the Theater - as ants are to a picnic, as the ball weevil to a cotton field...
addison's voice		This is Karen Richards. She is the wife of a playwright, therefore of the Theater by marriage. Nothing in her background or breeding should have brought her any closer the stage than row E, center...
addison's voice		... however, during her senior year in Radcliffe, Lloyd Richards lectured on drama. The following year Karen became Mrs. Lloyd Richards. Lloyd is the author of 'Footsteps on the Ceiling' - the play which has won for Eve Harrington the Sarah Siddons Award...
addison's voice		There are two types of theatrical producers. One has a great many wealthy friends who will risk a tax deductible loss. This type is interested in Art.
addison's voice		The other is one to whom each production mean potential ruin or fortune. This type is out to make a buck. Meet Max Fabian. He is the producer of the play which has won Eve Harrington the Sarah Siddons Award...
addison's voice		Margo Channing is the Star of the Theater. She made her first stage appearance, at the age of four, in 'Midsummer Night's Dream'. She played a fairy and entered - quite unexpectedly - stark naked. She has been a Star ever since.
addison's voice		Margo is a great Star. A true Star. She never was or will be anything less or anything less...  ... the part for which Eve Harrington is receiving the Sarah Siddons Award was intended originally for Margo Channing...
addison's voice		Having covered in tedious detail not only the history of the Sarah Siddons Society, but also the history of acting since Thespis first stepped out of the chorus line - our distinguished chairman has finally arrived at our reason for being here...
aged actor		I have been proud and privileged to have spent my life in the Theater - "a poor player ... that struts and frets his hour upon the stage" - and I have been honored to be, for forty years, Chief Promoter of the Sarah Siddons Society...  ... and never before has this Award gone to anyone younger than its recipient tonight. How fitting that it should pass from my hands to hers...
aged actor		Such young hands. Such a young lady. Young in years, but whose heart is as old as the Theater...
aged actor		Some of us a privileged to know her. We have seen beyond the beauty and artistry-
aged actor		-that have made her name resound through the nation. We know her humility. Her devotion, her loyalty to her art.
aged actor		Her love, her deep and abiding love for us-
aged actor		-for what we are and what we do. The Theater. She has had one wish, one prayer, one dream. To belong to us.  Honored members, ladies and gentlemen - for distinguished achievement in the Theater - the Sarah Siddons Award to Miss Eve Harrington.
addison's voice		Eve. Eve, the Golden Girl. The cover girl, the girl next door, the girl on the moon... Time has been good to Eve, Life goes where she goes - she's been profiled, covered, revealed, reported, what she eats and when and where, whom she knows and where she was and when and where she's going...
addison's voice		... Eve. You all know all about Eve... what can there be to know that you don't know...?
karen's voice		When was it? How long? It seems a lifetime ago. Lloyd always said that in the Theater a lifetime was a season, and a season a lifetime. It's June now. That was - early October... only last October. It was a drizzly night, I remember I asked the taxi to wait...
karen's voice		Where was she? Strange... I had become so accustomed to seeing her there night after night - I found myself looking for a girl I'd never spoken to, wondering where she was...
eve's voice		 Mrs. Richards...
karen		So there you are. It seemed odd, suddenly, your not being there...
eve		Why should you think I wouldn't be?
karen		Why should you be? After all, six nights a week - for weeks - of watching even Margo Channing enter and leave a theater-
eve		I hope you don't mind my speaking to you...
karen		Not at all.
eve		I've seen you so often - it took every bit of courage I could raise-
karen		 To speak to just a playwright's wife? I'm the lowest form of celebrity...
eve		You're Margo Channing's best friend. You and your husband are always with her - and Mr. Sampson... what's he like?
karen		 Bill Sampson? He's - he's a director.
eve		He's the best.
karen		He'll agree with you. Tell me, what do you between the time Margo goes in and comes out? Just huddle in that doorway and wait?
eve		Oh, no. I see the play.
karen		 But, don't you find it - I mean apart from everything else - don't you find it expensive?
eve		Standing room doesn't cost much. I manage.
karen		I'm going to take you to Margo...
eve		 Oh, no...
karen		She's got to meet you-
eve		No, I'd be imposing on her, I'd be just another tongue-tied gushing fan...
karen		 There isn't another like you, there couldn't be-
eve		But if I'd known... maybe some other time... I mean, looking like this.
karen		You look just fine...  ... by the way. What's your name?
eve		Eve. Eve Harrington.
eve		You can breathe it - can't you? Like some magic perfume...
karen		 ... now don't run away-
margo's voice		 "Honey chile," I said, "if the South had won the war, you could write the same plays about the North!"
karen		Hi.  Hello, darling-
lloyd		How was the concert?
karen		Loud.
birdie		Lemme fix you a drink.
karen		No thanks, Birdie.
lloyd		Margo's interview with a lady reporter from the South-
birdie		The minute it gets printed they're gonna fire on Gettysburg all over again...
margo		It was Fort Sumter they fired on-
birdie		I never played Fort Sumter.
margo		Honey chili had a point. You know, I can remember plays about women - even from the South - where it never even occurred to them whether they wanted to marry their fathers more than their brothers...
lloyd		That was way back...
margo		Within your time, buster. Lloyd, honey, be a playwright with guts. Write me one about a nice, normal woman who shoots her husband.
birdie		You need new girdles.
margo		Buy some.
birdie		The same size?
margo		Of course!
birdie		Well. I guess a real tight girdle help when you're playin' a lunatic.
karen		 Margo does not play a lunatic, Birdie.
birdie		I know. She just keeps hearin' her dead father play the banjo.
margo		It's the tight girdle that does it.
karen		I find these wisecracks increasingly less funny! 'Aged in Wood' happens to be a fine and distinguished play-
lloyd		- 'at's my loyal little woman.
karen		The critics thought so, the audiences certainly think so - packed houses, tickets for months in advance - I can't see that either of Lloyd's last two plays have hurt you any!
lloyd		Easy, now...
margo		 Relax, kid. It's only me and my big mouth...
karen		 It's just that you get me so mad sometimes... of all the women in the world with nothing to complain about-
margo		 Ain't it the truth?
karen		Yes, it is! You're talented, famous, wealthy - people waiting around night after night just to see you, even in the wind and rain...
margo		Autograph fiends! They're not people - those little beast who run in packs like coyotes-
karen		They're your fans, your audience-
margo		They're nobody's fans! They're juvenile delinquents, mental detectives, they're nobody's audience, they never see a play or a movie, even - they're never indoors long enough!
karen		Well... there's one indoors now. I've brought her back to see you.
margo		You've what?
karen		 She's just outside the door.
margo		 The heave-ho.
karen		You can't put her out, I promised... Margo, you've got to see her, she worships you, it's like something out of a book-
lloyd		That book is out of print, Karen, those days are gone. Fans no longer pull the carriage through the streets - they tear off clothes and steal wrist watches...
karen		If you'd only see her, you're her whole life - you must have spotted her by now, she's always there...
margo		Kind of mousy trench coat and funny hat?  How could I miss her? Every night and matinee - well...
birdie		Once George Jessel played my hometown. For a girl, gettin' in to see him was easy. Gettin' out was the problem...
eve		 I thought you'd forgotten about me.
karen		Not at all.  Margo, this is Eve Harrington.
margo		 How do you do, my dear.
birdie		 Oh, brother.
eve		Hello, Miss Channing.
karen		My husband...
lloyd		 Hello, Miss Harrington.
eve		How do you do, Mr. Richards.
margo		 And this is my good friend and companion, Miss Birdie Coonan.
birdie		Oh, brother.
margo		Miss Coonan...
lloyd		 Oh brother what?
birdie		When she gets like this... all of a sudden she's playin' Hamlet's mother...
margo		 I'm sure you must have things to do in the bathroom, Birdie dear.
birdie		If I haven't, I'll find something till you're normal.
margo		Dear Birdie. Won't you sit down, Miss Worthington?
karen		Harrington.
margo		I'm so sorry... Harrington. Won't you sit down?
eve		Thank you.
margo		Would you like a drink? It's right beside you...
karen		I was telling Margo and Lloyd about how often you'd seen the play...
eve		 Yes. I've seen every performance.
lloyd		 Every performance? Then - am I safe in assuming you like it?
eve		I'd like anything Miss Channing played...
margo		 Would you, really? How sweet-
lloyd		 I doubt very much that you'd like her in 'The Hairy Ape'.
eve		Please, don't misunderstand me, Mr. Richards. I think that part of Miss Channing's greatness lies in her ability to choose the best plays... your new play is for Miss Channing, isn't it, Mr. Richards?
margo		Of course it is.
lloyd		How'd hear about it?
eve		There was an item in the Times. i like the title. 'Footsteps on the Ceiling'.
lloyd		Let's get back to this one. Have you really seen every performance?  Why? I'm curious...
eve		Well. If I didn't come to see the play, I wouldn't have anywhere else to go.
margo		There are other plays...
eve		Not with you in them. Not by Mr. Richards...
lloyd		But you must have friends, a family, a home-
karen		Tell us about it - Eve...
eve		If I only knew how...
karen		Try...
eve		Well...
eve		Well... it started with the play before this one...
lloyd		'Remembrance'.
margo		Did you see it here in New York?
eve		San Francisco. It was the last week. I went one night... the most important night in my life - until this one. Anyway... I found myself going the next night - and the next and the next. Every performance. Then, when the show went East - I went East.
birdie		I'll never forget that blizzard the night we played Cheyenne. A cold night. First time I ever saw a brassiere break like a piece of matzos...
karen		Eve... why don't you start at the beginning?
eve		It couldn't possibly interest you.
margo		Please...
eve		I guess it started back home. Wisconsin, that is. There was just mum, and dad - and me. I was the only child, and I made believe a lot when I was a kid - I acted out all sorts of things... what they were isn't important. But somehow acting and make-believe began to fill up my life more and more, it got so that I couldn't tell the real from the unreal except that the unreal seemed more real to me... I'm talking a lot of gibberish, aren't I?
lloyd		Not at all...
eve		Farmers were poor in those days, that's what dad was - a farmer. I had to help out. So I quit school and I went to Milwaukee. I became a secretary. In a brewery.  ... so I figured I'd stay in San Francisco. i was alone, but couldn't go back without Eddie. I found a job. And his insurance helped... and there were theaters in San Francisco. And one night Margo Channing came to play in 'Remembrance'... and I went to see it. And - well - here I am...
birdie		 What a story. Everything but the bloodhounds snappin' at her rear end...
margo		There are some human experiences, Birdie, that do not take place in a vaudeville house - and that even a fifth-rate vaudevillian should understand and respect!  I want to apologize for Birdie's-
birdie		 I'm sorry if I hurt your feelings. It's just my way of talkin'...
eve		 You didn't hurt my feelings, Miss Coonan...
birdie		Call me Birdie.  As for bein' fifth-rate - i closed the first half for eleven years an' you know it!
bill		Forty-five minutes from now my plane takes off and how do I find you? Not ready yet, looking like a junk yard-
margo		Thank you so much.
bill		Is it sabotage, does my career mean nothing to you? Have you no human consideration?
margo		Show me a human and I might have!
karen		 Bill...
bill		The air lines have clocks, even if you haven't! I start shooting a week from Monday - Zanuck is impatient, he wants me, he needs me!
karen		 Bill-
margo		Zanuck, Zanuck, Zanuck! What are you two - lovers?
bill		 Only in some ways. You're prettier...
margo		I'm a junk yard.
karen		 Bill!
bill		 Huh?
karen		This is Eve Harrington.
bill		Hi.  My wonderful junk yard. The mystery and dreams you find in a junk yard-
margo		 Heaven help me, I love a psychotic.
bill		Hello, what's your name?
eve		Eve. Eve Harrington.
karen		You've already met.
bill		Where?
karen		Right here. A minute ago.
bill		That's nice.
margo		She, too, is a great admirer of yours.
birdie		Imagine. All this admiration in just one room.
bill		Take your mistress into the bathroom and dress her.  Without comment.
karen		You're not going, are you?
eve		I think I'd better. It's been - well, I can hardly find the words to say how it's been...
margo		 No, don't go...
eve		The four of you must have so much to say to each other - with Mr. Sampson leaving...
margo		Stick around. Please. Tell you what - we'll put Stanislavsky on his plane, you and I, then go somewhere and talk.
eve		Well - if I'm not in the way...
margo		I won't be a minute.
karen		Lloyd, we've got to go-
karen		Margo, good night! I'll call you tomorrow!
karen		Good luck, genius...
bill		Geniuses don't need good luck.  I do.
lloyd		I'm not worried about you.
bill		Keep the thought.
karen		Good night, Eve. I hope I see you again soon-
eve		I'll be at the old stand, tomorrow matinee-
karen		Not just that way. As a friend...
eve		I'd like that.
lloyd		It's been a real pleasure, Eve.
eve		I hope so, Mr. Richards. Good night...
eve		Mrs. Richards.  ... I'll never forget this night as long as I live. And I'll never forget you for making it possible.
karen's voice		- and I'll never forget you, Eve. Where were we going that night, Lloyd and I? Funny the things you remember - and the things you don't...
eve		You said forty-seven minutes. You'll never make it.
bill		 I told you a lie. We'll make it easily. Margo's got no more conception of time than a halibut.
bill		She's been carrying that letter around for weeks. I've read it three times...
margo's voice		You're supposed to zip the zipper - not me.
birdie's voice		Like tryin' to zip a pretzel - stand still!
bill		What a documentary those two would make... like the mongoose and the cobra-
eve		 So you're going to Hollywood.
bill		Why?
eve		I just wondered.
bill		Just wondered what?
eve		Why.
bill		Why what?
eve		Why you have to go out there.
bill		I don't have to. I want to.
eve		Is it the money?
bill		Eighty percent of it will go for taxes.
eve		Then why? Why, if you're the best and most successful young director in the Theater-
bill		The Theatuh, the Theatuh-  Listen, junior. And learn. Want to know what the Theater is? A flea circus. Also opera. Also rodeos, carnivals, ballets, Indian tribal dances, Punch and Judy, a one-man band - all Theater. Wherever there's magic and make-believe and an audience - there's Theater. Donald Duck, Ibsen, and The Lone Ranger, Sarah Bernhardt, Poodles Hanneford, Lunt and Fontanne, Betty Grable, Rex and Wild, and Eleanora Duse. You don't understand them all, you don't like them all, why should you? The Theater's for everybody - you included, but not exclusively - so don't approve or disapprove. It may not be your Theater, but it's Theater of somebody, somewhere.
eve		I just asked a simple question.
bill		 ... it's just that there's so much bushwah in this Ivory Green Room they call the Theatuh - sometimes it gets up around my chin...
eve		But Hollywood. You mustn't stay there.
bill		 It's only one picture deal.
eve		So few come back...
bill		Yeah. They keep you under drugs out there with armed guards...
eve		I read George Jean Nathan every week.
bill		Also Addison deWitt.
eve		Every day.
bill		You didn't have to tell me.
margo		 I understand it's the latest thing - just one earring. If it isn't, it's going to be - I can't find the other...
bill		Throw that dreary thing away, it bores me-
eve		 Where do you suppose it could be?
birdie		It'll show up.
margo		 ... look through the wigs, maybe it got caught-
bill		Real diamonds in a wig. The world we live in...
margo		 Where's my coat?
birdie		Right where you left it...
bill		 The seams.
margo		 Can't keep his eyes off my legs.
bill		Like a nylon lemon peel-
margo		 Byron couldn't have said it more graciously... here we go-
bill		Got any messages? What do you want me to tell Tyrone Power?
birdie		Just give him my phone number, I'll tell him myself.
birdie		Kill the people.  Got your key?
margo		 See you home...
margo		They have to time it so everybody gets on at the last minute. So they can close the doors and let you sit.
bill		Ah...
eve		I have a suggestion.  There's really not much time left - I mean, you haven't had a minute alone yet, and - well, I could take care of everything here and meet you at the gate with the ticket... if you'd like.
bill		I think we'd like very much. Sure you won't mind?
eve		Of course not.
bill		She's quite a girl, that what's-her name...
margo		Eve. I'd forgotten they grew that way...
bill		The lack of pretense, that sort of strange directness and understanding-
margo		Did she tell you about the Theater and what it meant?
bill		 I told her. I sounded off.
margo		All the religions in the world rolled into one, and we're Gods and Goddesses... isn't it silly, suddenly I've developed a big protective feeling for her - a lamb loose in our big stone jungle...
margo		Take care of yourself out there...
bill		I understand they've got the Indians pretty well in hand...
margo		Bill...
bill		Huh?
margo		Don't get stuck on some glamour puss-
bill		I'll try.
margo		You're not such a bargain, you know, conceited and thoughtless and messy-
bill		Everybody can't be Gregory Peck.
margo		- you're a setup for some gorgeous wide-eyed young babe.
bill		How childish are you going to get before you quit it?
margo		I don't want to be childish, I'd settle for just a few years-
bill		 And cut that out right now.
margo		Am I going to lose you, Bill? Am I?
bill		As of this moment you're six years old...
eve		All ready.
bill		Thanks for your help... good luck.
eve		Goodbye, Mr. Sampson.
bill		Knit me a muffler.
margo		Call me when you get in...
bill		Hey - junior...
bill		Keep your eyes on her. Don't let her get lonely. She's a loose lamb in a jungle...
eve		Don't worry...
margo's voice		That same night we sent for Eve's things, her few pitiful possessions... she moved into the little guest room on the top floor...
margo's voice		... she cried when she saw it - it was so like her little room back home in Wisconsin.
margo's voice		... the next three weeks were out of a fairy tale - and I was Cinderella in the last act. Eve became my sister, lawyer, mother, friend, psychiatrist and cop - the honeymoon was on...
stage manager		One more?
margo		 From now on it's not applause - just something to do till the aisles get less crowded...
margo		What - again?
eve		I could watch you play that last scene a thousand times and cry every time-
margo		 Performance number one thousand of this one - if I play it that long - will take place in a well-padded booby hatch...
eve		I must say you can certainly tell Mr. Sampson's been gone a month.
margo		You certainly can. Especially if you're me between now and tomorrow morning...
eve		I mean the performance. Except for you, you'd think he'd never even directed it - it's disgraceful the way they change everything around...
margo		 Well, teacher's away and actors will be actors...
eve		During your second act scene with your father, Roger Ferraday's supposed to stay way upstage at the arch. He's been coming closer down every night...
margo		When he gets too close, I'll spit in his eye.
margo		 You bought the new girdles a size smaller. I can feel it.
birdie		Something maybe grew a size bigger.
margo		When we get home you're going to get into one of those girdles and act for two and half hours.
birdie		I couldn't get into the girdle in two an' a half hours...
eve		You haven't noticed my latest bit of interior decorating...
margo		 Well, you've done so much... what's new?
eve		The curtains. I made them myself.
margo		They are lovely. Aren't they lovely, Birdie?
birdie		Adorable. We now got everything a dressing room needs except a basketball hoop.
margo		Just because you can't even work a zipper. It was very thoughtful, Eve, and I appreciate it-
eve		While you're cleaning up, I'll take this to the wardrobe mistress-
margo		Don't bother. Mrs. Brown'll be along for it in a minute.
eve		No trouble at all.
birdie		If I may so bold as to say something - did you ever hear the word "union"?
margo		Behind in your dues? How much?
birdie		I haven't got a union. I'm slave labor.
margo		Well?
birdie		But the wardrobe women have got one. And next to a tenor, a wardrobe woman is the touchiest thing in show business-
margo		 Oh-oh.
birdie		She's got two things to do - carry clothes an' press 'em wrong - an' just let anybody else muscle in...
margo		 Eve-
margo		 I think we'd better let Mrs. Brown pick up the wardrobe...
margo		Hello..
operator's voice		We are ready with your call to Beverly Hills...
margo		Call, what call?
operator's voice		It this Templeton 89970? Miss Margo Channing?
margo		That's right, but I don't understand-
operator's voice		We are ready with the call you placed for 12 midnight, California time, to Mr. William Sampson in Beverly Hills...
margo		I placed...?
operator's voice		Go ahead, please...
bill's voice		 Margo! What a wonderful surprise!
bill		 What a thoughtful, ever-lovin' thing to do-
margo		 Bill? Have I gone crazy, Bill?
bill		You're my girl, aren't you?
margo		That I am...
bill		Then you're crazy.
margo		 When - when are you coming back?
margo		- in a tin can, cellophane or wrapped in a Navajo blanket, I want you home...
margo		A big hurry, be quick about it - so good night, darling, and sleep tight...
margo		Bill, you know how much I do - but over the phone, now really, that's kid stuff...
bill		Kid stuff or not, it doesn't happen every day, I want to heat it - and if you won't say it, you can sing it...
margo		 Sing it?
margo		Bill... Bill, it's your birthday.
margo		 Happy birthday, darling...
margo		 Many happy returns of the day...
margo		Of course, birthday and welcome home... who'll I ask?
margo		She did...?
margo		Yeah... I will.
margo		Okay.
margo		 I'll check with Eve...
bill		What?
margo		I love you too. Good night, darling-
margo		Birdie-
birdie		Hmm?
margo		You don't like Eve, do you?
birdie		Do you want an argument or an answer?
margo		An answer.
birdie		No.
margo		Why not?
birdie		Now you want an argument.
margo		She works hard.
birdie		Night an' day.
margo		She's loyal and efficient-
birdie		Like an agent with one client.
margo		She thinks only for me...  ... doesn't she?
birdie		 Well... let's say she thinks only about you, anyway...
margo		How do you mean that?
birdie		I'll tell you how. Like - let's see - like she was studyin' you, like you were a play or a book or a set of blueprints. How you walk, talk, think, eat, sleep-
margo		 I'm sure that's very flattering, Birdie, and I'm sure there's nothing wrong with that!
eve		Good morning!
eve		Well - what do you think of my elegant new suit?
margo		Very becoming. It looks better on you than it did on me.
eve		 I can imagine... you know, all it needed was some taking in here and letting out there - are you sure you won't want it yourself?
margo		Quite sure. I find it just a bit too - too "Seventeenish" for me...
margo		There's the script to go back to the Guild-
eve		I've got it.
margo		- and those checks or whatever it is for the income tax man.
eve		Right here.
margo		It seems I can't think of a thing you haven't thought of...
eve		 See you at tea time...
margo		Eve...  ... by any chance, did you place a call from me to Bill for midnight California time?
eve		 Oh, golly. And I forgot to tell you-
margo		Yes, dear. You forgot all about it.
eve		Well, I was sure you'd want to, of course, being his birthday, and you've been so busy these past few days, and last night I meant to tell you before you went out with the Richards - and I guess I was asleep when you got home...
margo		Yes, I guess you were. It - it was very thoughtful of you, Eve.
eve		Mr. Sampson's birthday. I certainly wouldn't forget that. You'd never forgive me.  As a matter of fact, I sent him a telegram myself...
karen's voice		I saw Eve quite often after our first meeting, but we never really talked again - until the party Margo gave for Bill when he returned from Hollywood...
karen's voice		It's always convenient at a party to know the hostess well enough to use her bedroom rather than go where all the others have to go...
karen		Now who's show up at this hour? It's time people went home - hold that coat up...  ... whose is it?
eve		Some Hollywood movie star, her plane got in late.
karen		Discouraging, isn't it? Women with furs like that where it never gets cold...
eve		Hollywood.
karen		Tell me, Eve - how are things with you? Happy?
eve		There should be a new word for happiness. Being here with Miss Channing has been - I just can't say, she's been so wonderful, done so much for me-
karen		 ... you've done your share, Eve. You've worked wonders with Margo...
eve		 Mrs. Richards.
karen		 Karen.
eve		Karen...  ... isn't it awful, I'm about to ask you for another favor - after all you've already done.
karen		 Nobody's done so much, Eve, you've got to stop thinking of yourself as one of the Hundred Neediest Cases... what is it?
eve		Well... Miss Channing's affairs are in such good shape... there isn't enough to keep me as busy as I should be, really - not that I've ever considered anything that would take me away from her... but the other day - when I heard Mr. Fabian tell Miss Channing that her understudy was going to have a baby, and they'd have to replace her...
karen		... you want to be Margo's new understudy.
eve		I don't let myself think about it, even-  - but suppose I had to go on one night? To an audience that came to see Margo Channing. No, I couldn't possibly...
karen		 Don't worry too much about that. Margo just doesn't miss performances. If she can walk, crawl or roll - she plays.
eve		 The show must go on.
karen		No, dear. Margo must go on.  As a matter of fact, I see no reason why you shouldn't be Margo's understudy...
eve		Do you think Miss Channing would approve?
karen		I think she would cheer.
eve		But Mr. Richards and Mr. Sampson-
karen		They'll do as they're told.
eve		Then - would you talk to Mr. Fabian about it?
karen		Of course.
eve		You won't forget it?
karen		I won't forget.
eve		I seem to be forever thanking you for something, don't I?
birdie		The bed looks like a dead animal act. Which one is sables?
karen		 But she just got here...
birdie		She's on her way. With half the men in the joint.  It's only a fur coat...
karen		What did you expect - live sables?
birdie		A diamond collar, gold sleeves - you know, picture people...
karen		Bill says actors out there eat just as infrequently as here-
birdie		They can always grab oranges off trees. This you can't do in Times Square...
miss caswell		 Now there's something a girl could make sacrifices for.
bill's voice		And probably has.
miss caswell		Sable.
max		 Did you say sable - or Gable?
miss caswell		Either one.
addison		It is senseless to insist that theatrical folk in New York, Hollywood and London are no different from the good people of Des Moines, Chillicothe and Liverpool. By and large, we are concentrated gatherings of neurotics, egomaniacs, emotional misfits, and precocious children-
max		 Gable. Why a feller like that don't come East to do a play...
addison		These so-called abnormalities - they're our stock in trade, they make us actors, writers, directors, et cetera in the first place-
max		Answer me this. What makes a man become a producer?
max		This answer satisfies me a hundred percent.
addison		That happens to be your particular abnormality.
miss caswell		 Oh, waiter...
addison		That isn't a waiter, my dear. That's a butler.
miss caswell		Well, I can't yell "Oh, butler," can I? Maybe somebody's name is Butler...
miss caswell		I don't want to make trouble. All I want is a drink.
max		 Leave me get you one...
miss caswell		 Oh, thank you, Mr. Fabian.
addison		Well done. I see your career rising in the East like the sun...  ... you were saying?
eve		 Yes. Yes, it does.
bill		 It means concentration of ambition, desire, and sacrifice such as no other profession demands... And I'll agree that the man or woman who accepts those terms can't be ordinary, can't be - just someone. To give so much for almost always so little...
eve		So little. So little, did you say? Why, if there's nothing else - there's applause. It's like - like waves of love coming over the footlights and wrapping you up. Imagine... To know, every night, that different hundreds of people love you... they smile, their eyes shine - you've pleased them, they want you, you belong. Just that alone is worth anything...
margo		Don't get up. And please stop acting as if I were the queen mother.
eve		 I'm sorry, I didn't mean to-
bill		 Outside of a beehive, Margo, your behavior would hardly be considered either queenly or motherly!
margo		You're in a beehive, pal, didn't you know? We're all busy little bees, full of stings, making honey day and night-  - aren't we, honey?
karen		Margo, really...
margo		Please don't play governess, Karen, I haven't your unyielding good taste, I wish I'd gone to Radcliffe too but father wouldn't hear of it - he needed help at the notions counter...  I'm being rude now, aren't I? OR should I say "ain't I"?
addison		You're maudlin and full of self pity. You're magnificent.
lloyd		How about calling it a night?
margo		And you pose as a playwright. A situation pregnant with possibilities - and all you can think of is everybody to go to sleep...
bill		It's a good thought.
margo		It won't play.
karen		As a nonprofessional, I think it's an excellent idea. Undramatic, but practical...
margo		Happy little housewife...
bill		Cut it out.
margo		This is my house, not a theater! In my house you're a guest, not a director-!
karen		Then stop being a star - start treating your guests as your supporting cast!
addison		Hear, hear...
lloyd		Now let's not get into a big hassle-
margo		 You be the host. It's your party. Happy Birthday, welcome home, and we-who-are-about-to-die-salute-you.
bill		Need any help?
margo		 To put me to bed? Take my clothes off, hold my head, tuck me in, turn off the lights, tiptoe out...? eve would. Wouldn't you, Eve?
eve		If you'd like.
margo		I wouldn't like.
max		I forgot I had it.
miss caswell		I didn't.
addison		Too bad! We'll miss the third act. They're going to play it off stage.
lloyd		Coming?
eve		But there must be some reason, something I've done without knowing...
eve		If I thought I'd offended her, of all people-
eve		 Well - if she's got to pick on someone, I'd just as soon it was me.
lloyd		Max is going to drop us...
max		In my case it's necessary. Too many taxi drivers write plays.
miss caswell		Let's go sit by the piano.
addison		You have me confused with Dan Dailey. You go sit by the piano.  Good night.
eve		Karen...  ... you won't forget, will you? What we talked about before?
karen		 No, Eve, I won't forget...
margo's voice		Bill's welcoming-home-birthday party... a night to go down in history. Like the Chicago Fire - or the Massacre of the Huguenots. Even before the party started, I could smell disaster in the air...
margo's voice		I knew it, I sensed it even as I finished dressing for that blasted party...
birdie		You all put together?
margo		My back's open.  Did the extra help get here?
birdie		There's some loose characters dressed like maids and butlers. Who'd you call - the William Morris Agency?
margo		You're not being funny, I could get actors for less. What about the food?
birdie		The caterer had to back for hors d'oeuvres-  Voila.
margo		 That French ventriloquist taught you a lot, didn't he?
birdie		There was nothing he didn't know.  There's a message from the bartender. Does Miss Channing know we ordered domestic gin by mistake?
margo		The only thing I ordered by mistake is the guests.  They're domestic, too, and they don't care what they drink as long as it burns... where's Bill? He's late.
birdie		Late for what?
margo		Don't be dense. The party.
birdie		I ain't dense. And he's been here twenty minutes.
margo		Well, I certainly think it's odd he hasn't even come up...
margo		Don't let me kill the point. Or isn't it a story for grownups?
margo		 Remind me to tell you about when I looked into the heart of an artichoke.
eve		I'd like to hear it.
margo		Some snowy night in front of the fire... in the meantime, while we're on the subject, will you check about the hors d'oeuvres? The caterer forgot them, the varnish wasn't dry or something...
eve		Of course.
margo		I thought you were going to be late-
margo		That never stopped you before.
margo		She's a girl of so many interests.
margo		She's a girl of so many rare qualities.
margo		 So you've pointed out, so often. So many qualities, so often. Her loyalty, efficiency, devotion, warmth, affection - and so young. So young and so fair...
margo		Clyde Fitch, thought you may not think so, was well before my time!
margo		I don't think that's funny!
margo		Twenty minutes!
margo		Stage-struck kid... she's a young lady - of qualities. And I'll have you know I'm fed up with both the young lady and her qualities! Studying me as if - as if I were a play or a set of blueprints! How I walk, talk, think, eat, sleep!
margo		Stop calling her a kid! It so happens there are particular aspects of my life to which I would like to maintain sole and exclusive rights and privileges!
margo		For instance - you!
margo		- guilty.
margo		What about her teeth? What about her fangs?
margo		Cut! Print it! What happens in the next reel? Do I get dragged off screaming to the snake pit?
eve's voice		 Miss Channing?
eve		The hors d'oeuvres are here. Is there anything else I can do?
margo		Thank you, Eve. I'd like a Martini - very dry.
margo		A milkshake?
eve		A Martini. Very dry, please...
eve		 May I have your coat?
karen		Don't bother, I can take it up myself...
eve		Please...
lloyd		I like that girl. That quality of quiet graciousness...
margo		... Among so many quiet qualities.
margo		I'm so happy you're happy.
max		Look, you haven't been running a settlement house exactly - the kid's earned her way. You had a pretty mixed-up inventory when she took over - merchandise laying all over the shop...
lloyd		You've got Margo mixed up with a five-and-ten-cent store...
margo		Make it Bergdorf Goodman... and now everything is on its proper shelf, eh, Max? Done up in little ribbons. I could die right now and nobody'd be confused. How about you, Max?
max		How about me what?
margo		Supposed you dropped dead. What about your inventory?
max		I ain't gonna die. Not with a hit.
margo		 Thank you.
margo		The kid - junior, that is - will be right down. Unless you'd like to take her drink up to her...
lloyd		The general atmosphere is very Macbethish. What has or is about to happen?
margo		 What is he talking about?
margo		Fasten your seat belts. It's going to be a bumpy night.
margo		 Darlings...
margo		 I distinctly remember striking your name from the guest list. What are you doing here?
addison		Dear Margo. You were an unforgettable Peter Pan - you must play it again, soon. You remember Miss Caswell?
margo		I do not. How do you do?
miss caswell		We never met. That's why.
addison		Miss Caswell is an actress. A graduate of Copacabana School of Dramatic Arts.  Ah... Eve.
eve		 Good evening, Mr. deWitt.
margo		I had no idea you knew each other.
miss caswell		That's how you met me. In passing.
margo		 Addison, I've been wanting you to meet Eve for the longest time-
addison		 It could only have been your natural timidity that kept you from mentioning it...
margo		You've heard of her great interest in the Theater-
addison		We have that in common.
margo		Then you two must have a long talk-
eve		I'm afraid Mr. deWitt would find me boring before too long.
miss caswell		You won't bore him, honey. You won't even get to talk.
addison		 This is Max Fabian. He is a producer. Go do yourself some good.
miss caswell		 Why do they always look like unhappy rabbits?
addison		Because that is what they are. Go make him happy.
addison		 You mustn't worry about your little charge. She is in safe hands.
margo		Amen.
margo		 "Liebestraum."
pianist		I just played it.
margo		Play it again.
pianist		But that was the fourth straight time.
margo		Then this will be five. I suppose you think I'm too drunk to count.
pianist		No. You're just crazy about "Liebestraum."
margo		"Liebestraum."
pianist		Look, Miss Channing... it's kind of depressing. If you don't mind my saying so, everybody's kind of dying on the vine...
margo		My dear Horowitz. In the first place, I'm paying you union scale. Second, it's my piano. Third, if everybody doesn't like kind of dying on the vine, they can get off the vine and go home. "Liebestraum."
bill		 Many of your guests have been wondering when they may be permitted to view the body. Where has it been laid out?
margo		 It hasn't been laid out, we haven't finished with the embalming. As a matter of fact, you're looking at it. The remains of Margo Channing. Sitting up. It is my last wish to be buried sitting up.
margo		You know nothing about feelings, natural or unnatural.
margo		If my guests do not like it here, I suggest they accompany you to the nursery where I'm sure you will all feel more at home.
max		Margo. You by any chance got bicarbonate of soda in the house?
margo		 It's that Miss Caswell. I don't know why she doesn't give Addison heartburn.
margo		Everybody has a heart - except some people.  Of course I've got bicarb. There's a box in the pantry. We'll put your name on it. Max Fabian. It'll say there. Always. Just for you.
max		 Let the rest of the world beat their brains out for a buck. It's friends that count. And I got friends.
margo		I love you, Max. I really mean it. I love you. Come to the pantry.
max		She loves me like a father. Also, she's loaded.
margo		Here you are, Maxie dear. One good burp and you'll be rid of that Miss Caswell...
max		The situation I'm in ain't the kind you can belch your way out. I made a promise...
margo		Miss Caswell?  What?
max		An audition for the part we're replacing. What's-her-name, your sister...
margo		Well, if she can act, she might not be bad. She looks like she might burn down a plantation...
max		 I feel right now like there's one burning in me.
margo		When's the audition?
max		A couple of weeks.
margo		I tell you what. Why don't I read with her?
max		Would you?
margo		Anything to help you out, Max.
max		This is real cooperation. I appreciate it.
margo		Not at all. And you could do me a big favor, if you would-
max		All you got to do is name it.
margo		Give Eve Harrington job in you office.
margo		You get quick action, don't you?
max		Margo, I wouldn't think of taking that girl away from you...
margo		You said yourself my inventory was in good shape - all of my merchandise put away. To keep her here with nothing to do - I'd be standing in her way... and you need her, Max.
max		But what could she do?
margo		She'd be a great help - read scripts, interview people you have to see, get rid of the ones you don't have to... you'd be a man of leisure-
max		Well...
max		I don't know if this would be a wise move...
margo		Promise.
max		I promise.
margo		 That's my Max.
lloyd		There you are, both of you. Max, Karen has decided it's time to go.
margo		Where is she?
lloyd		Up in the room.
max		If you'll excuse me-  I'll tell Miss Caswell...
margo		Who's left out there?
lloyd		Too many. And you've got a new guest. A movie star from Hollywood.
margo		Shucks. And my autograph book is at the cleaners.
margo		You disapprove of me when I'm like this, don't you?
lloyd		Not exactly. Sometimes, though, I wish I understood you better.
margo		When you do, let me in on it.
lloyd		I will.
margo		How's the new one coming?
lloyd		The play? All right, I guess...
margo		"Cora." She's - still a girl of twenty?
lloyd		Twentyish. It isn't important.
margo		Don't you think it's about time it became important?
lloyd		How do you mean?
margo		Don't be evasive.
lloyd		Margo, you haven't got any age.
margo		Miss Channing is ageless. Spoken like a press agent.
lloyd		I know what I'm talking about, after all they're my plays...
margo		Spoken like an author.  That slipped out, I hadn't quite made up my mind to admit it. Now I feel as if I'd suddenly taken all my clothes off...
lloyd		Week after week, to thousands of people, you're as young as you want...
margo		... as young as they want, you mean. And I'm not interested in whether thousands of people think I'm six or six hundred-
lloyd		Just one person. Isn't that so?  You know what this is all about, don't you? It has very little to do with whether you should play "Cora" - it has everything to do with the fact that you've had another fight with Bill.
margo		Bill's thirty-two. He looks thirty two. He looked it five years ago, he'll look it twenty years from now. I hate men.  Don't worry, Lloyd. I'll play your play. I'll wear rompers and come in rolling a hoop if you like... let's go say good night.
eve		 Imagine... to know, every night, that different hundreds of people love you... They smile, their eyes shine - you've pleased them, they want you, you belong. Anything's worth that.
margo		Don't get up. And please stop acting as if I were the queen mother.
margo's voice		What was it the wise man said - "This, too, will pass away"? Two weeks later - the day of the audition - all was well with Bill and me, the world and me-
margo		Why so remote, Addison? I should think you'd be at the side of your protegee, lending her moral support...
addison		Miss Caswell, at the moment, is where I can lend no support - moral or otherwise.
margo		The ladies' - shall we say - lounge?
addison		Being violently ill to her tummy.
margo		It's good luck before an audition. She'll be all right once it starts.
addison		Miss Caswell got lucky too late. The audition is over.
margo		 Over? It can't be. I've come to read with her. I promised Max.
addison		The audition was called for 2:30. It is now nearly four.
margo		 Well, it couldn't have been Max! Who?
addison		Naturally enough, your understudy.
margo		I consider it highly unnatural to allow a girl in an advanced state of pregnancy-
addison		I refer to your new and unpregnant understudy. Eve Harrington.
margo		Eve! My understudy...
addison		 Didn't you know?
margo		 Of course I knew.
addison		It just slipped your mind.
margo		How... how was Miss Caswell?
addison		Frankly, I don't remember.
margo		Just slipped your mind.
addison		Completely. Nor, I am sure, could anyone else present tell you how Miss Caswell read or whether Miss Caswell read or rode a pogo stick.
margo		Was she that bad?
addison		Margo, as you know, i have lived in the Theater as a Trappist monk lives in his faith. I have no other world, no other life - and once in a great while I experience that moment of Revelation for which all true believers wait and pray. You were one. Jeanne Eagels another... Paula Wessely... Hayes - there are others, three or four. Eve Harrington will be among them...
margo		 I take it she read well.
addison		It wasn't reading, it was a performance. Brilliant, vivid, something made of music and fire...
margo		How nice.
addison		In time she'll be what you are.
margo		A mass of music and fire. That's me. An old kazoo and some sparkles. Tell me - was Bill swept away, too, or were you too full of Revelation to notice?
addison		Bill didn't say - but Lloyd was beside himself. He listened to his play as if someone else had written it, he said, it sounded so fresh, so new, so full of meaning...
margo		How nice for Lloyd. And how nice for Eve. How nice for everybody.
addison		Eve was incredibly modest. She insisted that no credit was due her, that Lloyd felt as he did only because she read lines exactly as he had written them.
margo		The implication being that I have not been reading them as written.
addison		To the best of my recollection, neither your name nor your performance entered the conversation.
miss caswell		Like I just swam the English Channel. Now what?
addison		You next move, it seems to me, should be toward television.
miss caswell		Tell me this. Do they have auditions for television?
addison		That's all television is, my dear. Nothing but auditions.
margo		 Terribly sorry I'm late, lunch was long and I couldn't find a cab - where's Miss Caswell, shall we start? Oh, hello, Eve...
eve		Hello, Miss Channing.
margo		How are you making out in Mr. Fabian's office?  I don't want you working the child too hard, Max - just because you promised. As you see, I kept my promise, too...
margo		What's all over?
margo		 Wherever did you get the idea of having Eve read with Miss Caswell?
lloyd		She's your understudy.
margo		Eve? Eve, my understudy? But I had no idea...
lloyd		I thought you knew... She was put on over a week ago-
margo		It seems almost inconceivable that I haven't seen her backstage, but with so many people loitering around... well, well. So Eve is not working for Max after all-  - Max you sly puss.
eve		Miss Channing, I can't tell you how glad I am that you arrived so late.
margo		Really, Eve? Why?
eve		Well, if you'd been here to begin with, I wouldn't have dared to read at all...
margo		Why not?
eve		... and if you'd come in the middle, I'd have stopped, I couldn't have gone on-
margo		 What a pity, all that fire and music being turned off...
margo		You wouldn't understand.  How was Miss Caswell?
lloyd		Back to Copacabana. But Eve. Margo, let me tell you about Eve-
eve		 I was dreadful, Miss Channing, believe me - I have no right to be anyone's understudy, much less yours...
margo		I'm sure you underestimate yourself, Eve. You always do.  You were about to tell me about Eve...
lloyd		You'd have been proud of her.
margo		I'm sure.
lloyd		She was a revelation...
margo		To you, too?
lloyd		What do you mean?
margo		 I mean, among other things, that it must have been a revelation to have your twenty-four-year-old character played by twenty-four-year-old actress...
lloyd		That's beside the point.
margo		It's right to the point. Also that it must have sounded so new and fresh to you - so exciting to have the lines read as you wrote them!
margo		So full of meaning, fire and music!
lloyd		You've been talking to that venomous fishwife, Addison deWitt-
margo		- in this case, apparently, as trustworthy as the World Almanac!
lloyd		You knew when you came in that the audition was over, that Eve was your understudy! Playing that childish game of cat and mouse...
margo		Not mouse, never mouse! If anything - rat!
lloyd		You have a genius for making barroom brawl out of a perfectly innocent misunderstanding at most!
margo		Perfectly innocent! Man have been hanged for less! I'm lied to, attacked behind my back, accused of reading your silly dialogue inaccurately - as if it were Holy Gospel!
lloyd		I never said it was!
margo		Then you listened as if someone else had written you play - whom did you have in mind? Sherwood? Arthur Miller? Beaumont and Fletcher?
max		 May I say a word?
lloyd		No!  What makes you think that either Miller or Sherwood would stand for the nonsense I take from you - you'd better stick to Beaumont and Fletcher! They've been dead for three hundred years!
margo		And they're getting better performances today than they ever got! All playwrights should be dead for three hundred years!
lloyd		That would solve none of their problems - because actresses never die! The stars never die and never change!
margo		You can change this star any time you want! For a new, fresh, exciting one fully equipped with fire and music! Any time you want - starting with tonight's performance!
max		This is for lawyers to talk about, this concerns a run-of-the-play contract, and this you can't rewrite or ad lib!
margo		 Are you threatening me with legal action, Mr. Fabian?
max		Are you breaking the contract?
margo		Answer my question!
max		Who am I to threaten? I'm a dying man.
margo		I didn't hear you.
margo		Not until the last drugstore has sold its last pill!
lloyd		 I shall never understand the weird process by which a body with a voice suddenly fancies itself a mind! Just when exactly does an actress decide they're her words she's saying and her thoughts she's expressing?
margo		Usually at the point when she's got to rewrite and rethink them to keep the audience from leaving the theater!
lloyd		It's about time the piano realized it has not written the concerto!
margo		 Where is Princess Fire-and-Music?
margo		The kid. Junior.
margo		I must have frightened her away.
margo		 Poor little flower. Just dropped her petals and folded her tent...
margo		I mix what I like.
margo		I'm nothing but a body with a voice. No mind.
bill		What a body, what a voice.
margo		The ex-ship news' reporter. No body, no voice, all mind!
margo		I will not calm down!
margo		You're being terribly tolerant, aren't you?
margo		Well, you needn't. I will not be tolerated. And I will not be plotted against!
margo		Such nonsense, what do you all take me for - little Nell from the country? Been my understudy for over a week without my knowing, carefully hidden no doubt-
margo		 - shows up for an audition when everyone knew I'd be here... and gives a performance! Out of nowhere - gives a performance!
margo		The playwright doesn't make the performance - and it doesn't just happen! And this one didn't - full of fire and music and whatnot, it was carefully rehearsed I have no doubt, over and over, full of those Bill Sampson touches!
margo		Paranoiac!
margo		Tell that to Dr. Freud! Along with the rest of it...
margo		 That word again! I don't even know what it means...
margo		It's obvious you're not a woman.
margo		Well, I am.
margo		Don't be condescending.
margo		 I admit I may have seen better days, but I am still not to be had for the price of a cocktail - like a salted peanut.
margo		The terms are too high. Unconditional surrender.
margo		It's not nonsense.
margo		I wish it were.
margo		I wouldn't want you to marry me just to prove something.
margo		I - I don't know, Bill. Just a feeling, I don't know...
margo		Bill...  ... where are you going? To find Eve?
karen's voice		On the day of the audition, my biggest worry was to keep a banana looking part of an eggplant... then Lloyd came home.  It was right after his brawl with Margo...
karen		Lloyd, what happened...?
lloyd		Up to here! That's where I've got it - up to here! Of all the star ridden, presumptuous, hysterical-
karen		Margo, again...
lloyd		And again and again! Two hours late for the audition, to begin with-
karen		That's on time for Margo.
lloyd		Then a childish, heavy-handed routine about not knowing Eve was her understudy-
karen		It's just possible she didn't...
lloyd		Of course she knew! For one thing, Addison told her how superbly Eve had read the part-!  Karen, let me tell you about Eve. She's got everything - a born actress. Sensitive, understanding, young, exciting, vibrant-
karen		- don't run out of adjectives, dear.
lloyd		- everything a playwright first thinks of wanting to write about... until his play becomes a vehicle for Miss Channing...
karen		Margo hasn't done badly by it.
lloyd		Margo. Margo's great. She knows it. That's the trouble. She can play Peck's Bad Boy all she wants, and who's to stop her? Who's to give her that boot in the rear she needs and deserves?
karen		 It's going to be a cozy weekend.
lloyd		 What is?
karen		We're driving out to the country tomorrow night. Just the four of us. Bill, Margo, you and I...
lloyd		Well. We've spent weekends before with nobody talking...  ... just be sure to lock up all blunt instruments and throwable objects...
karen's voice		Newton - they say, thought of gravity by getting hit on the head by an apple. And the man who invented the steam engine, he was watching a tea-kettle... but not me. My Big Idea came to me just sitting on a couch...
karen's voice		That boot in the rear to Margo. Heaven knows she had one coming. From me, from Lloyd, from Eve, Bill, Max, and so on - we'd all felt those size fives of hers often enough... but how? The answer was buzzing around me like a fly...
karen's voice		I had it. But I let it go. Screaming and calling names is one thing - but this could mean...
karen's voice		Why not? Why, I said to myself, not? It would all seem perfectly legitimate. And there were only two people in the world who would know. Also, the boot would land where it would do the most good for all concerned-
karen's voice		And after all, it was not more than a perfectly harmless joke which Margo, herself, would be the first to enjoy...
karen's voice		... and no reason why she shouldn't be told about it - in time.
karen		 Hello... will you call Miss Eve Harrington to the phone, please? Not at all... thank you.
karen's voice		It was a cold weekend - outside and in. Bill didn't come at all. Margo didn't know where he was and didn't care - she kept saying. Somehow we staggered through Sunday - and by the time we drive Margo to the station late Monday afternoon, she and Lloyd had thawed out to the extent of being civil to each other...
karen		What time is it?
lloyd		When you asked a minute ago it was five-forty-two. It is now five forty-three. When you ask a minute from no, it will be-
karen		I just don't want Margo to miss her train. As it is, she'll barely make the theater...
lloyd		Five-fifty-five. We'll be at the station in plenty of time...
margo		That little place just two hours form New York. It's on my list of things-I'll-never-understand. Like collecting shrunken Indian heads...
karen		Of all people you should know what it means to want some peace and quiet-
margo		Peace and quit is for libraries.
karen		Lloyd, be careful...
lloyd		Just a little skid, that's all. This road's like glass.
margo		Karen and I just don't want an accident-
lloyd		I have no intention of having an accident!
margo		It's not important whether you do. We are wearing long underwear.
lloyd		Now what's this...?
lloyd		But it can't be! We can't be out of gas! I filled it myself yesterday!  Wasn't it full when you drove to Brewster this morning?
karen		 I guess I didn't look. You know I don't pay attention to those things...
lloyd		Incredible.
margo		 How much time have we?
karen		Roughly ten minutes.
margo		How far to the station?
karen		Three or four miles...
margo		Any houses or farms around where we can borrow gas?
karen		 None in sight, there aren't many along this back road...
margo		Not many car either, not much chance of a lift...
lloyd		Well. No sense my just sitting here. I'm going to walk up about half a mile, just in case.
karen		You'll break your neck on that ice.
lloyd		 What a way to die - trying to get an actress to the theater in time. Tell Max I want to be buried with royalties...
karen		Don't joke about such things.
margo		 How fortunate that I have an understudy so ready, so willing and so able to go on.
lloyd		The audience will want its money refunded, believe me.
margo		Thank you, Lloyd. Godspeed.
karen		He always looks so pathetic whenever he does anything physical-
margo		It seems to me that walking, for most people, is not very dangerous.
karen		 I just never think of Lloyd as anywhere but indoors and anything but sitting down.
margo		Be brave. He'll come back - with or without gas.
margo		Do you want it on?
karen		It doesn't matter.
margo		I detest cheap sentiment.
margo		Karen.  I haven't been pleasant this weekend.
karen		We've all seemed a little tense lately...
margo		Come to think of it, I haven't been very pleasant for weeks. For that, I'm truly sorry. More than any two people I know, I don't want you and Lloyd to be angry with me...
karen		We're never deeply angry, we just get sore. The way you do. We know you too well...
margo		So many people - know me. I wish I did. I wish someone would tell be about me...
karen		You're Margo. Just - Margo.
margo		And what is that? Besides something spelled out in light bulbs, I mean. Besides something called temperament, which consists mostly of swooping about on a broomstick creaming at the top of my voice... infants behave the way I do, you know. They carry on and misbehave - they'd get drunk if they knew how - when they can't have what they want. When they feel unwanted and insecure - or unloved.
karen		What about Bill?
margo		What about Bill?
karen		He's in love with you.
margo		More than anything in this world, I love Bill. And I want Bill. I want him to want me. But me. Not Margo Channing. And if I can't tell they apart - how can he?
karen		Why should he - and why should you?
margo		Bill's in love with Margo Channing. He's fought with her, worked with her, loved her... but ten years from now - Margo Channing will have ceased to exist. And what's left will be... what?
karen		Margo. Bill is all of eight years younger than you.
margo		Those years stretch as the years go on. I've seen it happen too often.
karen		Not to you. Not to Bill.
margo		Isn't that what they always say?
margo		I don't suppose the heater runs when the motor doesn't?
karen		Silly, isn't it? You'd think they'd fix it so people could just sit in a car and keep warm...
margo		About Eve. I've acted pretty disgracefully toward her, too.
karen		Well...
margo		Let's not fumble for excuses, not here and now with my hair down. At best, let's say I've been oversensitive to... well, to the fact that she's so young - so feminine and helpless. To so many things I want to be for Bill... funny business, a woman's career. The things you drop on your way up the ladder, so you can move faster. You forget you'll need them again when you go back to being a woman. That's one career all females have in common - whether we like it or not - being a woman. Sooner or later we've all got to work at it, no matter what other careers we've had or wanted... and, in the last analysis, nothing is any good unless you can look up just before dinner or turns around in bed - and there he is. Without that, you're not woman. You're something with a French provincial office or a book full of clippings - but you're not a woman...  ... slow curtain. The end.
karen		Margo.  Margo, I want you to know how sorry I am about this...
margo		About what?
karen		 This. I can't tell you how sorry I am!
margo		Don't give it another thought, one of destiny's many pranks. After all, you didn't personally drain the gasoline out of the tank...
addison's voice		Eve, of course, was superb. Many of the audience understandably preferred to return another time to see Margo. But those who remained cheered loudly, lustily and long for Eve... how thoughtful of her to call and invite me - that afternoon...
addison's voice		... and what a happy coincidence that several representatives of other newspapers happened to be present. All of us - invited that afternoon to attend an understudy's performance...
addison's voice		... about which the management knew nothing until they were forced to ring up the curtain at nine o'clock. Coincidence. Also every indication of intrigue, skulduggery and fraud...
eve		 Are you proud of me, Bill?
eve		You shouldn't have had any doubts.
bill		- after all, the other day was one scene, the woods are full of one scene sensations. But you did it. With work and patience, you'll be a fine actress. If that's what you want to be.
eve		Is that what you want me to be?
eve		So am I.
eve		Everything.
eve		Don't run away, Bill.
eve		You're always after truth - on the stage. What about off?
eve		Then face it. I have. Since that first night - here - in the dressing room.
eve		When you told me that whatever I became, it would be because of you-
eve		- and for you.
eve		You think?
eve		You hear all kinds of things.
eve		Find out.
addison		May I come in?
eve		Certainly, Mr. deWitt...
addison		 I expected to find this little room overcrowded, with a theater full of people at your feet...
eve		I consider myself lucky they didn't throw things.
addison		Of course your performance was no surprise to me. After the other day I regarded it as no more than - a promised fulfilled.
eve		You're more than kind. But it's still Miss Channing's performance. I'm just a carbon copy you read when you can't find the original...
addison		You're more than modest.
eve		It's not modesty. I just don't try to kid myself.
addison		A revolutionary approach to the Theater. However, if I may a suggestion...
eve		Please do.
addison		I think the time has come for you to shed some of your humility. It is just as false not to blow your horn at all as it is to blow it too loudly...
eve		I don't think I've done anything to sound off about.
addison		We all come into this world with our little egos equipped with individual horns. If we don't blow them - who will?
eve		Even so. One isolated pretty good performance by an understudy. It'll be forgotten tomorrow.
addison		It needn't be.
eve		Even if I wanted to - as you say - be less humble, blow my own horn... how would I do it? I'm less than nobody.
addison		I am somebody.
eve		You certainly are.
addison		Leave the door open a bit, so we can talk.
addison		After you change, if you're not busy elsewhere, we can have supper.
eve		 I'd love to! Or should I pretend I'm busy?
addison		 Let's have a minimum of pretending. I'll want to do a column about you-
eve		I'm not enough for a paragraph.
addison		- perhaps more than one. There's so much I want to know. I've heard your story in bits and pieces... your home in Wisconsin, your tragic marriage, your financial attachment to Margo - it started in San Francisco, didn't it?  I say - your idolatry of Margo started in San Francisco, didn't it?
eve		That's right.
addison		San Francisco. An oasis of civilization in the California desert. Tell me, do you share my high opinion of San Francisco?
eve		Yes. I do.
addison		And that memorable night when Margo first dazzled you from the stage - which theater was it in San Francisco? Was it - the Shubert?
eve		 Yes. The Shubert.
addison		 A fine old theater, the Shubert. Full of tradition, untouched by the earthquake - so sorry - fire... by the way, what was your husband's name?
eve		Eddie...
addison		Eddie what?
eve		I'm about to go into the shower, I won't be able to hear you...
addison		I can wait. Where would you like to go? We'll make this a special night...
eve		 You take charge.
addison		I believe I will.
karen's voice		Some of the morning papers carried a little squib about Eve's performance. Not much, but full praise... I couldn't imagine how they found out about it - but Lloyd said Max's publicity man probably sent out the story...
karen's voice		... at any rate, I feel terribly guilty and ashamed of myself - and wanted nothing so much as to forget the whole thing. Margo and I were having lunch at "21" - just like girlfriends - with hats on...
karen		Has Miss Channing come in?
doorman		Not yet, Mrs. Richards...
karen		Eve. I've heard the most wonderful things about your performance-
eve		Mostly relief that I managed to stagger through it at all...
addison		She was magnificent.
karen		 Then you've heard too.
addison		I was there. An eyewitness.
karen		 You were there? At the play - last night?
eve		 We're having lunch with a movie talent scout.
karen		They certainly don't waste much time.
eve		Nothing definite yet - it's just to have lunch.
addison		They'll be wasting this much of their time at any rate. Eve has no intention of going to Hollywood.
addison		From the smartness of your dress, I take it your luncheon companion is a lady?
karen		 Margo.
addison		Margo? Lunching in public?
karen		It's new Margo. But she's just as late as the old one.
addison		She may be later than you think...
addison		 ... and now we must join our sunburned eager beaver.
margo		 Down here... here, listen to this- "... Miss Harrington had much to tell - and these columns shall report her faithfully - about the lamentable practice in our Theater of permitting, shall we say - mature - actresses to continue playing roles requiring a youth and vigor of which they retain but a dim memory-"
karen		I just can't believe it.
margo		It get better! "- About the understandable reluctance on the part of our entrenched First Ladies of the Stage to encourage, shall we say - younger - actresses; about Miss Harrington's own long and unsupported struggle for opportunity-"
karen		I can't believe Eve said those things!
margo		 ... what gets me is how all of those papers in town happened to catch that particular performance!
karen		 Lloyd says it's a publicity release...
margo		The little witch must have had Indians runners out snatching critics out of bars, steam rooms and museums or wherever they hole up... well, she won't get away with it! Nor will Addison deWitt and his poison pen! If Equity or my lawyer can't or won't do anything about it, I will personally stuff that pathetic little lost lamb down Mr. deWitt's ugly throat...
karen		I guess at this point I'm what the French call 'de trop'...
lloyd		 - it's Addison, from start to finish, it drips with his brand of venom... taking advantage of a kid like that, twisting her words, making her say what he wanted her to say-
karen		Where'd you get all that information?
lloyd		 Eve.
karen		Eve?
lloyd		She's been to see me, as a matter of fact she left just before you came in - you just missed her...
karen		That was a pity...
lloyd		 She wanted to explain about her interview, wanted to apologize to someone - and didn't dare face Margo...
karen		I wonder why.
lloyd		She started to tell me all about it - and she couldn't finish, she cried so...
lloyd		 You know, I've been going over our financial condition - if you'll pardon the expression...
karen		That's quite a change of subject.
lloyd		 What with taxes coming up - and since I'm a playwright and not an oil well operator - well, I've been thinking...
karen		I'm trying hard to follow you.
lloyd		If - instead of waiting until next season to do 'Footsteps on the Ceiling', which is in pretty good shape - and if Margo can be talked into going on tour with 'Aged in Wood' - we could put 'Footsteps...' into production right away...
karen		I'm beginning to catch up.
lloyd		If we could cast it properly, that is...
karen		 Maybe get some younger actress for the part? Someone who'd look the part as well as play it?
lloyd		 You've got to admit it would be a novelty.
karen		Now you're quoting Addison. Or Eve.
lloyd		Eve did mention the play, you know. But just in passing - she's never ask to play a part like "Cora," she'd never have the nerve...
karen		Eve would ask Abbott to give her Costello.
lloyd		No, I got the idea myself - while she was talking to me...
karen		With gestures, of course.
lloyd		 For once, to write something and have it realized completely. For once, not to compromise-
karen		Lloyd Richards, you are not to consider giving that contemptible little worm the part of "Cora."
lloyd		Now just a minute-
karen		Margo Channing has not been exactly a compromise all these years, half the playwrights in the world would give their shirts for that particular compromise!
lloyd		 Now just a minute!
karen		It strikes me that Eve's disloyalty and ingratitude must be contagious!
lloyd		All this fuss and hysteria because an impulsive kid got carried away by excitement and the conniving of a professional manure slinger named deWitt! She apologized, didn't she?
karen		On her knees, I have no doubt! Very touching, very Academy-of-Dramatic Arts!
lloyd		That bitter cynicism of yours is something you've acquired since you left Radcliffe!
karen		The cynicism you refer to, I acquired the day I discovered I was different from little boys!
lloyd		Hello!  ... hi, Margo... no, not at all, Karen and I were just chatting... hmm?... why - why, yes, I'm sure we can and I'm sure we'd love to... right... 11:45ish. See you then...
lloyd		Margo - and Bill - want us to meet them at the Cub Room tonight, after theater. For a bottle of wine.
karen		 Margo in the Cub Room. I couldn't be more surprised if she'd said Grant's Tomb.
lloyd		I'm glad Bill's back.
karen		They'd die without each other.
lloyd		Darling, I didn't promise Eve anything. Just said I thought she'd be fine for the part, but there were some practical difficulties...
karen		Such as?
lloyd		 You - for one. I told her you were set on Margo playing the part - and I certainly wouldn't make a change without your approval.
karen		That's fine. Fine and dandy. I'd enjoy nothing more. Just refer all of Miss Harrington's future requests to me...
bill		The so-called art of acting is not one for which I have a particularly high regard...
margo		Hear, hear...
margo		He does not exaggerate. I was good.
lloyd		It's been quite a night. I understand that your understudy - Miss Harrington - has given her notice.
margo		 Too bad.
lloyd		For some reason you can't just pick up champagne and drink it. Somebody's got to be very witty about a toast.  For instance...
margo		Glory Hallelujah.
lloyd		Well of all-
karen		Margo!
karen		When? When are you going to do it?
margo		Yes, sir.
lloyd		City Hall, that's for prize fighters, and reporters - I see a cathedral, a bishop, banks of flowers...
margo		I'll marry you if it turns out you have no blood at all.
lloyd		Three days, that's for the bourgeois - I see a midnight elopement, waking up a village person...
karen		 What are you going to wear?
margo		Something simple. A fur coat over a nightgown...
lloyd		There are very few moments in life as good as this. Let's remember it.  To each of us and all of us... never have we been more close - may we never be farther apart.
waiter		Mrs. Richards?
karen		Yes?
waiter		For you.
lloyd		Very discreet. A note right out in the open like that. Next time tell your lover to blow smoke rings - or tap a glass...
margo		Lloyd, I want you to be big about this... the world is full of love tonight, no woman is safe...
karen		 This beats all world's records for running, standing and jumping gall!
margo		 "Please forgive me for butting into what seems such a happy occasion - but it's most important that I speak with you. Please" - it's underlined - "meet me in the Ladies' Room. Eve."
margo		 Pass me the empty bottle. I may find her... why, look. There's Rasputin.
margo		Encore du champagne.
captain		More champagne, Miss Channing?
margo		That's what I said, bub.
karen		I have no possible interest in anything she'd have to say.
lloyd		Go on - find out...
margo		Karen, in all the years of our friendship, I have never let you go to the Ladies' Room alone. But now I must. I am busting to know what goes on in that feverish little brain waiting there...
karen		Well... all right.
addison		Karen! How nice...
eve		I was wondering whether you'd come at all..
karen		Don't get up.  And don't act as if I were the queen mother.
eve		I don't expect you to be pleasant.
karen		I don't intend to be.
eve		Can't we sit down? Just for a minute...
eve		I've got a lot to say. And none of it is easy.
karen		There can't be very much-
eve		Oh, but there is-
karen		- and easy or not, I won't believe a word.
eve		Why shouldn't you?  Please sit down.
eve		You know, I've always considered myself a very clever girl. Smart. Good head on my shoulders, that sort of thing, never the wrong word at the wrong time... but then, I'd never met Addison deWitt.  I remember once I had a tooth pulled. They gave me some anaesthetic - I don't remember the name - and it affected me in a strange way. I heard myself saying things I wasn't even thinking... as if my mind were someplace outside of my body, and couldn't control what I did or said-
karen		 - and you felt just like that talking to Addison.
eve		 In a way. You find yourself trying to say what you mean, but somehow the words change - and they become his words - and suddenly you're not saying what you mean, but what he means-
karen		 Do you expect me to believe that you didn't say any of those things - that they were all Addison?
eve		No! I don't expect you to believe anything. Except that the responsibility is mine. And the disgrace.
karen		Let's not get over-dramatic.
eve		 You've really got a low opinion of me, haven't you? We'll I'll give you some pleasant news. I've been told off in no uncertain terms all over town. Miss Channing should be happy to hear that. To know how loyal her friends are - how much more loyal they are than she had a right to expect me to be...
karen		Eve... don't cry.
eve		 I'm not crying.
karen		Tell me. How did your lunch turn out - with the man from Hollywood?
eve		Some vague promises of a test, that's all - if a particular part should come along, one of those things-
karen		But the raves about your performance-
eve		- an understudy's performance.
karen		Well. I think you're painting the picture a little darker than it is, really. If nothing else - and don't underestimate him - you have a powerful friend in Addison.
eve		He's not my friend. You were my friends...
karen		He can help you.
eve		I wish I'd never met him, I'd like him to be dead... I want my friends back.
karen		Eve. I - I don't think you meant to cause unhappiness. But you did. More to yourself, perhaps - as it turned out - than to anyone else...
eve		I'll never get over it.
karen		 Yes, you will. You Theater people always do. Nothing is forever in the Theater. Love or hate, success or failure - whatever it is, it's here, it flares up and burns hot - and then it's gone.
eve		I wish I could believe that.
karen		Give yourself time. Don't worry too much about what people think, you're very young and very talented...  ... and, believe it or not, if there's anything I can do-
eve		There is something.
karen		I think I know...
eve		Something most important you can do.
karen		You want to play "Cora." You want me to tell Lloyd I think you should play it.
eve		If you told him so, he'd give me the part. He said he would.
karen		After all you've said... don't you know the part was written for Margo?
eve		It could have been - fifteen years ago. It's my part now.
karen		You talk just as Addison said you did.
eve		"Cora" is my part. You've got to tell Lloyd it's for me.
karen		I don't think anything in the world could make me say that.
eve		Addison wants me to play it.
karen		Over my dead body...
eve		 No... it would be so much easier on everyone concerned, if I were to play "Cora." And so much better theater, too...
karen		A part in a play. You'd do all that - just for a part in a play.
eve		 I'd do much more - for a part that good.
addison		Hungry?
eve		Just some coffee.
addison		 I'm not surprised. After all that humble pie...
eve		Nothing of the kind. Karen and I had a nice talk.
addison		Heart to heart? Woman to woman? Including a casual reference to the part of "Cora" - and your hopes of playing it.
eve		I discussed it very openly. I told her that I had spoken to Lloyd - and that he was interested.
addison		She mentioned, of course, that Margo expects to play the part?
eve		Oddly enough - she didn't say a word about Margo. Just that she'll be happy to do what she can to see that I play the part.
addison		Just like that, eh?
eve		Just like that.
addison		 Do you know, Eve - sometimes I think you keep things from me.
eve		I don't think that's funny.
addison		It wasn't meant to be.
eve		I confide in you and rely on you more than anyone I've ever known! To say a thing like that now - without any reason - when I need you more than ever...
addison		 I hope you mean what you say, Eve. I intend to hold you to it.
addison		We have a great deal in common, it seems to me...
lloyd		- well? What happened?
karen		Nothing much. She apologized.
margo		With tears?
karen		With tears.
margo		But not right away? First the business of fighting them off, chin up, stout fella...
karen		Check.
margo		Very classy stuff, lots of technique-
lloyd		You mean - all this time - she'd done nothing but apologize? What'd you say?
karen		Not much.
margo		Groom-  - may I have a wedding present?
margo		I want everybody to shut up about Eve. Just shut up about Eve, that's all I want. Give Karen more wine...  ... never have I been so happy. Isn't this a lovely room? The Cub Room. What a lovely, clever name. Where the elite meet. Never have I seen so much elite - and all with their eyes on me. Waiting for me to crack that little gnome over the noggin with a bottle. But not tonight. Even Eve. I forgive Eve... there they go.
margo		There goes Eve. Eve evil, Little Miss Evil. But the evil that men do - how does it go, groom? Something about the good they leave behind - I played it once in rep in Wilkes Barre...
margo		You know why I forgive Eve? Because she's left good behind - the four of us, together like this, it's Eve's fault - I forgive her...
margo		... and Bill. Especially Bill. Eve did that, too.
lloyd		You know, she probably means well, after all...
margo		She is a louse.
margo		Groom.
margo		You know what I'm going to be?
margo		A married lady.
margo		I'm going to have a home. Not just a house I'm afraid to stay in... and a man to go with it. I'll look up at six o'clock - and there he'll be... remember, Karen?
karen		 I remember.
margo		 You'll be there, won't you.
margo		A foursquare, upright, downright, forthright married lady... that's for me. And no more make believe! Off stage or on... remember, Lloyd.  Lloyd, will you promise not to be angry with me?
lloyd		 That depends.
margo		I mean really, deeply angry...
lloyd		I don't think I could be.
margo		Well. I don't want to play "Cora."
karen		 What?
margo		 Now wait a minute, you're always so touchy about his plays, it isn't the part - it's a great part. And a fine play. But not for me anymore - not a foursquare, upright, downright, forthright married lady.
lloyd		What's your being married got to do with it?
margo		It means I've finally got a life to live! I don't have to play parts I'm too old for - just because I've got nothing to do with my nights!  I know you've made plans. I'll make it up to you, believe me. I'll tour a year with this one, anything - only you do understand - don't you, Lloyd?
lloyd		What's so funny?
karen		Nothing...
karen		Everything... everything's so funny...
karen's voice		Lloyd never got around, somehow - to asking me whether it was all right with me for Eve to play "Cora"... Bill, oddly enough, refused to direct the play at first - with Eve in it. Lloyd and Max finally won him over... Margo never came to a rehearsal, too much to do around the house, she said. I'd never known Bill and Lloyd to fight as bitterly and as often... and always over some business for Eve, or a move or the way she read a speech... but then I'd never known Lloyd to meddle as much with Bill's directing - as far as it affected Eve, that is... somehow, Eve kept them going. Bill stuck it out - and Lloyd seemed happy - and I thought it might be best if I skipped rehearsals from then on...
karen's voice		It seemed to me I had known always that it would happen - and here it was. It felt helpless, that helplessness you feel when you have no talent to offer - outside of loving your husband. How could I compete? Everything Lloyd loved about me, he had gotten used to long ago...
karen		Hello... who?... who's calling Mr. Richards?
girl		My name wouldn't mean anything. I room across the hall from Eve Harrington, and she isn't well. She's been crying all night and hysterical, and she doesn't want a doctor...
lloyd		Who is it? What's it all about?
karen		 Did Miss Harrington tell you to call Mr. Richards?
girl		No, Eve didn't say to call him, but I remembered I saw Mr. Richards with her a couple of times - and I thought they being such good friends...
lloyd		 Hello...hello, this is Lloyd Richards. Where is Eve? Let me talk to her-
girl		She's up in her room, Mr. Richards. I really hate to bother you like this, but the way Eve's been feeling - I'm just worried sick what with her leaving for New Haven tomorrow, and everything...
lloyd		Tell her not to worry - tell her I'll be right over.
girl		I'll tell her, Mr. Richards.
karen		 Aren't you... broadening the duties of a playwright just a bit? Rushing off in the middle of the night like a country doctor?
karen		What would you do if, instead of Eve, the leading man had called up to say her was hysterical?
karen		Lloyd, I don't want you to go!
lloyd		I didn't think you would! It seems to me, Karen, that for some tine, now, you've been developing a deep unconcern for the feeling of human being in general-
karen		I'm a human being, I've got some!
lloyd		 - and for my feelings in particular! For my play, my career - and now for a frightened, hysterical girl on the eve of her first night in the Theater!
karen		Have you forgotten about Eve? What she is, what she's done?
lloyd		Old wives' tales, born of envy and jealousy! And a phobia against truth!
karen		Then tell me this isn't true! That your concern for your play and career is one thing - and that poor frightened hysterical girl another - and that your concern for her has nothing to do with either your play or your career!
karen		That first, last, and foremost - your reason for going now is that you want to be with Eve! Three in the morning or high noon - play or no play - wife or no wife!  Isn't it true, Lloyd?
addison's voice		To the Theater world - New Haven, Connecticut, is a short stretch of sidewalk between the Shubert Theater and the Taft Hotel, surrounded by what looks very much like a small city. It is here that managers have what are called out of-town openings - which are openings for New Yorkers who want to go out of town...
eve		What a day - what a heavenly day...
addison		D-day.
eve		Just like it.
addison		And tomorrow morning you will have won your beachhead on the shores of Immortality...
eve		 Stop rehearsing your column... Isn't it strange, Addison? I thought I'd be panic-stricken, want to run away or something. Instead, I can't wait for tonight to come. To come and go...
addison		Are you that sure of tomorrow?
eve		Aren't you?
addison		Frankly - yes.
eve		It'll be a night to remember. It'll bring to me everything I've ever wanted. The end of an old road - and the beginning of a new one...
addison		All paved with diamonds and gold?
eve		You know me better than that.
addison		Paved with what, then?
eve		Stars.
eve		What time?
addison		Almost four.
eve		Plenty of time for a nice long nap - we rehearsed most of last night...
addison		You could sleep, too, couldn't you?
eve		Why not?
addison		The mark of a true killer.  Sleep tight, rest easy - and come out fighting...
eve		Why'd call me a killer?
addison		Did I say killer? I meant champion. I get my boxing terms mixed.
eve		 - come on in for just a minute, won't you? There's... I've got something to tell you.
addison		Suites are for expense accounts. Aren't you being extravagant?
eve		Max is paying for it. He and Lloyd had a terrific row but Lloyd insisted... well. Can I fix you a drink?
addison		Also with the reluctant compliments of Max Fabian.
eve		Lloyd. I never have any, and he likes a couple of drinks after we finish - so he sent it up...
addison		Some plain soda.  Lloyd must be expecting a record run in New Haven...
eve		That's for tonight. You're invited. We're having everyone up after the performance.
addison		We're?
eve		Lloyd and I.
addison		I find it odd that Karen isn't here for the opening, don't you?
eve		Addison...
addison		 She's always been so fantastically devoted to Lloyd. I would imagine that only death or destruction could keep her-
eve		 Addison, just a few minutes ago. When I told you this would be a night to remember - that it would bring me everything I wanted-
addison		 - something about an old road ending and a new one starting - paved with stars...
eve		I didn't mean just the Theater.
addison		What else?
addison		So that's it. Lloyd. Still just the Theater, after all...
eve		 It's nothing of the kind! Lloyd loves me, I love him!
addison		I know nothing about Lloyd and his loves - I leave those to Louisa May Alcott. But I do know you.
eve		I'm in love with Lloyd!
addison		Lloyd Richards is commercially the most successful playwright in America-
eve		You have no right to say such things!
addison		- and artistically, the most promising! Eve dear, this is Addison.
eve		Addison, won't it be just perfect? Lloyd and I - there's no telling how far we can go... he'll write great plays for me, I'll make them be great!  You're the only one I've told, the only one that knows except Lloyd and me...
addison		... and Karen.
eve		She doesn't know.
karen		She knows enough not to be here.
eve		But not all of it - not that Lloyd and I are going to be married.
addison		 I see. And when was this unholy alliance joined?
eve		We decided the night before last, before we came up here...
addison		 Was the setting properly romantic - the lights on dimmers, gypsy violins off stage?
eve		The setting wasn't romantic, but Lloyd was. He woke me up at three in the morning, banging on my door - he couldn't sleep, he told me - he's left Karen, he couldn't go on with the play or anything else until I promised to marry him... we sat and talked until it was light. He never went home...
addison		You sat and talked until it was light...
eve		 We sat and talked, Addison. I want a run of the play contract.
addison		 There never was, there'll never be another like you.
eve		 Well, say something - anything! Congratulations, skol - good work, Eve!
addison		What do you take me for?
eve		 I don't know what I take you for anything...
addison		 It is possible - even conceivable - that you've confused me with that gang of backward children you've been playing tricks on - that you have the same contempt for me that you have for them?
eve		I'm sure you mean something by that, Addison, but I don't know what...
addison		Look closely, Eve, it's time you did. I am Addison deWitt. I'm nobody's fool. Least of all - yours.
eve		I never intended you to be.
addison		Yes, you did. You still do.
eve		I still don't know what you're getting at. Right now I want to take my nap. It's important that I-
addison		 - it's important right now that we talk. Killer to killer.
eve		 Champion to champion.
addison		Not with me, you're no champion. You're stepping way up in class.
eve		Addison, will you please say what you have to say plainly and distinctly - and then get out so I can take my nap!
addison		Very well, plainly and distinctly. Although I consider it unnecessary - because you know as well as I, what I am about to say.  Lloyd may leave Karen, but he will not leave Karen for you.
eve		What do you mean by that?
addison		More plainly and more distinctly? I Have not come to New Haven to see the play, discuss your dreams, or to pull the ivy from the walls of Yale! I have come to tell you that you will not marry Lloyd - or anyone else - because I will not permit it.
eve		What have you got to do with it?
addison		Everything. Because after tonight, you will belong to me.
eve		I can't believe my ears...
addison		A dull cliche.
eve		Belong - to you? That sound medieval - something out of an old melodrama...
addison		So does the history of the world for the past twenty years. I don't enjoy putting it as bluntly as this, frankly I had hoped that you would, somehow, have known - have taken it for granted that you and I...
eve		... taken it for granted? That you and I...
addison		 Remember as long as you live, never to laugh at me. At anything or anyone else - but never at me.
eve		Get out!
addison		You're too short for that gesture. Besides, it went out with Mrs. Fiske.
eve		Then if you won't get out, I'll have you thrown out.
addison		Don't pick it up! Don't even put your hand on it...
addison		Something told you to do as I say, didn't it? That instinct is worth millions, you can't buy it, cherish it, Eve. When that alarm goes off, go to your battle stations...
addison		Your name is not Eve Harrington. It is Gertrude Slescynski.
eve		What of it?
addison		It is true that your parents were poor. They still are. And they would like to know how you are - and where. They haven't heard from you for three years...
eve		 What of it?
addison		A matter of opinion. Granted. It is also true that you worked in a brewery. But life in the brewery was apparently not as dull as you pictured it. As a matter of fact, it got less and less dull - until you boss's wife had your boss followed by detectives!
eve		 She never proved anything, not a thing!
addison		But the $500 you got to get out of town brought you straight to New York - didn't it?
addison		That $500 brought you straight to New York - didn't it?
eve		She was a liar, she was a liar!
addison		Answer my question! Weren't you paid to get out of town?
addison		Fourth. There was no Eddie - no pilot - and you've never been married! That was not only a lie, but an insult to dead heroes and to the women who loved them...  ... Fifth. San Francisco has no Shubert Theater and North Shore, you've never been to San Francisco! That was a stupid lie, easy to expose, not worthy of you...
eve		I had to get in, to meet Margo! I had to say something, be somebody, make her like me!
addison		She did like you, she helped and trusted you! You paid her back by trying to take Bill away!
eve		That's not true!
addison		I was there, I saw you and heard you through the dressing room door!
addison		You used my name and my column to blackmail Karen into getting you the part of "Cora" - and you lied to me about it!
eve		 No-no-no...
addison		I had lunch with Karen not three hours ago. As always with women who want to find out things, she told more than she learned...  ... do you want to change your story about Lloyd beating at your door the other night?
eve		Please... please...
addison		That I should want you at all suddenly strikes me as the height of improbability. But that, in itself, is probably the reason. You're an improbable person, Eve, and so am I. We have that in common. Also a contempt for humanity, an inability to love or be loved, insatiable ambition - and talent. We deserve each other. Are you listening to me?
addison		Then say so.
eve		Yes, Addison.
addison		And you realize - you agree how completely you belong to me?
eve		Yes, Addison.
addison		Take your nap, now. And good luck for tonight.
eve		 I couldn't. Not possibly. I couldn't go on...
addison		 Couldn't go on? You'll give the performance of your life.
addison's voice		And she gave the performance of her life. And it was a night to remember, that night...
eve		Honored members of Sarah Siddons Society, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen: What is there for me to say? Everything wise and witty has long since been said - by minds more mature and talents far greater than mine. For me to thank you as equals would be presumptuous - I am an apprentice in the Theater and have much to learn from you all. I can say only that I am proud and happy and that I regard this great honor not so much as an award for what I have achieved, but as a standard to hold against what I have yet to accomplish.  And further, I regard it as bestowed upon me only in part. The larger share belongs to my friends in the Theater - and to the Theater itself, which has given me all I have. In good conscience, I must give credit where credit is due. To Max Fabian-
eve's voice		- dear Max. Dear, sentimental, generous, courageous Max Fabian - who took a chance on an unknown, untried, amateur...
eve		And to my first friend in the Theater - whose kindness and graciousness I shall never forget... Karen - Mrs. Lloyd Richards...
eve's voice		... and it was Karen who first brought me to one whom I had always idolized - and who was to become my benefactor and champion. A great actress and a great woman - Margo Channing.
eve		My director - who demanded always a little more than my talent could provide-
eve		- but who taught me patiently and well... Bill Sampson.
eve's voice		And one, without whose great play and faith in me, this night would never have been. How can I repay Lloyd Richards?
eve		Hoe can I repay the many others? So many, that I couldn't possibly name them all...
eve's voice		... whose help, guidance and advice have made this, the happiest night of my life, possible.
eve		Although I am going to Hollywood next week to make a film - do not think for a moment that I am leaving you. How could I? For my heart is here in the Theater - and three thousand miles are too far to be away from one's heart. I'll be back to claim it - and soon. That is, if you want me back.
aged actor		A good night to all - and to all a good night!
lloyd		For services rendered - beyond the whatever-it-is-of-duty, darling.
max		Come on! I'm the host, I gotta get home before the guests start stealing the liquor...
karen		Congratulations, Eve.
eve		Thank you, Karen.
max		 I'm giving her a very high-class party. It ain't like a rehearsal, she don't have to be late.
addison		As soon as the peasants stop pawing her.
margo		... nice speech, Eve. But I wouldn't worry too much about your heart. You can always put that award where your heart ought to be.
eve		I don't suppose there's a drink left...
addison		You can have one at Max's.
eve		 I don't think I'm going.
addison		 Why not?
eve		Because I don't want to.
addison		 Max has gone to a great deal of trouble, it's going to be an elaborate party, and it's for you.
eve		No, it's not.  It's for this.
addison		It's the same thing, isn't it?
eve		Exactly.  Here. Take it to the party instead of me.
addison		You're being childish.
eve		I'm tired. I want to go home.
addison		 Very well. I shall drop you and go on to the party. I have no intention of missing it...
eve		Who are you?
girl		Miss Harrington...
eve		What are you doing here?
girl		I - I guess I fell asleep.
girl		Please don't have me arrested, please! I didn't steal anything - you can search me!
eve		 How did you get in here?
girl		I hid outside in the hall till the maid came to turn down your bed. She must've forgot something and when she went to get it, she left the door open. I sneaked in and hid till she finished. Then I just looked around - and pretty soon I was afraid somebody'd notice the lights were on so I turned them off - and then I guess, I fell asleep.
eve		You were just looking around...
girl		That's all.
eve		What for?
girl		You probably won't believe me.
eve		Probably not.
girl		It was for my report.
eve		What report? To whom?
girl		About how you live, what kind of clothes you wear - what kind of perfume and books - things like that. You know the Eve Harrington clubs - that they've got in most of the girls' high schools?
eve		I've heard of them.
girl		Ours was one of the first. Erasmus Hall. I'm the president.
eve		Erasmus Hall. That's in Brooklyn, isn't it?
girl		Lots of actresses come from Brooklyn. Barbara Stanwyck, Susan Hayward - of course, they're just movie stars.
girl		You're going to Hollywood - aren't you?  From the trunks you're packing, you must be going to stay a long time.
eve		I might.
girl		That spilled drink is going to ruin your carper.
eve		The maid'll fix it in the morning.
girl		I'll just pick up the broken glass.
eve		Don't bother.
eve		How'd you get all the way up here from Brooklyn?
girl		Subway.
eve		How long does it take?
girl		With changing and everything, a little over an hour.
eve		It's after one now. You won't get home till all hours.
girl		 I don't care if I never get home.
eve		That's the door.
girl		You rest. I'll get it...
addison		Hello, there. Who are you?
girl		 Miss Harrington's resting, Mr. deWitt. She asked me to see who it is...
addison		We won't disturb her rest. It seems she left her award in the taxicab. Will you give it to her?
addison		How do you know my name?
girl		It's a very famous name, Mr. deWitt.
addison		And what is your name?
girl		Phoebe.
addison		Phoebe?
girl		 I call myself Phoebe.
addison		Why not? Tell me, Phoebe, do you want some day to have an award like that of your own?
phoebe		More than anything else in the world.
addison		Then you must Miss Harrington how to get one. Miss Harrington knows all about it...
eve's voice		 Who was it?
phoebe		Just a taxi driver, Miss Harrington. You left the award in his cab and he brought it back...
eve's voice		Oh. Put it on one of the trunks, will you? I want to pack it...
phoebe		Sure, Miss Harrington...
****Dialogues from script :All_About_Steve.txt****

mary		Crap. The puzzle answers all run together.
mary		Four letter word for... vomit. She takes a deep breath to calm her nerves. it doesn't help.
mary		Not "barf". For sure not "barf". That's too easy. "Puke" is okay, but maybe a bit pedestrian ... I like "hurl". I do. I like the way it rolls off your tongue -- the word, I mean. But my all time favorite is none of those. She puts her head between her knees, tries to keep it together.
mary		Four letter word for vomit? S-P-E- W. Spew... Sp-ew. A door nearby opens but Mary doesn't budge. A POLICE OFFICER walks out. A 40ish female TEACHER pokes her head out the door, signals to Mary.
teacher		We're ready for you now. .
mary		Jesus help me.
teacher		Here's a treat, students. Our final guest for Career Day, Miss Mary Horowitz, is the crossword constructor for the Atlanta Citizen. You know the crossword puzzles you see every week in the newspaper? It's her job to create them. Isn't that fun? Mary stares at the Teacher, whispers.
mary		You weren't supposed to tell them.
teacher		Pardon me?
mary		I made a crossword puzzle to help them guess what my job is. You ruined it.
teacher		Oh, I'm so sorry.
teacher		Maybe you could tell them a bit about what your job is like? watche s hit
garbage		Mary drops thu p file out her the bottom She p lls u hearsed enthusiasm. bag, reads with re
mary		People do crossword puzzles all the time but they don't often think of the person who made all the words fit together, and who thought up the clues, and who made sure the little black squares at the top mirror the ones at the bottom. She pulls one of the crosswords out of the garbage can, holds it up, turns it upside down, forces a nervous smile.
mary		Crossword constructors usually have above average intelligence, with knowledge of just about every subject you can imagine. And it helps if they can spell. The card in Mary's hand reads "LAUGH". She laughs. Nobody else does. She looks at the cards again, instantly gets serious, sweeps her hand through the air.
mary		Imagine, for a moment, a world without crossword puzzles. A world- Mary notices one Kid with his hand up. It totally throws her off.
teacher		Daniel, you have a question?
daniel		You make a living doing that? Just making puzzles? The Atlanta Citizen only comes out on Fridays. One puzzle a week can't make you enough to live on. A LARGE KID in the front row pipes up.
large kid		How do you pay your rent?
mary		My parents -
daniel		You live with your parents? The Kids all laugh their asses off. Mary just stares at them.
large kid		Oh my God, how old are you? Still living at home! The kids all laugh some more. Mary's on the verge of panic.
teacher		Children! The Teacher shoots the Kids a warning look, then notices Mary hyperventilating.
teacher		Are you okay? Mary grasps for breath, struggles to speak.
mary		Water.
teacher		Water. Just hang on. The Teacher rushes out. The kids all stare at Mary.
mary		Yep, I live at home... She forces herself to get it together, totally faking it.
mary		But so do all of you, so there... And sure, I only create one crossword puzzle a week but I have deadlines, I have stress, I have demands on me so huge you would not believe. The newspaper business is hell. I mean it. Hell. Somebody's got to write about all the horrors that go on in this world.
mary		Me! My crossword puzzle is always good news. it enlightens. it r andma's entertains. It keeps your g mind alive so she remembers to send you five bucks on your birthday. Think about that as you lie in bed tonight picking your nose and crying yourself to sleep. I know I will. The Kids just stare at her. She leans against the teacher's desk, tries to look relaxed but fails miserably.
mary		My job matters, you know. In media circles I am, as the Dutch say, geliefd. That means I have plenty of friends. Hoards, in fact. Scads even. The kids aren't buying it.
large kid		You're a freak. The kids all nod in agreement. Mary's frozen, devastated. The Teacher rushes back into the room with a cup of water, hands it over. Mary sips it like communion wine. Half of it runs down her chin. Mary looks at the Teacher, fakes a smile.
mary		That's a pretty blouse. The Teacher smiles back. Awkward.
mary		Twelve letter phrase for smashing success! She heads down the walkway toward the bus stop.
mary		As one would say in old Paris... Coup de maitre! A CUSTODIAN cleaning the school yard looks up. Mary keeps on talking - now to him.
mary		It means "master stroke", even though the direct translation is actually "master blow"... Leave it to the French to pass off an unpleasant slave activity as an everyday expression. The Custodian doesn't know what the hell she's talking about. Mary continues on to the bus stop.
mary		I sometimes suffer from benign positional vertigo. Could you please not drive until I'm - f He ignores her, starts driving. Mary struggles toward the back o f the bus, grabbing g goes.
mary		Excuse me... pardonnez-moi... begnadiyen sie mich... She lurches for an empty seat and just about dislodges her shoulder on the center pole. Finally settled, she peeks under her sweater at the shoulder damage.
mary		Hello hematoma. She smiles at an angry ELDERLY LADY sitting across from her. The lady gives her the "don't talk to me" glare, then stares out the window. Mary fidgets in her seat.
mary		Hi Betty. Betty just rings up the papers.
mary		Did you see the review of "Hairspray" in the Journal yesterday? They used the word "spectacular" -- always a good sign. Maybe you'd like to go see it with rne? I have a coupon for five dollars off. Betty shoves the newspapers back across the counter, points at them, then speaks in barely recognizable English.
betty		Nine dollar twenty. Mary fishes in her bag for money.
mary		We could bring your dad if you want. I don't think the show is ageist. That means he won't feel like a loser for being old. As she takes her time paying, Mr. Takihashi madly gestures about Mary holding up the line. Betty barks at her.
betty		Pecha kucha! Do Itta! Betty takes Mary's money, waves her on and helps the next customer.
mary		So no then? That's a no? Betty ignores her. Mary waits, loads the newspapers into her bag.
angus		Where the hell is he?
steve		Probably doing his nails. -- paper 40ish reporter HARTMAN HUGHES rushes to the van on his face. napkin tucked in his shirt collar, bread crumbs
hartman		What do you mean "the big one"? Terrorists, natural disaster, what?
angus		Pandemic. Hartman's eyes light up.
angus		Half of the Midwest and spreading. Nobody's safe. Steve tries on a gas mask.
hartman		Please let it be the bird flu.
steve		Bird flu is for pussies. This thing's unstoppable.
hartman		How's it spreading? Angus looks at Steve.
steve		Squirrels. Hartman can barely contain his excitement.
hartman		Oh my God, they're everywhere!
steve		Exactly.
hartman		Al Qaeda connection?
angus		Always a possibility.
steve		Who wishes he was in Iraq now?
hartman		Not me!. Hartman grabs a gas mask and rushes to the van's side mirror.
hartman		I need blush. No, wait. I'll go pasty. It'll look like I could be the first media victim. "Hartman Hughes, no such thing as too close to the story". Hartman looks back at Steve and Angus. They're just standing there, unable to keep a straight face. Hartman deflates.
hartman		Assholes! I knew it was too good to be true. He throws his gas mask down, storms off.
angus		Hartman, come on. Hartman gets in the elevator, hollers out to them.
hartman		I had a perfectly good bologna sandwich going on upstairs. Wasted! Angus and Steve watch the elevator door close, shrug it off.
steve		Next E-coli story breaks, he'll be fine.
mary		Crap.
mary		"Brilliant" is what they said. Never in the history of St. Margaret's Career Day have the children's brains been so inordinately stimulated as they were today by my presentation.
mary		"Inspired", the teacher told me.
mary		"Engrossing" one child exclaimed.
mary		I'm sure that's what he meant. And "ebullient"-
mary		Dad, some of the greatest orators of all time had their heads chopped off for their labors. I'm lucky to escape with a simple flesh wound. Mary hands over the last newspaper, heads out to the hallway. Her mother yells to her.
mary		I told you I'm not going.
mary		Mrs. Alchessi has gliomatosis cerebri.
mary		A brain tumor characterized by, among other things, dementia. She's nuts. Mary walks up the stairs.
mary		I'm normal. Silence from her parents. Mary marches back into the living room.
mary		In fact, I'm normalis extremes. That's the kind of normal that doesn't get more normal.
mary		I'll go. Mary bolts up the stairs to her room. Mr. and Mrs. Horowitz look at each other, surprised, happy.
mary		Carol, tonight I have a date. A blind one. Not the guy, I mean the situation. We are, as yet, unknown to one another... It's nerve wracking, I know. Try not to have a spontaneous epileptiform seizure. The doorbell rings. Mary freezes, listens for the muffled voices downstairs. She sits on the corner of her bed and breathes rapidly into a paper bag. There's a knock on her bedroom door. Mary folds up the bag, puts it in her pocket for later, then opens the door a crack. It's her mother.
mary		I'd rather not. Mrs. Horowitz opens the door wider, takes a look at Mary, looks like she's going to cry.
mary		i already did. Repeatedly.
mary		Please don't mean on the inside.
mary		Let's hope all that does it for him.
steve		Mary, hi. I'm Steve. She puts up a finger - "just a second". She turns around and runs back upstairs. Steve looks at Mrs. Horowitz, confused.
steve		Great. Thanks. She just stares at him and smiles.
mary		Gods. You may have noticed that I'm wearing clean socks. Translation: I'm really trying and thus should be amply rewarded. Thanks for your support. She gets up, has a second thought, gets back onto her knees.
mary		And by support I don't mean, you know - She hikes up her bra.
mary		I mean your assistance, your furtherance, your advocacy of my efforts to get out there and... do what I'm supposed to do. She concentrates hard, opens her eyes. Now she's ready.
steve		Ready? Mary nods a bunch of times.
steve		Mrs. Horowitz. Goodnight.  Sir.
steve		Sorry about this blind date thing. My mother -
mary		I never went to kindergarten! He looks at her, totally confused.
mary		They skipped me to the forth grade.
steve		Okay. She gets in the car, fastens her seatbelt. Steve hesitates then heads to the driver's side, gets in.
mary		I missed finger painting. He has no clue what to say.
steve		Sorry?
mary		Me too. She lunges for his lips but the seatbelt snaps her back inches short.
steve		Whoa! Undeterred by the whiplash, Mary undoes her seatbelt and tries again, this time making contact with Steve's lips. He's more than a little startled but kisses her back anyway, all the while straining to see the Horowitz house.
steve		Mary... uh, what about your mother? She straddles him and keeps kissing.
mary		You're not her type. And she's married.
steve		No, we're right in front of your house and... She undoes her sweater.
steve		And I have no problem with that whatsoever. She kisses his neck. He looks up with a "thank you, God".
mary		Steve?
steve		Mary.
mary		Is it Steven with a V or Stephen with a P-H?
mary		I thought so. There are almost a million Stevens with a V in the country, you know. It's much more popular than the P-H way, almost twice as popular in fact. I think it's the Brits who prefer the P-H. They love their P-H's over there. Not as much as they love their fish and chips but still, they love them. It was the media thing, you know, that's why our moms wanted us to get together. You work in the media, so do I. We really have to hand it to our moms, Steve, we do, and not just for raising us, or for thriving during a time when women painstakingly struggled for equality, but I mean we should hand it to them for being visionaries and predicting our all encompassing compatibility. We're professionally compatible, yes, but it's occurring to me at this particular moment that we're also sexually compatible, and I don't know if you noticed like I noticed but we're also both wearing blue. What are the chances of that? Actually, if I really think about it, the chances are probably pretty good. Blue is one of the most popular three colors, however, yours is- She leans forward and checks the fabric tag on the neck of his jacket. She can't quite read it. She reaches up and flips on the interior light. Steve's just about blinded. She grabs the tag, reads.
mary		Nylon. And mine... She grabs her own tag and reads it, just about elbowing Steve in the eye.
mary		Polyester! See? Both synthetic fibres! And the chances of that are much smaller than the chances of us just wearing blue. Steve looks at Mary - suddenly fully aware of her craziness.
mary		Do you like crosswords?
steve		Sure. She just about jumps out of her pants with excitement.
mary		Me too! And semantics, the study of the meaning of words? You love words, right?
steve		What's not to love.
mary		I know! She can hardly believe her good fortune. Her mind reels just as fast as her lips.
mary		Steve with a V, you know what we are? We're didymous. Two of a kind. Two rare earth elements brought together by Norns, that's Scandinavian for The Destinies. You want to make out for ten to fifteen minutes more then go get a six pack of Twinkies and Mountain Dew and stay up all night and talk? Steve is frozen. No escape - then it hits him. He jumps a bit, pulls out his cell phone.
steve		Sorry. I have to get this.
mary		I didn't hear it ring.
steve		Vibrate.
mary		I didn't feel it
steve		You didn't?  This is Steve... What? Really? Now? If I don't have a choice...
steve		Work. I have to go to... Boston. This happens all the time. You know how it is. Wherever news happens... Mary gets off of him, slides back into her seat, buttons her sweater.
mary		It's okay. When you get back we can have plenty of quality time.
steve		Sure. I'll call you. He leans over, opens her door.
mary		Steve, this has been a night to remember.
steve		No kidding. You certainly are - He searches for any word that will do. Mary jumps in.
mary		Normal.
steve		You read my mind. Never happier, she jumps out of the car. As he drives away, she pulls the paper bag out of her pocket, breathes into it.
mary		Mom, sometimes that's all you need to know he's the one! Mary smiles big, takes the rest of the stairs up two at a time. Mrs. Horowitz is about to follow her.
mary		Eleven letter word for serendipity. She screams into her pillow.
mary		The perfect answer: S-E-R-E-N-D-I-P- I-T-Y. Serendipity. Why would you ever need a better word than that? She sits up, grabs her notebook, starts to draw out a new crossword puzzle.
soloman		Let's split the gardening feature into two weeks. Keep them in suspense. He steps back, looks at the whole layout.
soloman		Looks good. How are we doing here?
soloman		Five minutes to spare. Look at that. The Assistant points to a blank corner of page 26. Soloman's surprised, and not particularly impressed.
soloman		Horowitz.
taxi driver		This is bullshit.
guy		Don't even bother, man. I don't know what the deal is, but it looks like all the answers are --
soloman		Steve? Mary sits and smiles.
soloman		Every single answer is "Steve"? Who the hell is Steve anyway? No wait, I don't care, but I do care that you pissed off our readers. Mary's smile falls a bit.
soloman		I thought you knew better than to pull something like this. It's unprofessional, it's -- to him. He's too frustrated, the words aren't coming
mary		Romantic?
soloman		No!
mary		Creativo? That's Italian for "creative".
soloman		No.
mary		How about -
soloman		Mary. We're letting you go.
mary		Oh. up her Kroger She looks like she's going to cry. She picks bag, fidgets.
mary		Maybe I could make it up to you by doing a fishing themed crossword. I know how you love the piscatology. Soloman shakes his head -- it's done. Mary hesitates then finally gets up.
mary		Okay. I'll just give you some time then. We'll talk next week.
payroll clerk		She forgot her severance.
assistant		Don't you mean "Steverance"? They both laugh.
the		waiting for her. She sits down beside him. He holds up Atlanta Citizen crossword.
mary		Indeed.
mary		Finished with the Times? She goes to take the paper. He stops her.
mary		How do you think? She looks at him -- worry all over his face. She hesitates for a moment then sucks it up.
mary		Because if you're thinking that they loved it, that they thought it was imaginative and bold and evocative... you would be right.
mary		He works a lot, you know. Travels all the time. 'Tis possible he has not yet espied it. She picks up the crossword, admires it.
mary		But when he does, I'm sure he'll say, "that Mary Horowitz... is a catch. Where oh where has she been all my empty life? From here onward my life will be divided into 'before I met Mary' and 'after I met Mary' with the second part being far superior. I am lonely no more. The missing letter in my puzzle has at last been found."
mary		I'm not.
angus		We're going to hit rush. We'll have to take the second flight. Exec. Producer DAN CORBITT walks in, heads straight for his desk.
corbitt		You're set. KDFW's on site now. Angus and Steve start to get up.
corbitt		Hang on. They sit. Corbitt grabs the remote control, turns the TV on.
corbitt		Anybody want to tell me about this? He fast forwards through footage of Hartman reporting from a greenhouse. Corbitt slows it to normal speed, mutes it. They watch as Hartman interviews an attractive female BOTANIST holding a test tube with a seedling in it. Hartman keeps pointing to the seedling - which happens to be right in front of the Botanist's generous breasts. The camera gets closer and closer - each time it pulls away Hartman points to the seedling again to force the camera in close - basically turning the piece into a giant boob-fest.
angus		Take a look at those... plants. Corbitt pauses it on the worst shot, looks at Steve.
corbitt		We can't use this. Hartman fakes disgust.
hartman		Of course not. Nice camera work, Stevie. Steve glares at Hartman. Corbitt points at the frozen shot on the TV screen, looks at Steve.
corbitt		You want to go back to the Weather Channel, try that again. Corbitt checks his watch, points them out the door.
corbitt		Get out of here. Don't embarrass me in Dallas. Hartman, Angus and Steve walk out. Steve nods to Hartman - thanks asshole. In the hallway, Steve's cell phone rings. He answers it.
steve		What?... Mom, let me call you back.
steve		What page? He finds Mary's crossword. He looks at it closely, totally confused. It takes him more than a second to get it. He laughs -- then suddenly reality sets in.
steve		Jesus.
mary		Four letter word for am I going to wait my whole life for Steve to call? She suddenly stops writing.
mary		Nope. She flails out of the tub like a salmon heading upstream, grabs a towel barely big enough to cover her. Without any effort to dry off, she runs out of the bathroom.
mary		Ow ow ouch. She gets off the banister, slops the rest of the way down the stairs, jumps into the doorway of the living room.
mary		The news is Steve's life! It's not just what he does, it's who he is, imbedded deep down in his polymer of nucleotides. I should be out there by his side. That's what girlfriends do, isn't it? Let him concentrate on his work. I'll concentrate on the relationship. It won't be easy, I know, but neither is quantum physics or... the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle or... paper mache, but I've managed to do fine with those, haven't I? She looks at her parents. They sit at a table playing bridge with MR. and MRS. HANCOCK.
mary		Top of the evening. Mr. Hancock checks out Mary's bare legs as she stands in a puddle of bath water. Mrs. Hancock lifts her husband's chin, snaps him out of it.
mary		Exactly! And all I have to do is go to him, be near him, and do my best to radiate... me. Mr. Horowitz doesn't like the sound of this.
mary		Wherever news happens, Dad. Wherever news happens.
mary		Abe, Catherine, I'm off. I don't know where I'm going - The Greyhound Bus DRIVER hollers from behind her.
driver		Dallas.
mary		Geographically yes, I know. Figuratively, philosophically, spiritually, much less so. My entire life is before me. The world is my ostrea edulis... That means the edible kind of oyster.
mary		Mom, two handles, two handles, they both hold stuff, what's the difference? Mrs. Horowitz goes to explain, gives up.
mary		Disrespect. Do you mean unmannerly, tactless, vulgar? Because he's a straight man, Dad, and some things can't be helped. But if you mean inconsiderate to me, contemptuous toward me, insulting, irreverent, uncivil -
driver		Let's go already! She steps up one more step, yells out to her parents and the
mary		I don't know when I'll be back but I do know this- The door shuts in her face.
mary		 I'm not coming back alone.
hartman		Paula, what started out as a routine rehearsal here at the Dallas Medieval Times turned deadly when an employee allegedly turned on his fellow performers. Twenty- four hours later, at least thirty employees are still being held hostage by the assailant, their lives hanging in the balance. He listens to his earpiece, nods.
hartman		The castle you see behind me is one of eight medieval Times dinner theatre restaurants. Guests who cross the drawbridge enjoy a medieval style feast while watching the main attraction: knights engaging in a battle of strength and skill. The restaurant promises "fun, feasting and fighting" but it appears that this time, fun was in short supply. A few feet away, Angus frantically takes notes as he talks to a MAINTENANCE WORKER, then slips a piece of paper to Hartman.
hartman		Paula, devastating news just in. We have one confirmed death - an Andalusian - a purebred Spanish horse. One of many that perform in the show, and the first innocent victim of a rogue knight's rage... He takes a moment to fake compose himself, barely getting the words out.
hartman		At times like this, I like to think there's a heaven just for horses. A rolling meadow, lush grasses, unlimited supply of... those things horses like to lick - or is that cows? Nevertheless, a beautiful, peaceful place. He turns and looks toward to the Medieval Times.
hartman		May you long roam in that heaven, noble horse - Angus hands him another note. Hartman scans it, instantly kills the fake anguish.
hartman		But not quite yet. We're the first to report, the horse is not dead, Paula. Not dead. The horse is alive and well after having merely fainted, as it was trained to do for the show. One happy, blessed miracle...
hartman		Dammit, Angus. Get it a bit closer to right before you hand it to me. Josh moves in, removes Hartman's mic.
steve		But then we wouldn't have heard about horse heaven. Josh and Angus laugh.
hartman		It's that kind of genius that won me the Southeast Idaho Christian Family Coalition's Journalist of the Year award, you ingrates.
mary		Omaha... Einstein... cholera... grenade... Bach... oui... potbelly... Oreo. The man drops the crossword, glares at her.
mary		Sorry. She looks away, starts biting her nails, then spots a sign on the freeway, calls-out to the Driver and anybody else who will listen.
mary		Bessemer, Alabama! Named after Sir Henry Bessemer, a Brit. Guess what he did? Perfected the way steel is made, of course.
mary		You know what else is in Bessemer? The city, I mean? Hitler's typewriter. It's crazy, I know. That guy was such an asshole. The Driver's eyes glaze over. Please let this and.
driver		We'll just take five minutes here. He steps off the bus. Mary turns to the man next to her.
mary		Can you watch my stuff? He glares at her -- you have got to be kidding. Mary grabs her backpack and Kroger bag and steps off the bus.
hartman		 Perhaps the greatest obstacle the hostage negotiators face is the suspect's refusal to communicate using modern day technology. In keeping with his role as a medieval knight, he's insisting on an eleventh century messenger to deliver all communication. The screen splits with a female news ANCHOR.
anchor		What are we talking about here, Hartman? Carrier pigeons?
mary		Homing pigeons. A few of the Diners overhear.
hartman		Actually, homing pigeons. The Diners look at Mary.
mary		Carrier pigeons, despite their name, are more or less useless when it comes to actually carrying anything. Homing pigeons are better for messenger work... The Diners lose interest. Mary catches the eye of a WANDERER at the end of the counter. He's hanging on her every word.
mary		You know who used them all the time? Genghis Khan. Loved the pigeons, scared to death of pooches though. The Wanderer just stares at her.
mary		You know, dogs, canines, de honden? Still nothing. She looks back at the TV.
anchor		Have the negotiators located any homing pigeons? Where do you even get them in this day and age?
hartman		You can buy them on the internet for twenty-five bucks a pop. Mary looks at the Diners, smiles, points to the TV.
mary		My boyfriend is probably holding that camera right now. The Diners ignore her and just eat their pie. Mary realizes the time, runs out of the rest stop.
mary		Crap! Crap, crap, crap! She looks down the road -- no sign of the bus anywhere. She takes her paper bag out of her pocket, breathes into it. A TRUCK DRIVER passes her with coffee in hand, on his way to his rig.
mary		Do you know when the next bus to Dallas goes through here?
truck driver		Can't say I do.
mary		I missed mine. She breathes double time into the paper bag. He takes pity on her.
truck driver		I'm headed that way. He points to his truck. Mary looks at the truck, looks at him, looks at the truck, thinks about it for a long time.
mary		You ever killed animals? He looks at her, surprised but amused.
truck driver		Road kill?
mary		Set a garbage can full of kittens on fire or anything like that? Now he's disturbed.
truck driver		No.
mary		Humans?
truck driver		Would I tell you if I did?
mary		Touche, sir. Touche. Mary thinks some more.
truck driver		Wait for the next bus if that suits you. He climbs into the truck. Mary runs to catch up with him.
mary		Do you have a .light? Matches, Zippo, blow torch, et al?
truck driver		Afraid not.
mary		May I see your license? Why not. He pulls his license out of the visor, flashes it. Mary steps up and grabs it, looks at it closely.
mary		Norman James Durwood.
mary		Mary Magdalene Horowitz.
mary		Norm, if you're going to rape and murder me, you'll have to cut me up into a million chunks and scatter me all over four states, otherwise this appendage - She holds her arm up, shows him.
mary		Will lead homicide detectives right to you. She smiles at him warmly, puts the marker back in her bag.
mary		And you already told me you don't have a light to burn the flesh off. Norm can't believe this. Before he can say a word, Mary moves around to the passenger side, hops up into the truck. She notices some snacks on the dash.
mary		Moon Pies! Want to go halfsies? At a loss, Norm motions for Mary to help herself. As she unwraps a Pie, he reluctantly starts up the truck.
angus		Rebecca wants you to come for dinner when we're back home. Her cousin from Florida -
steve		Forget it.
angus		What?
steve		It's a set up.
angus		She's hot.
steve		I don't care. Never again. My mom set me up with this chick -
angus		You let you mother set you up? What the hell is wrong with you? There's a commotion in the distance. Every photographer on the grounds focuses on the castle. Reporters jump into position. Hartman touches up his make-up, roots through his bag. He yells out to Steve, Angus and Josh.
hartman		Which one of you bastards hid my bronzing shimmer? The police surrounding the castle take aim. Dead silence as the Medieval Times drawbridge lowers. A KNIGHT walks out, arms raised as high as his squeaking armor will allow, which is not very high, but high enough to get the point across -- Surrender.
mary		And my other rule about crossword puzzles is this. No pencils. Doing a crossword with a pencil is like screaming with your lips duct taped together. It's weak.
norm		Quiet time might be good right about now.
mary		Oh. She thinks about it, whispers.
mary		Do you mean quiet as in softly hushed like this? Or do you mean quiet, as in silent? He nods. Mary squeezes her lips together, holds them. It lasts for about a second.
mary		Norm?
norm		What?
mary		Thanks for not raping me.
norm		My pleasure.
mary		Eight letter word for "screwed". Mary crosses to the Medieval Times parking lot, steps over the police line blowing in the wind.
mary		F-A-S-T-E-N-E-D. Fastened.
mary		All roads lead to Oklahoma, Papa.
mary		My road, dad. My road. You don't commit to a relationship and then give up because you'd rather be at home curled up in front of the fireplace with a thesaurus. This is what people are supposed to do - go out on a limb for love. My limb just happens to be in Oklahoma. It's only 850 miles away from home. No big deal.
koco reporter		Eleven months ago, the child we've come to know as Baby Peggy was born with an extremely rare birth defect, a third leg. Shortly after the birth, her parents Misty and Bill Dunlevy separated. Now with joint custody, one parent wants the baby to keep the third leg, the other wants it gone... A few feet away, a female FOX NEWS REPORTER is on camera.
hartman		What if next time I say Baby Peggy is like the wishbone of her parents' dispute? Hartman acts out a wishbone pull. Steve's disgusted.
steve		Yeah, go ahead and suggest that. Corbitt will love it. Steve turns and looks toward the edge of the fenced off hospital grounds. Dozens of PROTESTORS are camped out - a sorry assortment of oddballs standing at the fence, waving their signs: "SPARE THE LEG", and "HONOR THE FATHER". Many of them carry drawings of a three legged baby wearing a halo. Steve braces himself and heads for the crowd. Half way across, he spots a loner walking from the parking lot. He's 35, chubby, his shirt buttoned one button off so it hangs lower on the left. This is HOWARD. In one hand: a pro-leg sign. In his other hand: a carton of chocolate milk. Howard stops to lick up the chocolate milk spilling all over his arm. Steve catches up with him.
steve		Mind if I ask you a few questions on camera?
howard		Me?
steve		How do you feel about what's going on here?
howard		I haven't made up my mind yet. Both parties have valid arguments.
steve		Please God, no. He looks for a place to hide but she's running ridiculously fast. It's too late. She's only a few feet away.
mary		Steve! She jumps into his arms but he's only got one arm free and isn't about to use it to catch her. She slides down his leg to the ground but quickly picks herself up.
mary		I'm here! Surprised?
steve		Surprised?
mary		Astounded, flabbergasted, bushwacked - He pulls Mary off to the side, away from everybody.
steve		What are you doing?
mary		Talking to you. And noticing how the Oklahoma climate agrees with your complexion.
steve		Tell me you didn't come all the way here just to see me.
mary		Of course not... I went to Dallas looking for you first. And you know why? Steve grabs his head. This is not happening.
mary		Because you're inimitable and I'm intransigent.
steve		No, we're not. I don't know what that means but trust me. We're so not.
mary		It means you're awesome and I'm unstoppable.
steve		Great. Listen, Mary, you seem like a nice girl, and the ten minutes we spent together were --
mary		Mind blowing. At a complete loss, he just goes along.
steve		Sure, but I'm working here. Working.
mary		I know. I'm just here to support you, show you I care, and also ask why you aren't following that guy pretending to be a nurse but obviously not wearing sterilizable, non-slip footwear. Steve looks toward the hospital, spots the Man.
mary		If I was Baby Peggy's dad, that's how I'd avoid the press too. Steve takes off running. Mary yells out to him.
mary		I'll be right here in case you want to make out later on! Steve looks back, a bunch of people stare. Mary waves to him then watches until he's out of sight. A SECURITY GUARD approaches her.
security guard		Miss, if you want to be here, you're going to have to stay behind the fence. Mary turns to see what he's pointing at - the growing crowd of protestors off in the distance. They wave their signs around, cry, sing and sway together, their painful song barely audible from afar.
protestors		Near, far, wherever you are, we believe that the leg should stay on... Mary watches, paralyzed with awe, like seeing herself in the mirror for the first time ever. At last, she has found her people.
elizabeth		I like your boots.
mary		Thanks. I found them in an alley. Elizabeth looks at the boots again, impressed. She stands up.
elizabeth		Are you pro-leg or anti-leg?
mary		Neither really.
elizabeth		This is the pro-leg group over here. We're supporting Baby Peggy's dad in his fight to save the baby's third leg. She points to the end of the fenced off area where only a few protestors hold anti-leg signs:"NORMAL LIFE FOR BABY PEGGY",
elizabeth		Those are the anti-leggers. They're all for the amputation.
mary		I'm just here because my boyfriend is working the story. He's with CNN, the world's news leader, the most trusted name in news, the place where more -
elizabeth		The pro-leggers have better snacks.
mary		I'm definitely pro-leg.
steve		She's on me what, thirty seconds after meeting me, and the chick will not shut up the whole time. I had to fake a work call, gave her the -
angus		 Wherever news goes...
steve		I think I'm in the clear, then she does this crossword - she works for the Citizen - she does this crossword all about me, and as if that's not crazy enough, she shows up here.
angus		Here?
steve		Over by the fence. Red boots. Can't miss her.
angus		Is she hot?
steve		Jesus, Angus. When a psychotic chick's swinging a machete at your throat, who cares if she's hot?
angus		I've been married to the same woman for seventeen years. I care.
steve		Crazy, man. The chick is cra-zy. Hartman sits up, totally awake and never happier. He points at Steve.
hartman		Priceless! This is priceless! Steve cringes.
steve		Hughes, don't. Don't even.
protestor wife		All we're saying is, wait until Baby Peggy can talk and ask her what she wants to do with the spare.
mary		Thanks, Bruno. He walks away. Mary takes a sip of the hot chocolate, burns her mouth.
mary		Crap. She grabs her tongue with her fingers. Hartman appears right in front of her.
hartman		M'lady. She's a bit stunned and star struck. He offers his hand.
hartman		Hartman Hughes. Mary lets go of her tongue, uses her saliva covered hand to shake his.
mary		Mary.
hartman		Mary'. Mary, Mary, Mary. He takes his hand back, discretely wipes it on his pants.
hartman		Steve told me you were beautiful. He was going on and on and on and on about it. I had to come see for myself. Great boots.
mary		Thank y- He puts an arm around her, pulls her away from the crowd.
hartman		Listen, Mary, I've been working with Steve for about a year now. The guy is like a brother to me. A YOUNG PROTESTOR recognizes Hartman.
young protestor		Hartman Hughes'. Without missing a step, Hartman grabs a pen from his pocket and autographs the guy's sign whether he wants it or not, then continues on with Mary.
hartman		Girls follow us around everywhere we go. Who do you think they're after? Hartman reflects on it, smiles.
hartman		Me, of course me, but every once in a while some of them try to land Steve. It's true. Sure he'll go for a few skanks here and there but it's all just a sad attempt to hide his fear. All he wants is to love but he's afraid of opening up, afraid of putting himself out there, afraid of somebody like you, Mary - yes you - afraid of you breaking his heart. Can you blame him? She's a bit stunned and confused by all of this.
mary		No?
hartman		No! Promise me this. Promise you'll stick around long enough to help him get over that fear. He tells you to go away, don't. He says he thinks you're crazy? You're not. He's crazy, Mary. Crazy not to let down his walls and tell you how he really feels. Can I count on you to hang in there no matter what?
mary		Of course. I don't want to interfere in his work but I just need to be here for him and - He grabs her, hugs her in so her words are all muffled - and yet she keeps talking.
hartman		Good girl. The SECURITY GUARD walks past, gestures that they should be behind the fence. Hartman holds up his press pass to get rid of the Guard, then lets go of Mary. He points her toward the protestors, starts backing away.
hartman		I'll tell Steve to come find you when we wrap for the day. What side are you on?
mary		Pro-leg. She shows him her button featuring a cartoon of a very happy three legged baby. Hartman laughs.
hartman		You might want to jump camps. No way they're going let that baby keep the third leg and live like a freak. Trust me. He waves and turns around, starts heading for the press camp. Mary calls out to him.
mary		She'd just be like the tree frogs. Hartman turns around. What?
mary		A trematode parasite causes polymely  in tree frogs. It happens all the time. In some ponds there's like a quarter of the tree frogs with extra legs. Totally natural. Hartman looks at her like she's a nutcase.
hartman		What's going on? Josh rushes to get the mic on Hartman.
josh		The parents of the kid got back together. Surgery's cancelled.
hartman		No amputation?
steve		Tell me you weren't talking to Mary.
hartman		Who?
steve		Go to hell, Hughes. scans it Angus hands Hartman the press release. Hartman quickly.
hartman		It's over? The kid keeps the leg.
angus		For now. Hartman checks his teeth in a hand mirror.
hartman		'Til she gets it caught in a car door.
koco reporter		With mere hours to spare, the Dunlevys reconciled, agreeing to halt surgery until Baby Peggy is old enough to decide for herself. Further down the row of reporters:
hartman		And like the noble tree frog whose extra leg is nothing if not natural, so Baby Peggy begins the rest of her three legged life... This is Hartman Hughes reporting live from Oklahoma City. Hartman pulls out his ear piece. Angus, Josh and Steve all look at him, a bit surprised.
steve		Tree frog? Where do you get this shit? Hartman taps the side of his head -- it's all up here.
hartman		A little thing called astutitude, my friends. Steve and Angus look at each other -- is that even a word?
mary		There you go, George. Just a little nasolacrimal duct cleaning. Nothing to be ashamed of. Elizabeth runs up to Mary, hugs her.
elizabeth		You see? When you sing loud enough and when your signs are big enough, people listen! Mary spots some of the news vans pulling away.
mary		Steve!
elizabeth		Go, go on. I'll watch your stuff. Mary drops her bags, runs toward the media camp.
mary		Steve! STEVE!
hartman		Angus, hold up.
steve		No, go. Fast. Hartman rolls down his window.
steve		Don't. Hartman sticks his head out the window.
steve		Hughes, I swear I'll kill you. Hartman waves to Mary to catch up. Angus sees her in the mirror as he drives.
angus		Is that her? She's hot.
steve		Angus, come on man, get me out of here.
angus		She's really hot.
steve		Who cares? Jesus, you guys - Angus hits the brakes. Steve hides behind the seat just as Mary catches up with the van.
hartman		Hi beautiful. Mary tries to get a look at Steve but can only see part of his back hunched over behind the seat.
mary		Steve? Are you okay? Is he okay? Angus leans over to her window.
angus		I don't think we've met. Angus. Mary shakes Angus' hand. He can't take his eyes off her.
hartman		Steve's not feeling well.
mary		Oh no.
hartman		I'm sure he'll be fine by the time we get to New Mexico.
angus		Your eyes are striking. Steve punches him through the seat. Mary's oblivious.
mary		Thank you.
hartman		Steve really wants you to follow us. It would mean a lot to him.
stays		Steve cringes, goes to speak up but stops himself and hidden.
hartman		He was going to go ask you himself but look at the poor bastard. So sick he can't even sit up straight.
mary		What if it's a viral zoonotic disease? He should see a doctor.
hartman		Exactly what I told him, but the only person he wants touching his infected flesh is you. Mary looks at Steve, worried.
mary		But wait, what if - up. Hartman grabs her face, squishes her lips to shut her
hartman		Hey now, we need you to be strong for him. Leachinan trial, Santa Fe, can you remember that? Mary nods, unable to speak.
hartman		We'll meet you there, God willing.
mary		Will you take care of him?
hartman		Like he's my own. She backs away from the window. Angus waves to her and starts driving.
angus		Nothing wrong with that one.
josh		Except for those boots.
steve		You're an asshole, Hughes. Hartman laughs.
mary		Elizabeth! I have to meet Steve at his next job, in New Mexico. He's sick, not as in rad, although he is that too, but more like unwell, infirm, perhaps barfy. Hopefully nothing serious but you never can be too sure and besides, healthy or not, he needs me.
elizabeth		Sign my book before you go? Elizabeth hands her the ratty hand decorated book and a pen.
mary		The trip's not too long, right through all kinds of interesting sites like, for example, El Santuario de Chimayo: The Lourdes of America. Know what that is? A sacred sand pit near a burrito stand. What could be better than that? Mary looks away from Elizabeth, fidgets a bit.
mary		Want to go? Unless you're busy, I mean. You probably have something better to do. Elizabeth thinks about it.
elizabeth		Not really. Mary is stunned. She takes a minute to realize it's real, gets excited. From behind her:
elizabeth		Mary, have you met Howard? Mary shakes her head. Howard offers his hand. It's got dried chocolate milk all over it. She takes it.
elizabeth		Mary, Howard. Howard, Mary. Mary, Howard's got a car, you know. He can drive us. Mary looks at him, thinks about it.
mary		What kind of car do you have?
howard		Plymouth Colt.
mary		What year?
howard		Eighty-nine. Mary quickly scans her memory.
mary		Replace the recalled seat belts?
howard		Yes. Mary thinks about it, smiles.
mary		Let's grab souvenirs! Elizabeth and Howard each pick up a Baby Peggy sign off the ground. Mary grabs as many as she can hold -- way, way too many. A bunch of them slide off but she perseveres.
howard		You can have that. I have more.
mary		Thanks. Mary puts the apple in her Kroger bag.
mary		Howard, if you get sleepy and want to trade off driving for a while, just wake me up and I'll take over.
mary		Persimmon. AKA, the mabolo, the date-plum, the velvet apple. Genus: Diospyros.
hartman		But the octogenarian Leachman may not have been as innocent as her representatives claimed, at least according to the evidence found at the murder scene. Hartman reads from his notes.
hartman		Whips, hot wax, bamboo skewers, a spanking bench, and perhaps most damaging, a henna tattoo across Ms. Leachman's chest that read "Mrs. Juan Carlos Velasquez".
howard		Guilty or not? They all think about it. A greasy haired Shaman CLYDE steps up behind them.
clyde		Everybody deserves the benefit of the doubt. He looks at Mary, smiles.
clyde		Everybody. As he joins the Leachman fans, Mary thinks about it.
mary		Be has a point.
elizabeth		Yay! I love Cloris Leachman.
howard		Who doesn't?
mexican mourners		jMuerte! iMuerte! iMuerte!
mary		I have to go find Steve. How do I look? Unwashed hair, bed head, and there's a chunk of a Twinkie caked onto Mary's ear. Elizabeth picks the Twinkie off, smooths down Mary's hair.
elizabeth		Perfect.
mary		I'll be back. Save me a sign! And if Cloris comes out, tell her I loved her in "My Little Pony: The Movie". Mary runs off as Howard and Elizabeth join the crowd of fans.
hartman		Hi gorgeous. What'd you do to your hair?
mary		Slept on it in the car. Where's Steve? Is he okay?
hartman		Never better. Come in and wait. He'll be back soon.
hartman		You all know Mary? Steve's girlfriend? Mary shakes hands around the table, greets them all in their native tongues.
mary		Hello... Bonjour... Hola... Jolly afternoon... She gets to Angus. He kisses her hand.
angus		My dear, sit. He shoves the BBC guy out of the way to make room for Mary next to him. Vince shuffles the cards.
vince		Mary, you in?
mary		Poker? Technically I'm familiar but I've never actually played. With people, I mean.
spanish journalist		She's in. Doug throws in some cash as Vince starts to deal.
mary		"There are few things that are so unpardonably neglected in our country as poker." Guess who said that one. She looks around the table. The guys, except Angus, are starting to lose their patience.
mary		Mark Twain. And you know what else-
mary		Sorry. Mary looks at her cards, thinks about it for way too long, then grabs a handful of coins from her Kroger bag, slaps them on the table.
mary		Send it, ladies! Steve steps into the tent, spots Mary, turns to run back out.
hartman		Don't go, Steve! Look who's here. Mary jumps up - just about knocks the table over, then sustains a number of injuries trying to leap over chairs. At last she makes it to Steve, hugs him.
mary		Thank God you're okay!
to		He holds her back at arm's length, looks at her, goes speak then stops himself, pulls her outside the tent.
steve		You have to stop stalking me.
mary		I'm not. It's more like picking travel destinations based on where you happen to be working.
steve		Stalking.
mary		Hartman told me you wanted me here. Now that I am, what better opportunity for us to get to know each other better.
steve		This is crazy.
mary		Hartman said you'd say that.
steve		Go home, Mary.
mary		And he said you'd say that too. It's just your fear talking. Steve just about loses it.
steve		He's not my friend, he's not your friend. He's just an asshole who thinks it's fun to string you along and make my life hell. He yells toward the tent.
steve		Hughes! Get out here!
mary		You know how sometimes you see a pinguid  guy with an attractive girl and you think how the heck did he pull that off? People won't think that when they look at us. We're perfectly matched. She can hardly contain her excitement.
hartman		For the hundredth time, Steve, no, I am not interested in a threesome with you and your new girlfriend. Steve points to Mary.
steve		Tell her the truth. About all the crap you told her.
hartman		Okay. Fine. Hartman goes to Mary, grabs her hand.
hartman		Everything I said about Steve, about his feelings for you, his hopes, his dreams, his fears, his unexplainable odor, forget about it. Forget everything I said. None of it was true. Mary's stunned, devastated. She looks like she's going to cry. Hartman and Steve look at each other - what now? Hartman shoves him forward. Steve reluctantly puts a comforting hand on her shoulder.
hartman		Because nothing I said comes close to the enormity of Steve's real feelings for you!
hartman		It's a love that defies words! Steve jumps him. Hartman fights back. Mary's horrified.
mary		Stop it, you guys! Stop! "Victory attained by violence is tantamount to a defeat, for it is momentary." You know who said that? Gandhi. And me. Just now. The fight continues. Mary half covers her eyes.
vince		Nice one.
spanish journalist		I'm going to go with Hughes on this one.
vince		Come on, the guy wears makeup. The guys all start pulling out cash to place bets. Mary spots the cash changing hands.
mary		No! This isn't about money! It's about courage, love, honor and all things virtuous and pure. Steve, kick him in the leberknoedel! Hartman looks up at her, hurt. The distraction costs him. Steve knees him then follows with a jab to his face.
journalists		Ohhhh! Hartman drops to his knees, tries to pull himself together.
steve		Tell her!
hartman		Okay, alright. Hartman wipes his lip, looks up at Mary.
hartman		Mary, millions of people believe what I tell them every night. Why shouldn't you? Steve dives at him. Hartman swings and gets him right in the nose. One of their cell phones ring, then another, then all the guys' phones go off.
angus		Verdict's in. They all rush off to the court house, leaving a stunned Mary standing alone.
mary		He fought for me. Happiest moment of her life.
bbc journalist		After a devastating eight months, Leachman at last vindicated despite overwhelming evidence against her. Six more cameras down, the French Reporter.
hartman		And as she left the court room today a free woman, the cheers of her devoted fans carrying her forward -
mary		Please! Somebody help him! Apply a vasoconstrictor, a nasal tampon, anything! At the absolute least, direct pressure and a clean tissue! Steve puts the camera back in place. Hartman recovers fast.
hartman		As you can see, Cloris Leachman's fans have become surprisingly violent despite her victory here today. Add this to the list of the most dangerous locations for journalists. Iraq, Somalia, Lebanon, Sri Lanka... and just about any place Cloris Leachman fans gather. Hartman wipes blood from his lip.
hartman		Hartman Hughes putting his life at risk to report live from Santa Fe, New Mexico. They cut. Hartman grabs a hand mirror, points to his face, yells out to Steve.
hartman		This is my gift, understand, my instrument. Makes no difference if you're walking around looking like Quasimodo. Ignoring Hartman, Steve walks over to Angus.
steve		How long do you figure until - Steve's phone rings. He cringes, answers it.
corbitt		Who the hell was that?
steve		This girl. She's been following me... She's not my girlfriend... He listens, clenches his teeth, hands the phone to Angus. As Angus listens, Steve grabs his equipment, waits in dread. Angus hangs up the phone, hands it back to Steve.
steve		I'm done?
angus		Consider yourself temporarily saved by the storm. It's worse than they thought. We've got to move. Steve grabs his equipment. They start walking.
angus		He'll probably fire you after.
steve		Any luck, the storm will kill me first.
clyde		Shhhh.
mary		What? I didn't -
clyde		Shhhh. He puts his hands on the sides of her head. Mary's confused and a bit freaked out.
clyde		In here. So loud. Always thinking, thinking, thinking. Mary goes to speak, stops herself. Clyde keeps his hands still on her head, looks into her eyes.
clyde		You already found what you're looking for. Mary's eyes soften and she's suddenly calm. A moment of peace. Suddenly, Mary spots Hartman, Steve and Angus rush past. She breaks away from Clyde, rushes along the fence to catch up.
mary		Wait! Steve! Hartman spots her.
hartman		Sorry, darling, we're on to the next story.
mary		No, wait! Attendee! She runs to the end of the fence, jumps it, runs after them.
steve		Considering you probably just cost me my job, maybe you don't want to talk to me right now.
mary		But I do! If you're in trouble because of me I can fix it, I can explain to your boss. He or she probably just doesn't understand our relationship.
steve		We don't have a relationship.
mary		Sure we do, it's just in the pupa stage right now.
steve		Mary, go home! She looks at him, hurt.
steve		Go home. He jumps in the CNN truck as Angus starts it up. Mary looks around, helpless.
mary		Six letter word for "over my lifeless, rigormortic and maggot infested, i.e. dead, body am I giving up now"... D-O-G-G- motherfucking-E-D. Dogged. She gets out her Chapstick, liberally applies it, dabs a bit on her temples as well.
mary		Normally I don't condone swearing. I think it's something people do when they don't have the vocabulary to express themselves properly, but even I, with my plenitudinous vocab, must admit -- every once in a while, it's okay to get a bit peppery -
mary		I got him in trouble, Dad. I have to go find him and make it right. There's three places they could be headed. She pulls a note pad out of her pocket, looks it over.
mary		For each story, I've worked out an equation of potential human casualties, estimated property damage, availability of endlessly repeatable images, with bonus points for anything involving reporters in galoshes. There's no doubt in my mind. They're heading to the storm in Galveston.
mary		Ridiculous? Mom! How many times did you propose to dad?
mary		I rest my case! If you gave up the first time dad said no then I wouldn't exist. Telling me to give up so soon on my potential husband- to-be, birth father of my twelve future children and adoptive father of my gerbil Carol -- you might as well be saying that you wish you had given up too and that you never married dad and that I'd never been born. Is that what you're saying?
mary		Sure you don't want to come along?
elizabeth		I wish, but I only left enough cat food out for two days. I'll miss you guys! Elizabeth hugs them both, jumps on the bus. Howard and Mary watch as she struggles to her seat with all the signs.
howard		This storm could be bad. Sure you want to drive into it?
mary		How bad could it be?
cnn meteorologist		Hurricane Lorraine, currently rated category four, expected to hit landfall by tomorrow evening. Making the situation even more frightening, that area of Texas currently in the midst of its worst tornado season in history. Tornado images appear on the map.
cnn meteorologist		And here's where it gets interesting. A black swarm graphic appears as well.
cnn meteorologist		Add the looming cicada migration to the mix and no one knows just how devastating this storm could be.
ktft meteorologist		Tornadocane.
kprc anchor		Tornadocane.
klug meteorologist		God really hates us now.
hartman		 And this time, the warnings were hard to ignore. One Galvestonian told us "tornados, we can handle. Hurricanes we can handle. Bugs we can handle. Put 'em all together and that's a storm I don't need to see". A wise man indeed. Something off to the side catches Hartman's eye -- it's a picnic table blowing down the street.
hartman		Oooh! Get that! Steve gets the shot then pretends to make adjustments to his camera while he discretely scans the area, on the lookout for Mary.
mary		And when I met Steve, I knew right away we had a lot in common. We're both in the media, we both love crosswords, we both love words. We both felt this unexplainable connection, no matter how much his instinct might be to fight it. That's okay. We just have to get to know each other better, that's all. She uses the wipe on her face, gets a bit on her lip and the taste is awful. She rolls down the window, closes her eyes and gently sticks her face out to rinse with rain water. The car hits a flooded patch of the road. A wave of mud washes up and smacks Mary right in the face.
mary		Crap. She starts the handy wipe bath all over again. A nervous Howard speaks up.
howard		I saw Steve talking to you... He wasn't very nice. Mary makes herself busy putting the handy wipe in her Kroger bag then looks out the window.
mary		If there's one thing I learned from crossword puzzles it's that you can't give up.
mary		I have to give it one more try. I have to fix the mess I made with his work, then maybe he and I -- For the first time, she doesn't seem so sure. Howard notices.
howard		You know what my favorite part of doing crosswords is? When you know something you didn't think you knew. Mary thinks about it, then turns back to looking out the window.
mary		Me too.
hartman		Paula, this pier was closed to the public twenty-four hours ago, and for good reason. Steve inches a bit closer for the shot, his footing unstable. Josh moves in and hangs on to Steve to keep him steady.
hartman		As I stand here, I can actually feel the structure moving under my feet. The only thing between me and the limitless depths of the sea is this two-by-four railing that - The railing flies off. Hartman drops to his knees and crawls to the other railing then hangs on for dear life. Steve and Josh struggle to hang on to the camera and each other.
hartman		And Paula I have to tell you, not only has my hearing been permanently damaged by the sheer force of the rain hitting my eardrums, but at this point, I'm beginning to wonder if I'll even make it out alive. He raises his head up for the big finish, gets hammered by the wind and rain.
hartman		This is Hartman Hughes, reporting live from Galveston, Texas. Steve and Josh start backing up off the pier with Hartman crawling behind them. Steve yells back to him.
steve		You had to get the pier shot. Had to. Just about got us all killed. Happy? Hartman points in the water, yells.
steve		You're such an asshole. Steve walks off the pier mad as hell.
hartman		Come on, that was funny. You have to admit... Stevie?
howard		Hang on. He hits the brakes, starts backing up as quickly as possible. Mary looks ahead -- sees what looks like a tornado up ahead.
mary		Oh my God. Howard backs under an overpass, points to a protected area up the cement embankment.
howard		We'll just have to wait for this to pass, then we'll keep going. It'll be okay. They look down to the road just in time to see Howard's car picked up and blown right through the underpass, landing on its side in a ditch fifty yards away.
mary		Crap!
girl's voice		Steve... Oh Steve... Steve awakens in panic.
steve		Who the hell are you? What are you doing?
mexican boy		They pay me twenty dollar to wake you. Steve looks outside the van, sees Doug and Hartman laughing hard. The Kid scurries out of the van. Angus gets in, opens up his laptop.
steve		You seen her?
angus		She's too smart to come here during this. Steve looks around like he's crazy.
steve		No, she's here somewhere. I can feel it.
mary		I spy with my little eye a chemical element from group two of the periodic table.
howard		Barium... I spy with my little
mary		Cobalt. Mary points to a steel belted tire on the ground, lays back and shuts her eyes. Howard takes something out of his - it's a pocket, puts it in her hand. Mary looks at it shrivelled, sculpted apple head. She smiles, hardly able to keep her eyes open.
mary		Mother Teresa.
howard		My best seller. I'm an apple sculptor. She's quiet for once. Howard watches her drift off.
howard		I went to school for physics but got bored. Now I just make these and sell them on appleheadsrule.com. I was going to give that one to my girlfriend in Bangor but I can make her another one. She'd probably prefer a Stephen Hawking one anyway. Science is her life. Not like my girlfriend in Tacoma. She's really into Jesus. Same as my other girlfriend in Duluth. He waits for a response - nothing.
howard		Maybe I'll meet them in person one day. They're just so far away and I don't get out much, not farther than the apple orchard or the post office anyway.
mary		But you're out now. He's a bit surprised she was listening.
howard		I saw the people on TV fighting for Baby Peggy. It wasn't far from my house, and the people there looked nice enough, so I went. I thought I had everything I needed at home but then I thought, maybe there's more.
mary		Maybe there is.
howard		Can I tell you something? Mary nods.
howard		I like your eyeballs.
mary		They're fuscous, that means -
howard		Brownish gray. I know. They both smile.
mary		You know what I'd call this?
howard		Quagmire?
mary		Imbroglio, Howard. That means we're screwed.
corbitt		Storm's over. What else is happening? The Exec shrugs and yawns.
businessman		Sloooowww news day.
first reporter		Fire, a car chase, anything?
second reporter		There is nothing going on, man. Nada.
teacher		 Who's ready for some fun? The deaf kids start running down the hill, straight for the petting zoo.
cnn anchor		An abandoned mine shaft on the outskirts of Eunice, Louisiana. The children, apparently all hearing impaired, enjoying a trip' to the county fair, blissfully unaware of the danger that lay ahead.
hartman		Tornadocane my ass. Where the hell were the cicadas? Retards in a mine shaft, now that's a story.
steve		They're deaf, asshole. They spot Mary and Howard up ahead in the ditch, next to the car on its side.
hartman		Look, it's your girlfriend.
steve		We're not stopping. Hartman grabs a piece of paper, writes fast.
angus		We can't just leave them.
steve		Highway patrol's down here every hour. It's not like they'll rot in the ditch. As they get closer, Hartman rolls down his window, folds up the piece of paper.
steve		What the hell are you doing?
hartman		Getting some fresh air. It helps my pores. Steve tries to grab the paper.
steve		Hughes!
hartman		Yes, Steven?
steve		You're not telling her where we're going.
hartman		Aren't I?
angus		Christ, you two. You'll get us killed. Angus leans into the front seat, tries to steady the steering wheel.
steve		Asshole! Hartman laughs, rubs his arm in pain.
mary		"Eunice, Louisiana. Please..." She stops reading, looks a bit uneasy. Howard steps forward, grabs the note.
howard		"Please meet..." He looks at Mary, disgusted, continues reading.
howard		M-E-A-T. "Please meat me there. XO Steve".
mary		See? He needs me, if only to help with his spelling.
howard		No kidding. She rushes to the car, Howard joins her. They push the car ey with everything they have, it tips back onto its wheels. Th jump in the car and start it up.
hartman		And what went through your mind when you realized they were gone? The Teacher just bawls. Hartman turns to the camera.
hartman		Grief too strong for words. That's the best way to describe this tragic, tragic scene. One minute, a merry day at the fair. The next minute, helpless babes savagely sucked into the menacing abyss. The Teacher bawls even harder. Hartman gives her a "there there" then continues talking to camera.
hartman		And here's how hopeless the rescue looks at this moment. The earth surrounding hole is far too perilous for anybody to approach on foot. Moving heavy rescue equipment in too close could mean death for the rescuers as well. Its cold down there, wet, dark, probably a few snakes and rats moving around.
hartman		To some, a simple crane. To the trapped, innocent, special children -- the answer to their prayers. The cable lowering the bucket jerks and stops. The crowd gasps. Hartman stays on camera.
hartman		Or is it? The cable jerks and begins moving again.
hartman		Only time will tell. Through the crowd, Steve sees a WOMAN who looks like Mary from the back. fie freezes, then realizes it's not her. Total relief.
mary		Please let those kids be okay.
rescuer		Hey! Buddy! Back it up. Steve backs up, refocuses on the hole as the cable rises. - it's one of the Kids Finally, a smiling little face appears being carried up by the Fireman.
fireman		They're all okay! The rescuers cheer. The Teachers bawl.
hartman		Elation here in Louisiana but the danger, far from over as rescuers bring these children up one grubby little face at a time. Hartman looks off to the side, holds up a finger like he's trying not to cry. He signals Steve to cut.
hartman		Remind me next time to mention Jesus. Still on the lookout for Mary, Steve's not even listening.
mary		George, Lydia! What's going on? Lydia hugs her.
fireman		That's the last of them! As he hands the kid to safety, the cable jerks. He gets out of the basket just in time before the whole thing - basket and cable -- snaps off and drops into the hole.
hartman		A happy ending that's left parents across this country wondering - how can I keep my family safe from abandoned mines? Are there abandoned mines in my backyard? Is my child's school built on top of an abandoned mine? Steve spots Mary, running toward him.
steve		No, no, no.
hartman		And how, oh how, can these death traps be avoided? Mary drops right into the abandoned mine.
cnn anchor		Mary Horowitz. A painful high school photo of Mary appears on the screen. Bad hair, bad make-up, ridiculously large smile, unfortunate frilly chemise.
news anchor		Mary Horowitz.
steve		Mrs. Horowitz.
steve		You and your husband stay put, Mrs. Horowitz.
steve		She better be. Hartman looks away, guilty.
mary		Eight letter word for... my life has come to this. There's a bit of shuffling around in the dark.
mary		Not destiny, that's only seven letters. Not fortuity - that sounds more like when good things happen to people like finding a quarter in the sofa or something. I mean the not so great stuff that's bound to befall some people more than others. Fate's nasty cousin, I mean. Suddenly Mary's face lights up with her mini keychain flashlight.
mary		F-O-R-E-D-0-0-M. Foredoom.
mary		Crap.
rescue supervisor		The new equipment is going to take a while. Let's try and find out what kind of shape our victim's in.
rescuer		Can we lower a phone down in there?
rescue supervisor		Let's keep it simple. Get me a flashlight, a piece of paper and a pencil. An unenthusiastic Hartman steps in front of the camera, the Rescuers in the shot behind him. Doug films. Hartman goes to speak but can't seem to summon his on air personality.
hartman		Behind inc... Oh what's the point? Hartman walks away moping.
angus		Corbitt wants you to go on air to talk about Mary. An interview with the boyfriend.
steve		I'm not her boyfriend!
angus		Close enough. Come on, we need this. Hartman steps up, listens in.
angus		Fox has already got their hands on everything but her panty size.
hartman		Fox scooped us? Our Mary? The bastards. Steve glares at him.
anchor		That has to be bad news for Mary Horowitz, wouldn't you say?
slick journalist		Mary Horowitz, described by those who know her as smart, talkative, very much the girl next door, that is, if the girl next door has a genius level IQ. She's worked for eleven years as the crossword constructor for the Atlanta Citizen and lives right here with her parents. Mr. Horowitz opens the door an is swarmed by Reporters. The Slick Journalist gets right in there.
slick journalist		Can you comment on the rumors that Mary's fall into the mine was a suicide attempt?
mary		I am not afraid. I am not fearful, pusillanimous, nor am I affrighted. Suddenly in the light - a face. Mary screams her head off. The face doesn't budge - it's a LITTLE DEAF GIRL.
mary		Oh my God, they forgot one! You scared the crap out of me. The girl just stares at her.
mary		I'm sorry, can you hear me, I mean at all? Do you have sensorineural hearing loss or conductive? "Deaf people can do anything except hear." You know who said that? Doctor Jordan, first deaf President of Gallaudet U. Maybe you'll go there one day. That is, unless we perish down here. Mary smiles. The Little Deaf Girl just stares back.
young rescuer		What should we say?
rescue supervisor		Tell her help is on the way. We just need her to confirm she's conscious -- here, give me that. The Supervisor grabs the paper and pencil, scribbles the note, ties it to the flashlight. They look up to the thin nylon rope now in place of the snapped cable. The Rescue Supervisor signals for them to drop it. He attaches the flashlight/note, waves to the crane op. The crane swings over, lowers the rope into the hole.
mary		And then there's black lung disease, also a problem in coal mines. Chronic cough, breathlessness, cyanosis - that's where your skin turns purple -- There's a CLINK behind Mary. She turns her light onto the area, sees the flashlight and note hanging from the thin rope. Mary grabs the flashlight, turns it on, reads the note.
rescue supervisor		That's a good sign right there. The Young Rescuer grabs the note.
rescue supervisor		What's it say?
unfolds		The rescue team gathers around. The Young Rescuer the note, reads it slowly and loudly.
young rescuer		"I think you mean, am i conscious, not am I conscience."
rescue supervisor		Jesus Christ.
young rescuer		"Conscious means alert and awake. Conscience is your inner morality gauge, you know, the thing that stops you from doing bad things, e.g. killing, stealing, harming helpless animals, and whatnot."
rescue supervisor		Can we leave her down there? He motions for the Rescuer to continue.
young rescuer		"To answer your question, yes I am conscious. My leg is bleeding but I'll probably live."
rescue supervisor		Great.
young rescuer		"Yours truly, Mary Horowitz." The other rescuers start to disperse.
rescuer		"P.S. Did anybody lose a little deaf girl?"
rescuer		"I found one. She's fine... Other than not being able to hear, I mean."
nancy grace		They missed a child? They missed a child? Can't these people count? Thank goodness for this woman, this Mary Horowitz - let's bring up that picture of her again. The picture of Mary appears on the monitor.
nancy grace		We're looking at an American hero, folks. It it wasn't for Mary Horowitz, the child would have never been found.
steve		Thank Christ. Now if they can only get her out of there. Angus hangs up his phone.
angus		Corbitt wants you on in five. Steve sees he has no choice. He nods. Hartman puts an arm around him.
hartman		I'll be gentle.
rescue supervisor		We've got the whole country watching now, can't afford any more mistakes. The crane from Shreveport is a wash. We're looking at as much as sixteen hours to bring the other one in.
rescue supervisor		There's air coming in through the top.
rescue supervisor		Let's at least get some food and water down there. The rope we've got on there now will handle a small load -- if that damn crane holds. He looks up at the old crane, worried.
rescue supervisor		As fast as we can get them here.
elizabeth		Howard! She hugs him.
howard		She'll be okay. She will. Howard looks behind him at the ever growing crowd.
howard		All this. For her. He manages a sad smile.
waga cindy		No one will argue that the city of Atlanta has always been a breeding ground for heroes. Jimmy Carter, Hank Aaron, Ryan Seacrest and now... Mary Horowitz. As the country wonders about what would drive this woman to such an extraordinary act, we went straight to those closest to her.
waga cindy		Mary Horowitz, a hero who's devoted her life to caring for the sick and elderly. Clearly a woman with a higher purpose.
female reporter		Exactly like the boots worn by Mary Horowitz when she slipped into the mine. Were the boots responsible for the accident? The manufacturer refuses to comment. For now, the deadly footwear remains on store shelves, leaving consumers to pay the ultimate price.
mary		Rhinolith, that's the real word. Rhino is nose, lithos means stone. Nose stone. You know what that is? Snot.
scientist		I knew Mary Horowitz in college. She caught me trying to cheat off her physics midterm, lectured me for an hour and when she finally stopped talking I asked her out. She said no, said it was because I was, get this - hebetudinous. Can you believe? He walks away, bitter, gets back to work on NASA rockets.
researcher		We dated for a while but she ended it. Said she couldn't stand this - He points around 'to the library - you could hear a pin drop.
researcher		Whatever that means.
waga cindy		A heartbreaker, leaving behind a trail of devastation.
mary		And Archimedes, there's another one. He was into math, philosophy, all kinds of stuff, then one day he was working out an equation in the sand and somebody stabbed him. Crappy, I know.
hartman		Steve, tell us about Mary, your fiance struggling for her life at the bottom of the abandoned mine as we speak. Steve glares at him. Hartman motions for him to go on.
steve		Mary... she's smart, incredibly smart. She talks a lot. Never boring, I'll tell you that much. He thinks about her, gets lost in it.
steve		Mary Horowitz doesn't pretend to be anything she's not. She's passionate, beautiful, real... and she definitely doesn't deserve to be where she is now.
howard		They don't even know her.
elderly lady		No, but they know what it's like to be alone, to need a helping hand. That's a good enough reason to be here.
mary		Happenstance, I love that word too. And you know what else - Mary coughs. Before she has a chance to catch her breath, a rope with a small bag attached quickly drops next to her, the bag hitting the floor. Mary unties the bag and looks inside to find water and sandwiches.
mary		No dessert. Crappy. Did you know that the word dessert comes from an old French word that means "clear the table"? Sometimes I feel like dinner is just doing time so I can get to the point, and of course the point always involves sugar. Who needs - The Little Deaf Girl covers her ears, vocalizes as much as she's able.
mary		I know. She sits down.
mary		I know. She notices the Little Girl's shoes are soaked. Mary moves next to her, takes off her rubber boots and puts them on the Little Girl. Mary puts an arm around her, holds her close at - softly, her side, then speaks like she's a different person to herself, the Little Girl unable to read her lips.
mary		I'm not good at... silence. "Mary doesn't do quiet", that's how my grandmother always said it. "What's that hush?" she'd holler at a party. "It's Mary about to talk", then she'd laugh and laugh and laugh. Everybody would... But I knew something they didn't - that if you keep talking, if you keep on talking, you don't hear people telling you that you're different. You don't hear people saying they don't like you. And if you're talking, you just might not hear it when some kid... calls you a freak. Mary's eyes start to well.
mary		I just wanted to be normal, that's all. Steve said I was. She thinks about it, laughs a bit.
mary		I'm beginning to think newsmen can't entirely be trusted. She buttons up the Little Girl's sweater.
mary		The truth is normal is -- not me. She seems surprised she said it out loud. There's relief in it.
mary		My friends, the people I've met over the past week, they're not normal either. They're more interesting, more original, more real, more rare. She suddenly gets it, brightens up.
mary		That's where I fit. - and for She thinks about it, in silence. The sadness fades the first time, she's comfortably quiet. She smiles at the Little Deaf Girl. The Little Deaf Girl smiles back. And they sit -- Mary totally calm. Mary hears something in the distance - a gentle PLINK PLINK PLINK she couldn't have heard while talking. She picks up the flashlight, moves toward the noise. In a corner of the mine, a water drip hits on some old rusted mining tools, including two rusty vice grips. The Little Girl coughs. Mary looks back at her, concerned.
mary		Little Deaf Girl, it's time for us to go home.
elizabeth		What's taking so long?
cnn anchor		A tense night in Eunice, Louisiana. Hartman what can you tell us?
hartman		They've lowered food and water into the depths of this abandoned mine. The last task of this archaic crane that finally blew its motor. We've been told the new rescue equipment won't make it until daybreak. Until then, all we can do is wait, hope, and of course pray. There's a commotion at the rescue site. Doug zooms in.
rescue supervisor		Jesus Christ. Tell me she's not -
mary		After I got kicked out of Girl Scouts, while the other girls were learning how to sell cookies, I was at home reading the biography of Sir Edmund Hillary. Mary motions for the Little Deaf Girl to jump on piggyback. She jumps up onto Mary's back, still in the red rubber boots. Mary starts jugging up the rope, the vice grips and rope pieces acting like ladder steps. They start rising up slowly. Not an easy task. Mary struggles every step.
norm		Good for her. Good for her.
jim soloman		We're going to have to give her her job back. He shakes his head, laughs.
large kid		Did you start this and not bother finishing it? Do you know how much work goes into making these things? Honestly, Dad. The Kid grabs a pencil to finish the puzzle.
hartman		First interview is ours. Here comes our girl. Steve, you ready? Grab her arid kiss her then let me start with the questions. Doug focuses in on Steve. Hartman holds the crowd back so Mary can get to him. Mary runs toward them -- and keeps on running, right past Steve's open arms. She heads for her friends at the fence - Howard, Elizabeth, Carlos, George, Lydia, all of the other Protestors. She swan dives right into them. They catch her.
howard		You're okay.
mary		I am. Cameras go off all around them.
mary		In solving the puzzle of life there's one thing you must do. She points to the side of the road. The bus pulls over.
mary		Find somebody just as normal as you. Mary stands up, gets off the bus.
mary		if not a whole bunch. Howard, Elizabeth, George, Lydia, Carlos, Clyde, a few old Ladies, a bunch of other Protestors file off the bus. Mary keeps talking to the bus driver.
mary		And don't be a slave to your loins. Trust me on that one. Mary taps the side of her head.
mary		You need to let this be the boss of you. Cornprende ?
howard		That bus driver looked like Francis Galton. Did you see that?
mary		He's my favorite behavioral geneticist in the world. They continue on through an open yard.
howard		In retrospect, and I say this with some hesitation because I don't like to have actual regrets so I'll just say I'm beginning to perpend -
mary		Good one.
howard		I'm beginning to perpend whether or not eating three bags of caramel corn for lunch was the smartest thing to do. Honestly I'm this close to spewing... Mary reaches the end of the path and stops, waits for everybody else to catch up. They're in complete awe of the monstrous Georgian estate before them.
mary		My grandma left it to me. My parents won't stay here. And for me it was always too... quiet. She looks at her new friends.
mary		Not anymore. They head toward the house.
****Dialogues from script :All_the_King_s_Men.txt****

written by		 Robert Rossen
shooting draft		 1949
man		Burden! Jack Burden! The boss wants to see you.
madison		Hey, Jack, ever hear of a fellow called Willie Stark?
jack		No. Who'd he shoot?
madison		Oh, county... uh... treasurer, or something like that.
jack		What's so special about him?
madison		They say he's an honest man. What I want you to do is to hop into your car...
jack		Why, you promised me a vacation.
madison		Well, that can wait.
jack		Yeah... but there's a... a girl I know.
madison		Oh... Well, she can wait too.
jack		The question is... can I?
madison		The answer is... get up there.
jack		Right.  Oh... uh... what did you say his name was?
madison		Who?
jack		The fellow's name.
madison		Oh, the... uh... Stark... Willie Stark.
jack		 Willie Stark...
jack		 I found him in Kanoma City. A typical, hot, dusty, backwoods county seat.
willie		...to lie to them in order to line their own dirty pockets with the taxpayers' money. When have the citizens of Kanoma County ever witnessed a campaign like this? Why is the opposition so anxious to defeat me? Why have they used every dirty method known to make sure I'm not elected county treasurer? Well, I'll tell you why...
willie		...Because they're afraid of the truth... and the truth is this. They're trying to steal your money. Yeah, I said steal. The county commissioners rejected the bid on the schoolhouse. Why? Well, they'll tell you their reason is the job will be done better. The county commissioners would have you believe that they're interested in public welfare. They're interested in welfare, sure. But it's their own. Let's look at the reason in the light of the facts and the figures. That brick factory is owned by one of the commissioners. That same brick factory uses convict labor.
sheriff		Sorry, Willie, you'll have to move on.
willie		Why?
sheriff		City Ordinance Number One-Oh-Five: more than five people congregating is disturbing the peace.
willie		 If you folks'll be so kind as to read these handbills, my boy will pass them out among you.
sheriff		There's an ordinance against that too.
willie		 Pass 'em out, Tom.
willie		Let him alone!
sheriff		 Get that camera! Willie, you're under arrest.
jack		Where can I find Tiny Duffy?
pillsbury		Right over there, mister.
jack		Uh, they told me I could get my camera back here.
duffy		Who told you that?
jack		People. Can I?
duffy		You the reporter that's been snoopin' around town?
jack		Are you Tiny Duffy?
duffy		What paper?
jack		Chronicle.
duffy		You sure come a long way to stick your nose into other people's business.
jack		That's true... Only my boss on the paper can't see it that way.
duffy		It ain't any of his business either.
jack		Whose business is it?
pillsbury		Them as is tendin' to it. County commissioners that the voters of Kanoma County elected to tend to their business and not take no buttin' in from nobody.
jack		You a commissioner?
pillsbury		Yeah. Name's Pillsbury. Dolph Pillsbury.
jack		Who isn't a commissioner?
duffy		He's the head man.
jack		 Then you're in a position to know where --
duffy		He's in a position to know nothin'. And to say nothin'.
jack		I thought you said he was head man?
duffy		 He uses my head.
pillsbury		 Oh, Tiny, you're a card... Ain't he a card? Yeah, he's a card... Now, who thought up those city ordinances about arresting someone for making a speech?
duffy		Who's arrested? Nobody's been arrested.  Hi, Willie.
pillsbury		Hi, Willie.
duffy		 Did you apologize to Willie?
sheriff		 Yeah, I apologized to Willie.
duffy		Did you give him his handbills back?
sheriff		Yeah, I gave 'em back.
duffy		Give him back his flag and his bag and...  give this man his camera.
willie		I'm going to be on that same street corner tomorrow, Mr. Duffy.
duffy		You go right ahead, Willie. We all believe in free speech. We got to... it's in the Constitution.
willie		My boy is out distributing those handbills now.
duffy		It's a free country, Willie. If you can convince the people to vote for you... you go right ahead.
willie		What did you want to see me about, Mr. Duffy?
duffy		I wanted you to meet a fella came all the way up from the state capital to meet you. A reporter. Wants to write you up... maybe put your picture in the paper.
willie		 I'm happy to know you, sir.
jack		Burden's my name... Jack Burden. Can we go somewhere where we can talk?
duffy		Now that ain't polite. Don't you want to hear both sides of the story?
jack		I know your side.  What happened to the plate your men took from my camera?
duffy		Must have dropped out. Oh, come on, fellas, let's relax. It's a hot day... Hey, Sugar Boy...
sugar boy		Yeah?
duffy		Bring some cold beer for the boys.
willie		None for me, thank you kindly.
pillsbury		Now you know Willie don't drink, Tiny. His wife don't favor drinking. And Willie's the teacher's pet, ain't you, Willie?
willie		I'll have some orange pop if you don't mind.
duffy		Orange pop! All right, Sugar Boy. Bring him some orange pop.
sugar boy		 Th-th-the p-p-pop's s-s-sold out.
duffy		Did you hear that, boys? The p-p- pop's s-s-sold out.
pillsbury		Now ain't he a card?
willie		 Let's go, mister.
willie		 This is my wife, Lucy, Mr. Burden.
willie		That's my pa.
willie		Now we'll talk.
jack		You've been talking for a long time, Mr. Stark.
pappy		Willie's got a lot to say.
lucy		You sleepy, Pappy? You want to have a nap?
pappy		No, I want to hear it.
lucy		I'm worried about Tom. It's getting dark. He should have been home.
willie		He's a strong boy. Don't worry about him. He can take care of himself.
jack		How old is the boy?
willie		Fifteen.
jack		How long have you been married?
willie		Nine years.
lucy		 He was a neighbor's boy. They were poor folks. Both died. I couldn't have any children, so... He's a good boy.
willie		Oh, he's the best. I couldn't love him any more if he was my own flesh and blood.
jack		 And now you, Mrs. Stark?
lucy		Oh, there isn't very much to tell about me.
jack		How did you meet?
lucy		I was teaching school and one day a pupil walked in. It was Willie. I couldn't have a grown man in the class and Willie wanted to learn so badly... so I married him.
jack		Is that the only reason?
lucy		 Except that I loved him.
willie		Get the coffee, Lucy.
jack		When did they fire you, Mrs. Stark?
lucy		 A couple of weeks ago. I'd been teaching for a long time and nobody ever said I wasn't all right. But I don't care. I don't want to teach in a schoolhouse that they built just so somebody can steal some money. And Willie doesn't want to be Treasurer, either, if he has to associate with those dishonest people.
willie		 I'm going to run. They can't keep me from running.
jack		If you don't mind the truth, Mr. Stark, you haven't much of a chance.
willie		I'm going to run. They're not going to kick me around like I was dirt.
lucy		I don't care if Willie loses... just so he gets the truth to the people. Isn't that true, Willie?
lucy		Isn't it, Willie?
willie		Hmmm?... Yeah, yeah, sure, that's right.
lucy		Well, if you lose you can give a little more time to studying your law books.
jack		Oh, you studying law too?
willie		By myself, at night.
pappy		Willie's a smart boy.
willie		If I ever find the time I'm going to take a course at the university.
lucy		What happened, Tommy boy? What's the matter?
tom		 I gave out the handbills, Pa.
willie		Speak up. Speak up.
lucy		Let him tell it his own way. Go on, Tommy.
tom		This time they were waiting for me. They took them away from me. Threw them in the dirt and beat me up. I brought some of them back.
willie		 Good boy. Have you eaten yet, Tom?
lucy		Let him wash up first.
willie		I'm going to run... and you're not going to stop me. I'm gonna run even if I don't get a single vote.
jack		Here you are... the last of the Willie Stark articles. Now can I go?
madison		Yes. You've earned your vacation. You've been writing these like you really mean them.
jack		I do.
jack		 I hadn't been home in a long time. Only a hundred and thirty miles from Kanoma City. It was separated from the mainland by a body of water. For the first time I wondered if it wasn't separated by more than that.
jack		Hello, Mother.
jack		You look beautiful, Mother.
mcevoy		Can't that wait until this evening?
mcevoy		How long do you plan on staying?
jack		 Two or three weeks. If that's all right with you.
jack		Stepfather, Mother.
jack		Yes, Mother.
jack		Excuse me... I...
jack		Dr. Stanton, I presume.
stanton		 Is my shingle showing?
judge		Good to see you, boy. Very good.
jack		Good to see you, Judge. How have you been? What have you been doing?
judge		Oh, just sitting here... waiting for all of you to come home. You know, when a man starts to get old his eyes stray and play funny tricks on him. As I watched you in that boat I thought sure I saw a boy of twelve with a fishing rod in his hands. And I was sure the first thing he'd say would be...
jack		Do you mind if I kiss your niece, sir?
jack		Thank you, Mother. Thank you very much.
anne		We were just discussing whether you should...
jack		 I like what I'm doing, Mother.
mcevoy		You do very well at it. I read your articles about this fellow... Willie Stark. Very convincing... Too convincing for my tastes.
jack		A lot of people like them.
mcevoy		A lot of people are fools. Articles like that shouldn't be permitted. They only tend to incite people.
jack		What are you afraid of?
stanton		I thought they were very good. I was proud of you, Jack. I was particularly interested in Stark's ideas on health and medicine. You know the conditions at the hospital I work in. They're intolerable. I'd like to meet this Willie Stark. He sounds like an honest man.
mcevoy		Honest man? This state is full of these log-cabin Abe Lincolns with price tags on them. The louder he yells the higher his price.
jack		You think you can buy anything, don't you?
mcevoy		Yes, don't you?
mcevoy		What do you think, Judge?
judge		I think this state could stand a few changes.
mcevoy		 Well, I'll tell you what I think --
anne		 Oh, please... let's not talk politics.
judge		To the young people... to Anne, to Jack, to Adam... To what lies before them. To the world they'll make... in spite of the mistakes we've made.
mcevoy		 You? You can be bought too. As a matter of fact you have been. And with my money.
mcevoy		 Your mother wouldn't approve.
jack		Apologize? I'd rather die.
jack		Well, I don't. Neither do you. You don't love him, Mother. You never did.
jack		I can get along without him. You need this house. And the parties. And the cars and the clothes and the lies. I don't. It's the truth, Mother, face it. For once in your life, face it.
jack		Anne, Burden's Landing is a place on the moon. It isn't real. It doesn't exist. It's me pretending I live on what I earn. It's my mother trying to keep herself young, and drinking herself old doing it. It's you and Adam living in this house as though your father were still alive. It's an old man like the Judge dreaming of the past... Anne, come away with me.
anne		And do what?
jack		 And live in a shack and eat red beans. Anne, what do you want me to do?
anne		Oh, Jack, Jack, you haven't been sure. You've gone from one thing to the other... a year at law school, and now this job as a reporter...
jack		Are you afraid I can't make a living?
anne		Oh, no, Jack, it isn't that. I don't care about the money. It... it's just that I... I want you to be something.
jack		What is it you want me to be?
anne		I don't know. It's just that I want you to be... to do... something important.
jack		Like your father. All right. I'll run for governor.  Anne, I'm sorry. I'm sorry I said that.
anne		All right, Jack. I'll go away with you. I'll do anything you want me to do.
jack		Anne, I've wanted you to say that more than anything in the world, and now that you've said it... Anne, I guess you were right. I'm not sure of anything, including myself. I'm not sure I could live up to the...  Anne, wait for me. Please wait for me.
anne		I'll wait for you.
madison		Hello, Jack. Cut your vacation short, didn't you?
jack		Yeah.
madison		By the way, Jack, the fellow you wrote the articles about... uh... Stark.
jack		Yeah?
madison		He lost.
jack		Well, I guess that's the end of Willie Stark.
willie		...Measure of the damages is caused by...
lucy		 A breach...
willie		A breach...
lucy		Of an agreement...
willie		Of an agreement...
lucy		To sell personal property...
willie		To sell...  Oh, two years of this.
lucy		 Oh, go on, Willie, go on.
willie		Willie Stark... Bachelor of Law...
willie		If you'll just let me take your case...
willie		Really, I'll wait for my fee. Just as long as you want me to.
lucy's voice		Go on, Willie, go on.
willie's voice		They're not going to kick me around like I was dirt.
lucy's voice		If you lose you can give a little more time studying your law books.
willie's voice		I'm going to be on that same street corner tomorrow, Mr. Duffy!
duffy's voice		By all means. Free speech, free country, Willie.
willie's voice		That brick factory is owned by a brother-in-law of one of the commissioners. The county commissioners rejected the low bid on the schoolhouse.
teacher		All right, children, this is a fire drill.
teacher		Remember now, walk quietly.
man		Oh, Lord, I'm punished for voting against an honest man.
willie's voice		A voice in the wilderness. A man named Willie Stark...
willie		How about that, Lucy, that's me.
madison		Get up there. Get up there fast. Your friend, Willie, is hotter than a firecracker.
madison		Stay there with him.
politician		Look, before this Kanoma City business we had this whole area tied up. Now we're losing to Hickville.
politician		We must find a way to split that vote.
harrison		Well, all I know is, the way it is now it looks like I'm not going to win.
politician		I know a way... find a dummy.
sadie		Find a dummy.  That's what we've got.
politician		A guy from the sticks... strong enough to grab some votes and dumb enough not to ask questions.
duffy		If you want to listen to a boy from the sticks, I know just the guy.
jack		No more politics, eh, Willie?
willie		No, I worked too hard in my time to get there. I think I'll just go on practicing law and make a little more money.
jack		The question I'd like to know is, why all the speeches you're making around the countryside?
willie		Wonder who that is?
duffy		Brought some people all the way up from the state capital just to meet you.  Folks, I want you to meet Willie Stark, the next governor of our state.
willie		Folks, if you'll just bear patiently with me for a couple of minutes, I'd like to tell you what this state needs. It needs a balanced tax program. Now I'd like to give you the facts and the figures.
willie		How did it sound, Jack?
jack		Fine, Willie, fine.
willie		 Say... I forgot to send a telegram to Lucy... Conductor!
willie		Now right here... right here I'd like to add something about last year's taxes... eh?
duffy		I wouldn't add a thing. Just give them the facts.
pillsbury		Yeah... and the figures.
duffy		Great speech.
willie		What this state needs is a balanced tax program. Last year, last year the state claimed to have spent on roads...
jack		Do you mind if I sit with you, Sadie?
sadie		 Stand... sit...
jack		Thanks... Tell me, what are you on this merry-go-round for?
sadie		I take notes.
jack		For whom?
sadie		For those who pay me.
jack		Which is.
sadie		People.
jack		Smart people.
sadie		Oh, yeah. Anybody that pays me is smart.
jack		You don't have to be smart to frame a guy like Willie Stark.
sadie		No. No, brother, you don't.
jack		 It is a frame, isn't it?
sadie		Why don't you give me a cigarette?
jack		 To split the vote and win the election for Harrison, huh?
sadie		If you know, why do you ask?
jack		I just want to make sure.
sadie		Yeah.
jack		Look, why don't you tell the boys back home to save their money. Willie couldn't steal a vote from... from Abe Lincoln in the Cradle of the Confederacy.
sadie		I wish the poor... had enough sense to have somebody give him a good greasing for the beating he's going to get. 'Cause this way all he gets out of it is the ride.  Hey, those speeches! Ain't they awful? Ain't they just plain awful? Question to you: if somebody told him he was a sucker, do you think he'd quit?
jack		I don't know, Sadie. I really don't know.
willie		 Did it sound all right, Mr. Burden?
jack		Fine, Willie, fine.
willie		Thanks.
willie's voice		Now, friends, if you will bear patiently with me for a few minutes, I'll give you the figures. What we need is a balanced tax program...
jack's voice		No, Willie, no.
sadie		What I need is some sleep. Shut up!
jack		 Listen, Willie, try it on your feet this time.
willie		Oh, no. Wait a minute. My feet are killing me. Let me stay here, huh?
jack		All right... Look, Willie, you tell 'em too much. Just tell 'em you're going to soak the fat boys and forget the rest of the tax stuff.
willie		 That's what I say.
jack		But it's the way you say it. Willie, make 'em cry. Make 'em laugh, make 'em mad, even mad at you. Stir 'em up and they'll love it and come back for more. But for heaven's sake don't try and improve their minds.
willie		 A man don't have to be governor.
jack		 What?
willie		A man don't have to be governor.
jack		Well, they haven't counted up the votes yet.
willie		 Oh, I'm going to lose, Mr. Burden. I know that. Don't try and fool me. I'm not going to lie to you. I wanted it. I wanted it so badly I stayed up nights thinking about it. A man wants something so badly he gets mixed up in knowing what he wants. It's something inside of you. I would have made a good governor. Better than those other fellows.
jack		Come in.
willie		 A great governor.
sadie		Since you won't let me sleep you might at least give me a drink.
willie		 Build them highways... greatest system of highways in the country.
jack		 Help yourself.
willie		I'll build schools.
sadie		 What's up?
jack		Nothing... except Willie here has been saying as how he's not going to be governor.
sadie		 So you told him.
jack		I don't tell anyone anything... I just listen.
sadie		 Who told you?
willie		Told me what? Told me what?
sadie		That you're not going to be governor.
willie		 Jack! Told me what?... Told me what?
sadie		 All right! That you've been framed, you poor sap.
willie		 Framed?
sadie		And how! Oh, you decoy, you woodenhead decoy! And you let 'em. You let 'em because you thought you were the little lamb of God. But you know what you are?  Well, you're the goat! You are the sacrificial goat! You are a sap... because you let 'em.
jack		Sadie! That's enough.
sadie		Enough? He didn't even get anything out of it. Oh, they'd have paid you to take a rap like that, but they didn't have to pay a sap like you. Oh, no, you were so full of yourself and hot air, all you wanted was a chance to stand up on your hind legs and make a speech: my friends, what this state needs is a good five-cent cigar. What this state needs is a --
willie		 Is it true?
sadie		 He wants to know if it's true.
willie		Is it true?
jack		That's what they tell me.
sadie		 Here.
jack		Hey, lay off that. You're not used to it.
sadie		 He's not used to a lot of things. Are you, Willie?
jack		 Why don't you lay off of him, Sadie?
sadie		 Are you, Willie? Are you? Are you... are you, are you, are you?
sadie		Hi.
jack		Well, things seem to have quieted down.
sadie		 Yeah, I quieted him down.
jack		Yeah. How was he? Noisy?
sadie		Oh, he reared some. He's been telling me all the things he's going to do. He's going to do big things, this fella. He's going to be President. He's going to kill people with his bare hands. I quieted him down... Hey! Who's Lucy?
jack		His wife.
sadie		He talks like she's his mammy... she's going to blow his nose for him.
jack		Well, I'll take him from here on in. They're waiting for him at the barbecue.
sadie		Yeah, well give me a receipt for the body and I'll be on my way.
jack		Hey, Willie, Willie... come on, wake up, Willie. Come on, Willie.
duffy		Where is he?
sadie		 There he is.
sadie		Whoops!
duffy		 Is he drunk?
jack		Never touches the stuff. Lucy doesn't favor drinkin'.
sadie		 How'd you get him here? He was out stiff.
jack		Hair of the dog that bit him.
sadie		Hair? He must have swallowed the dog.
chairman		Ladies and gentlemen, it gives me a great deal of pleasure to introduce to you that true man of the people, the next governor of the state... Willie Stark.
willie		My friends...
willie		My friends... I...
willie		I have a speech here. It's a speech about what this state needs. There's no need in my telling you what this state needs. You are the state and you know what you need... You over there... look at your pants. Have they got holes in the knees? Listen to your stomach. Did you ever hear it rumble from hunger?... And you, what about your crops? Did they ever rot in the field because the road was so bad you couldn't get them to market?... And you. What about your kids? Are they growing up ignorant as dirt, ignorant as you, 'cause there's no school for them?... No, I'm not going to read you any speech.
willie		But I am going to tell you a story. It's a funny story...
sadie		 Hey!
willie's voice		...So get ready to laugh.
sadie		What's he up to?
jack		Shut up!
willie		Get ready to bust your sides laughing, 'cause it's sure a funny story. It's about a hick... a hick like you, if you please. Yeah, like you. He grew up on the dirt roads and gully washes of a farm. He knew what it was to get up before dawn and get feed and slop and milk before breakfast... and then set out before sunup and walk six miles to a one-room, slab- sided schoolhouse. Oh, this hick knew what it was to be a hick, all right. He figured if he was going to get anything done, he had to do it himself. So he sat up nights and studied books. He studied law because he thought he might be able to change things some... for himself, and for folks like him.
willie		No, I'm not going to lie to you. He didn't start off thinking about the hicks and all the wonderful things he was going to do for them. No. No, he started off thinking of number one. But something came to him on the way. How he could do nothing for himself without the help of the people. That's what came to him. And it also came to him, with the powerful force of God's own lightning, back in his home country, when a schoolhouse collapsed because it was built of politics... rotten brick. It killed and mangled a dozen kids. But you know that story. The people were his friends because he fought that rotten brick. And some of the politicians down in the city, they knew that... So they rode up to his house in a big, fine, shiny car and said as how they wanted him to run for governor...
jack		Sadie, he's wonderful... wonderful...
willie		...So they told the hick... and he swallowed it. He looked in his heart and he thought in all humility how he'd like to try and change things. He was just a country boy who thought that even the plainest, poorest man can be governor if his fellow citizens find he's got the stuff for the job. Well, those fellows in the striped pants... they saw the hick and they took him in.
duffy		 Willie, what are you trying to do?
willie		There he is! There's your Judas Iscariot.  Look at him... lickspittle... nose- wiper.
duffy		Play! Play!
willie		 Look at him!
duffy		Play anything.
willie		Look at him! Joe Harrison's dummy! Look at him!
duffy		That's a lie!
willie		Look at him!
duffy		Go get him, boys... go get him.
willie		Now, shut up! Shut up, all of you. Now, listen to me, you hicks. Yeah, you're hicks too, and they fooled you a thousand times, just like they fooled me. But this time I'm going to fool somebody. I'm going to stay in this race. I'm on my own and I'm out for blood.
willie		Listen to me, you hicks...
willie		Listen to me and lift up your eyes and look at God's blessed and unflyblown truth... And this is the truth. You're a hick. And nobody ever helped a hick but a hick himself.
willie		All right, listen to me... listen to me. I was the hick they were going to use to split the hick vote. But I'm standing right here now on my hind legs... even a dog can learn to do that. Are you standing on your hind legs? Have you learned to do that much yet? Here it is, here it is, you hicks. Nail up anybody who stands in your way! Nail up Joe Harrison! Nail up McMurphy! And if they don't deliver, give me a hammer and I'll do it myself.
politician		I want his throat cut, from ear to ear.
madison		No use going any further, Jack. We aren't printing them any more.
jack		I thought the Chronicle line was --
madison		Divide and conquer? Stark is getting too big for his britches and the hicks are getting too smart. We're now supporting Harrison.
jack		 How do you square that?
madison		I work here.
jack		 Well, I don't... not any more.
madison		Jack, you fool.
jack		If you had any guts you'd print this...
madison		I work here. I take orders.
jack		I know. You've got a wife and three kids and your boy goes to Princeton.
madison		You won't find it easy to get another job.
jack		I'm too rich to work.
jack		We didn't do so good.
willie		Double bourbon.
sadie		 Same for me.
willie		And a beer.  I hear you got fired from the paper.
jack		You heard wrong, Willie. I quit.
willie		 You're smart. 'Cause before I'm through with that mob they're not going to have enough money left to pay the boy that cleans the spittoons.
jack		How do you feel, Willie?
willie		I feel fine, fine. You see, Jack, I learned something.
jack		Yeah... what?
willie		How to win.
jack		 I didn't see Willie again until his second campaign... four years later.
jack		 I drifted from job to job...
jack		 ...That is, whenever I could find one.
jack		 But always further and further away from Anne, and the life at Burden's Landing.
jack		 But Willie wasn't drifting. He knew where he was going.
jack		 He had his foot in the door and he kept right on pushing to get in. He had lost the election but he had won the state... and he knew it... and the people knew it.
jack		 They were all hopping on his bandwagon... even Tiny Duffy.
jack		 Yep, Willie came back like he said he would.
willie		Do you want to know what my platform is? Here it is: I'm going to soak the fat boys and I'm going to spread it thin.
jack		 Willie was right -- he'd learned how to win...
jack		 He spent a lot of money doing it... an awful lot of money... I was beginning to wonder where he got it from.
jack		 There were rumors throughout the state that Willie was making deals with all kinds of people... strange deals... for Willie Stark.
jack		 The second time out, it wasn't a campaign... it was a slaughter. It was Saturday night in a mining town.
jack		 He came back and he took me with him.
willie		This is Jack Burden, a friend of mine. From now on he's going to live here. Give him anything he wants.
duffy		Let these boys through, officer.
willie		 Duffy works for me now.
jack		It looks like everybody works for you.
willie		No. No, not yet. But I want to keep him around. He reminds me of something I never want to forget.
willie		 Come on, come on, come on, come on. Are these the boys?
duffy		These are the boys that can get the boys.
willie		How many do you think we can get?
duffy		Fifty.
willie		How much?
duffy		Five dollars a head.
willie		 What do you think, Sugar? Do they look like good boys?
sugar boy		T-t-they b-b-better be.
willie		Get a hundred... All right, go on, all of you. Blow. Blow, blow. You too, Duffy. Go on.
willie		 Handbill distributors.
jack		If they all look like them I'd hate not to take one.
willie		That's the object. Not like when they beat up my boy Tom.
jack		How is Tom?
willie		Oh, he's fine. He starts college in the fall.
jack		Oh. And Lucy?
willie		Fine... fine.
sadie		Hey, I need a boy... Where's a boy?  Listen, baby, you've got to double- space all of this... he can't read, see.
jack		Sadie!
sadie		 Hi, Jack. How are you?
willie		Sadie is my secretary now.  Oh, pardon me.
sadie		Fix your tie, Willie.
willie		Hey, Sugar.
willie		Keep everybody out of here. I want to talk to Jack and Sadie alone.
willie		From now on you're working for me.
jack		Doing what?
willie		I don't know. Something will turn up, won't it, Sadie?
sadie		Yeah. We need a college man around... for research.
willie		How much did they pay you on that newspaper?
jack		Three hundred dollars a month.
willie		 I could buy you cheap, couldn't I?
jack		For a bag of salt.
willie		No. No, I don't play that way. I like you, boy. I always have. I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll give you four hundred dollars a month and traveling expenses.
jack		You throw money around like it was money.
willie		Money?... I don't need money. People give me things.
jack		Why?
willie		Because they believe in me.
jack		 I was going home again. But this time it was different. Now I had a feeling that maybe the waiting was over... for me, and for Anne.
willie		It's a far cry from where I come from... to this house.
willie		And standing here under the portrait of one of the greatest governors of this state, talking to you people... well, it's an honor I never thought I'd have.
jack		Are there any questions?  Mr. McEvoy.
mcevoy		 No, I have no questions.
jack		Judge?
judge		A few... but it will hold.
stanton		I have a question.
willie		Shoot.
stanton		A lot of people in this state have been saying that you've been making deals... some of them with the very groups that you claim you're against. Is that true?
jack		Adam, you know how rumors start...
willie		Yes. Yes, that's true. I have nothing to hide. I'll make a deal with the devil if it'll help me carry out my program. But believe me, there are no strings attached to those deals.
stanton		You're sure about that?
willie		Doc, Jack here has been telling me how you feel about things... how you'd like to see a new hospital built, a hospital that's the biggest and best that money can buy. You want those things, Doc, because, well, because you're a man who wants to do good. Now, I'd like to ask you a question.
stanton		Shoot.
willie		Do you know what good comes out of?
stanton		You tell me, Mr. Stark.
willie		Out of bad... that's what good comes out of. Because you can't make it out of anything else. You didn't know that, did you?
stanton		No, I didn't... There's another question I'd like to ask you. You say there's only bad to start with and the good must come with the bad. Who's to determine what's good and what's bad?... You?
willie		Why not?
stanton		How?
willie		Why, that's easy. Just... just make it up as you go along.
willie		Folks, there's a time to talk and there's a time to act. I think the time to act is right now. And with your support, I not only will win but I will do all of the things I promised. I need your help. Oh, I need it badly. But I'm not going to beg for it. In the name of this state which we love... in the name of the governor in whose house we meet... I demand it.
willie		 Well, what do you say, sir?
jack		You've got to say yes. With you in the race...
judge		I'm an old bird... I...
willie		But a game one.
willie		Look, I'll give you complete power as attorney general. You can do anything you see fit. I'll swing the ax to clear the way for you. Is that a deal?
judge		It's a deal.
willie		Jack, we have to get back to town... a lot to do.  Dr. Stanton.
anne		I'm very glad to have met you.
crowd		We want Willie! We want Willie!
willie		 This is not a time for speechmaking. I should get on my knees and ask God to give me strength to carry out your will.
willie		This much I swear to you. These things you shall have. I'm going to build a hospital. The biggest that money can buy... and it will belong to you. That any man, woman, or child who is sick or in pain can go through those doors and know that everything will be done for them that man can do. To heal sickness. To ease pain. Free. Not as a charity, but as a right. And it is your right that every child shall have a complete education. That any man who produces anything can take it to market without paying toll. And no poor man's land or farm can be taxed or taken away from him. And it is the right of the people that they will not be deprived of hope...
anne		Does he mean it, Jack? Does he?
stanton		 That's his bribe.
jack		 What if it was his bribe! He swept the old gang out of office. What if they hollered like stuck pigs? He jammed through bill after bill and the people got what they wanted.
willie		I demand that this bill be passed. Nobody's going to tell me how to run this state.
jack		 He started to build the roads, the schools, the power dams, to change the face of the state from one end to the other... His methods?
jack		 Politics is a dirty game... and he played it rough and dirty. Willie's little black book was a record of sin and corruption. And me, Jack Burden? I kept the book and added up the accounts.
jack		 Clown, show-off, playboy, they yelled at him. Building football stadiums. Fiercely proud of his son who played in them.
willie		Oh, look at him go. He's going to be All-American.
jack		 They said he was building up a private army. But he was building, always building...
jack		 Always playing up to the crowd. Letting them trample on tradition. Well, tradition needed trampling on.
jack		 The crowd loved it... Willie loved it... and so did I.
sadie		 You low-down, no-good redneck...
jack		 What goes on here?
secretary		That's what Sadie wants to know.  The boss poses for too many pictures.
sadie		I'll kill him.
jack		Why, Sadie, I'm surprised at you.
sadie		I'll kill him.
sadie		I hate all women.
sadie		Was she pretty?
sadie		Was she pretty?
jack		If I met her on the street I'd never recognize her.
sadie		Was she pretty?
jack		How should I know? I wasn't looking at her face... Look, if it's going to cause all this grief, why don't you let him go?
sadie		Let him go? I'll kill him. I'll drive him out of this state.
jack		Just because a guy's sitting with a couple of girls on his knees in public...
sadie		Public or private... I know him. How about what happened in Chicago? That girl on skates... and the time you both went to St. Louis... There's a new invention, you know, Photography and newsreels. Willie Stark in a nightclub... Willie Stark with a blonde.
jack		You could always bleach your hair.
sadie		I could also break every bone in his neck. After all I've done for him... Now he goes two-timing me.
jack		He's been two-timing Lucy. So there's another kind of arithmetic for what he's doing to you.
sadie		Lucy?  If she had her way he'd be back in Kanoma City slopping the hogs right now. And he knows it. He knows what she'd do for him. She had her chance.
jack		You seem to think Lucy's on her way out, don't you?
sadie		He'll ditch her... Give him time.
jack		You ought to know.
jack		Hey, you got the wrong guy. I'm not the hero of this piece.
willie		All right, come on, both of you. Let's go, hurry it up.
willie		Come on. Pillsbury put his hand in the pork barrel and got caught. You know, I never did trust that guy.
newsmen		Have you heard about Pillsbury? What do you intend to do about Pillsbury? How about it, Governor?
willie		Later, boys, later.  Say, Jack, go back and get the Judge. Let's get him over to my hotel just as soon as you can.
anne		 You promised we could... uh... discuss my charity project... Children's home?
willie		Well, I'm very sorry. Something very important came up. You'll call me later, won't you?
anne		Yes, certainly.
sadie		We're late.
willie		Look at you, Pillsbury. Fifty years old, gut-sprung, teeth gone, never had a dime. If the Almighty had intended for you to be rich he'd have taken care of that a long time ago. The idea of you being rich... that's plain blasphemy. Ain't that a fact?
willie		Answer me!
pillsbury		Yes.
willie		Louder, man. Don't mumble. Speak up. Say it's a fact, a blasphemous fact.
pillsbury		It's a fact, a blasphemous fact.
sadie		Yeah?... Oh, I see.  Dumond can't come. He says his wife is sick.
willie		I don't care if she's dying. Sugar, get the car. Get him and bring him over here.
willie		Now, you know what you're supposed to do, don't you, Pillsbury? You're supposed to stay poor and take orders. Oh, there'll be some sweetening for you from time to time... but Duffy'll take care of that. Don't you go setting yourself up on your own again, do you understand that?
pillsbury		Yes.
willie		Louder, man. And say, I understand that.
pillsbury		I understand that.
willie		Give him a pen and some paper, Sadie.
willie		See who that is, Duffy.
willie		Oh, hello, Judge. Sit down. I'll be with you in just a couple of seconds.  Did you sign it?
pillsbury		No.
willie		 Well, sign it! Don't put any date on it. I can fill that in when I need it.
willie		Now bring it to me.
willie		Now get out.
judge		The papers have the story.
willie		Yeah, I know.
judge		They're talking about impeachment proceedings.
willie		 Against who?
judge		This time, Pillsbury.
willie		I got that "this time," Judge.
judge		How true is it?
willie		It's too true.
sadie		Yes?  This is it, Willie. Jeff Hopkins on the wire.
willie		What have we got on Hopkins, Jack?  All right, Tiny'll talk to you in the morning.
willie		Get going, Tiny.
judge		You haven't answered my question. Why are you saving Pillsbury's hide?
willie		I'm not a bit interested in Pillsbury's hide. It's something much more important than that. If the McMurphy boys get the notion they can get away with this, there's no telling where they'll stop.
judge		 Or where you will... Pillsbury is guilty. As attorney general of this state, it's my job to prosecute.
willie		Judge, you talk like Pillsbury was... was human. He isn't. He's a thing. You don't prosecute an adding machine if the spring goes busted and makes a mistake. You fix it. Well, I fixed him. I'm not a bit interested in Pillsbury. It's something much bigger than that.
judge		 Yes, it is.
jack		He's right, Judge. Can't you see that he's right?
judge		He's right because you want him to be right. Because you're afraid to admit you've made a mistake. Do it now before it's too late.  I'm offering my resignation as attorney general. You'll have it in writing by messenger in the morning... dated.
willie		 It took you a long time to make up your mind, Judge. A long time. What made you take such a long time?
judge		I wasn't sure.
willie		And now you are?
willie		I'll tell you what you are. You're scared. You sat in that big easy chair of yours for thirty years and played at being a judge. Then all of a sudden I came along and put a bat in your hand, and I said, go ahead, Judge, start swinging. And you did. And you had a wonderful time. But now you're scared. You don't want to get your hands dirty. You want to pick up the marbles... but you don't want to get your hands dirty. Look at my whole program, Judge. How do you think I put that across?
judge		I knew how, but I never knew why.
willie		You're not by any chance thinking of going over to McMurphy's boys, are you?
judge		I'm through with politics.
willie		I'm happy to hear that.  No hard feelings.
judge		 Are you coming with me, Jack?
judge		You're making a mistake.
willie		Do you think he means it when he says he's through with politics, Sadie?
sadie		No. No, I don't.
willie		What about you, Jack?
jack		I've known the Judge all my life. He's always meant everything he's said.
willie		All right. All right. Take it easy. I'll take your word for it.
willie		Sugar, take Miss Stanton home.  When am I going to see you again?
willie		What's the matter, Anne?
anne		Please take me home now, Sugar Boy.
willie		You've got to understand me.
anne		 I understand you. It's myself I don't understand.
willie		Do you think I like sneaking around corners any more than you do? But right now, with the Pillsbury business and with your uncle quitting... If I got a divorce...
anne		Maybe we'd better stop seeing each other.
willie		No. No, we won't stop seeing each other, will we?
anne		 No.
willie		Because you believe in what I tell you.
anne		 Because I believe what you tell me.
sadie		Good evening, Governor Stark.  He gave the story to every paper in town.
willie		Sugar, meet me at the hotel as soon as you can.
senator		These are serious charges that Judge Stanton has given to the press. This legislature is entitled to a complete and full report on the Pillsbury affair. Let the truth be known.
chairman		All those in favor, say aye... Motion carried. The house is adjourned.
man		If you let Willie Stark get away with the Pillsbury graft, there's no telling...
jack		But we beat the Pillsbury rap... It's over.
willie		These things are never over. I'll tell you what I want you to do, Jack. I want you to start a new page in that black book of yours... under then name of Judge Stanton.
jack		You're crazy. There's nothing on the Judge.
sadie		Why? Because his name is Stanton?
willie		Ssshhh, easy.
jack		What if I won't do it?
willie		You know, some of this has rubbed off on you.
jack		What are you going to do? Have me shot?
willie		No... no... but I'll have to get myself a new boy.
jack		I tell you there's nothing on the Judge.
willie		Jack, there's something on everybody. Man is conceived in sin and born in corruption.
jack		It's a waste of time.
willie		What's the matter, Jack? Are you afraid you might find something out?
jack		 I kept saying to myself that Willie was wrong about the Judge. If there was anything left at Burden's Landing, it was honor. I had to believe that.
jack		Anne, I want to ask you a question. Was the Judge ever broke? Really broke?
anne		Why do you want to know?
jack		I don't want to know, but I've got to.
anne		Did he tell you --
jack		Did who tell me?
anne		I don't know. I... how should I know if the Judge was ever broke?
stanton		Hello... Come on, Anne, take this food and start cooking. I'm hungry.
jack		Me, I'm on the thirsty side. Bring some glasses, Anne, quick.
stanton		 It's been a long time since I played this thing. What do you say we wake up the ghosts, huh?
jack		 Another glass, Anne, for a ghost.
stanton		 Remember the last time I played this? You and Anne were dancing?
jack		Shall we dance?
anne		Let's... let's have a drink first.
jack		No, no... keep playing. Anne and I want to hear this, don't we, Anne?  Adam... ghost... and me.
stanton		What shall we drink to?
jack		To the ghost?... To Adam, to the director of the new medical center.
stanton		 Don't you ever stop working for him?
anne		Adam!
stanton		I came up here to get away...
jack		I'm sorry, Adam.
anne		Well, I'm not. What's wrong with being the director of the new medical center?
stanton		Nothing, except that I'm not going to take it.
jack		Why? Because your uncle resigned?
stanton		That's partly it. There are other things.
anne		What other things?
stanton		 You too?
anne		Yes, me too.
jack		Anne, if Adam doesn't want to discuss it, let's not.
stanton		All right, let's discuss it.
anne		But calmly.
stanton		Calmly. Go ahead, Jack. Why do you think he wants me?
jack		Because you're the best man for the job.
stanton		It could have nothing to do with my name being Stanton?
jack		It could have. Let's grant that.
stanton		That's your answer.
jack		No, it's not. If that were the only answer I wouldn't be with him any more. There's another side of it. I've learned something from him. You can't make an omelet without cracking eggs.
stanton		Or heads.
anne		But at least a hospital will be built, and the sick will be cared for.
stanton		At what price?
jack		At any price.
stanton		Do you really believe that, Jack?
jack		I really believe that Stark wants to do good. You do too. It's a matter of method. Many times out of evil comes good. Well, pain is an evil. As a doctor you should know that.
stanton		Pain is an evil; it is not evil. It is not evil in itself. Stark is evil.
jack		The people of the state don't think so.
stanton		How would they know? The first thing he did was to take over the newspapers and the radio stations. Why be so afraid of criticism? If Stark is interested in doing good, he should also be interested in the truth. I don't see how you can separate the two. No, Stark is not for me.
anne		 No, Stark is not for you. Well, what is for you? Pride. Pride, that's all it is... foolish, stupid pride. All you've ever talked about is what you could do if... if somebody would tear down and build. All right, all right, somebody has, and he's given it to you. But he's not for you. No, he's not for you.
stanton		Anne... Anne...
jack		 Will I find anything, Judge? Will I? I didn't find it all at once. It takes a long time to go through old courthouse records and musty deeds... a very long time. But it wasn't too hard for me. I was well trained in research, especially this kind.
jack		 I found what I didn't want to find.
jack		Have some photostat copies made of these. I'll be back tomorrow for them.
jack		Who is it?
sadie's voice		It's me, Sadie Burke.
jack		Wait a minute.
jack		All right, come in.
sadie		Phew! Awful lot of smoke. Awful lot of whisky. You sober?
jack		Stone.
sadie		I'll have one with you.  What are you hiding out for?
jack		I'm not. I've been sleeping.
sadie		For four days? You've been back in town for four days.
jack		Willie knows everything.
sadie		Willie's worried about his boy.
jack		Willie's boy is worried about Willie's boy.
sadie		Well, why don't you put something on the phonograph -- a low-down, mean blues. Play it over and over again until you're sick of it. Then crack it and go back to work.  I do it all the time.
jack		That's not my problem.
sadie		No, it isn't your problem.  I'll wait for you if you want to powder your nose.
jack		I'll be with you in a minute.
sadie		Hmmm. Yeah, I can see it. I've got to look in the mirror to be able to see it. Soft, white skin... not like mine.  I had smallpox when I was a kid. Where I lived it seemed nearly all the kids had smallpox...
sadie		It leaves your face hard. Then she's got poise. Look at the way she holds her head... at just the right angle. That takes training. That takes years of training...
sadie		I see what Willie sees. Willie's got big ideas, Jack.
jack		What do you mean?
sadie		A girl like that could be a governor's wife. Or even a President's.
jack		What are you talking about?
sadie		He ditched Lucy, he ditched me, and he'll ditch you.
jack		 Answer me!
sadie		He'll ditch everybody in the whole world because that's what Willie wants. Nobody in the world but him.
jack		What are you talking about?
sadie		You and your high-tone friends. What do they know? What do they know about anything? Why did you have to mix her in?
jack		You're crazy, Sadie. You're out of your mind.
sadie		Am I? Well, why don't you go down and ask her. Or ask him. Ask Willie.
jack		Shut up!
sadie		Go ahead, ask him.
jack		Shut up!
sadie		Ask him!
sadie		Ow-oo... oh... oh.
jack		He's off today.
willie		It's only practice. He'll be all right tomorrow... You been gone a long time, Jack.
jack		Yeah. I figured if you needed me you'd yell.
willie		Why'd you lay around the hotel?
jack		Thinking.
willie		About what?
jack		Things.
willie		What did you find on the Judge?
jack		Nothing.
willie		You sure you didn't find anything on the Judge?
jack		Yeah, I'm sure.
willie		You're going to keep trying, aren't you?
jack		If you want me to.
willie		I want you to. There's something else I want you to do too.
jack		What? Bucket boy? Towel slinger? What?
willie		 What's eating you, Jack?
jack		 What else do you want me to do?
willie		If you've got something on your mind, boy, spit it out. We've been together too long to play games.
jack		What do you want me to do?
willie		I hear your pal Adam Stanton turned down the job as director of the hospital. That's bad. Especially at a time like this.
jack		Oh? How did you hear it?
willie		Why? What difference does it make?
jack		I just wanted to know.
willie		I heard it around.
jack		 How did you hear he turned it down, Willie?
willie		I'll be right back, Jack. I want to see what's happening here.
coach		You going to practice the way I tell you.
tom		I'm going to do it the way I want to do it.
willie		Tom, come here. What's going on here?
coach		I don't care if he is your son, Governor... No special rules for him.
tom		It doesn't make any difference to me either way... whether I play or not.
willie		Well, it does to me.  What do you want him to do?
coach		To behave himself. Like the rest of the boys. Four times this season he's broken training. He comes on the practice field half potted.
willie		Tom, you're going to have to obey the rules. Do you hear me? You're going to obey the rules.
tom		I put 'em across, don't I? Every Saturday I put 'em across and I can still do it, drunk or sober. That's all you want, isn't it... for me to put 'em across so you can big-shot it around? Isn't that all you want?
willie		Tom!  Tom, come here. Tom!
helene		 Come on, Tommy... let's go faster. Come on...
lucy		Willie, Mr. Hale's here to see you.
willie		Go on upstairs, Lucy. I have some business I want to talk over with Mr. Hale.
hale		What I've got to say anybody can listen to... Where's your boy?
willie		Now... now, don't get excited.  Get me another drink, Sugar.
hale		My daughter may die.
willie		She's not going to die. She'll get the best medical attention there is. No expense will be spared.
hale		Where's your boy?
lucy		I'll get him.
willie		Wait a minute, Lucy. He's asleep. And the doctor said after a good night's sleep he'll be all right.
lucy		No, he won't be all right unless you make him all right. I'll get him.
willie		Lucy!  You care for a drink?
hale		No thanks.
willie		Accidents will happen, you know.
hale		Accidents? Your boy was drunk.
willie		I saw the police report. There... there was nothing about drunkenness on the police report.
hale		Whose police and whose report? I say the boy was drunk. And I know it.
hale		 Right here before your father... I want you --
tom		Mr. Hale --
willie		Tom, the doctor says you need rest, boy.
tom		 I don't want you to try to cover up for me. I was wrong... that's all there is to it.
willie		You don't know what you're talking about. I saw the police report --
tom		I don't care what the police report says. I was driving and I was drunk. It's all my fault.  Anything you want to do to me, you can do. Whatever you want me to do, I'll do.
willie		Nobody has to do anything. Stop worrying. I'll take care of everything.
tom		I don't want you to take care of anything.
willie		Tom, go on upstairs and get some rest, boy. Go on... go on... go on.
willie		Sugar, help him... Mr. Hale, come on over and sit down. You sure you wouldn't care for a drink, Mr. Hale?
willie		Hey, Tiny, go home. Go on, out of here... out of here. Go on.
willie		What business did you say you were in?
hale		I didn't say.
willie		What business are you in?
hale		Trucking business.
willie		Trucking business. Trucks run on state roads. If a man in the trucking business had a contract with the state, a big one, that would be pretty good, wouldn't it?  Go on, Jack. Tell him what would happen.
willie		Go on, tell him.
hale		You're trying to bribe me, aren't you?
willie		No, no. No, I'm not trying to bribe you. I'm... I'm only talking things over with you, that's all.
hale		You're pretty good at talking. I remember when you first started talking. A place called Upton. You did a lot of talking then and the things you said made sense, to me and a lot of other people. I believed in you... I followed you... and I fought for you. Well, the words are still good. But you're not.  And I don't believe you ever were.
willie		 Sugar, follow him. Keep calling in.
willie		 Lucy!... Lucy!
jack		I'd like Anne to see you now. I'd like Anne to see you now, you drunken sot!  Come on.
newsmen		What about the girl's father, Governor? Have you a statement to make?
willie		All right, all right, gentlemen. I'll give you a statement. This whole thing is a mess of lies. It's a frame. The man that made that statement... have him repeat it to my face. He can't. He vanished. Let me ask you some questions. Where has he gone? Where is he?
reporter		Maybe you could answer those questions too, Governor.
willie		I won't dignify that question with an answer.
another reporter		One more question, Governor... Where's your son?
willie		At the football stadium, where he's supposed to be. He's going to play for State University, which this administration is responsible for. He's not hiding from anybody, gentlemen. He'll be out there in full view of seventy thousand cheering fans.  One of which will be me. See you, men.
crowd voices		Where's Stark? How about Tommy Stark? Hey, Willie, send your boy in.
willie		Why don't they put him in!
man		Come on, Willie... send your boy in.
drunk		What's the matter, Willie... is your little boy ashamed to show his face?
duffy		Shut up!
willie		Get that man out of here! Come on, get him out of here.
willie		They're booing you.
tom		 Ever since the accident, my head...
willie		The doctor said it was nothing.
tom		Get dizzy... can't see... dizzy...
willie		You're scared... plain scared.
tom		 Get out of here!
willie		Atta boy... get mad. Show some spirit. Jack, tell him what his playing means. Go on, tell him.
jack		You can never tell about a head injury. Maybe the boy's hurt.
willie		He's hurt? I'm hurt. It wasn't me that wrapped that car around the tree. It wasn't me that got drunk. But me, I'm takin' the rap.  Go on, kid. Get out there and play. Show 'em the kind of stuff a Stark is made of.
tom		 I wouldn't know.
jack		Tom... cut it out!
tom		 All right, I'll play. Now get out of here.
lucy		Tommy... Tommy... Tommy!
sugar boy		B-b-boss, you gotta eat. You g-g- gotta.
willie		I'm the one that made him play. I sent him in.
lucy		Sit down, Willie. Please sit down.
willie		I sent him in.
lucy		What difference does that make now?
willie		What goes on?
jack		There isn't a plane flying.
willie		They gotta fly. This is my son. He's got to live.
stanton		I just got a call from Dr. Birnham. The earliest he can possibly get here will be tomorrow morning.
willie		Isn't there anybody else we can get?
jack		I still think Dr. Stanton should operate.
stanton		That's up to Governor Stark. He wanted another doctor... a specialist. I sent for one.
willie		How bad is it really, doctor?
stanton		He's unconscious... and paralyzed.
willie		Has he got a chance?
stanton		To live? Yes.
willie		What do you mean?
stanton		Even if the operation's successful -- that is, if he lives -- I think he'll be paralyzed for life.
willie		You'll do everything you can, won't you? Anything between you and me.. that won't count, will it? It doesn't have to. Look, doc, anything you want in the world you just ask for it and you got it. Go on, doc... ask for it.
stanton		 There are some things, Governor Stark, that even you can't buy. Do you want me to operate, or don't you?
lucy		Yes... I want you to operate.  Please, may I see Tom now?
stanton		Yes.
willie		 How much does the doc know?
jack		About what?
willie		Oh, you know what I'm talking about.
jack		About what?
willie		About Anne and me.
jack		 He doesn't know a thing... not a thing.
anne		Jack, how is he?
jack		The boy?
anne		Yes.
jack		He'll live.
anne		Oh, thank God. How is --
jack		Willie?
anne		He blames himself, doesn't he?
jack		 He'll find someone else to blame in a few days.
anne		 Oh, I tried to call here at the hospital, but I just...
jack		Anne... Anne, why did you do it?
anne		He wasn't like anybody I ever knew before.
jack		You mean he wasn't like me.
anne		He wasn't like anybody I ever knew before. I love him, I guess. I guess that's the reason.
jack		Everybody loves him.
anne		He wants to marry me.
jack		Are you going to?
anne		Not now. It would hurt him. A divorce would hurt his career.
jack		His career!
anne		Jack... Jack, what are you going to do? You can't leave him now. He needs you now more than he ever did before.
jack		What Willie needs, Willie's got.
anne		You don't know him. You've known him all these years and you don't really know him at all.
jack		What about Adam?
anne		Adam?
jack		Well, you don't have to worry about him. If Adam finds out it'll be easy to prove a Stanton is no different than anybody else.  Just show him these. Willie was right... a man is conceived in sin and born in corruption. Even Judge Stanton. Show them to him, Anne. Change the picture of the world that Adam has in his head, just like our picture of it has been changed.
jack		Wipe out everything he's ever believed in. It'll be good for him. There's no God but Willie Stark. I'm his prophet and you're his...  Oh, Anne... Anne, I'm sorry. I didn't mean... Anne!
policeman		What's going on here?
jack		It's all right, officer... we both work for Willie Stark.
willie		 Right over there, that's going to be the main building... fifteen stories high, like on the model. Over there, that's the laboratory. Finest technical equipment in the world.
stanton		What are you trying to convince me of? I've taken the job.
willie		Why?
stanton		My reasons are my own. Why are you building a hospital?
willie		To do some good for the people of the state.
stanton		And get some votes.
willie		Oh, there are lots of ways to get votes.
stanton		Yes, I know... I won't stand for any interference.
willie		I won't interfere. I may fire you, but I won't interfere.
stanton		If that's a threat, you're wasting your time. You know what I think of your administration.
willie		Yes, I know. I'll tell you what... You stay on your side of the fence; I'll stay on mine. Is that a deal?
jack		 Now he had us all... me, Anne, and Adam. Now we all worked for him.
narrator's voice		And so the eyes of the entire nation are now focused upon Governor Willie Stark, an amazing phenomenon on the American political scene. The whole state is filled with his accomplishments -- each of them, of course, bearing his personal signature, to make sure that no one will ever forget who gave them to the state.
narrator's voice		This is the way the roads used to be. But there are those who claim that they were adequate for the people's needs, that you don't need a four- or six-lane highway for a horse and buggy.
narrator's voice		When Stark boasts of his great school system, his critics say: you can't go to school and work in the fields at the same time. And they question the benefit of these projects, charging that the need and the poverty of the people is as great as before.
narrator's voice		Willie Stark has never forgotten the source of his power: the people who supported him.
narrator's voice		He still keeps in touch with these people of the backwoods, making periodic trips to such places as Kanoma City, now famous as his birthplace...
narrator's voice		For those who say that Willie Stark is a man of destiny, there are others who claim that he is a man of evil, a man who cares neither for the people nor the state, but only for his own personal power and ambition.
narrator's voice		Obviously, these ambitions go far beyond the boundaries of the state. Just how far, only time will tell. Meanwhile, he is here...
narrator's voice		...and from the looks of things, he is here to stay. Willie Stark: messiah or dictator?
producer		How do you like it, Governor?
willie		How many theaters will this play in?
producer		All over the country.
willie		Hear that, Jack. All over the country.
willie		Oh, there's one thing in there I didn't like too well. That messiah or dictator.
producer		That's our point of view, Governor. And that's the way it stands.
willie		All right, all right, that's the way it stands... as of now.
willie		Hello, Lucy... How are you making it, Pa?... How are you, Tom?
lucy		I made some refreshments for your friends. I'll get them.
sadie		I'll help.
lucy		 No, thank you. Thank you kindly.
jack		If you don't mind, Mrs. Stark... the boys have to get back to make the morning editions.  Set 'em up on the porch, fellows. We'll take some pictures out here, first.
jack		Mrs. Stark, please... All right, fellows, take one down there, will you please... Shoot it up this way.
willie		 Tom.
tom		 Goodbye.
willie		Take care of yourself, Pappy. Oh, uh... how do you like the new radio I got you?  You know how it works? You can get police calls on it. Come here, come here... I'll show you.
willie		This one for police calls up here.
police broadcast		Car sixty-two, proceed to five- eighteen Oak Street. Tom Jones beating his wife again.
willie		All right, go ahead, go ahead.
announcer's voice		We interrupt this program to bring you a special announcement. This afternoon, the body of Richard Hale, father of the girl who died in the automobile accident involving the governor's son, was found. A medical examination revealed he was beaten to death.
announcer's voice		The ugly charge of "official murder" has been hurled at the administration by a coalition of Stark's opponents, led by Judge Stanton, lately an outspoken critic of the administration.
willie		 Your friend, the Judge.
announcer's voice		Thus an almost forgotten incident provided the spark that might set off the explosion needed to rock Willie Stark out of power. The latest report is that impeachment proceedings may be instituted...
willie		How long will it take you to pack? I want you to go back to Capital City with me tonight.
lucy		Why?
willie		Because I need you.
tom		What for?
willie		 I'll explain all of that later. Now, Lucy, do like I say.
jack		I'll wait outside.
willie		You stay right here, Jack. I want you bear witness to what I've got to say.
lucy		 She can be a witness too.
sadie		 I'm going back to the capital and get hold of Duffy.
willie		You stay right here, Sadie.
sadie		Somebody's got to go back to the capital. I'll go in the other car.
willie		All right, then tell Duffy not to do anything or say anything until I get there.
sadie		Yes, Governor.
tom		Now he needs us. Now that he's in trouble he needs us, so he can lead us around like monkeys with rings in our noses. So he can say to people, look at me, feel sorry for me... just a family man with a wife and a crippled son...
willie		 Shut up!
lucy		Willie!
tom		Why don't you leave us alone?
willie		Leave him alone. How many scrapes have I gotten him out of? How many girls?
lucy		Willie, stop.
willie		It's not him they're after. It's me. How many halfwitted apes do you think I'm going to have to pay to square this one? What do you think this is going to cost me?
lucy		What do you think it cost him?
willie		 A man builds for his son. That's all he builds for.
lucy		Willie!  Tom... Tom.
willie		Give me a drink, Jack.
willie		She'll go.
pappy		No good, Willie. No good.
senator		Mr. Speaker, I offer a house resolution. Whereas Willie Stark, governor of this state, has been guilty of incompetence, corruption, and favoritism in office -- yes, and other high crimes -- that he is hereby impeached, and ordered to be tried by the senate.
willie		 What's the score?
duffy		They're lined up against you solid. They had a meeting.
willie		How do you know? Were you there?
duffy		Me? What would I be doing there?
willie		Selling me out.
willie		How many votes have we got?
sadie		 Eleven.
willie		We need twenty.
duffy		We might be able to dig up a few more.
willie		Yeah. Do you know how?
duffy		No.
willie		Oh, Jack. Come here. What have you got in your black book about that old friend of yours?
jack		Who do you mean?
willie		You know who I'm talking about... your old friend, the Judge.
jack		If and when you need it.
willie		If and when? I need it right now. He's got four senators wrapped up in his hip pocket. Come on, come on, boy... what have you got?
jack		I'm going to give him a break. If he can prove it isn't true, I won't spill it.
willie		I ought to bust you, Jack.
jack		I promised two people I'd do it this way.
willie		Who are they?
jack		Myself... and someone else. It doesn't matter who. I'm going to give him a break.
willie		All right, give him a break. But if you got the facts, you got the facts. The truth is sufficient... just like it says in the Bible.
jack		That's the way it's going to be.
willie		All right, boy... I'll trust you. Where are you going?
jack		 I'll be around.
sadie		Who else do you think he promised, Willie?
sadie		You'd be smart... play square with him. You're going to need people like us around.
willie		 Are you sure?
jack		 The chips were down, and Willie knew it. He was fighting for his life. He roared across the state making one speech after another. And all of them added up to the same thing... "It's not me they're after, it's you!"
jack		 Willie hollered foul. Willie knew if you hollered long enough, hard enough, and loud enough, people begin to believe you. Just in case they didn't, he organized spontaneous demonstrations.
willie		Tell the boys to get the hicks out. Bring 'em in from the sticks, empty the pool halls. Turn 'em out. Turn the yokels out.
jack		 In case anyone hollered back, he organized spontaneous slugging. Willie pulled every trick he ever knew -- and added a few more.
jack		Hey, Sugar!  You'll never live to be impeached!
willie		Boy, I'll live to be President...
willie		I've got fourteen senators to vote against impeachment. If I win, you're out of politics.
senator		 I'll do whatever the Judge says.
jack		 And always the trail led to one place... Burden's Landing... and the Judge.
willie		You sure you don't want me to go in with you?
jack		I'm sure.
willie		Well, hurry it up, boy. We've got places to go.
jack		Judge, I beg you, as a favor to yourself, to me... call up, release your votes.
judge		I made a mistake once, Jack... when I resigned. It was too easy then, just resigning, pulling out. No, Jack, I've made my choice. I have nothing more to lose.
jack		Judge, you know what Stark is capable of. Think it over. I'll leave now. I'll come back tomorrow and we'll talk about it again. You can give me your answer then.
willie		I can't wait until tomorrow. I'm a very impatient man.
jack		 I told you not to come in here.
willie		 Is it true, Judge, that you're behind the impeachment proceedings?
judge		Yes, it's true.
willie		I wanted to hear you say it with your own silver tongue.
judge		Well, you've heard it. If that's all you came to hear you could have saved yourself a trip.
willie		Mind if I pour myself a drink? How about you, Judge, will you have one? You better... You're going to need it.
willie		What'd he say, Jack?
jack		You'll get your answer tomorrow.
willie		Are you kidding? Did you show it to him, or didn't you?
judge		Show me what?
willie		That's what I figured. Let's get down to cases, Judge. Do you remember a man with the name of Littlepaugh?
willie		Remember the Fortune Electric Company?
judge		Of course. I was their counsel for over ten years.
willie		Remember how you got the job?
jack		How did you find out?
willie		 Do you remember how you got the job?
willie		You know, Judge, dirt's a funny thing. Some of it rubs off on everybody. How did you get the job, Judge? Blackmail?
judge		 I swear I never even remembered his name. Isn't that remarkable, Jack? I never even remembered his name. It's all so long ago it's hard for me to realize it ever happened.
willie		Yeah. But it did.
judge		Yes, it did. But it's difficult for me to realize it.
jack		For me too, Judge.
judge		Thanks for that much.
willie		Well, I guess you know what the next move is, don't you?
judge		Yes, I do. Jack Burden. Willie Stark's hatchet man.
jack		 I asked you... how did you find out?
judge		This would never stand at law, not for a minute. It happened over twenty- five years ago, and you could never get any testimony. Everybody is dead.
willie		Everybody except you, Judge. You're alive. And people think you're a certain kind of man. And you just couldn't bear for people to think otherwise.
judge		Ever since then I... I've done my duty. I... I'm responsible for many good things.  But I also did this.
willie		Yes, yes, you did.
jack		Judge, I beg of you, call and release your votes, for your sake.
judge		You have tender sensibilities for a hatchet man.  Good night, gentlemen.
willie		How about my answer?
judge		You'll have it in the morning.
willie		I want it tonight.
judge		In the morning. Good night, gentlemen.
jack		How did you find out?
willie		We've got a lot to do. It's getting late, Jack. Let's get back to town.
jack		You know we're through, don't you?
willie		Aw, you don't mean that, boy.
stanton		What are you doing here?
willie		It's all right, doc. Just here to discuss some politics with the Judge.
stanton		Oh, I see.  Well, good night.
willie		Good night.
jack		 Did you give him --
willie		Wait a minute, Jack --
jack		Answer me. Did you give --
stanton		Aren't you going back with him?
jack		No.
stanton		Why not? You belong with him. Jack, how could you have done it? When Anne brought me those papers she told me you promised not to tell Stark until...
jack		Yeah. I know.  Well, I kept my promise.
stanton		Anne? Anne?
announcer's voice		From all over the state they're streaming in. From the hill country and farms, the lumber camps... by boat, by train, by horse, and on foot. Willie Stark's army.
announcer's voice		The state capital is filled with rumors, one of which is that Stark is planning to seize power by force. As commander of the state militia, he has --
jack		Come in. The door's open.
anne		Jack...
jack		What do you want?
jack		 No, I want to see you cry.
jack		Stop it!
anne		I called you. All afternoon I've been calling you.
jack		I know. I was here.
anne		You've got to tell Adam. You've got to see him.
jack		Tell him what?
anne		He knows about me and...
jack		About you and Willie?
anne		 I tried to explain to him. I... I tried to explain to him that it wasn't the way he thought it was.
jack		How was it, Anne? You tell me.
anne		He hit me, Jack. My own brother... he hit me.
jack		Your brother is an old-fashioned man. He believes in his sister's honor. Me, I'm a modern man.  The twentieth-century type. I run.
anne		 I'm frightened, Jack.
jack		For who? Your brother, or Willie?
anne		 We're through.
jack		Who's through with who?
anne		He called me this afternoon. He's going back to Lucy. He said it was better that way.
jack		Better for who? Him.
anne		Both of us.
jack		Did he tell you that too when he asked you to betray the Judge? At least I walked out on him.
anne		Oh Jack... help me, please, please. Adam's all I've got left now. Oh, Jack, if you ever loved me...
jack		If I ever loved you.  I'll go find Adam.
cop		Where do you think you're going?  Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't recognize you.
jack		Do you know who Dr. Stanton is?
cop		Yes sir.
jack		Did he try to come through here today?
cop		Haven't seen him, sir.
jack		Well, can you check the other entrances?
cop		If you care to come inside and wait, Mr. Burden, we can find you a seat.
jack		No, thanks. I'll wait out here. If Dr. Stanton shows up, let me know. Pass the word along to the boys, will you?
cop		Yes sir.
loudspeaker		All right now. Everybody... that means everybody... let's let Willie know we're here! All together: WE WANT WILLIE. WE WANT WILLIE.
speaker		We will first proceed to take the judgment of the senate on the question of the impeachment of the governor.
senator		 Mr. Speaker, this is a farce to ask us to vote in the face of the kind of intimidation and pressure that has been exerted here in the past few weeks. Even that crowd outside, yelling on cue, is part of that pressure.
crowd noise		We want Willie. We want Willie.
announcer		Attention, please. Attention, please. This is a special announcement from Willie Stark to you people out there. He doesn't want any one of you to leave...
announcer		He wants you to stay in front of this state Capitol until the fight is over. If you want Willie Stark to win, stay where you are.
announcer		Do you hear me... stay where you are. Don't go away. Stay where you are. Don't go away.
announcer		Attention, please. Attention, please. The balloting on the impeachment proceedings against Governor Stark has just ended. This is the result: Willie Stark has won.
willie		They tried to ruin me. But they are ruined. They tried to ruin me because they did not like what I have done. Do you like what I have done?
willie		Remember, it's not I who have won, but you. Your will is my strength, and your need is my justice, and I shall live in your right and your will. And if any man tries to stop me from fulfilling that right and that will, I'll break him. I'll break him with my bare hands. For I have the strength of many.
willie		Hello, Jack boy, I'm glad you're here. I knew you'd come back.
willie		Oh, doctor, I'm very glad to see you.
cop		Stand back, everybody. Stand back.
sugar boy		 D-does it hurt m-much, boss? D-d- does it hurt much?
jack		Anne, Anne... Where are you going?
anne		I don't know. Leave me alone.
jack		To do what?
anne		I don't care.
jack		No, that's too easy.
anne		I don't know, I don't know, I don't know.
jack		I do.
anne		Leave me alone, please.
jack		No, no more.
anne		He's dead.
jack		We're alive.
anne		My brother's dead.
jack		We've got to go on living.
anne		How?
jack		So that Adam's death has meaning, so that it wasn't wasted. Anne, our life has to give his death meaning. Don't you see that? Look at those people...
jack		Look at them! They still believe in him. And we've got to make them see Willie the way Adam saw him, or there's no meaning in anything... anything.
policeman		Mr. Burden... the governor's asking for you. You better hurry. He's going fast.
jack		 Will you wait here?
jack		Will you wait here?
willie		It could have been the whole world, Willie Stark. The whole world... Willie Stark. Why did he do it to me... Willie Stark? Why?
****Dialogues from script :All_the_President_s_Men.txt****

woodward		No, no trouble, Harry, be right down.  Son of a bitch.
rosenfeld		Where's that cheery face we've come to know and love?
woodward		You call me in on my day off because some idiots have broken into local Democratic Headquarters--tell me, Harry, why should I be smiling?
rosenfeld		As usual, that keen mind of yours has pegged the situation perfectly.  Not to mention over two thousand dollars, mostly in sequenced hundred dollar bills.
woodward		Preliminary hearing at Superior Courthouse?
rosenfeld		 Two o'clock, work the phones 'til you go.
woodward		 Could you give me the names of the lawyers for the men arrested in the Watergate.
clerk		These two were appointed-- 
woodward		Mr. Caddy? My name's Bob Woodward, I'm from the Post and I wanted to ask about how you happened to come on this case--
caddy		--I'm not here.
woodward		 OK.
woodward		Douglas Caddy, the attorney of record, when questioned about his presence in the courtroom, denied he was in the courtroom, "I'm not here," Mr. Caddy said.
caddy		 Mr. Rafferty has that position. Whatever you want, you'll have to get from him, I have nothing more to say.
woodward		 Mr. Rafferty was very helpful. Four Cuban-Americans and this other man, James McCord.
caddy		Look, I told you inside--
woodward		--you have nothing more to say, I understand that.
woodward		What I don't understand is how you got here.
caddy		I assure you, there's nothing mysterious involved.
woodward		Probably you're right, but a little while ago, I was talking to a couple of lawyers who'd been assigned to represent the burglars.
caddy		So?
woodward		Well, they never would have been assigned if anyone had known the burglars had arranged for their own counsel. And that could only mean the burglars didn't arrange for their own counsel--they never even made a phone call.  So if they didn't ask for you to be here, how did you know to come?
woodward		Did you know to come because one of the other men involved in the break- in called you?
caddy		 There is no reason to assume other people were involved.
woodward		Your clients were arrested with a walkie-talkie; they didn't need that to talk among themselves.
caddy		 They are not my clients.
woodward		You're a lawyer and you're here--
caddy		--I met one of the defendants, Mr. Barker, at a social occasion once--  --I have nothing more to say.
woodward		 Mr. Rafferty told me the Cubans were from Miami.
caddy		 Barker's wife called me at three this morning; her husband apparently had told her to call if he hadn't called her by then.
woodward		It was really nice of you to come, since you'd only met him once.
caddy		Are you implying you don't believe me?
woodward		I have nothing more to say.
caddy		You don't mind getting on people's nerves, do you?
woodward		Nope.
judge		Will you please state your professions.
barker		Anti-Communists.
judge		Anti-Communists?  That, sir, is not your average occupation.
judge		Your name, please.
mccord		James McCord.
judge		Will you step forward, sir. 
judge		And what is your occupation, Mr. McCord?
mccord		 Security consultant.
judge		Where?
mccord		 Government. Recently retired.
judge		Where in government?
mccord		 ...Central... Intelligence... Agency...
judge		 Where?
mccord		 The C.I.A.
woodward		 Holy shit.
bachinski		You said I could look at it--
cop		--I said look, not memorize--
bachinski		--almost done, give it a rest, all right... 
woodward		Bachinski?  --OK, go on, go on...
rosenfeld		...go on, go on...
woodward		That's everything Bachinski had, I think it's worth following up.
rosenfeld		Don't know; who the hell's Howard Hunt?  It's probably nothing but check it out. Just go easy, it could be crazy Cubans.
simons		Anything?
rosenfeld		Woodward's onto a new wrinkle with the break-in thing--absolute page one stuff--
simons		--in other words, you got nothing, you're thumbsucking.
rosenfeld		 Could develop.
simons		Let me see what you get, but don't jump--The New York Times thinks it's crazy Cubans.
rosenfeld		OK, get on this W.House guy and do a better job then you did on McCord.
woodward		I did all right on McCord.
rosenfeld		Then how come the Associated Press were the ones found out that Mr. McCord is security coordinator for the Committee to Re-elect the President, otherwise known as CREEP?
woodward		 The head of security for the reelection of a Republican President got caught bugging the national offices of the Democrats? What the hell does that mean?
rosenfeld		 "...This man and the other people involved were not operating on either our behalf or with our consent. These is no place in our campaign or in the electoral process for this type of activity, and we will not forget it or condone it."
woodward		 You can't believe that.
rosenfeld		As a rough rule of thumb, as far as I can throw Bronco Nagurski, that's how much I trust John Mitchell...
rosenfeld		What'd you get on W.House?
woodward		 Lotsa hints--
rosenfeld		 Call someone you don't know.
woodward		 Howard Hunt, please.
woodward		Thanks, anyway--
woodward		 Howard Hunt, please.
woodward		Thanks, anyway.
woodward		Listen, forget it.
woodward		Who's Charles Colson?
rosenfeld		 I would liken your query to being in Russia half a century ago and asking someone, "I understand who Lenin is and Trotsky I got too, but who's this yokel Stalin?"
woodward		Who's Colson, Harry?
rosenfeld		The most powerful man in America is President Nixon, probably you've heard his name.
rosenfeld		The second most powerful man is Robert Haldeman. Just below him are a trio: Mr. Erlichman is Haldeman's friend, and they protect the President from everybody which is why they are referred to as either The German Shepherds or the Berlin Wall. Mr. Mitchell we've already discussed. Mr. Colson is the President's special counsel.
woodward		 Know anything about Colson?
rosenfeld		Just that on his office wall there's a cartoon with a caption reading, "When you've got them by the balls, their hearts and minds will follow."
woodward		Hello, I'm Bob Woodward of the Washing Post and...  He is?
woodward		Hi, I'm Bob Woodward of the Post and--
woodward		I was just kind of wondering why your name and phone number were in the address books of two of the men arrested at Watergate?
woodward		I'm sorry to bother you, Mr. Bennett, but we're doing some investigating of one of your employees, Howard Hunt.
woodward		 No secret at all.
woodward		 Hello, C.I.A. This is R.W. Woodward, of the Washington Post--get me Personnel--
woodward		Hi, I'm Bob Woodward of the Washington Post--and--what's that?--you've never heard of me?--I can't help that--you don't believe I'm with the Post?-- what do you want me to do, Madam, shout "extra--extra"?
rosenfeld		Whaddya got, whaddya got?
woodward		Hunt is Colson's man--  --Hunt worked for the C.I.A. till '70, and this is on deep background, the FBI thinks he's involved with the break-in.
simons		What else have you got?
woodward		According to White House personnel, Hunt definitely works there as a consultant for Colson. But when I called the White House Press office, they said he hadn't worked there for three months. Then the P.R. guy said the weirdest thing to me.  "I am convinced that neither Mr. Colson nor anyone else at the White House had any knowledge of, or participation in, this deplorable incident at the Democratic National Committee."
simons		Isn't that what you'd expect them to say?
woodward		Absolutely.
rosenfeld		So?
woodward		 I never asked them about Watergate. I only said what were Hunt's duties at the White House. They volunteered that he was innocent when nobody asked was he guilty.
rosenfeld		 I think we got a White House consultant linked to the bugging.
simons		 Just be careful how you write it.
woodward		Here's the first take--
woodward		This is all of it, Harry.
woodward		We have to talk.
woodward		What the hell were you doing rewriting my story--
bernstein		--I sure couldn't hurt it, could I?--
woodward		--it was fine the way it was--
bernstein		--it was bullshit the way it was--
woodward		--I have to stand here and listen to the staff correspondent from Virginia?--
bernstein		 --what have you been here, nine months?--I been in this business since I was sixteen--
woodward		--and you've had some fucking meteoric rise, that's for sure--by the time you turn forty you might be the head of the Montana bureau--
bernstein		--you only got the job because both you and Bradlee went to Yale--
woodward		--Bradlee went to Harvard--
bernstein		--they're all the same, all those Ivy League places--they teach you about striped ties and suddenly you're smart--
woodward		--I'm smart enough to know my story was solid--
bernstein		--mine's better--
woodward		--no way--
bernstein		 --read 'em both and you'll see--
woodward		...crap...
bernstein		Is mine better?
woodward		 What is it about my writing that's so rotten?
bernstein		 Mainly it has to do with your choice of words.
bernstein		 Yeah?
woodward		 Fuck you, Carl.
bernstein		You heard?  Listen, I'm sorry I said your story was bullshit.
woodward		It's OK; I'm sorry I called you a failure.
bernstein		Forget it, the main thing--  --did you call me a failure?
woodward		I was sure trying.
woodward		All right, what do we know?
bernstein		Let me lay a little theory on you--
woodward		 --I'm not interested in theory. What do we know? For example, Hunt's disappeared.
bernstein		Well, Barker tried to get blueprints of the Miami Convention Center and the air-conditioning system.
woodward		And McCord was carrying an application for college press credentials for the Democratic convention.  The Times has got to be full of it-- it can't be crazy Cubans.
bernstein		What, though?  It can't be the Republicans--he'd never allow something as stupid as this, not when he's gonna slaughter McGovern anyway.
woodward		Right. Nixon didn't get where he got by being dumb--  --listen, that was a Watergate question--
nixon		The White House has had no involvement whatever in this particular incident.
woodward		Hey?
bernstein		Hmm.
woodward		What do you think he meant, this particular incident? Were there others? How would we find out? You know anyone important?
bernstein		 I lived here all my life, I got a million contacts, but they're all bus boys and bellhops.
ringle		What do you need?
bernstein		Someone inside the White House would be nice.
ringle		 Call her. She worked for Colson, if that's any help.
girl		Kenny's crazy, I never worked for Colson, I worked for an assistant. Colson was big on secrets anyway. Even if I had worked for him, I wouldn't have known anything.
bernstein		Nothing at all you can remember?
secretary		 Now if it was Hunt you were interested in--
bernstein		--Howard Hunt?
secretary		Sure. Him I liked, he was a very nice person. Secretive too, traveled all over, but a decent man.
bernstein		Any idea what he did?
secretary		Oh, the scuttlebutt for awhile was he was investigating Kennedy--
bernstein		--Teddy Kennedy?
secretary		Sure. I remember seeing a book about Chappaquiddick on his desk and he was always getting material out of the White House Library and the Library of Congress and--
bernstein		White House Library, please.
bernstein		Hi. Carl Bernstein of the Washington Post. I was just wondering if you remember the names of any of the books that Howard Hunt checked out on Senator Kennedy.
bernstein		--what do you think?--
woodward		--Hunt doesn't seem like your ordinary consultant.
bernstein		Maybe a political operative of some sort--
woodward		--a spy, you mean?
bernstein		It makes sense; Hunt worked for the C.I.A. and the White House was paranoid about Teddy Kennedy.
bernstein		Yes, ma'am.
librarian		You want all the material requested by the White House?
librarian		All White House transactions are confidential.
woodward		You think they are confidential? I don't know anything about how this town works, I haven't lived here a year yet.
bernstein		We need a sympathetic face.
young clerk		You want every request since when?
bernstein		 When did Hunt start at the White House?
bernstein		About the past year.
clerk		 I'm not sure you want 'em, but I got 'em.
clerk		I can't believe you guys are actually doing this.
bernstein		That was fun.  What now?
woodward		I met a Presidential aide once at a social occasion.
bernstein		 And you haven't called him?--
rosenfeld		 OK, we'll leave space for the White House denial and we should be set.
rosenfeld		Benjy, we got a present for you. Above the fold on page one for sure. It may not change our lives one way or the other. Just a good, solid piece of American Journalism--  --that The New York Times doesn't have.
bradlee		You haven't got it.  Not good enough.
woodward		I was told by this guy at the White House that Hunt was investigating Teddy Kennedy.
bradlee		How senior?
woodward		 You asking me to disclose my source?
bradlee		Just tell me his title.
woodward		I don't know titles.
bradlee		Is he on the level of Assistant to the President or not?
bradlee		Get some harder information next time.
deep throat		I saw the flag signal--what's up?
woodward		Nothing, that's the problem--the story's gone underground.
deep throat		You thought I'd help out on specifics?  How much?
woodward		I don't know maybe sixteen, eighteen hours a day--we've got sources at Justice, the FBI, but it's still drying up.
deep throat		Then there must be something, mustn't there. Look, forget the myths the media's created about the White House-- the truth is, these are not very bright guys, and things got out of hand.
woodward		If you don't like them, why won't you be more concrete with me?
deep throat		Because the press stinks too--history on the run, that's all you're interested in.  You come up with anything?
woodward		John Mitchell resigned as head of CREEP to spend more time with his family. That doesn't exactly have the ring of truth.  Howard Hunt's been found--there was talk that his lawyer had 25 thousand in cash in a paper bag.
deep throat		Follow the money. Always follow the money.
woodward		To where?
deep throat		 Go on.
woodward		This man Gordon Liddy--he's going to be tried along with Hunt and the five burglars--we know he knows a lot, we just don't know what.
deep throat		 You changed cabs? You're sure no one followed you?
woodward		I did everything you said, but it all seemed--
deep throat		--melodramatic?  Things are past that--remember, these are men with switchblade mentalities who run the world as if it were Dodge City.
woodward		What's the whole thing about--do you know?
deep throat		What I know, you'll have to find out on your own.
woodward		Liddy--you think there's a chance he'll talk?
deep throat		Talk? Once, at a gathering, he put his hand over a candle. And he kept it there. He kept it right in the flame until his flesh seared. A woman who was watching asked, "What's the trick?" And he replied. "The trick is not minding."
bernstein		What's that?
woodward		The fucking New York Times.
bernstein		Goddamnit--
woodward		--see?--
bernstein		--I'm trying--
woodward		--fifteen phone calls--
bernstein		---fifteen or more phone calls from the burglars in Miami to Gordon Liddy at CREEP--
woodward		Why didn't we get that?
bernstein		Christ, and I even know somebody at the phone company--
woodward		--you do?--with access to records?
bernstein		Why couldn't you have just dialed me from the office, Irwin?
irwin		'Cause I'm not calling out from the phone company anymore--  --I think the place is bugged.
bernstein		 So tell me about the Times article.
irwin		What do you want to know?
bernstein		No games, Irwin; give.
irwin		 What're you onto?
bernstein		Something maybe big.
irwin		And that makes anything you do OK, is that it?
bernstein		Just tell me about the goddamn article.
irwin		 It was accurate, but I can't get a fuller listing for you--all Barker's phone records have been subpoenaed.
bernstein		Who by?
irwin		A Miami D.A. The guy doing the investigating is named Martin Dardis. 
bernstein		Irwin? I really feel bad, doing something like this--you know that, don't you?
irwin		Don't give me any more of your liberal shit, OK, Carl?
bernstein		Harry, I just talked to a Miami investigator about Barker--
rosenfeld		--so?
bernstein		I think it might be helpful if you'd send me to Miami.
rosenfeld		I'm the one sent you to Toronto, Bernstein--
bernstein		 --that was awhile ago--
rosenfeld		--"I think it might be helpful if you'd send me to Toronto." That was your spiel then. "The Lifestyles of Deserters."  I'm still waiting for it.
bernstein		Down to Miami and back--how much damage can I do?
rosenfeld		You're the fella who forgot he rented a Hertz car, do I have to tell you they didn't forget to send us the bill?
rosenfeld		I can predict the next words you're gonna say: "anyone but Bernstein."  I want to send a reporter to Miami.
simons		Anyone but Bernstein.
rosenfeld		Howard--
simons		--remember Toronto, Harry.
rosenfeld		That was awhile ago.
simons		I don't get it--you were the one who wanted to fire him.
rosenfeld		I know, I did, but damnit Howard--  For the first time since I've known him, I think he's really humping...
bernstein		 Oh...
bernstein		Hannah, I never would have bothered you but I'm off to Miami and they're gonna take away my ten speed unless I get it straightened out fast.
hannah		 Where are your bills, Carl?
bernstein		Oh, they're here. 
hannah		 You'd give a stranger the shirt off your back--except it wouldn't be paid for.
bernstein		Hey... very tense.
hannah		 How much did the damn bike cost?
bernstein		Five hundred; six maybe.
hannah		 You're two months behind--you got enough to cover?
bernstein		I think.
hannah		Give me your checkbook then.
bernstein		It's right under that pile.
hannah		I thought you had to get to Miami.
bernstein		There's always a later plane.
hannah		You're a sex junkie, you know that, Carl?
bernstein		Nobody's perfect.  I'm glad you're out of it, Hannah-- you're a terrific reporter and I turned you into a bookkeeper.
hannah		Aw baby, you can get it up... I just wonder if you'll ever be able to get it together.
bernstein		Hi, it's me. I'm still here.
secretary		 I'm so glad.
bernstein		I'd really like to see Mr. Dardis.
secretary		And you will.  But not now.
bernstein		I called him from Washington. He's the one who asked me to be here at eleven in the morning.
secretary		I told you, he had to go out on a case.
uniformed cop		Is it OK to go on back?
bernstein		Could you reach Mr. Dardis by car radio?
secretary		He is not in the car.  Sorry.
second cop		Hey, babe.
bernstein		Mr. Dardis does call in every so often?
secretary		Well of course.
bernstein		 Good. Just tell him I was here, that I'm sorry I missed him--
bernstein		Mr. Dardis' office, please.
secretary		Mr. Dardis' office.
bernstein		This is Mr. Tomlinson in the clerk's office. Could you come across the hall for a moment? We've got some documents your boss probably should see.
bernstein		Carl Bernstein's here to see you--I don't know why, but he seems angry--
bernstein		 Look, you've been jerking my chain all day. If there's some reason you can't talk to me--like the fact that you've already leaked everything to The New York Times--just say so.
dardis		Listen, I've got a dinner--can't we do this tomorrow?
bernstein		 I'm on deadline.
dardis		You want Barker's phone stuff or his money stuff?
bernstein		Whatever.
dardis		I'll never get out of here in time.
bernstein		 The telephone calls... we know about that.
dardis		The rest is Barker's bank records. It's mostly the eighty-nine thousand in Mexican cashier's checks--
bernstein		--yeah, that was in The Times this morning.
bernstein		 What's this Dahlberg check?
dardis' voice		That the twenty-five grand one?-- Don't know--
dardis		I never could figure just who this Dahlberg was.  Think it might be anything?
bernstein		 Naw...
bernstein		--Woodward--Woodward, listen, I don't know what I got--  --but somewhere there's a Kenneth H. Dahlberg in this world and we've gotta find him--
researcher		Were you after the Dahlberg articles from the files?  There aren't any, sorry.
woodward		Whazzis?
researcher		 Our Dahlberg file.
rosenfeld		--Woodward's talking to him know.
woodward		--this should take only a minute, Mr. Dahlberg, but we're doing a follow- up on the break-in--  --and I was kind of curious about your check.
woodward		The twenty-five thousand dollar one.  Bernard Barker, the Watergate burglar--
woodward		Yes, sir.
woodward		I see. And how do you think it reached Miami?
woodward		 That checks out with our finding, thank you, Mr. Dahlberg.
rosenfeld		CREEP financed the Watergate break- in, Jesus Christ.
woodward		One sec'--
simons		--OK, last go-round. Foreign, anything else?
simons		 National?
national editor		I'll stand with the Eagleton follow- ups and McGovern not being able to get a replacement--that's your page one stuff right there, Howard--
simons		--Metropolitan?--
rosenfeld		--you are ignoring the importance of the Dahlberg repercussions--
national editor		--nobody gives a shit about the Dahlberg repercussions--
rosenfeld		 --our story got Government Accounting to start an audit on CREEP's finances--
bradlee		--and we printed that, didn't we, Harry? And when the frigging audit's done, we'll print that too--
national editor		--let me tell what happened when I was having lunch today at the Sans Souci--
rosenfeld		--correction--when you were drinking your lunch at the bar of the Sans Souci--
national editor		--this White House guy, a good one, a pro, came up and asked what is this Watergate compulsion with you guys and I said, well, we think it's important and he said, if it's so goddamn important, who the hell are Woodward and Bernstein?
rosenfeld		Ask him what he's really saying--he means take the story away from Woodstein and give it to his people at the National Desk--
national editor		--well, I've got some pretty experienced fellas sitting around, wouldn't you say so?--
rosenfeld		--absolutely--and that's all they do, sit sit sit--every once in a while, they call up a Senator, some reporting--
national editor		--well, what if your boys get it wrong--
bradlee		 Then it's our asses, isn't it?
simons		 And we'll all have to go to work for a living.
foreign editor		I don't think either Metropolitan or National should cover the story.  I don't think we should cover the story, period.
bradlee		Go on.
foreign editor		It's not that we're using unnamed sources that bothers me, or that everything we print the White House denies, or that almost no other papers are reprinting our stuff.
simons		What then?
foreign editor		I don't believe the goddamn story, Howard, it doesn't make sense.
bradlee		It will, it just hasn't bottomed out yet, give it time.
foreign editor		Ben, Jesus, there are over two thousand reporters in this town, are there five on Watergate? Where did we suddenly get all this wisdom?
foreign editor		Look--why would the Republicans do it? --my God, McGovern is self- destructing before our eyes--just like Muskie did, Humphrey, the bunch of 'em.  Why would the burglars have put the tape around the door instead of up and down unless they wanted to get caught? Why did they take a walkie- talkie and then turn it off, unless they wanted to get caught? Why would they use McCord--the only direct contact to the Republicans?
bradlee		You saying the Democrats bugged themselves?
foreign editor		The FBI thinks it's possible--the Democrats need a campaign issue, corruption's always a good one.  Get off the story, Ben--or put some people on McGovern's finances; fair is fair, even in our business.
union guy		 What'd'ya think?
union guy		 Big fuckin' cookie jar.
bernstein		 This is practically a high school reunion for us, Jane--I would have sprung for a classier place.
jane		Anyplace really public, they'd know about it--they know everything at the Committee, Carl--
bernstein		--you don't really think you're being followed?
jane		This girlfriend of mine at the Committee, the other day she went back to the D.A. to tell the things the FBI didn't ask her. That night, her boss, he knew what she'd done. They control everything; that's how they know it all.
bernstein		FBI too?
jane		You don't believe me? Well, I was working the weekend of the break-in and my God, all the executives were running around like crazy--you had to practically wait in line to use the shredding machine--and when the FBI came to investigate, they never even asked me about it.
bernstein		If you don't like it down there, why don't you quit?
jane		I don't know what they'd do to me.
bernstein		 Hey, easy...
jane		 ...and I'm scared.
bernstein		 I can help if you'll--
clerk		We have no one by the name of Mitchell registered.
woodward		My mistake, sorry.
woodward		Get me John Mitchell, it's urgent.
woodward		Can I speak to Martha Mitchell, please.
woodward		I've met Mrs. Mitchell in Washington, I'm Bob Woodward of the Post and tell her--
first maid		We'll be back after lunch.
black man		 We'll be here.
second maid		I think they went out.
woodward		 I don't mind waiting.
bernstein		 Get anything?
woodward		For the paper, no; for us, plenty.  I waited a long time and finally this big guy--I guess a bodyguard-- he left and I knocked and she remembered me, we talked awhile.
bernstein		And?--And?--
woodward		 --she was panicked, Carl--every time I mentioned Watergate, you could tell.
bernstein		Were you eyebrow reading?
woodward		 It was there. I just don't get it; a CREEP secretary being scared, that's one thing. But what does the wife of one of the most powerful men in America have to be afraid of...?
bernstein		Left up ahead.
woodward		Who's first?
bernstein		Alphabetically, on the CREEP phone list, Miss Helen Abbott of South George Street.
bernstein		Now hang your second right--  --this was my turf when I was a kid.
bernstein		I don't get it... this really was my turf...
woodward		 You're not a kid anymore.
bernstein		 Just wanted you to know I've done dumber things than get us lost, that's all.
woodward		Hi. I'm Bob Woodward of the Washington Post and I hate to bother you at home--
woodward		No, I'm a reporter. I wanted to talk to you about the Committee to Re- Elect.
woodward		You work there, Miss Abbott.
woodward		Miss Abbott?
miss abbott		Yes?
woodward		We're from the Washington Post and we wanted to ask you some questions about the Committee.
miss abbott		I'm sorry--
old man		--go--you've got to go before they see you--please--
old woman		--no... good...
bernstein		You had the Mighty Mo and the fries without gravy, right? 
woodward		This is terrific work, if you like rejection.
bernstein		I never scared anyone before.
woodward		It's not us, they were scared before we got there.  What do we know?
bernstein		Facts or theory?
woodward		Anything you've got.
bernstein		We know there's got to be something or they wouldn't be so panicked.
woodward		And that something's got to be more than just Hunt, Liddy, and the five burglars--those indictments are gonna be bullshit when they come down. What else do we know?
bernstein		I just wish we knew when someone would talk to us, that's all.
woodward		A friend at the Committee told us to contact you--
woman		--who was it?
bernstein		We never reveal our sources, which is why you can talk to us.
woodward		It's safe, try it, you'll see.
bernstein		We understand your problem--
woodward		--you believe in the President, you wouldn't ever want to do anything disloyal.
bernstein		We appreciate your position--really.
woman		You people--you think that you can come into someone's life, squeeze what you want, then get out.  --do you like scaring the life out of decent people?--'cause if you don't, in the name of God--stop it!
woodward		At Yale once, they held an auction. There was this woman and her name was Lulu Landis. Her postcards came up for sale. She had 1400 postcards written to her and I'd never heard of her before but I knew I had to have those cards, I had to know why anyone would get so many messages. I paid sixty-five dollars for them... I got all crazy trying to work it out and first it was just a maze but then I found that her husband killed himself in Dayton, and once I had that, it all began to open, an evangelist had come to Dayton and his horses hit Lulu Landis at the corner of 13th and Vermillion and she was paralyzed. Permanently, and her favorite thing til then had been traveling and all her friends, whenever they went anyplace, they wrote her. Those cards, they were her eyes...
woodward		Democrats?
bernstein		I hate both parties.
woodward		And I'm a Republican.
bernstein		 Republican?
woodward		Sure.
bernstein		Who'd you vote for?
woodward		When?
woodward		Nixon.
younger man		--oh, don't worry, Gordon Liddy will be happy to take the fall for everyone because, well, it's not that Gordon's crazy, he's...  ...weird. I'll give you some Committee people who know about him--only don't tell it was me--
younger woman		--of course we were briefed on what to say--and never to volunteer anything--
old woman		--oh, we were never alone with the FBI, there was always someone from the Committee right there--
nixon		...No one in this administration, presently employed, was involved in this very bizarre incident...
nixon		...What really hurts in matters of this sort is not the fact that they occur, because overzealous people in campaigns do things that are wrong. What really hurts is if you try to cover it up.
woodward		Did he just say what I think he said?
bernstein		You voted for him.
bernstein		Hi, I'm Carl Bernstein of the Washington Post and--
woman		--oh, you don't want me, you want my sister.  For you.
bookkeeper's sister		This here is Carl Bernstein--
bookkeeper		--omigod, you're from that place, you've got to go.
bernstein		Could I bum one of your cigarettes?--
bernstein		--don't bother, I'll get it.
bookkeeper		You've really got to go.
bernstein		Just let me get a match.
bernstein		But I want you to know that I understand why you're afraid--a lot of good people down there at the Committee are afraid. I'm really sorry for what you're being put through.
bookkeeper		All those articles you people write-- where do you find that stuff?
bernstein		We don't tell anyone that. Which is why you can talk to us. And if we can't verify what you say someplace else, we don't print it. That's another reason you can relax.
bookkeeper		 I'm relaxed--light your cigarette.
bernstein		You were Hugh Sloan's bookkeeper when he worked for Maurice Stans at Finance, and we were sort of wondering, did you go work for Stans immediately after Sloan quit or was there a time lapse?
bookkeeper		I never worked for Sloan or Stans.
bookkeeper's sister		 Would you like some coffee or anything?
bernstein		 Can I sit down for a minute?
bookkeeper		One minute but then--
bernstein		--right, right, I've got to go.  Why did you lie just then?
bernstein		I was just curious--you don't do it well, so I wondered. Have you been threatened, if you told the truth, is that it?
bookkeeper		...No... never in so many words...
bernstein		 It's obvious you want to talk to someone--well, I'm someone.
bernstein		I'm not even going to put your name down. It's just so I can keep things straight.  Start with the money, why don't you?
bookkeeper's sister		 How do you like it?
bernstein		Everything, please.
bookkeeper's sister		 I won't be a minute.
bernstein		 The General Accounting report said there was a 350 thousand cash slush fund in Stans' safe. Did you know about that from the beginning?
bookkeeper		 There are too many people watching me--they know I know a lot--
bernstein		--it was all in hundreds, wasn't it?
bookkeeper		A lot of it was. I just thought it was sort of an all-purpose political fund--you know, for taking fat cats to dinner, things like that.
bernstein		Could buy a lot of steaks, 350,000 dollars.
bookkeeper		 I can't be positive that it was used for the break-in but people sure are worried.
bernstein		Which people?
bookkeeper		The ones who could disburse the money.
bernstein		Who were they?
bookkeeper		There were a group of them--I think five, I don't know their names.
bernstein		Sloan knew which five, didn't he? 
bookkeeper's sister		 Here we are.
bookkeeper		I don't want to say anymore.
bernstein		 --and you haven't finished telling me about the money--
bookkeeper		 --omigod, there was so much of it, six million came in one two-day period-- six million cash, we couldn't find enough places to put it. I thought it was all legal, I guess I did, til after the break-in, when I remembered Gordon got so much of it.
bernstein		 Gordon Liddy, you mean?
bookkeeper		 ...It's all so rotten... and getting worse... and all I care about is Hugh Sloan. His wife was going to leave him if he didn't stand up and do what was right. And he quit. He quit because he saw it and didn't want any part of it.
bernstein		Think Sloan's being set up as a fall guy for John Mitchell? Sometimes it looks that way.
bookkeeper		If you guys... if you guys could just get John Mitchell... that would be beautiful...
bernstein		I  couldn't believe what she told me. Eight cups of coffee worth.
woodward		Go on, go on--
bernstein		--we've got to find out who the five guys are--the five with access to the slush fund--they were aware of the break-in.
woodward		Then tomorrow's grand jury indictments will just be bullshit.
bernstein		It goes very high--we've got to find out where--
woodward		--we will--
bernstein		--she was really paranoid, the bookkeeper.
woodward		That happens to people.  OK, go on.
bernstein		How do you want to handle Sloan?
woodward		You mean, who's going to play the mean M.P. and who's going to be the nice one?  Whichever.
bernstein		He's another Ivy Leaguer so he'll probably expect you to be understanding--might surprise him if you're not.
woodward		You want me to be the bastard.
bernstein		 And I'll just shitkick in my usual way.
woodward		To see Mr. Sloan.
bernstein		 This must be a difficult time for the both of you.
woodward		That's why we wanted to see your husband.
bernstein		 Maybe you could put in a good word.
woodward		We've got another appointment tonight in this area--we'll just stop back later, all right?
woodward		Think Sloan's back?  What's wrong?
bernstein		Nothing--I just found out that Jeb Magruder from CREEP is a bigger bike freak than I am.  I never like it when the other guy's human...
woodward		Mr. Sloan?
sloan		 As you know, I haven't talked to the press.
bernstein		We were hoping that maybe now you could. We know why you left the Committee. We know you're not guilty of anything. But we know you know who is--
sloan		--look, come in. We'll have to be quiet--my wife's asleep.
sloan		I'd like to talk to you, I really would, but my lawyers say I shouldn't until after the Watergate trial.
woodward		You handed out the money. Maybe there's a legitimate explanation for the way it was done--
bernstein		--then again, maybe things are even worse than we've written--
sloan		--they're worse. That's why I quit.
sloan		Try and understand this. I'm a decent Republican. I believe in Richard Nixon. I worked in the White House four years--so did my wife. What happened on June 17 I don't think the President knew anything about. Some of his men I'm not so sure of.
bernstein		Do you think the truth will come out at the trial?
sloan		That's another of the things I'm not so sure of.
bernstein		Because people at the Committee were told to lie to the prosecutors?
sloan		We were never told flat out "Don't talk." But the message was clear.
bernstein		To cover up?
sloan		Well, they sure didn't ask us to come forward and tell the truth.
woodward		Does "they" mean the White House?
sloan		As opposed to the Committee? The Committee's not an independent operation. Everything is cleared with the White House. I don't think that the FBI or the prosecutors understand that.
woodward		The report on the cash in Maurice Stans' safe, the three hundred fifty thousand, that's true?
sloan		No. It was closer to seven hundred thousand.
woodward		And as treasurer, you could release those funds?
sloan		 When so ordered.
woodward		We're not sure we've got all the guys who could order you, but we know there were five. 
bernstein		 Mitchell, Stans, Magruder, they're obvious--
woodward		--there had to be a White House overseer--
bernstein		--Colson.
sloan		Colson's too smart to get directly involved with something like that.
woodward		 Right?
sloan		I won't talk about the other two.
bernstein		But they both worked at the White House?
sloan		 I will not talk about the other two.
bernstein		 Kalmbach--Nixon's personal lawyer.
sloan		I can't say anything, I'm sorry. 
woodward		One thing I'm not completely clear on--when you gave out the money to Liddy, how did that work?
sloan		Badly.  You don't realize how close all this came to staying undiscovered--I gave Liddy the Dahlberg check and he gave it to Barker who took it to Miami and deposited it.
bernstein		Right.
sloan		Then Barker withdrew the 25 thousand in hundred dollar bills and gave it back to Liddy who gave it back to me and I put it in the office safe which was crammed.
woodward		Go on.
sloan		Well, when Liddy came and asked for money for what turned out to be the break-in funds, I went to the safe and gave him--out of this whole fortune--I happened to give him the same hundreds he gave me--banks have to keep track of hundreds. If the money had been in fifties, or if I'd grabbed a different stack, there probably wouldn't have been any Watergate story.
bernstein		Ordinarily, though, what was the procedure?
sloan		Routine--I'd just call John Mitchell over at the Justice Department and he'd say "go ahead, give out the money."
bernstein		What happens when the baby comes?
sloan		We're moving.  I've been looking for a job but it's been... hard. My name's been in the papers too much. Sometimes I wonder if reporters understand how much pain they can inflict in just one sentence. I'm not thinking of myself. But my wife, my parents, it's been very rough on them.
sloan		I wish I could put down on paper what it's like--you come to Washington because you believe in something, and then you get inside and you see how things actually work and you watch your ideals disintegrate.  The people inside, the people in the White House, they start to believe they can suspend the rules because they're fulfilling a mission. That becomes the only important thing-- the mission. It's so easy to lose perspective. We want to get out before we lose ours altogether.
bernstein		Look--five men controlled that slush fund as CREEP--three of them we've got, Mitchell, Stans, Magruder, and we're pretty sure of Kalmbach.
woodward		We'd like to wait til we have all five before we print it.
bradlee		This is a daily paper, we'll explain it tomorrow.  You're certain on Mitchell?
woodward		He approved the payments to Liddy while he was still Attorney General--
rosenfeld		--you got more than one source?--
bernstein		--yes--
simons		--has any of them got an ax?--
rosenfeld		--political, personal, sexual, anything at all against Mitchell?--
woodward		--no--
simons		--can we use their names?--
bernstein		--no--
bradlee		--goddamnit, when's somebody gonna go on the record on this story--
rosenfeld		--who you got?--
woodward		--well, Sloan--
bernstein		--and we got a guy in Justice--
bradlee		--Deep Throat?--
woodward		--I saw him. He verifies.
bradlee		OK.  Just be right, huh?
bradlee		Leave plenty of room for his denial.
bernstein		John Mitchell, please.
bernstein		Sir, this is Carl Bernstein of the Washington Post, and I'm sorry to bother you but we're running a story in tomorrow's paper that we thought you should have a chance to comment on.
bernstein		 John N. Mitchell, while serving as US Attorney General, personally controlled a secret cash fund that--
bernstein		--fund that was used to gather information against the Democrats--
bernstein		--according to sources involved in the Watergate investigation. Beginning in the spring of 1971--
bernstein		--almost a year before he left the Justice Department--
bernstein		--to become President Nixon's campaign manager on March 1, Mitchell personally approved withdrawals from the fund--
bernstein		Sir, I'd like to ask you a few--
bernstein		Night.
bradlee		He really made that remark about Mrs. Graham?  This is a family newspaper--cut the words "her tit" and run it.
bradlee		Once when I was reporting, Lyndon Johnson's top guy gave me the word they were looking for a successor to J. Edgar Hoover. I wrote it and the day it appeared Johnson called a press conference and appointed Hoover head of the FBI for life... And when he was done, he turned to his top guy and the President said, "Call Ben Bradlee and tell him fuck you."  --I screwed up but I wasn't wrong.
bradlee		You guys haven't been wrong yet, is that why you're scared shitless?  You should be...
senator		Although I am a Republican, I would like to state in a pure bipartisan spirit that I feel only sadness that a once fine journal of record like the Post would have become merely the hysterical spokesman for the equally hysterical left wing of the Democratic Party--
simons		 Same kind of crap--
bradlee		 --all non-denial denials--we're dirty guys and they doubt we were ever virgins but they don't say the story is inaccurate.
bernstein		What's a real denial?
bradlee		If they ever start calling us goddamn liars--  --it's time to start circling the wagons.
woodward		What do you think Mrs. Graham wants to see me for?
simons		Maybe to fire you--since you two started on this story, the Post stock has dropped, what, 50 percent?  And the word is some Nixon people are challenging her TV licenses. I'm not saying she's going on relief, but I don't think it's unreasonable for her to want to meet you.
woodward		You think she wants us to ease up on the story?
simons		 I don't know, but I don't think that's unreasonable either, do you?
woodward		--I'm Woodward.
woodward		I think so.
woodward		No.
woodward		It may never come out.
woodward		Some Justice Department lawyers and an FBI man, and some people from the Committee to Re-Elect, yes ma'am.
woodward		I couldn't say.
woodward		 It is.
woodward		 I would, if you really ever wanted to know.
woodward		Nobody ever had too much.
woodward		What?
bradlee		I thought you guys were supposed to be working on this story--  --you think I like being aced out?
bernstein		--what?--
woodward		--The L.A. Times has a huge interview with Baldwin--
bernstein		--the lookout in the Motor Inn?--  --he say anything we don't know?--
woodward		 --just that a lot of reports were sent to CREEP, but he doesn't name who, not here anyway--
bradlee		--it would have been nice to have had this, I sure would have liked to have had this--
bernstein		--there's nothing new in it--
bradlee		--it makes the break-in real--it's a major goddamn story--  --I'm not going to kick ass over this, but I'd like you to know I hate getting beat, I just hate it-- don't forget that I hate it--
bernstein		Goddamnit--
woodward		--shit--
bernstein		--we gotta top the Times--
woodward		--I know, I know--
bernstein		--if we could name the guys got the reports, we'd be ahead again--
woodward		--shit, who do we know?--
bernstein		--I know a lawyer at Justice--
woodward		--has he got an ax?--
bernstein		--almost every source we've used has been Republican, this guy's a card- carrying Democrat.
woodward		Then he's got an ax.  Call him anyway.
bernstein		--I want you to shut up and listen to me--
woodward		--I haven't said anything--
bernstein		--for the first time I'm beginning to feel like a fucking reporter-- Woodward, I got a tip. A guy called me up with a tip--  --someone named Donald Segretti contacted a bunch of lawyers and asked them if they'd like to go to work with him screwing up the Democrats, dirty tricks, shit like that. The FBI knows about Segretti-- Howard Hunt made a bunch of phone calls to him--they interrogated him, but on account of Segretti wasn't involved with the break-in, they didn't follow through. But Segretti did a lot of traveling--he called these lawyers from different places, and he told them the Republicans knew what he was doing.
woodward		How high up, which Republicans?
bernstein		That's what we've got to find out, but Segretti went to Southern Cal. and so did a bunch of Nixon men--
woodward		--Haldeman I know, who else?
bernstein		Dwight Chapin, Nixon's appointments chief--he knew Segretti in school. Maybe I'm crazy, but this is the first time any of this starts to make sense. What were the three theories?
woodward		The burglary was done by Cubans or Democrats or Republicans.
bernstein		Now the reason no one believed the Republicans is because there wasn't any reason, they were so far ahead. But Segretti was talking to these other lawyers a year before the break- in.
woodward		So maybe Watergate wasn't really about Watergate--maybe that was just a piece--
bernstein		--because a year before, the Republicans weren't ahead, not in the polls, Muskie was running ahead of Nixon then. Before he self- destructed.
woodward		If he self-destructed.
woodward		Segretti criss-crossed the country over ten times in six months--and never stayed anyplace over a night or two.  Switch to another station, huh? You're driving me crazy with that.
bernstein		Segovia begged me for me secret but I said, "No, Andres, you'll have to try and make it without me."
woodward		 Why does everything you play sound the same?
bernstein		--'cause I only know four chords--
segretti		That's right.
bernstein		I'm Carl Bernstein.  My paper sent me out to see if I couldn't persuade you to go on the record.
segretti		You can't.
bernstein		Mind if I try?
bernstein		According to what we've been able to verify, you've been busy.
segretti		I've got a lot of energy.
bernstein		Listen--we know you're involved in this--we're going to get the story, why not help?
segretti		They never told me anything except my own role--I had to find out the rest in the papers.
bernstein		By "they" you mean...?
bernstein		By "they" you mean the White House, don't you?  Your buddy from USC, Dwight Chapin-- he works for the White House.
segretti		I know where Dwight works.
bernstein		When did he hire you?
bernstein		Do you feel much about the things you did?
segretti		I didn't do anything wrong.
bernstein		Tell that to Muskie.
segretti		Oh, maybe nickel and dime stuff.
bernstein		During the Florida primary, you wrote a letter on Muskie stationery saying Scoop Jackson had a bastard child. You wrote another that said Hubert Humphrey was out with call girls.
segretti		Sometimes it got up to a quarter maybe--  --off the record.
bernstein		You wrote the Canuck letter--the one where you claimed Muskie slurred the Canadians.
segretti		I didn't.
bernstein		But you know who did.
segretti		When you guys print it in the paper, then I'll know.  I'm a lawyer, and I'll probably go to jail, and be disbarred, and what did I do that was so awful?
segretti		None of it was my idea, Carl--I didn't go looking for the job.
bernstein		Chapin did contact you then?
segretti		Sure--off the record.
bernstein		On the orders of Haldeman?
segretti		I don't know anything about Haldeman, except, Dwight's frightened of him-- everybody's frightened of him--Christ, I wish I'd never gotten messed around with this--all I wanna do is sit in the sun; sit, swim, see some girls.
bernstein		It gets interesting if it was Haldeman, because our word is that when Chapin says something, he's gotten the OK from Haldeman, and when Haldeman says something, he's gotten the OK from the President.
segretti		Can't help you.
bernstein		At USC, you had a word the this-- screwing up the opposition you all did it at college and called it ratfucking.  Ever wonder if Nixon might turn out to be the biggest ratfucker of them all?
segretti		What would you have done if you were just getting out of the Army, if you'd been away from the real world for four years, if you weren't sure what kind of law you wanted to practice, and then one day you got a call from an old friend asking you to go to work for the President of the United States...?
bernstein		What would you have done?
woodward		You asking would I have been one of the President's men?  I would have been.
deep throat		My turn to keep you waiting.  What's the topic for tonight?
woodward		Ratfucking.
deep throat		In my day, it was simply called the double cross. I believe the CIA refers to it as Mindfuck. In our context, it simply means infiltration of the Democrats.
woodward		I know what it means--Segretti wouldn't go on the record, but if he would, we know he'd implicate Chapin. And that would put us inside the White House.
deep throat		 Yes, the little ratfuckers are now running our government.
woodward		Who?--be specific. How high up?
deep throat		You'll have to find that out, won't you.
woodward		The slush fund at CREEP financed the ratfucking, we've almost got that nailed down, so--
woodward		What?
deep throat		Did you change cabs?  It didn't work, something moved there--
woodward		Who are you?
woodward		Here.  Forget your troubles and just be happy.
deep throat		 I hope you noticed how coolly I behaved under the threat of discovery.
woodward		 Do Justice and the FBI know what we know, and why the hell haven't they done anything about it?
deep throat		They know, but they focused on the burglary--if it didn't deal with the break-in, they didn't pursue it.
woodward		Why didn't they?--who told them not to?
deep throat		Someone with authority I'd imagine, wouldn't you?  Don't you know what you're onto? Come on.
woodward		Mitchell knew then.
deep throat		Of course--my God, you think something this big just happens? The break-in and the cover up, of course Mitchell knew, but no more than Ehrlichman.
woodward		Haldeman too?
deep throat		You get nothing from me about Haldeman?
woodward		Why did they do all this for Chrissakes?--what were they after?
deep throat		Total manipulation. I suppose you could say they wanted to subvert the Constitution, but they don't think along philosophical lines.
woodward		Talk about Segretti--
deep throat		--don't concentrate on Segretti or you'll miss the overall scheme too.
woodward		There were more then.
deep throat		Follow every lead--every lead goes somewhere--
woodward		--the Canuck letter--was that a White House operation--
deep throat		 --don't you miss the grand scheme too.
woodward		How grand?
deep throat		Nationwide--my God, they were frightened of Muskie and look who got destroyed--they wanted to run against McGovern, and look who they're running against. They bugged, they followed people, false press leaks, fake letters, they canceled Democratic campaign rallies, they investigated Democratic private lives, they planted spies, stole documents, on and on-- don't tell me you think this was all the work of little Don Segretti.
woodward		And Justice and FBI know all this?
deep throat		Yes, yes, everything. There were over fifty people employed by the White House and CREEP to ratfuck-- some of what they did is beyond belief.
woodward		 Fifty ratfuckers directed by the White House to destroy the Democrats?
deep throat		I was being cautious.  You can safely say more then fifty...
berger		Do you guys know about the Canuck letter?
bernstein		 Why?
berger		I just wanted to be sure you knew who wrote it.
bernstein		 Tell him what you just told me.
berger		Just than Ken Clawsen--he used to be a reporter here before he went to work for Nixon--I had him over for a drink a few weeks ago and he told me he wrote the Canuck letter.  You did want to know, didn't you?
bernstein		You think we're being set up?--Christ, Deep Throat tells you last night that the letter came from inside the White House and up traipses Marilyn naming names.
woodward		It makes a crazy kind of sense-- remember that initiation rite they have at the White House? Each new member of the President's staff has to prove his guts by getting an enemy of Nixon.
bernstein		You think this was Clawsen's initiation?
woodward		Could have won him a fraternity paddle with a White House seal.  God knows it worked.
woodward		She's an awfully good reporter--I can't remember her getting too much wrong before, can you?
woodward		Sorry, Ken; listen, one last thing: where did your talk with Berger happen?
woodward		Well, was it in a bar, her apartment, some restaurant--
woodward		Non denial-denial, Marilyn--
berger		I already told them.
berger		I have a clear conscience.
bradlee		I got Clawsen on hold--
woodward		--his dialing finger must be falling off--
bradlee		--what do you think?--
woodward		--he went to her apartment and he told her--
bernstein		--if he did it or just said he did it, God knows.
bradlee		I could care less about where it happened; what happened is what counts.  Ken, I would never print that you were in Marilyn's apartment at night-- unless, of course, you force me to.
bradlee		It's like they taught us at Harvard: few things are as gratifying to the soul as having another man's nuts in a vise...
western senator		--although I am a Republican, I would like to state in a pure bipartisan spirit that I am happy that this latest onslaught against the intelligence of the American people will be wrapping fish tomorrow. I offer my condolences to the fish...
rosenfeld		Speak.
bernstein		We've just been talking to Young--
simons		--which Young?
woodward		Larry Young, a California lawyer--
bernstein		--he was going to go into law practice with Segretti.
rosenfeld		And?--
woodward		--and he says Chapin hired Segretti--
simons		--well and good, but when will he say it on the record.
woodward		He just did.
bernstein		He'll give us a sworn statement.
woodward		We're inside the White House now.
bradlee		Look, I wanted to talk because things are getting really hairy and there's a couple of things we've got to be careful of because--
bradlee		--either of you want a drink or should I order?--  --because--
bradlee		--because our cocks are on the chopping block and you've got to be sure that you're not just dealing with people who hate Richard Nixon and want to get him through us. You see, I don't give a shit who's President--I really don't, it's an adversary situation between them and us and it's always gonna be. I never had a closer friend than Jack Kennedy and once I printed something that pissed him off and for seven months I didn't exist.
man		You none of you know who I am, do you?  You screw me up good, you don't even know what I look like.
bradlee		OK, you've had your preamble; who the hell are you?
man		Glenn Sedam--you wrote about me last week, you said I was one of the guys at the Committee who was sent reports. You were wrong.
bernstein		Baldwin told the FBI it was you.
sedam		Baldwin told the FBI it was someone whose first name sounded like a last name. They showed him a list and he picked me but it wasn't me, it was Gordon Liddy.  My phone hasn't stopped ringing, my wife's hysterical, my kids think I'm mixed up with the burglary, my friends don't like me around all of a sudden.
sedam		You fucked around my life, you two.  I just wanted to say thanks.
bradlee		That didn't sound to me like a non- denial denial; could you have been wrong? 
bradlee		All right, you made a mistake maybe, we all have, just don't make another. And watch your personal lives, who you hang around with. Someone once said the price of democracy is a bloodletting every ten years.  Make sure it isn't our blood...
sloan		I really can't talk now--
bernstein		--this'll only take one second--
sloan		--my wife just had the baby, my in- laws are arriving, I'm trying to get the house in some kind of shape.
woodward		A boy or a girl?
sloan		A girl. Melissa.
woodward		 Where does this go?
woodward		--That cash fund that financed the sabotaging of the Democrats--five guys had control--
bernstein		 --Mitchell, Stans, Magruder, Kalmbach--
woodward		--we're working on the last guy now and we're going all the way--that fifth man was Haldeman.
sloan		--I'm not your source on that--
bernstein		--it's gotta be Haldeman--someone from the White House had to be involved--
woodward		--and it wasn't Ehrlichman or Colson or the President.
sloan		No, none of those.
bernstein		--that leaves Haldeman, period.
sloan		I'm not your source on that.
woodward		 --look, when the Watergate grand jury questioned you, did you name names?
sloan		Of course--everything they asked--
bernstein		--if we wrote a story that said Haldeman controlled the fund?--
sloan		--let me put it this way: I'd have no problem if you did.
woodward		I think that's him.
bernstein		Who?
woodward		Haldeman.
bernstein		Nah.  Maybe.
woodward		What if I went up and introduced myself--think he'd slug me?
bernstein		Well, we are trying to ruin his life.
woodward		It's nothing personal, though. 
bernstein		What's the matter?
woodward		Same as Magruder, I don't like it when they turn out to be human.
bernstein		 I wish we were investigating Attila the Hun.
woodward		Maybe we are...
pudgy man		--Goddamnit, I'm not gonna say it again--you get nothing about Haldeman outta me--
woodward		--we don't need it now, because tomorrow's story is about the FBI--
bernstein		--about how all you supposed experts really blew the whole investigation--
fbi guy		 --we didn't miss so much--
woodward		--you never knew Haldeman had control of the slush fund--
fbi guy		--it's all in our files--
bernstein		--not about Haldeman--
fbi guy		--yeah, Haldeman, John Haldeman.
bernstein		--Jesus--
woodward		--he said John Haldeman, not Bob Haldeman--
bradlee		 --I don't know, I don't know, it feels thin--
simons		--Christ, I wish I knew if we should print this--
rosenfeld		--listen, we didn't make them do these things--once they did, it's our job to report it--
simons		 --go over your sources again--
woodward		--Sloan told the Grand Jury--he answered everything they asked him-- that means there's a record somewhere--
bernstein		--and the FBI confirms--what more do you need?--
rosenfeld		 --listen, I love this country, you think I want to bring it down?--I'm not some goddamn zany, I was a hawk--
simons		--Harry, weren't you just arguing the opposite way?--
rosenfeld		--maybe I'm tense--
bradlee		--well shit, we oughtta be tense-- we're about to accuse Mr. Haldeman who only happens to be the second most important man in America of conducting a criminal conspiracy from inside the White House--  --it would be nice if we were right--
simons		 --you double-checked both sources?--
bradlee		--Bernstein, are you sure on this story?
bernstein		Absolutely--
bradlee		 --what about you?--
woodward		--I'm sure--
bradlee		--I'm not sure, it still feels thin-- 
simons		 --get another source.
bernstein		How many fucking sources they think we got?--
woodward		--Deep Throat won't confirm--I never thought he was scared of anyone, but he's scared of Haldeman.
bernstein		I know a guy in the Justice Department who was around the Grand Jury. 
woodward		--We got twenty minutes to deadline--
bernstein		Will you confirm that Haldeman was mentioned by Sloan to the Grand Jury?
bernstein		 All right--listen--it's against the law if you talk about the Grand Jury, right? But you don't have to say a thing--I'll count to ten--if the story's wrong, hang up before I get there--if it's OK stay on the line till after, got it?
bernstein		Right, right--OK, counting: one, two--  --nine, ten, thank you.
bernstein		 Yeah!
bradlee		Woodstein!
schorr		Mr. Sloan, would you care to comment on your testimony before the Grand Jury.
sloan		My lawyer says--
sloan's lawyer		--the answer is an unequivocal no. Mr. Sloan did not implicate Mr. Haldeman in that testimony at all.
fbi man		--I'll deny everything--everything-- I never talked to you about Haldeman-- I never talked to you about anything-- I'm not talking to you now--
bernstein		--what went wrong?--
woodward		--for Chrissakes just tell that--
bernstein		 Woodward?
woodward		Hmm?
bernstein		What was the mistake? Do you think it's been rigged, all along the way, leading us on so they could slip it to us when it mattered? They couldn't have set us up better; after all these months our credibility's gone, you know what that means?
woodward		 Only everything...
simons		 More denunciations?
rosenfeld		 One Senator just gave a speech slurring us 57 times in 20 minutes.
simons		What's this?
bradlee		My non-denial denial.
rosenfeld		We're not printing a retraction?
bradlee		Fuck it, let's stand by the boys.
woodward		Hello?
woodward		Jesus Christ, what time is it?
bernstein		You overslept?
woodward		Goddamnit!--
deep throat		--you were doing so well and then you got stupid, you went too fast-- Christ, what a royal screw up--
woodward		--I know, I know, the pressure's off the White House and it's all back on the Post--
deep throat		--you've done worse than let Haldeman slip away, you've got people feeling sorry for him--I didn't think that was possible. A conspiracy like this-- the rope has to tighten slowly around everyone's neck. You build from the outer edges and you go step by step. If you shoot too high and miss, then everybody feels more secure. You've put the investigation back months.
woodward		We know that--and if we were wrong, we're resigning--were we wrong?
deep throat		You'll have to find that out, won't you?--
woodward		--I'm tired of your chickenshit games-- I don't want hints, I want what you know!
deep throat		It was a Haldeman operation--the whole business--he ran the money, but he was insulated, you'll have to find out how--
deep throat		--wait--  --there's more...
woodward		We gotta go see Bradlee--I'll fill you in in the car.
bradlee		You couldn't have told me over the phone?
woodward		We can't trust the phones, not anymore. Deep Throat says so.
bradlee		We can't talk inside either?
woodward		 Electronic surveillance.
bernstein		I finally got through to Sloan--it was all a misunderstanding that we had: he would have told the Grand Jury about Haldeman, he was ready to, only nobody on the Grand Jury asked him the goddamn question.
woodward		So I guess you could say that we screwed up, but we weren't wrong.
bradlee		Anything else from Mr. Throat?
woodward		Mitchell started the cover-up early, everyone is involved in the cover- up, all the way to the top. The whole U.S. intelligence community is mixed in with the covert activities. The extent of it is incredible.  And people's lives are in danger, maybe including ours.
bradlee		He's wrong on that last, we're not in the least danger, because nobody gives a shit--what was that Gallup Poll result? Half the country's never even heard the word Watergate.
bradlee		Look, you're both probably a little tired, right?  Move-move-move--what have you done for me tomorrow...?
western senator		 It is only our pathetic Post that deliberately tries to infuse the Watergate caper with a seriousness far beyond those shenanigans that have been the stock trade of political pranksters ever since...
western senator		--I have been given access to evidence in possession of the White House and that evidence--
western senator		Well, if I was wrong, I sure the hell wasn't alone--
creep		--the fact remains that except for Watergate, we ran one hell of a great campaign...
****Dialogues from script :Almost_Famous.txt****

elaine		Excuse me, I'm a teacher.  There is no word in The English Language -- "Xmas." It's either Merry Christmas... or Happy Holidays.
william		- so Livia -
elaine		-- killed everyone off so her son Tiberius could inherit the throne.  Just like Nixon.
anita's voice		Hey Mom!  I already ate.
elaine		You sure?  I'm making soy cutlets.
anita		I'm fine.  Already ate.
elaine		Wait.  You've been kissing.
anita		 No I haven't.
elaine		 Yes... yes, you have...
anita		No I haven't.
elaine		Yes you have.  I can tell.
anita		 You can't tell.
elaine		Not only can I tell, I know who it is. It's Darryl.
anita		 It's unfair that we can't listen to our music!
elaine		 Honey, it's all about drugs and promiscuous sex.
anita		Simon and Garfunkel is poetry!
elaine		Yes it's poetry.  It's the poetry of drugs and promiscuous sex.  Look at the picture on the cover...
anita		First it was butter, then sugar and white flour.  Bacon. Eggs, bologna, rock and roll, motorcycles.
elaine		That was an experiment.  But I understand -
anita		What else are you going to ban?
elaine		Honey, you want to rebel against knowledge.
anita		 We're like nobody else I know.
elaine		I'm a teacher.  Why can't I teach my own kids?  Use me.
anita		Darryl says you use knowledge to keep me down.  He says I'm a "yes" person and you're trying to raise us in a "no" environment!
elaine		 Well, clearly, "no" is a word Darryl doesn't hear much.
william		Mom --
elaine		Everything I say is wrong.
anita		I can't live here!  I hate you!  Even William hates you!
william		I don't hate her.
anita		 You don't even know the truth!
elaine		Sweetheart, don't be a drama queen.
anita		Feck  you!  All of you!
elaine		Hey!
william		I think she said "feck."
elaine		 What's the difference?
william		 Well.  The letter "u"...
voice		 Are you really in our grade?
william		Yeah.
tobin		Hey guys!  Check it out!  William doesn't have any pubes!
tobin		He's not a man, he's a little baby kid.  He Doesn't even get zits yet.
tobin		 Where are your pubes???!!
william		 I had 'em.  I shaved 'em off.
elaine		 Put on your seatbelt.   I don't want you flying through the windshield.
william		We got our annuals today --
elaine		 "Received" your annual.
william		 I look so much younger than everyone else.
elaine		Enjoy it while you can.
anita		Mom.  It's time.
elaine		 Can this wait until we get home?
anita		Mom, pull over.  Tell him the truth. Tell him how old he is.
elaine		 He knows how old he is.
anita		The other kids make fun of him because of How young he looks.  Nobody includes him.
william		They do?
elaine		What's a "Narc?"
anita		 A Narcotics Officer!
elaine		Well what's wrong with that?
william		 Aren't I?
elaine		 I also put you in first grade when you were five and never told you.
william		 So...  I'm... how old?
anita		You lied to him!  You make such a big deal about the truth and you lied!
elaine		 He never asked.
anita		What -- like he's going to ask if he's as old as he thinks he is?  Don't you realize, this is going to scar him forever?
elaine		Honey... sweetheart... don't be Cleopatra.  We have to be his mother and his Dad.
anita		You put too much pressure on him!
william		 How... old...
anita		And when he rebels in some strange and odd way, don't blame me.
william		... am I?
elaine		 I skipped you an extra grade.  You're eleven.
william		 ELEVEN?
elaine		So you skipped fifth grade.  There's too  much padding In the grades.  I taught elementary school.  5th grade - unnecessary.  Nothing happens in the 5th grade.  All Teachers know it, no one talks about it.
william		 E - leven.
elaine		And you skipped kindergarten because I taught it to you when you were four.
william		 This explains... so much...
anita		You've robbed him of an adolescence!
elaine		Adolescence is a marketing tool.
anita		He's got no "crowd"... no friends...
william		Okay!
anita		Honey, I know you were expecting puberty.  You're just going to have to shine it on for a while.
elaine		Who needs a "crowd?"  You're unique.  You're two years ahead of everybody.  Take those extra years and do what you want.  Go to Europe for a year!  Take a look around, see what you like!  Follow your dream! You'll still be the youngest lawyer in the country.  Your own great grandfather practiced law until he was 93.  Your dad was so proud of you.  He knew you were a pronominally accelerated child.
anita		What about me?
elaine		 You're rebellious and ungrateful of my love.
anita		Well, somebody's gotta be normal around here!
william		 Eleven.
anita		I want to play you a song that explains why I'm leaving, and try to listen.
elaine		We can't talk?  We have to listen to rock music?
william		Take good care of her in San Francisco, man.
elaine		How can she leave such a loving family?
anita		One day you'll be cool.
elaine		She'll be back.
anita		YEAHHHHH-HOOOOOOOO.
elaine		Maybe not soon...
lester bangs		What is this hippie station?!  Where's Iggy Pop?  Don't you have a copy of Raw Power?!
bangs		Found it!!
bangs		So you're the one who's been sending me those articles from your school newspaper -
william		I've been doing some stuff for a local underground paper, too.
bangs		What are you like the star of your school?
william		They hate me.
bangs		You'll meet them all again on their long journey to the middle.
william		I did?
bangs		Oh yeah.  It's over.
william		Over?
bangs		Over.  You got here just in time for the death rattle, the last gasp, the last grope.
william		Well.  At least I'm here for that.
bangs		What do you type on?
william		Smith-Corona Galaxis Deluxe.
bangs		You like the new Lou Reed?
william		 The early stuff.  The new stuff, he's trying to be Bowie, he should be himself.  I'm not a big Lou man.
bangs		Yeah, but if Bowie's doing Lou, and Lou's Doing Bowie, Lou's still doing Lou.
william		 If you like Lou.
bangs		Take drugs?
william		No.
bangs		Smart kid.  I used to do speed and sometimes Nyquil and stay up all night writing and writing, like 25 pages of dribble about, you know, the Guess Who, or Coltrane, just to write, you know, with the music blasting...
william		Me too.  The writing part...
bangs		Well, alright.  It's been nice to meet you.  I'll see you around.  Keep sending me your stuff.
william		Okay.  See you.
bangs		I can't stand here all day talking to my many fans.
bangs		-- so anyway, you're from San Diego and that's good.  Because once you go to L.A., you're gonna have friends like crazy but they'll be fake friends, they're gonna try to corrupt you.  The publicists!  The bands!  You got an honest face, they're gonna tell you everything.  But you CANNOT make friends with the rock stars.
william		... Industry... of... cool...
bangs		And that's what they want!  And it's happening right now.  I'm telling you, you're coming along at a very dangerous time for rock and roll.  The war is over.  They won.  99% of what passes for rock now... SILENCE is much more compelling.  It's over.  I think you should turn around and go back and be... a lawyer or something... but I can see from your face that you won't. I can pay you thirty-five bucks.  Gimme a thousand words on Black Sabbath.
william		 An assignment.
lester		Yeah.  And you should build your reputation on being honest... and unmerciful.
william		 Honest... unmerciful...
bangs		And if you get into a jam -- call me. I stay up late.
elaine		Look at this.  An entire generation of Cinderellas and there's no slipper coming.
william		You can drop me off here.
elaine		Black.  Sabbath.  Just remember - you wanted to be Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird.
william		All I have to do is listen.  That's what Lester Bangs said.
elaine		 I'll be waiting right here at eleven 'o clock sharp.  If you get lost, use the family whistle.
william		Hi.  I'm William Miller and I'm here from Creem Magazine to interview the band Black Sabbath.
scotty		Not on the list.
william		Sir, I'm a journalist, and here's a copy of the magazine.
scotty		You're not on the list.   Go to the top of the ramp with the girls!
william		 What-happens-after-I-go-to-the-top-of- the-ramp with-the-gi -
estrella		Who are you with?
william		 Me?  I'm with myself.
estrella		No, who are you with?  What band?
william		I'm here to interview Black Sabbath.  I'm a journalist.  I'm not a... you know...
penny lane		... you're not a what?
william		 Oh... I'm just... not a... you know.
penny lane		Not a "what"?
william		 You know.  A "groupie."
estrella		Ohhh!
william		Sorry, I -
penny lane		We.  Are not.  "Groupies."
estrella		This is Penny Lane, man.  Show some respect.
william		-- sorry.
penny lane		"Groupies" sleep with rock stars because they want to be near someone famous. We are here because of the music.  We are Band Aids.
estrella		She used to run a school for Band Aids.
penny lane		We don't have intercourse with these guys.  We support the music.  We inspire the music.  We are here because of the music.
estrella		Marc Bolan broke her heart, man.  It's famous.
penny lane		It's a long story.  I'm retired now. I'm just visiting friends.
estrella		She was the one who changed everything. She said "no more sex, no more exploiting our bodies and hearts... "
william		Right.  Right.
estrella		"... just blow-jobs, and that's it."
william		Okay.  Well, see, now I get the difference.
polexia		 It's all happening.  It's all happening.
estrella		Polexia!!   Did you tell Sabbath we were going to be here?
polexia		I talked to Dick with Stillwater, I talked with Sabbath.  They're all dying to see us.   It's all happening.
penny lane		This is our journalist friend. Journalist Friend, meet Estrella Starr, and Polexia Aphrodisia. And you are --
william		William.
polexia		Here comes Sabbath!
estrella		Ozzy!!!  Tony!!!  It's us!!
polexia		 Okay.  I was with Ian Hunter all night at Rodney's Last night.  Wanna see his spoo?  I saved it in a baggie.
estrella		 I'm really happy he's doing so well.
penny		 Yeah.  I know he's such a talented guy.  I mean, look at him.  Who deserves it more?
polexia		 Nobody -- he's so sweet.
estrella		 Don't you just root for him, you know. To go that little distance between good and great?
penny		Wait.  That's not his.  I would know his.
sapphire		Does anybody remember laugh-tah?  Come and GET 'EM!
scotty		Oh no.  Not this one --
sapphire		 Who brought Opie?
penny		He's with us.
scotty		 He wasn't with you.
sapphire		 Are you going to turn this into a Thing?
scotty		All of you can wait outside!  Top of the ramp!
william		I don't want to cause a Thing.  I'll wait.
penny		 I'll go take care of this.
dick		Let us in, we're Stillwater!  We're on the show!!
william		 Hi, I'm a journalist.  I write for Creem Magazine.
jeff		The enemy!  A rock writer!
william		 I'd like to interview you or someone from the band.
dick		 I'm sorry but could you please fuck off?
william		Okay.  Okay.  I could do that.
jeff		You guys never listened to our records. You're all just frustrated musicians. Do you know what your magazine SAID about us?  What was it - "the singer's incessant cater walling distracts From an assault with no clear purpose."
larry		 That was Rolling Stone.
russell		Yeah.  Okay.  Fuck off anyway.  We play for fans, not critics.
william		Russell.  Jeff.  Ed.   Larry.  Way to go.
russell		 Well don't stop there.
jeff		Yeah, come back here!!  Keep going!
scotty		Not this one.
russell		He's with us.
scotty		He's not with you.  He's not with them. He's not on the list.  He's not coming in.  And this is my arena.  And furthermore -
russell		Red Dog!
red dog		We're playing here tomorrow night.
jeff		 This is Red Dog, the Allman Brothers Band's number one roadie.
russell		How're the guys?
red dog		Havin a ball, man.  When we have a party, we have an Allman Brothers Band party.  Everybody boogies.  Everybody gets off.  It's family, man.  We all got These now.  Dicky and Gregg send you their love.
russell		... and it's okay, because rock and roll is a LIFESTYLE...  and a way of thinking and it's not about money and "popularity!"
jeff		Some money would be nice.
russell		- but it's a voice that says here I am... and FUCK YOU if you can't understand me.
jeff		And the chicks are great.
russell		But we didn't do it for that!  We are here because we needed to fuckin be here, not just 'cause we needed to away from Troy, Michigan, WHICH WE DID... but what it all comes down to is that thing. The Indefinable Thing, when people catch something from your music, the thing you put into it.  I'm talking about... what am I talking about?
william		 The buzz?
russell		THE BUZZ!   And the chicks, the whatever, is an off-shoot of THE BUZZ. And like -- you saying you liked "Fever Dog?"   That is the fucking buzz, man. All we get are these fucking old-ass interviewers who don't understand, don't LISTEN, don't appreciate why we are here, which is the fuckin' BUZZ.
jeff		The next album will be even better. More texture.
russell		But... it's not what you put in, is it?  It's what you leave out.  Listen to... listen to Marvin Gaye...
william		 I know that, "woo."
russell		 That's what you remember.  The silly things, the little things... there's only one, and it makes the song.  It's what you leave out.  That's rock and roll.
jeff		 We used to talk more about this stuff.
russell		Okay.  See, this is maybe the most honest we've ever been in an interview because you know our music.  You're the first press guy we've made friends with.  We don't normally talk like this to them.  And you're supposed to be The Enemy!  What are you - 18?
william		Yeah.
russell		There you go.  Still young enough to be honest.
dick		 Ten minutes 'till showtime, anyone who isn't in the band -- out!
penny lane		I found you a pass.
william		 I've only done two, but you know. He's number one.
penny lane		You're learning.  They're much more fun on the way up.
william		Eighteen.
penny lane		Me too.  How old are we really?
william		Seventeen.
penny lane		Me too.
penny lane		Me too.  Isn't it funny?  The truth just sounds Different.
penny lane		You want to know how old I really am?
william		 No.
penny lane		It's a long story.
william		 Right.  Right.
penny lane		We live in the same city.  We should be friends.
russell		The Enemy!
william		Russell, this is Penny Lane.
penny lane		 Pleasure.
russell		Penny Lane?  Like the song, right?
penny lane		Have we met?
william		Well, I guess you've... you've met.
dick		Penny Lane!  God's gift to rock and roll!!  You're back!  Marc Bolan.  Please.
russell		Come on, let's go.  Both of you.
russell		- get in the huddle.
dick		From Troy, Michigan.  Please welcome --  Stillwater.
russell		 So.  You want to come up to L.A., we'll be at the "Riot House" all week.
william		"The Riot House?"
russell		The Continental Hyatt House!  It's on Sunset Strip.
william		 Right.  Right.
dick		Let's blow this burg!
russell		 Well tell your friend Miss Penny Lane to Call Me.  Tell her "It ain't California without her.  We want her around like last summer."   Say it like that.
william		Got it.
russell		 Oh, I'm under the name - Harry Houdini.
jeff		 The Enemy!!  Yeah!!    Come to L.A., we'll take some more.
william		Later Jeff!  See you, Dick.  Larry. Ed.  Mick, Gregg, Red Dog, Scully, Frosty, Estrella, The Wheel!
william		PENNY!
penny		 Hey.  Hey.  Be cool.
william		You just missed Russell!  He says he's at the "Riot House" all week and to call him.  He's under the name Harry Houdini. Do you know about the "Riot House?"
penny lane		I think I've heard of it.
william		He had a message for you!  He said, "It's not California without you.  We want you around like last summer."  Actually he said "ain't."  "It ain't California - "
penny lane		I get the gist.
william		How well do you guys know each other?
penny lane		Call me if you need a rescue.  We live in the same city.
william		I think I live in a different world.
penny		Speaking of the world.  I've made a decision.  I'm going to live in Morocco for one year. I need a new crowd.
william		Yes.
penny		It's a plan.  You've got to call me.
william		Okay.
penny		It's all happening.
william		It's all happening.
william		Hey Darryl.
darryl		Hey.
william		Yeah.  She and Mom are still sorta... I'd say "not speaking," but I don't know if they ever did.
darryl		Your sister.  A stewardess.  The things your sister and I did inside these four walls...
william		That's okay.  I don't want to know. It's my room now.
darryl		We flew the friendly skies -
william		Okay -
darryl		I don't want to put you in the middle of anything.  We don't have to talk about it.
william		No.
darryl		You seem cooler.
william		Yeah.  I'm thinking about going to Morocco.
darryl		Lemme know if you need a little help with your Mom.
william		A little might not be enough.
darryl		She still freaks me out.
william		 Yeah -
darryl		She's famous.
william		Listen -
darryl		Go ahead and do what you were doing. I just wanna hang in here for a moment.
william		Cool.  Alright.
darryl		Okay, man.
william		Okay, man.
elaine		I worry about the drunk drivers.
william		Mom.  I'm 15.  Right?
elaine		Yes, you're 15. "And here's that money I owed you."
william		I thought it was pretty good.
elaine		Keep the small bills on the outside. And call me if anyone gets drunk.
william		I will call you if anyone anywhere gets drunk.
elaine		Good.
william		 And don't take drugs.
elaine		 Ha ha.  Very funny.  See -- sense of humor.  Have fun at the dance.  I'm glad you're making friends.
william		Mom?
elaine		Yeah -
william		 Stay.
elaine		Oh... okay.
william		I-love-you-bye.
penny lane		The Continental Hyatt House.  Also known as The Riot House.  Every band stays here, all the ones that matter.  The Who.  Zeppelin. Alice.  Bowie.  English bands.  American bands.  We all know each other.  Twenty- four hour room service.  Like us, they were outsiders.  They were so outside, they're inside, and insiders never even knew it, because they're outsiders and they are inside a place outsiders will never be.  And why are we even talking about it?  If you're really an insider, you're never gonna say it. You know what I mean?
william		 Yeah.  Yes.
penny		And we're not gonna hang out with Russell.  You can, but not me.
william		What is it with you and Russell?
penny lane		It's all happening.  And I'm about to use you as protection.
penny lane		 These guys are with Alice Cooper.  I'm going to pretend I don't know them.
penny lane		I'm just showing my very dear, very wonderful friend around.  He's a very important writer - he knows Lester Bangs.  I'm responsible for his moral conduct while he's abroad.
penny lane		I'm retired.  And don't argue with me!
penny lane		 Have we met?
penny		Please.  I throw the little ones back.
polexia		 Ian Hunter is a fucking asshole!
william		Polexia!
polexia		Opie!!!
ric		It's all happening.   I just saw them on the seventh floor!  Mr. Jimmy Page... Mr. John Paul Jones...  Mr. Robert Plant signed my shirt in the elevator!!  Five minutes ago, he touched this pen.  Please don't smear it.  And Bonzo's gotta new motorcycle in the hotel!
penny		Ric is a Zeppelin fan.
william		Yeah, I picked that up.
penny		He tours with them, but not "with" them.
ric		They're on the 12th floor, but there's guards there!  So you gotta go to the tenth floor and go up the back steps.
penny lane		This is my very dear, very close, very wonderful friend William Miller, he is very close with Lester Bangs.
ric		It's all happening!!  See you in Cleveland!
penny lane		I'm retired!  Doesn't anybody believe me!?
william		Harry Houdini, please.
penny lane		Okay.  Time to put on the lampshade.
russell		 Alright.
william		 Alright.
penny lane		 Oh, the hell with it.
polexia		 Act One, in which she pretends she doesn't care about him.
william		 We've got to stop them.
polexia		Stop them?  You were her excuse for coming here.
penny		I need ice!
polexia		I just worry about people using her. You know?  'Cause she brings out the good side in everybody else, but what do they do for her?  Life kills me. Do you have any pot?
william		Not on me.
polexia		Do you smoke?
william		No.  But I... I grow it.  I grow it.
polexia		You're funny.  You know, if you were only taller, English, rich, a guitar- player and older...
william		I'd be someone else.
polexia		Yeah.  Good point.
penny		 How does it end?
russell		What?
penny		You know - the story about the girl who dumps the guy who has an ex-ex wife -- the one we don't talk about -- and gets a hundred... okay, five letters from him, and then doesn't even leave a pass in San Diego.  Wake up!  I'm retired and I never believed you anyway. You're too talented and too good-looking to be trusted and everybody knows it.
russell		 You're retired like Frank Sinatra is retired.
penny		 Damn.
russell		Come to Arizona.
penny		Never.
russell		We leave Thursday morning.  9 AM.  And pack light this time.  Jesus.
william		This is he.
ben		Crazy.  William, this is Ben Fong- Torres.  I'm the music editor at Rolling Stone Magazine.  We've got a copy of your stories from the San Diego Door. This is the same William Miller?
william		Yes it is.
ben		 Voice of God, howling dogs, the spirit of rock And roll... this is good solid stuff.
william		 Thanks... thanks.
ben		You should be writing for us.  Any ideas?
william		 How about Stillwater?
ben		Crazy.  New album... their third... starting to do something.
william		 Sounds good.
ben		We can only pay -- lemme see, three- thousand words -- seven hundred dollars.
william		 Yes.
ben		What college --
elaine		Honey, I need you to do that thing that fixes the garbage disposal --
ben		Well, I know how my lady gets when I don't Snap to it -
william		Crazy.
ben		Crazy!  I'll let you go.  Call me at the San Francisco office tomorrow.
lester bangs		Beware Rolling Stone Magazine.  They will change your story, they'll re- write it and turn it into swill. Beware!!
william		But besides that, what would be wrong with it?
lester bangs		 Look.  Do the story.  It's a good break for ya.  But remember this --
william		 ... swill merchants...
lester bangs		Now.  What are you listening to?
william		 I need to talk to Mrs. Deegan, from Journalism.
elaine		Whatever it is, the answer is no.
elaine		 Honey, what are you doing here?
darryl		Moral support.
elaine		What's involved?
elaine		Is it time for me to say something?
elaine		No.
elaine		No.
elaine		 "Lo, that which I have feared has come upon me."
william		 "He who jealously guards his fears, quietly yearns to bring them about!"
elaine		 No.  I have raised him to be an honor student, which he is.  We have agreed on all our goals.  We raised him to be a lawyer, we moved here to be near the finest law school in the West.  Plus, he has finals coming up, and in one week he graduates with all his friends -
darryl		He's got no friends!!
william		Darryl.  Please.
william		Lady of the Jury.  I wish to disprove the prevailing false belief that rock music is based on drugs and sex.  True, perhaps at one time... but rock music is different now.  It is now performed by hard-working intellectuals, with... with blazing intellectual pursuits, and I am going to play for you a piece of music designed to show you that my thesis is correct.
elaine		This is going to be hell.
william		The song is based on the literature of Tolkien...  and it's mystical attempt to elevate humanity has been successful throughout the world...  this song will change your life.
elaine		What am I supposed to say?   You say it's Tolkien, fine.  They sound like nice kids.  Is it meant to elevate humanity?  "Sure, let's elevate humanity.  After we sell you drugs and sex."  All I have is my honesty.  That's what I believe, and that's what I know.  Oh.  Here's a nice ad.
dick		C'mon, Doris!  Darling Bus.  You can make it!
penny		Gotcha.
polexia		Do you have any pot?
william		No.  I'm a journalist.
polexia		Well, go do your job then.  You're on the road, man.  It's all happening!  Get in there.  Go talk to 'em!
william		 Russell.   Do you think we might be able to find some time to talk when we get to Phoenix?  I want to interview everyone separately... and I felt we'd start with you and me.
russell		Absolutely.
william		Because I've got a thing in a couple days.
russell		What.
william		 It's a... thing where... uhm... you go there to graduate.  School.
russell		 I never graduated.  And look what happened.  You're here interviewing me.
larry		How did you know I was thirsty?
penny		I may need to stay in your room tonight. Russell's in a bad mood.  He's very Bob Dylan in Don't Look Back today. He's trying to write.
polexia		 Want some?
william		No thanks.
elaine		Has William Miller arrived yet?  He hasn't.  Could you give him a message as soon as you see him? -
dick		Jeff, Tony... Keys... keys... keys... room list...  If it doesn't have a number on it, it ain't ours!
clerk		Is this Mr. Miller?  You have a message from Elaine.
william		Thanks.
clerk		 She's a handful.
william		I know.
sapphire		Finally, you're here!!  They kicked me out of my room!  Fuck Ozzy!
russell		Come by in a few minutes.  We'll do the interview.
jeff		I'm worried, man.
russell		Naw, we can trust him.  He's a fan.
jeff		But it's Rolling Stone.  He looks harmless, but he does represent the magazine that trashed Eric Clapton, broke up Cream, ripped Led Zeppelin, and wrote that lame story about the Allman Brothers Band that bummed Duane out before he died.  Don't forget the Rules.  This little shit is the Enemy. He writes what he sees.  But it would be cool to be on the cover.
russell		Leave it to me.  We'll get a good story.
jeff		Plus our girlfriends read this magazine and -  -- you know.
russell		You made your point.  I'll take to him.
penny		Can Sapphire stay in your room tonight? She had a big fight with Ozzy, and Polexia's not working out with Jeff Bebe.  Jeff Bebe has so much jealousy over Russell that he can't express.  Plus, he never slept last night.   You keep Sapphire and I'll stay with Russell.
william		Sure.  I'll take her.
polexia		Me too?
william		Sure.
william		All these people.  And they all live in Phoenix.
polexia		 Hi Dad!!  I can't talk long!  I'm here in Paris.  I'm staying in another Youth Hostel with no phone and no address for mail!!
william		 Alex.  Lowbatz.
sapphire		 I was the one who told him what to tattoo on his fingers, I was the one who made his shirts... I was there when his wife left him.
william		Charles.  C.  Swoop.
polexia		 I CAN SEE THE EIFFELL TOWER.  DO YOU KNOW THERE ARE 578 STEPS TO THE TOP?
william		Paul and Debbie Finger.
estrella		 Oh my God.  Simon Kirke of Bad Company is by the pool.
polexia		I GOTTA GO!  I'LL CALL FROM ROME!
estrella		Is anybody here as worried about Penny and Russell as I am?
polexia		 AND HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO MAGGIE!! I LOVE YOU!!
sapphire		 Ooo, watch out - whoever you look at when you say that - that's who you really mean.
russell		You know.  We should talk about what we don't talk about.
penny		We don't have to.
russell		No, I - I went to Catholic school.  I believe in guilt and... you know, if there's any to be had, I pretty much want to roll around in it.
penny		I don't believe in attachments.  No boundaries.  Just the music.
russell		I'm just saying, it's okay to talk about it.
penny		Leslie.
russell		 Alright - now we're talking.
penny		Leslie.  Leslie.  Leslie.  Lesssssslie. Leslie.  Leslie.  Leslie.  Leslie. Leslie.  Leslie.  Leslie.  Leslie. LESlie.  Leslie...
sapphire		Opie, can I order room service?
william		Okay.  You guys.  Wait.   Put down the phone, Polexia.  First, this is my room...
sapphire		Come on, you're a fan like us.  You're on our side of the line.
william		Second.  I'm not Opie.  Alright?  Opie is a little boy.  I'm here to do a job.  I am a professional.
william		Third!  ... this phone is a big, big deal.  In a minute, I have to go interview Russell.  Do not answer this phone if it rings.  I have family members with severe anxiety Problems.  She will not understand.
polexia		 But what if Ozzy calls Sapphire?   And I gave Jimmy Page this number.
estrella		Or a guy who looked like Jimmy Page.
william		Okay.   I have a solution.  Answer the phone.  But if anyone without an English accent is on the phone...  Just hang up.  Or say it's the wrong room.
william		SHOULD I COME BY LATER?
william		MAYBE THAT'S A GOOD THING!!
william		OKAY!
russell		GO AWAY!
william		OKAY!
penny		Don't worry.  Some to the radio interview.
william		No, I'm fine.  I'll just interview Jeff Bebe some more.
russell		 GO AWAY!
quince allen		The guitar of Russell Hammond.   "Fever Dog"...  The band is Stillwater.  Watch with your mind as they materialize.
estrella		William's room.
ben		Can I please speak to him?  This is Ben Fong-Torres at Rolling Stone.
estrella		I think I just messed up!
quince		Look at the dogs, wearing the funny hats.  Juggling just for you.  Freaks and family...
jeff		Well... not to get into a "me" thing... this is Jeff talking... but I did start the band, some time, actually, ago. This is back when we were the Jeff Bebe band, and I placed an ad in a magazine called Peaches looking for a guitarist and Russell Hammond answered.
quince		 Peaches.
jeff		I think he was a gift from God, actually.  Nobody plays like Russell Hammond.
russell		 Well, shit.  Thank you.
jeff		Everybody pays you compliments.  It's not my fucking job to kiss your fucking ass all the time.
russell		Well then who's fucking job is it? Because my ass is dying for a kiss. And I know yours is too.
dick		It's my fucking job.  You're all geniuses.  And let me just add this thought - smegma.
tony		Feces.
quince		The dong is called "Love Thing." Your mind is Starting to take effect. They're all here to see you swallow fire.  You scream soundlessly...  on the Night Circus.  It's Quince, with Stillwater.
russell		 See, this is what nobody writes about! The in-between times!   This!  Us! Right now!!
estrella		 Hello?
elaine		 May I speak with William please?
estrella		 He's not here.  I think he's in the bar with the Band.  They just got back from the radio station.  Is this Maryann with the pot?
elaine		No this isn't Maryann with the pot. This is Elaine... his Mother.
estrella		 I thought you were English.
elaine		Could you please give him a message? Could you tell him to call home immediately?  And could you also tell him -  I know what's going on.
estrella		Alright.  Okay.  But I'm just going to say this, and I'm going to stand by it.  This is the maid speaking, by the way.
william		 Now that you're starting to be successful, you had twenty-six years to write your first Album... and you'll have maybe four months for the second. Do you worry that the pressure of the business will get in the way of the original joy of making your music?  Or -
russell		Whoa!  I need three more beers and my guitar before I can answer that question. Let's take a walk.
russell		For a minute I thought you were actually a real journalist... which is... you know, it's great.  Shut that thing off, and I'll tell you the truth.
william		It's off.
russell		Look.  I trust you.  I'm going to lay this right on you.  Just make us look cool.
william		I will quote you warmly and accurately.
russell		That's what I'm worried about.  See - some of us have girlfriends back home. Some of us have wives.  And... some of the people you meet on the road are really amazing people...
william		Ohhhh.  Oh.  Yeah.
russell		You know what I mean?
william		Right.  Yeah.
russell		See, you're dangerous.  Most people are just waiting to talk, but you listen.
william		Right.  Right.
russell		So your question you asked me.  I think about It every fucking night.  The "business."  I hate it!  I grew up with these guys, okay?  I can't play all that I can play, I'm past these musicians, do you understand?
william		I do.
russell		The more popular we get, the more I can't walk on them, the bigger their houses get, the more pressure... you forget, man.  You forget what it was like to be real, to be a fan.  You can hear it in a lot of bands who've been successful - it doesn't sound like music anymore.  It sounds like... like lifestyle maintenance.  I used to be able to hear the sounds of the world.  Everything, to me, used to sound like music.  Everything.  Now I don't hear it.   You know what I'm trying to say?
william		 Yeah.
russell		Man, it feels good to say this stuff out loud.  But what am I doing?  I'm telling secrets to the one guy you don't tell secrets to.
william		 No, that's okay.  We'll do the interview tomorrow.
russell		This is good.  So there's the "friend" and then there's the "interview guy."
william		Yeah.
russell		So tonight it's "friend".... and when we wake up tomorrow - "interview guy." We'll figure it out as we go, buddy.
william		Hey - for whatever it's worth - you guys are really good.
william		How would you describe your role in Stillwater?  What is the chemical that you add to the chemistry?
larry		I'm the bass-player.
william		 Right.  And when you take that away... what would be missing?  Stylistically? What chemical?
larry		 The bass?
dick		Good evening Phoenix.  From Troy, Michigan.  Please welcome, Stillwater.
dick		Get in, get in!!
promoter		Are you the manager of this band?
dick		That, and more.  Get in!
promoter		You didn't even play a full set!
dick		Your shoddy stage set-up almost killed our guitarist!
promoter		You trashed the dressing room - you didn't play your thirty-five minutes. You didn't fulfill your contract -
dick		Everybody in!  Get in the bus!
promoter		I'll report you to every promoter in the country!  I'm gonna talk to Frank Barcelona!
dick		YOU DON'T FUCK WITH MY BAND'S SAFETY!
promoter		I hope you have a good lawyer.
dick		I AM A LAWYER!
promoter		LOCK THE GATE ON 'EM!
penny		Don't worry.  It's happened to all the greats.  Thank God you didn't hold the mike stand with both hands, you'd still be holding it.  This is a good thing. It's a good, good, good thing.
estrella		I forgot to tell you!  Your mom says to call home immediately.  She says she knows what's going on!  See you guys in Topeka!  I'll catch a ride with Sabbath!
dick		 Wanna buy a gate?
william		What did it feel like to be electrocuted?
russell		It burns.  It feels like a dose of lead shooting through your body... and then you see God, and he says, "How bad do you want to be legendary?" And god damnit.  I let go.  Rock and roll.
penny		Give that to me.
william		What will our names be?
penny		What do you think of Russell?
william		I like him.
penny		You're coming to Cleveland, right?
william		Cleveland, Ohio?  Oh no no no.  I gotta get my interview with Russell before Greenville.  And you've got to help me.  Okay?  Friends... remember?
penny		You should give him a break.  There are real problems in the band.   Off the record.
william		What problems?
penny		Okay.  I got it.  I think your name should be Spencer, and mine will be Jane.
william		I can't keep up with you.
penny		No one can.
william		What's your real name?
penny		Here's the thing about Russell.  He's my last project.  I only do this for a very few people.  And I think we should do it together - he is almost great. We've got to take him there.  You and me - we can do it.  Deal?  Because the other guys are good - but he could be great.  He's my last project.
william		What do you love about music?
jeff		Hey.
william		Hey.
william		I know.  I know.  I know.  I know.  Mom.  Mom... Mom.
william		Right now -- Topeka.  Then Greenville. Then home.
elaine		I guess I just miss you, and I don't understand why I've driven both my kids so far away from me.  By all practical rules don't I get you for three more years?
william		I missed the last thing you said.
elaine		I LOVE YOU.
william		WHAT?
elaine		 I MISS YOU AND I LOVE YOU!
william		I LOVE YOU!!
russell		Fire away.  I'm ready.  I'm on the "You" Train.  Take me there.
william		Do you have to be depressed to write a sad song?  Do you have to be in love to write a love song?  Is a song better if it really happened to you?  Like, "If You Say Nothing"... where did you write that and how did it come about?
russell		When did you get so professional?
penny		I'm almost done with my shirt.
dick		Russell, your dad showed up again. And on a lighter note.  Gentlemen.  Your first t-shirts have arrived.
russell		Can we just skip the vibe and go straight to us laughing about this?
jeff		 Yeah.  Okay.
russell		 Because I can see by your face - you want to get into this -
jeff		How can you tell?  I'm just one of the out-of-focus guys.
russell		Here we go.
jeff		Well, it speaks pretty loudly to me.
russell		It's a t-shirt.
jeff		I'm always gonna tell you the truth.
russell		Are you doing coke again?
jeff		Oh yeah.  All the time.
russell		Excuse me, but didn't we all get into this to avoid responsibility?
jeff		Forgive me.  But this is the slow-moving train of compromise that will kill us.
russell		You can trust him,  you can say whatever you want.
jeff		 And yet, why do I always end up feeling like I'm a joke to you?  I feel nothing but love for you.  We're a family.
russell		Is it my turn?  Because I think we should, for once, say what we really mean.
jeff		Oh, this is the part where you quit -
russell		 Right.  I'm so predictable.
jeff		No  I gotta tell the truth -- I want you to like me.  But sometimes I feel like you collect people who love you and then very skillfully... you make them feel bad that they're not good enough for you.
russell		Stick to singing, brother, 'cause you ain't gonna make it as a shrink.
jeff		Deal with it!  And let me just say what nobody Else wants to say to you -
russell		What?
jeff		Your looks have become a problem.
dad		Son!
russell		 Hello Harry.
dad		He got all the good genes, huh?  Meet Deirdre.  We're getting married in July.
william		You okay?  You alright?
russell		 From here on out, I'm only interested in what's real.
william		Thanks.
russell		You know, you know all about us and I don't know shit about you.  What's your... your family like?  Tell me.
william		Well, my dad died of a heart attack and my sister believes that my Mom is so intense that she might have contributed to it.  Plus -
russell		 Okay, that's good.  That's enough.
william		It's good to talk about it.  Really good.
russell		If they want me, they can find me.
william		So listen.  I have to go home tomorrow. I know this is a bad time to finish our interview.
russell		Hey, man, you know what?  Write whatever you want.  I trust you.
russell		On my better days, yes.  I am "Woooooo, Russell from Stillwater!"
russell		 You.  Aaron.  Are what it's all about. You are real.  Your room is real. Your friends are real.  You are more important than... than... all the silly machinery.  And you know it!  In eleven years it's gonna be 1984, man.  Think about that!
aaron		Wanna see me feed a mouse to my snake?
russell		Yes.
russell		Take it!
aaron		Down the hall by the washing machine.
russell		What?
aaron		The bathroom.
russell		Okay.  Good to know.
william		We should probably head back sometime.
russell		Topeka.  Check it out.
william		Please don't give him any more acid.
russell		Faces.  Stones.  Sa-weet Baby James!! None of these people are gonna be around in twenty years!  Plastic begets plastic!!   Black plastic.
william		No no.  Nope.  No.
russell		 I AM A GOLDEN GOD!!
william		Hey Russell -
russell		I AM A GOLDEN GOD!!
william		Don't jump, okay?
russell		And you can tell Rolling Stone Magazine my last words were -
william		I think we should work on those last words.
russell		Critic!!
william		No, I'm not -
russell		Okay I got it.  I got it.  I got it. I got it.   This is better.  Last words -  I DIG MUSIC!!
william		Just come on down!!
russell		 Okay.
russell		Thanks for saving my life.  I won't hold it against you.
dick		 They've been crying for you like a bunch of whimpering pussies --
russell		 The band is over.  This is my family now.
others		Right on.  He's staying with us.
dick		 Definitely.  It's all over.  We'll just ride on to Greenville, listen to some great music, finish the tour, and leave those ungrateful fools behind. And then we'll come back here, where you'll live.
russell		I know what you're doing... and I like it.  How do we know he's not a cop?
dick		 Easy.  He's your Guardian Angel.
william		Which half?
dick		Good question.
william		 I have to go home.
dick		Hey.  You saved the tour.   That's good enough for now.
quiet girl		I'll never forget you.
lester		How's it going?
william		Rolling Stone is calling me.  I don't have my key interview.  I don't know what to say.
lester bangs		 You're flipping out.  That's good. Alright.  This is how you blow their minds.  He'll ask you - this is Ben Fong-Torres, right? - he'll ask you how the story's going.  Here's what you do - let's fry his mind.  Tell him "it's a think piece about a mid-level band struggling with their own limitations in the harsh face of stardom."  Ha ha!!  This is fun!
william		 ... think... piece...
sapphire		It says the food is hearty and adventurous.
polexia		 Greenville.  I'm bored.
sapphire		Who his the quaaludes from me?
william		Wait.  I'll leave.
penny		Backwards?
william		 I don't know.  I just thought we could hang out, maybe do some stuff back home, regular stuff, get to know each other better... and then I'd see you pee.  I mean, that's the way I usually do it.
penny		You're one of us.  It's no big deal.
william		I'm not one of you.
penny		Oh!  If you go to Cleveland, Bowie's going to be there at Swingo's, the greatest hotel in America.  I'll introduce you to him, and his security guy Dennis.
william		Don't you have any regular friends?
penny		Famous people are just more interesting.
william		 Well, I would be worried that they were using me.  And not that anybody's using you, but -
penny		Boy, if this was the real world and some guy talked to me like that -
william		Let me finish.  I'm not famous.... but you could always use me.   If anything happens.  And I would never use you.  Even if I got famous.  So you know, you always have that from me... in the real world.  If you ever have to go back there, for anything.
sapphire		Your time has come.
william		Did he call?  What are you -- stop it -- we're talking here.
sapphire		Pants him.  Opie must die.
sapphire		Just relax.  Take a vacation from yourself.  Leave this to professionals.
sapphire		 Hello.  Hi, Ben-Fong-Torres from Rolling Stone.
william		 Hello.
ben		Hello William, this is your editor at --
william		I'm getting good stuff out here.
ben		Sounds like it.
polexia		Man, I need some -
ben		 Now listen.  Get it together.  We're both professionals, I don't have to tell you this.  You're not out there to join the party -- we already have one Hunter Thompson.  You're out there to interview and Report.  You got me? This isn't Creem Magazine, it's Rolling Stone.  We need this story in four days.  Now I want to know how it's shaping up.
william		It's a think-piece about a mid-level band grappling with their limitations in the face of the harsh glare of success.
ben		 I like what we're saying.  Let me try and get you a thousand more words. It's in consideration for the cover, but don't tell the band.
william		 Crazy.
polexia		- coffee.
sapphire		Me too.  Greenville is so boring.  Any other city in the world and you'd still be a virgin.
william		I'm going out to find Russell.
sapphire		Will you take the laundry?
william		 What am I to you?  Tell me right now! What. Am.  I.  To.  You.
william		Houdini... Houdini...
william		No.  I can't.  You've got to help me. I have to go home.
russell		Come on man, we'll have more time there. Don't be tense!!
william		 You said you'd help me.
penny		 Come to Cleveland.
russell		 Come to Cleveland... Come to Cleveland...
william		I can't!!
russell		Can we help it if we like having you around!
penny		Rock and roll!
william		 Rock and roll.
russell		I feel... like his parents.
penny		I know.
russell		I wonder how that happened.
penny		You ever notice that all our sentences begin with "I?"
russell		I hadn't, no.
penny		'Cause we should work on that.
russell		Cleveland!
fan		It's Bowie!
william		Hi Mom.  I'm in Cleveland.
russell		Tell her you're a slave to the groove - you can't help it!
william		 No.
russell		Hi Mom!  It's Russell Hammond, I play guitar in Stillwater!   It's my fault. How does it feel to be the mother of the future of rock journalism?  Hello?
elaine		Listen to me.   Your charm does not work on me.  I'm onto you.  Of course you like him.
russell		Yes.
elaine		He worships you people and that's fine with you, as long as he helps make you rich.
russell		 Rich?  I don't think so -
elaine		Listen to me.  He's a smart, good- hearted, 15 year-old kid, with infinite potential.
russell		Yes, ma'am.
elaine		If you break his spirit, harm him in any way, keep him from his chosen profession -- which is law, Something you may not value but I do -- you will meet the voice on the other end of this telephone.  And it will not be pretty.    Do we understand each other?
russell		Yes... yes...
elaine		 I didn't ask for this role, but I'll play it.  Now go do your best.  "Be bold and mighty forces will come to your aide!"  Goethe said that.  It's not too late for you to be a person of substance.  Get my son home safely, I'm glad we spoke.
william		Some people get her.  Some don't.
russell		Your Mom kind of freaked me out.
william		She means well.
dick		 From Troy, Michigan...
william		So when you play a great show like tonight...
dick		Okay.  I need everybody's attention.
russell		 Then bring him in.
jeff		 Bring him in!  We'll send him out on a rail!
russell		 We'll finish on the way to Boston. You can fly home from Boston.
dennis hope		 Hi.
russell		We already have a manager.  He's been with us from the beginning.
dennis hope		Respectfully.  We all have our roots. I believe in bands holding onto their roots.  But those roots need to be augmented.  I'm gonna tell you the truth - I may enrage some and enthrall others. I don't really give a fuck.   Your manager here needs a manager.  Example. If you hadn't run out on the contract in Phoenix, you could have sued over Russell's hand... but you left, negating the contract, forfeiting the deposit, and you effectively traveled a long way to pay that promoter... to electrocute you.
russell		 We travel by bus.
jeff		Doris is the soul of this band!  That bus has been our home since we were the Jeff Bebe Band.
dennis		Hey man -- it's travel on a pogo stick if I thought we'd make more money. You can play more dates with a plane...
russell		 Hey man, it's not about the money!  It's about Playing music, and turning people on!
dennis hope		 Yes, of course.  Clearly. Respectfully.   But on the distasteful subject of money.  Just know.  You're making it -- right now -- and it's all --
dick		But why should we pay you for something we can do ourselves?
dennis hope		 Do you know how you get a record not pressed but played?  Do you know?  I didn't invent the rainy day, man.  I just own the best umbrella.
dick		 Yeah, well... we'll think about what you said.
dennis hope		 No no.  You don't understand.  I'll think about it.  I'm not auditioning. I came here to decide whether I want to represent you.  So I'll stand outside for a moment, and think about whether I want to stay.
russell		This is not us.   This is too much.
dennis hope		Do you mind?
william		Anyone seen Russell?
dick		The Enemy!
russell		Hey!  Welcome to the Road Crew Poker Party.  This game's been going of for two years.
dick		That's Mick - he's with The Who.  That's John - with J. Geils.  And that's Richard with the Eagles... and you know The Wheel.
the wheel		Hey.
dick		Side proposition.  For fifty dollars and a case of Heineken, I will put into the pot... three Lovely Ladies, Including the famous Penny Lane... the Band-Aids, who need to exit our tour before New York...
reg		It's a deal.  Show 'em.
dick		Three Lovely Ladies... now in the custody of Humble Pie.
reg		Alright, so we owe you fifty dollars and a case of Heineken.
russell		Look.  Nobody's feelings are getting hurt here.  She already knows Leslie's coming To New York tomorrow.  They all understand.  This is the Circus. Everybody's trying not to go home. Nobody's saying goodbye.
william		No, I got it.
russell		These are the Rules that come with every electric Guitar and every amplifier.  They're not just written anywhere.  Rock and roll, brother.  No attachments.  No boundaries.
sabbath roadie		Keep this hallway clear!
dick		Happy Birthday from us.
russell		So Penny our friend has gained another year. But long ago, she threw it in gear. She rocked the south The East and West. Could you please get off this endless tour Where we're Black Sabbath's fucking special guest?
dennis hope		 Sorry the plane isn't bigger.
penny		So it wasn't a birthday party, it was a farewell.
william		What's that?
penny		 You're worried about me and Russell.
william		Yeah.  I gotta work on that.
penny		You're so sweet.  God -- if there was more of you in him...
william		Don't tell me this stuff.  I want to like him.
penny		 Did you miss your test or something?
william		 Penny -
penny		 Forget it.  I'm flying to New York myself.  I have a bunch of partial tickets.  I know his ex-wife, current girlfriend's going to be there -
william		-- I'm not sure that's a good idea.
penny		 What?  What are you saying?  What do you know?  Did Russell say something?
william		I don't know anything.
penny		I know he wants me there.  He gave me a cake.  He wrote me that sweet poem.
william		 Wake up!  Don't go to New York!
penny		What are you telling me?
william		Because you're not who you said you were!  I thought you were retired!
penny		You're right.  I'm not who I said I was.  I'm just like you. I love music, so this is my family.  Some people like tractors, and they hang out with tractor people.  What's the worst that could happen if I go to New York?  "I get my little heart broken?"
william		Oh no.  Never you!  You eat people alive!
penny		 I'm sorry I told you so much.   You have some way of making everybody tell you all their secrets.
william		That's a good one.  Tell me too much and make it my fault.
penny		Come on.  You've seen what's happened. Russell and I fell in love.  How much, I don't know... but this is the first time I've fallen for someone, really fallen... since Iggy, and I'm not happy about it.
william		 You slept with Iggy Pop!?
penny		 You'll remember me forever.  I was there when you lost your virginity.
william		 So was Steely Dan!  It was a crowded room.
penny		You make me laugh.  I think I'm gonna cry.
william		 I thought we were going to Morocco! There's no Morocco.  There's never been a Morocco.  There's not even a Penny Lane.  I don'teven know your real name.
penny		If I ever met a guy in the real world, who looked at me the way you just looked at me...
william		When and where does the real world occur?  I am really... confused here. Fuck!  All these Rules And all these sayings... and nicknames...
penny		You know -- you're too sweet for rock and roll.
william		Where do you get off... where do you get "sweet?"  I'm not sweet.  I'm dark and mysterious and pissed-off and I could be very dangerous to all of you... I'm not sweet, and you should know that about me!  I am The Enemy.
penny		You're not any of those things and that's what I love about you.
william		You fall in love to keep from falling in love.
penny		I don't want to go home!
william		Well, I have to go home.  And you never helped me.
penny		Yes I did.
william		That disc-jockey in Arizona got a better interview than me... and he was asleep.
penny		Look.  You should be happy for me. You don't know what he says to me in private.  Maybe it is love.  As much as it can be with someone who --
william		 -- sold you to Humble Pie for fifty dollars and a case of beer?  I was there!
penny		What kind of beer?
polexia		Who did this to us?
elaine		Then don't come home.  Don't do this to me.  If you're going to miss graduation, don't come home.
elaine		I'm sorry.  I can't concentrate.  Rock stars kidnaped my son.
russell		"New York.  Just like I pictured it... "
jeff		" ... skyscrapers and everything."
russell		 We showed you America.  We did everything but get you laid.
fan		I'm from the Church of Lenny.   We bow to his will and all that it represents - The King of the King of Kings.
russell		Make it out to - ?
fan		To Lenny.
dick		She's here.
jeff		Leslie!
dick		Your room is completely stocked, far away from any noisy ice machines, elevators or maid quarters.  The air- conditioning is already on.  And here is your security key -- by the way, you look stunning.
leslie		 ThanksI'llseeyoulater.
dick		Bags in five!  Cars leave for the party at six!
william		 Well -- I kept thinking I was going home the next day --
dick		I did too.  Fifteen years ago.
william		Ric!
ric		 They're all staying under the name Emily Rugburn.
russell		 After the party.  I'll come to your room - I promise.  We'll talk.  This is Leslie, by the way.  Leslie, this is our wayward friend from Rolling Stone.  The Enemy.
clerk		William Miller?  Sir, you have an urgent call from a Mr. "Ben Fong-Torres." He's holding for you, right now.
william		 Hello.
ben		Congratulations.  It's gonna be a cover. Neal Preston will shoot 'em next week in L.A.  we need you back in San Francisco tomorrow.  We'll finish the story here.
william		Mojo?
ben		A mojo.  It's a very modern machine that transmits pages over the telephone. It only takes eighteen Minutes a page...
dennis hope		He's okay, he's with us -
russell		Ah ha!  There you are, ya little fucker. Come on --
william		I have some good news.
russell		-- I'll piss to that.  Follow me.
russell		Dennis Hope took me aside, and wants to manage Me solo.  Says to lose the band by February.  Should I do it?  I have no perspective anymore.
william		I do.
russell		 Oh - get this - somebody told Penny Lane I sold her for beer.  The network of these chicks!  Like I would do that. It's Jeff who told her, right?  Not you, right?  None of these guys can just calm down and be a fuckin adult. Now she's here, freaking out.  Leslie can smell it.
william		 Wait.  I've got something to tell -
william		You guys -- you guys --  You're gonna be on the cover of Rolling Stone.
jeff		 The cover of Rolling Stone.  And we made it together.  They don't just put somebody with one little hit on the cover of Rolling Stone Fucking Magazine, man.  We made it.
leslie		Who is that girl?  She's creeping me out.  She's not with any of you, is she?
william		Emily Rugburn, please.
william		Hi.  I'm a friend of Penny Lane's.
william		Where is she?
english musician		She's sick.  Let's get out of here.
william		What happened?
penny lane		I'm not good at goodbyes.
william		Oh -- wonderful.  Front desk?  Please send a doctor. Room... what room?  703.  702.   Both rooms, either room.  This is Mr. Rugburn, Yes.  My wife's had an accident with some quaaludes.  Yes - I'll do that.
principal		And now... out graduating class!  Jane Abbott!
principal		Victor Sanchez!
william		"In the unlikely event of a water landing... "
penny		"... you will be required to wear a safety vest."
william		Keep going.
penny		"Please place all stowable luggage in the overhead compartments... out in the seat in front of you."
william		 "Seat and tray tables."
penny		"And seat-backs and tray-tables should be in their full and upright and locked positions... "
principal		And now... out "Pending" Graduates!  William Miller... not present.
william		"In the tragic event of a water landing..."
principal		And to the class of 1973, we say --  They key to the future is keeping today alive forever.
elaine		Please let there be only two, because I can't get past Number One.
elaine		He's got twelve of them.  They're lined up.  He's just tired of me.
penny		"... you will be required to..."  I'm tired.
william		Well.  Now that I have your attention. And you may not remember this later, I just want to make it clear that... Hey!  I love you, and I'm about to boldly go where...  Many men have gone before...
doctor		Your wife will be okay for now -
william		Thank you Doctor.
doctor		However, she says you're her brother.
william		 She's a little confused.
doctor		Nice champagne.
william		I don't have a driver's license.  With me.
doctor		Tomorrow's my wedding anniversary. I'd prefer to take care of this without facing the dawn at the police station. So if you can find a way to get this girl - your wife - back home to her parents, I'd let you pay me anything you can afford.  Because you don't appear to be related to the famous Rugburns of Rhode Island.
william		Happy Anniversary.
doctor		She won't be good company, but keep her awake for another four hours.
penny		 When I was 14, my Mom and her boyfriend took me to a Rolling Stones concert - and I freaked out and I rushed up to the front of the stage and then a thousand people had the same idea at the same time and I was getting crushed. And I couldn't breathe and that thought flashed through me - almost like a car accident - I thought I might die.  And it was in the middle of "Midnight Rambler" and Keith Richards saw me. And he came over, and came to the front of the stage, and he pulled me out. And they took me backstage and they gave me coke with ice and a - and a lemon.  And I never went home.
william		What about your Mom?
penny		She always said - "Marry Up." Marry someone grand.  That's why she named me Lady.
william		 She named you Lady?
penny		Lady Goodman.
william		No.
penny		You never really get used to it, either.
william		Well -- this -- this just explains everything.
penny		See you back there.
william		Hey Lady!
stewardess		Please extinguish all flammable items, and return all seats and tray tables to their full and upright locked positions.
russell		Why didn't you come back to the party? Bob Dylan showed up.  He was sitting at our table for... had to be an hour, right?  Just  Rapping.  Bob Dylan!  I kept looking for you.  I was going to introduce you.
jeff		What happened to you last night?
william		It's a log story.
russell		 "Peggy Sure... Peggy Sue... "
dick		Please.
russell		"Pretty pretty pretty pretty Peggy Sue... "
jeff		We shouldn't be here.
russell		Doris, we miss you!
pilot's voice		This is Craig, your pilot.  It appears we've caught the edge of that electrical storm we were trying to outrun.  Buckle up tight now.  We're gonna do our best to getcha out of this.
jeff		"Electrical storm?"
russell		 Rock and roll.
dennis hope		A field?
jeff		I can't breathe.
dick		And everyone thinks it's so glamorous out here.
larry		 He just told us we're gonna die.
jeff		 We're gonna crash in Elvis' hometown --
russell		Shut up.
jeff		-- we can't even die in an original city!
russell		C'mon Dennis, get us a better city.
leslie		Oh my God.
russell		If something should happen.  I love all of you.  I don't think we have to do the secrets thing.
dennis hope		I once hit a man in Dearborn, Michigan. A hit-and-run.  I hit him and kept on going.  I don't know if he's alive or dead, but I'm sorry.
leslie		 Oh my God.
dick		I love you all too, and you're my family.  Especially since Marna left me.  But if I ever took an extra dollar or two, here and there, it was because I knew I'd earned it.
russell		I slept with Marna, Dick.
jeff		I did too.
larry		I waited until you broke up with her. But me too.
jeff		I also slept with Leslie, when you were fighting.
russell		You... slept with Jeff?
leslie		Yes, but it didn't count.  It was the summer we decided to be free of all rules.
russell		 And you say you "love me."
jeff		 I don't love you, man.  I never did.
russell		Please.  Enough.
jeff		NONE of us love you.  You act above us.  You ALWAYS HAVE!!
larry		Finally.  The truth.
jeff		You just held it over us, like you light leave... like we're lucky to be with you. And we had to live with it. I had to live with you, and now I might die with you and it's not fucking fair.
russell		 You hate me?  You too?
jeff		And I'm still in love with you Leslie.
leslie		I don't want to hear anymore.    Shut up! Shut up!  Shut up!
russell		 Whatever happens, you're dead.
jeff		Don't be self-righteous, Russell, not now.  You were sleeping with Penny, that groupie.  Last summer, and up until yesterday.  Why don't you tell Leslie THAT?
dennis		 I quit.
william		"That groupie?"  She was a Band-Aid. All she did was love your band.  And you all -- you used her, all of you. You used her and threw her away.  She almost died last night, while you were with Bob Dylan.  You're always talking about the fans, the fans, the fans. She was your biggest fan and you threw her away.  And if you can't see that, that's your biggest problem.
ed		I'm gay.
jeff		Well, I think we can build on this new honesty.
receptionist		Leave your package at the desk.
william		I'm not a messenger.  I'm one of your writers.  William Miller.
ben		You're William Miller?
william		Yep.
ben		 Oh baby.
jann		We can't run this piece.
ben		You obviously saw more than you wrote about.  After eight days on the road with these guys.
david felton		Didn't anything happen?
jann		And where are you in this piece?  What did you want to write?  Because this reads like what they wanted you to write.
ben		What happened to your highly-touted think piece on limitations of a middle- level Band in the face of success?
jann		We can push up Chet's Who cover -
fact checker		Good 'cause it's going to take me three days to get through this research. It's all handwritten, on little slips. Plus, they all refer to woman as "chicks." I mean, as a woman I have a problem with that.  I know it's a side issue.
david felton		 Happened with me and Charlie Manson. He was a very charming... lively... charismatic...
william		Please let me finish it.  Give me tonight to work on it.
fact checker		Chet's piece is all fact-checked and ready.
jann		 Get some sleep.  We'll do another story sometime.  We'll get you a kill fee.
fact checker		His research is all on little bits of paper.  Did I say that?
william		Ben.  You told me to send what I had. It's not finished.
fact checker		That's being charitable.
jann		Let him use the big office.   It's where Hunter used to write.
fact checker		 You can type.
william		Yes.  It took it in grade school.
lester bangs		Aw, man.  You made friends with them! See, friendship is the booze they feed you.  They want you to get drunk on feeling like you belong.
william		 Well, it was fun.
lester bangs		They make you feel cool.  And hey.  I met you.  You are not "cool."
william		I know.  Even when I though I was, I knew I wasn't.
lester bangs		That's because we are uncool!  And while women will always be a problem for guys like us, most of the great   art in the world is about that very problem. Good-looking people have no spine! Their art never lasts!  They  get the girls, but we're smarter.
william		I can really see that now.
lester bangs		Yeah, great art is about conflict and pain and guilt and longing and love disguised as sex, and sex disguised as love... and let's face it, you got a big head start.
william		I'm glad you were home.
lester bangs		I'm always home!  I'm uncool!
william		Me too!
lester bangs		 The only true currency in this bankrupt world if what we share with someone else when we're uncool.
william		 I feel better
lester		My advice to you.  I know you think those guys are your friends.  You want to be a true friend to them?
lester bangs		Be honest and unmerciful.  You're doing great.  Call me later is you want.  I'm always up.
felton		Read me the opening line.
ben		 "I am flying high over Tupelo, Mississippi, with America's hottest band, and we are all about to die."
felton		Mmmmm.  Dark.  Lively.
ben		Yeah, and it gets better.  Did this all really happen?
fact checker		 Give it to me.  I'll call and check the quotes.
jeff		Look.  Let's just piece together our information...  because the fact-checker asked us all about different parts of the story.
tony		What did he write about?  What's he using?
jeff		It.  All.  He's using it all.
russell		So what?
jeff		So what?  We come off like amateurs... some average band...  trying to come to grips, jealous and fighting and breaking up - we're buffoons!
russell		Maybe we just don't see ourselves the way we really are.
jeff		He was supposed to be our friend.
russell		 I told him to write what he wanted.
tony		 By the way, he has you on acid, screaming "I Am A Golden God" from a fan's rooftop.
russell		 Oh my God.
jeff		They used him to fuck us.
russell		 I didn't say "Golden God."  Or did I?
dick		We never took him seriously, and now it's serious.
russell		I liked him as a person.
jeff		He was never a "person!"  He was a journalist!
russell		You.  You had the right idea all along.
dennis hope		 How about the plane flight?
dick		It's all in there.  But don't worry, it's all unspecific who say what.  No names are mentioned in the more embarrassing sequences, it's just completely obvious who's who!  We're fucked!
russell		I forgot he was there.
dennis hope		Well, they haven't talked to Russell - he can always deny the key stuff to the fact checker.  Then they can't print it.
jeff		 Is that true?
dennis hope		It's war, my friend.  If you'd met me earlier, he would have never been on the around.
fact checker		The band just denied 90% of the story. It's a fabrication.
william		Did you talk to Russell?
fact checker		Russell Hammond is the one who denied it.
ben		 Crazy.
fact checker		 We're going with the Who - !
someone's voice		He's just some fan... what did you expect?
felton		Well, I believe you.
william		Goodbye.
felton		Powerful  word.  Strong.  Final.
russell		I feel bad.
sapphire		Well, at least you feel.  That puts you in a higher class of asshole.
russell		What did I do?
sapphire		Well - you can do what the big boys do.  Nothing.
russell		Yeah.
sapphire		You believe these new girls?  None of 'em take birth control, and they eat all the steak.
russell		Is Penny okay?
sapphire		The Quaalude Incident.  Yeah, it wasn't pretty.  She could have died.  I always warned her about letting too many guys fall in love with her.  I guess I was wrong.  On of 'em saved her life.
russell		Well, it's finally over with Leslie. I'm going to call her.
sapphire		Let her retire.  ... pretty average people.  She deserves it...
dick		Have a good vacation.  I hope the band stays together.  Before it all went down the shitter, it was starting to get really good.
russell		I'm not going to blame myself.  I do make people happy.  They just shouldn't get to know me... 'cause it appears to spoil everything.
sapphire		Don't be so easy on yourself.
russell		What gives you the right to get this personal with me.
sapphire		Let's not reminisce.
anita		William?
anita		You guys, I'll deadhead back later.  I think I'm needed.
female attendant		You have a good day!
anita		You look awful, but that's great. You're living your life!  You're finally free of... her.
william		Yeah.
anita		Hey.  I'll take off work.  Let's have an adventure together.  You and me, finally.  Anywhere you want to go. Anywhere in the world.
anita		This is not my idea of a good time.
william		Just get me to my bed.
anita		 I'll deal with her.
anita		 What are we going to do about him?
elaine		I don't know.  Whatever happened to him, I just wish it could have happened to me.
anita		The magazine killed his story.
russell		Hi, I'm Russel Hammond.
secretary		You're here regarding?
russell		My life.
russell		I don't care what happens.  I don't care if you put us on the cover.  But you sent us a kid and... and he was a fan.   And we all made friends with him - absolutely, to get a good story. But then we actually liked him.  We thought he's... show us our lives in some mythic way and I guess... we're not mythic.  We panicked.
jann		You denied most of the story.
russell		Yeah, well, here's the problem with the truth.  It's too true -
ben		Well, we appreciate the visit.  The last time an artist came here, it was Buddy Miles and he punched me.
russell		I'm not punching anybody.  I am personally, as of 2 pm yesterday, on a voyage of self-reinvention.  This is about William Miller.  He lives with us, he lost his virginity, he saw us at our worst, appreciated our best, he saved two lives, including mine... he smuggled about a half-pound of pot into Boston, and we never even told him -
jann		It's too late.  We're going with a different cover.
russell		 Thank God.
ben		Next time we'll all be more professional.
russell		Maybe so.  You might have died at the right time, my friend.
jann		Thank you for visiting.  Good luck.
russell		Do what you want, but the story is true.
anita		They're called pancakes.  Who knows when we'll be together again.  Splurge. It's what most people call breakfast.
elaine		I went through your records.  And I found a song to play for you.
****Dialogues from script :Alone_in_the_Dark.txt****

sheriff		What's going on, Adams?
deputy adams		Twenty kids live at this orphanage, Sheriff. All twenty have gone missing.
sister clara		After the power went out, I went to check on the children. But their beds were empty. Every one of them. They just disappeared...
deputy adams		Are you okay, son? Are the other kids around here?
young edward		I don't know... I don't remember...
deputy adams		Why don't we start with your name? Do you remember your name?
young edward		Edward... Edward Carnby.
small boy		Did you have a nightmare?
carnby		Your mother is wrong. Being afraid of the dark is what keeps most of us alive.
small boy		Everybody else tells me not to be afraid.
carnby		That's because they don't know the truth.
cabbie		You travel light.
carnby		Trust me, I'm carrying enough baggage for the both of us.
cabbie		That's pretty funny, man. What do you do?
carnby		You really want to know?
cabbie		Yeah, man. Hearing about my passengers' lives keeps the job interesting.
carnby		I'm a paranormal investigator.
cabbie		Get the fuck outta here!
carnby		I'm an effective solution to unusual problems.
cabbie		No shit? Want me to lose him?
carnby		If you can...
cabbie		I'm trapped, man!
carnby		I'll draw him away...
beat cop		Hey!
guard		Got another delivery, Ms. Cedrac.
aline		I don't have anything scheduled. What museum was it transferred from?
delivery guy		For Dr. Hudgens, from Dr. Hudgens.
aline		It's probably an error. It must be for the big Abkani show.
delivery guy		Abkani? What the hell's Abkani?
guard		Ancient Native American civilization. They were this super-advanced culture, but something like ten thousand years ago, they just disappeared.
line		You've been reading up.
guard		Not much else to do around here at night.
delivery guy		Says here it's not to be opened by anyone but Dr. Hudgens.
guard		This is Aline Cedrac. She's the assistant curator.
aline		We've got Abkani artifacts coming in from museums around the world. Until Hudgens gets back, I'm doing all the cataloguing anyway.
guard		Where is Hudgens anyway? The show opens in a few days.
aline		Off on another archeological goosechase. He thinks he's finally found the Erebus.
guard		So he sticks you with the work. At least it keeps your mind off your boyfriend.
line		I'll be in my office if you need me.
delivery guy		What was that all about?
guard		Damn it... I shouldn't have said that. Her boyfriend's been missing for the last three months.
delivery guy		Nice going, jack-ass.
captain chernick		They say a sunken ship is like a grave. It should never be disturbed.
hudgens		I've been searching for the Erebus for twenty years, Captain. Now that I've found it, I'm afraid your ill-informed superstitions aren't enough to stop me.
hudgens		Bring it up.
captain chernick		Don't you want to open it? Make sure it's what you're looking for?
hudgens		The conditions must be perfect. Otherwise, there will be... consequences.
captain chernick		Is this made of solid gold?
hudgens		Did you know the Abkani were the first civilization to use gold for their valuables? They believed it held the power to contain evil spirits. Thousands of years later, we don't even remember why gold was valuable to us in the first place. Now, let's load it onto the truck.
aline		The pictograms are late-period Abkani. It seems to be some sort of... prophecy. Shadows that make ghosts of men. The world of light consumed by darkness. This is the first indication I've ever seen that the Abkani had a myth about the end of the world.
captain chernick		If the container's made of gold, whatever's inside must be worth a fortune.
hudgens		You have no idea...
captain chernick		But I'm looking forward to finding out.
hudgens		I suppose one should not be surprised when mercenaries act mercenary.
captain chernick		The only mistake would be letting you walk out with whatever's in there. Barnes...
hudgens		Captain! Don't open it!
linda		John?
hudgens		They're faster than I thought...
captain chernick		Kill him.
burke		his better be good, Miles.
agent miles		Sir, we're getting some strange readings in the control room.
burke		his is Bureau 713. "Strange" doesn't even crack my radar. Now what's the situation?
agent miles		Well, sir, normal levels of paranormal activity range from three to five...
burke		condescending) Yes Miles. And what level are the sensors picking up now?
agent miles		We don't know.
burke		What are we looking at, Krashinsky?
krash		Electromagnetics off the scale, Commander.
agent yonek		Recalibrating sensors now, sir.
sister clara		Still having trouble sleeping, Edward? You can't stay up all night, you know.
young edward		Sister, something's happened.
sister clara		What is it, Edward?
young edward		They're not gone anymore. The others are back.
carnby		 Hello?
carnby		Linda, what's wrong?
carnby		I'll figure this out, Linda. I'll find John.
linda		Edward... you've known each other since you were kids. Did he... did he tell you he was leaving me?
carnby		Of course not.
linda		Then where is he, Edward? What's going on?
sister clara		Welcome home, Edward.
sophie		Should I make some tea?
sister clara		Yes. Thank you, Sophie.
carnby		Sister... John disappeared last night. And something happened to me as well.
sister clara		It's happening again.
carnby		I need your help, Sister. I need to find the others.
sister clara		I'll get their files.
carnby		I'll let you know as soon as I hear something.
fischer		Why did I agree to this?
carnby		I ordered for you, Fischer. It's pecan.
fischer		You've got a good memory, Carnby.
carnby		That means all nineteen are missing.
fischer		I ran full cross-references. Nothing much in common between them. Except they all grew up in the same orphanage. Your orphanage. What's going on, Carnby?
carnby		That's what I'm trying to find out.
aline		Hello?
aline		It's a fascinating piece, Dr. Hudgens. I started decoding the pictograms and...
aline		I was only going to catalogue it for you.
aline		But, Dr. Hudgens, I was just...
guard		There's... somebody here to see you.
aline		Edward...
carnby		I missed you too.
aline		I thought you were dead, you asshole!
carnby		Aline... let me explain. In private.
aline		Give me one reason why I'd ever want to speak to you again?
carnby		Five minutes, Aline. I'll tell you everything.
carnby		I was in the Amazon for six weeks, tracking poachers through their transport lines. Then I fell in with a group of ex- Chilean military selling artifacts on the black-market. This was found in a gold mine in the southern tip of Chile.
aline		And how did you end up with it?
carnby		I asked very nicely.
aline		You should've called, Edward. Or written. Just to let me know you were alive.
carnby		Does it make any sense to you?
aline		Yesterday, maybe not. But something happened last night.
aline		They were found in completely different locations. Alaska. Newfoundland. Venezuela. And now this one's from Chile.
carnby		Ten thousand years ago, it would've been like burying them at the ends of the earth.
aline		The Abkani's written language is based on pictograms. Combinations of symbols to create different meanings. But there's one here I've never seen before.
carnby		You're not trying to seduce me, are you?
aline		Give me that.
aline		What is it?
carnby		Hairs on the back of my neck just stood up.
aline		How come every time you show up, my life gets complicated?
carnby		I could ask you the same thing.
carnby		I think we'd better run...
carnby		Can't hold it...
aline		No! Why didn't you ask me that before you pushed me in here?
aline		Those doors lead to the front entrance.
agent barr		Reading two xenos.
agent cheung		There!
agent barr		Cheung! Marko! Don't let them get away!
krash		Readings gone. You lost them, Barr.
burke		I want a full security sweep. Miles, get Fischer to send his sci-and-spy boys down here. Now go.
burke		hat the hell are you doing here, Carnby?
carnby		Hey Richie.
burke		It's Commander Burke. This is my unit.
aline		They saved our lives.
burke		You used to be able to take care of yourself, Carnby. Gotten soft since you left 713?
agent miles		Ms. Cedrac, I'm Agent Miles. This is Commander Burke.
burke		Aline Cedrac. Pleasure to meet you. How's the Ph.D. coming along?
aline		It's fine. Thanks.
burke		Miles, get her to a medic.
carnby		I'll catch up.
burke		Why am I still looking at you?
carnby		I need to know what those things are.
burke		That information's classified. If you were still an agent, you'd already know. But since you're not, stay out of my way.
carnby		I'm asking nicely.
burke		Get him out of here!
carnby		You're right, Commander. I guess I have gone soft.
aline		I want to finish studying those artifacts.
carnby		I need to find out what's happened to John and the others. Stay in contact. We'll meet up later.
aline		Commander, I need to get to my office.
burke		The museum's quarantined until we're done.
aline		At least let me pack up my work. There's priceless artifacts in there. If they get damaged...
burke		If you notice anything out of the ordinary, let me know immediately.
aline		I don't think I want to know your definition of out of the ordinary.
fischer		You shouldn't be here, Carnby.
carnby		I'm not here. Commander Burke is. Now what the hell is that thing inside him?
fischer		Your curiosity have anything to do with the fingerprint of yours I found on his corpse?
carnby		The list of people I trust is short, Fischer. Is it about to get shorter?
fischer		Yeah, we got dentals. Agent James
carnby		He was an agent? When?
fischer		Went MIA twenty years ago. Presumed dead. I'm trying to get more intell, but his records are so classified, they're practically invisible. C arnby takes the tongs from Fischer, holding open the skin. Fischer makes a series of incisions with the scalpel, disconnecting the spinal-worm from Pinkerton's spine.
carnby		It's fused with his nervous system.
fischer		I've never seen this kind of symbiosis before.
aline		Dr. Hudgens. When did you get back?
hudgens		A few hours ago. I heard there was some excitement. Are you alright?
aline		I'm fine. A bit shaken up. But fine.
hudgens		I apologize for snapping at you earlier. Now, what are you still doing here after all you've been through?
aline		Edward.
hudgens		This is a major find. I'll need to analyze it. Confirm its authenticity.
aline		I can do that myself.
hudgens		That wasn't a request...
hudgens		And you are?
agent cheung		Ms. Cedrac's security detail.
hudgens		My dear, do you have any idea who I...
agent cheung		 Dr. Lionel Hudgens. Former agent, sci-and- spy division. Currently 713 advisor status. I know exactly who you are. But I'm not your "dear" anything.
hudgens		I'll just have to hold off my curiosity until morning.
aline		Dr. Hudgens... I forgot to ask. Did you find the Erebus this time?
hudgens		Just an empty shipwreck. You were right. It was another wild goosechase.
aline		Since when do I have a security detail?
agent cheung		Since it seemed like you needed it.
fischer		There's one inside you too. But the symbiosis is incomplete.
carnby		Can you remove it?
fischer		I could try. But it might paralyze you.
aline		What's missing...
carnby		I'm not much for coincidences. These organisms must be connected to those things from the museum.
fischer		We call them xenomorphs.
carnby		Catchy. When did they first appear?
fischer		Two years ago. They've been 713's top priority ever since. But it's been almost exclusively in rural areas. This kind of urban infiltration is unprecedented.
carnby		Have you isolated any weaknesses?
fischer		Most metals pass right through them. So normal bullets and blades are useless. But they're vulnerable to elements 76 to 79. Osmium, iridium, platinum, and gold. Negates their ability to disrupt electricity.
carnby		If they disrupt electricity, why did my flashlight still work?
fischer		The closer the current to its power source, the less disruption.
carnby		I'm going to need a lot of those.
carnby		Five minutes...
line		Edward?
burke		Have you been meeting with Carnby?
fischer		Yes. He's got intell we need. And I trust him.
urke		We've got to trust each other, Fischer. Are you with us or not?
burke		All the intell you've got on Edward Carnby.
fischer		What else could I do? I had to tell him.
sarah fischer		You did the right thing, Paul. From what you've told me, Carnby can take care of himself.
fischer		Sarah? Answer me! Sarah!
hudgens		If you can't beat us, Fischer, join us.
aline		Something smells amazing.
carnby		I know.
aline		I figured out a connection with the symbols on those artifacts. They correspond to constellations. But something's missing.
carnby		Maybe this will help...
aline		Can you run the program on this?
carnby		What are we looking for?
aline		The Abkani used constellations to pin- point a geographical location. But I don't think I can isolate it closer than a hundred mile radius.
carnby		Yeah. That's us right there.
carnby		John?
aline		That looked like John.
carnby		It is. The other two are from the orphanage as well.
aline		You had no choice.
carnby		Something's controlling them.
aline		How many are there altogether?
carnby		Twenty. Including me.
krash		Multiple readings confirmed. Back-up's on the way.
carnby		Aline!
agent barr		We're clear, sir.
burke		Love what you've done with the place, Carnby.
agent miles		Sir, this one's infected too!
agent turner		Got another one here!
burke		Drop your weapon and get down on the ground.
aline		What are you doing?
burke		He's been infected with some kind of organism. He could be under its control.
carnby		It's true. I've got one inside me. But it's not controlling me.
burke		You'll excuse me if I don't take your word for it. Now drop your weapon.
agent turner		Get out of the way!
aline		He's not one of them.
urke		If I've got to shoot through you to get to him, I'll do it.
carnby		Why are the lights still out?
agent barr		Scanner's clear.
burke		Forget to pay your power bill, Carnby?
aline		What does Hudgens have to do with this?
burke		That's what I want to find out. I need you both to brief me in the air.
krash		We're practically off the scale, Commander. This is unprecedented. Should I initiate Contingency Nine-Alpha?
krash		Is that a negative, Commander?
agent miles		We've got three perimeters of flash- mines. Gatling guns are set to electromagnetic motion tracking. And every available agent in the vicinity is here. But Commander...
burke		I know, Miles. But back-up won't make it before sunrise.
agent turner		Generator will be on-line shortly, sir.
aline		It looks like you're going to war.
burke		We are. The highest xeno concentration on record is closing in on this location. This could be our chance to wipe them out once and for all.
carnby		We need to go down there.
burke		What?
carnby		They're coming here for a reason. Until we know what they're after, we're never really going to be able to stop them.
agent miles		Something's definitely down there, sir. But there's too much interference to get a clear reading from here.
burke		Goddamn it. Miles, you're in charge of perimeter defense. Nothing gets in or out until we find out what's down there.
aline		I've been thinking about something. The Abkani prophecy. The shadows that make ghosts of men...
carnby		Every culture has a story about the end of the world.
aline		But not every story starts to come true.
agent barr		It's definitely this way, sir.
burke		It's a dead end.
agent barr		Readings are getting stronger.
burke		We'll double-back. Take another tunnel.
carnby		Wait. Aline, look at this...
aline		They're Abkani.
agent cheung		There's more over here.
agent barr		What do you got, Marko?
burke		We've got to get down there.
agent feenstra		How long do we have to hold them?
agent miles		Only until dawn.
agent feenstra		Sir... that's four hours away.
agent miles		I know.
agent miles		Incoming!
agent miles		Where the hell are the lights?
agent turner		The generator's not coming on-line. They must be disrupting it.
carnby		Aline!
burke		Cheung! Cut the line!
aline		It's a warning.
carnby		Subtle.
aline		The gist of it is, even if you make it down here alive, you're already dead.
agent miles		Hold your fire until they're at the second perimeter.
carnby		Aline!
burke		We've got to get up there.
gent turner		Hit it.
agent feenstra		We made it, sir.
agent turner		Fischer?
aline		Maybe this is what they look like when they grow outside a human host?
burke		I think you'd better see this.
agent miles		Feenstra!
aline		The Abkani didn't put this here.
gent barr		There's no way through.
burke		There's always a way...
agent feenstra		I'm out.
agent miles		Last one.
agent feenstra		I can't walk. If I lay down suppressing fire, maybe you can make it out of here.
agent miles		I die fighting or I don't die at all.
aline		You sure this is going to work?
aline		What is this place?
carnby		This is where it happened.
agent barr		Commander...
aline		Edward, look...
carnby		So it's a key.
burke		Two, we set enough C-4 to bury this place. Keep whatever's in there, down here for good.
carnby		The answers I've been looking for my whole life could be in there.
aline		Some doors are locked for a reason.
carnby		Barr... how much C-4 you got left?
agent barr		Enough to blow this place to...
hudgens		I'm afraid I can't allow that.
hudgens		Our early work was crude, I admit. But eventually we perfected the implant process. You were our last failure, Carnby. If you hadn't escaped, 713 never would've shut down the experiments. Burke's eyes flash with anger.
carnby		Aline...
hudgens		You couldn't have opened it anyway. Not without this...
line		These doors won't hold them for long
burke		Once we get out, we can remote detonate.
carnby		Look at the dust on the floor. This is where Hudgens got in.
carnby		Over there!
burke		The remote detonator's inactive. The signal can't get through.
carnby		We'll find a way.
urke		You saved my life, Carnby. I don't much like debts.
carnby		Burke!
aline		Edward... if he detonates those charges, we're all dead.
carnby		They were under us the whole time.
aline		Where are all the children?
carnby		Something's very wrong...
aline		Edward... what's going on?
carnby		Remember what Hudgens said? I was his last failure. He said he perfected the implant process.
aline		It can't be...
carnby		Then where the hell is everybody? Where's everybody gone?
aline		Yes Edward?
carnby		It's going to be a busy day.
****Dialogues from script :Amadeus.txt****

old salieri		Mozart! Mozart! Mozart. Forgive me! Forgive your assassin! Mozart!
old salieri		Show some mercy! I beg you. I beg you! Show mercy to a guilty man!
valet		Open the door, Signore! Please! Be good now! We've brought you something special. Something you're going to love.
valet		Signore Salieri! Open the door. Come now. Be good!
old salieri		Mozart! Mozart! I confess it! Listen! I confess!
old salieri		Mozart! Mozart! I cannot bear it any longer! I confess! I confess what I did! I'm guilty! I killed you! Sir I confess! I killed you!
old salieri		Mozart, perdonami! Forgive your assassin! Piet! Piet! Forgive your assassin! Forgive me! Forgive! Forgive!
valet		 That's all right, Signore! He heard you! He forgave you! He wants you to go inside now and shut the window!
valet		Come on, Signore! Look what I have for you! I can't give it to you from down here, can I?
bystander		Who is that?
valet		No one, sir. He'll be all right. Poor man. He's a little unhappy, you know.
valet		Did he open?
valet		Here I am, Signore. Now open the door.
valet		Mmmm - this is good! This is the most delicious thing I ever ate, believe me! Signore, you don't know what you're missing! Mmmm!
valet		Now that's enough, Signore! Open!
valet		If you don't open this door, we're going to eat everything. There'll be nothing left for you. And I'm not going to bring you anything more.
doctor gulden		He's going to live. It's much harder to cut your throat than most people imagine.
doctor gulden		Here we are. Do you wish me to come in with you?
vogler		No, Doctor. Thank you.
vogler		Herr Salieri?
old salieri		What do you want?
vogler		I am Father Vogler. I am a Chaplain here. I thought you might like to talk to someone.
old salieri		About what?
vogler		You tried to take your life. You do remember that, don't you?
old salieri		So?
vogler		In the sight of God that is a sin.
old salieri		What do you want?
vogler		Do you understand that you have sinned? Gravely.
old salieri		Leave me alone.
vogler		I cannot leave alone a soul in pain.
old salieri		Do you know who I am? You never heard of me, did you?
vogler		That makes no difference. All men are equal in God's eyes.
old salieri		Are they?
vogler		Offer me your confession. I can offer you God's forgiveness.
old salieri		I do not seek forgiveness.
vogler		My son, there is something dreadful on your soul. Unburden it to me. I'm here only for you. Please talk to me.
old salieri		How well are you trained in music?
vogler		I know a little. I studied it in my youth.
old salieri		Where?
vogler		Here in Vienna.
old salieri		Then you must know this.
vogler		I can't say I do. What is it?
old salieri		I'm surprised you don't know. It was a very popular tune in its day. I wrote it. How about this?
old salieri		This one brought down the house when we played it first.
old salieri		 Well?
vogler		I regret it is not too familiar.
old salieri		Can you recall no melody of mine? I was the most famous composer in Europe when you were still a boy. I wrote forty operas alone. What about this little thing?
vogler		Oh, I know that! That's charming!  I didn't know you wrote that.
old salieri		I didn't. That was Mozart. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. You know who that is?
vogler		Of course. The man you accuse yourself of killing.
old salieri		Ah - you've heard that?
vogler		All Vienna has heard that.
old salieri		 And do they believe it?
vogler		Is it true?
old salieri		Do you believe it?
vogler		Should I?
vogler		For God's sake, my son, if you have anything to confess, do it now! Give yourself some peace!
vogler		Do you hear me?
old salieri		He was murdered, Father! Mozart! Cruelly murdered.
vogler		 Yes? Did you do it?
old salieri		He was my idol! I can't remember a time when I didn't know his name! When I was only fourteen he was already famous. Even in Legnago - the tiniest town in Italy - I knew of him.
old salieri		Suddenly he was dead. Just like that! And my life changed forever. My mother said, Go. Study music if you really want to. Off with you! And off I went as quick as I could and never saw Italy again. Of course, I knew God had arranged it all; that was obvious. One moment I was a frustrated boy in an obscure little town. The next I was here, in Vienna, city of musicians, sixteen years old and studying under Gluck! Gluck, Father. Do you know who he was? The greatest composer of his time. And he loved me! That was the wonder. He taught me everything he knew. And when I was ready, introduced me personally to the Emperor! Emperor Joseph - the musical king!  Within a few years I was his court composer. Wasn't that incredible? Imperial Composer to His Majesty! Actually the man had no ear at all, but what did it matter? He adored my music, that was enough. Night after night I sat right next to the Emperor of Austria, playing duets with him, correcting the royal sight-reading. Tell me, if you had been me, wouldn't you have thought God had accepted your vow? And believe me, I honoured it. I was a model of virtue. I kept my hands off women, worked hours every day teaching students, many of them for free, sitting on endless committees to help poor musicians - work and work and work, that was all my life. And it was wonderful! Everybody liked me. I liked myself. I was the most successful musician in Vienna. And the happiest. Till he came. Mozart.
arco		Mozart is not here.
colloredo		Where is he?
arco		They're looking for him, Your Grace.
colloredo		 We'll start without him.
mozart		Miaouw! Miaouw! Mouse-wouse? It's Puss-wuss, fangs-wangs. Paws-claws. Pounce-bounce!
constanze		Stop it. Stop it!
constanze		Stop it!
mozart		I am! I am! I'm stopping it - slowly. You see! Look, I've stopped. Now we are going back.
constanze		No! No! No!
mozart		Yes! Back! Back! Listen - don't you know where you are?
constanze		Where?
mozart		We are in the Residence of the Fartsbishop of Salzburg.
constanze		Fartsbishop!
constanze		Your Grace, I've got something to tell you. I want to complain about this man.
mozart		Go ahead, tell him. Tell them all. They won't understand you anyway.
constanze		Why not?
mozart		Because here everything goes backwards. People walk backwards, dance backwards, sing backwards, and talk backwards.
constanze		That's stupid.
mozart		Why? People fart backwards.
constanze		Do you think that's funny?
mozart		Yes, I think it's brilliant. You've been doing it for years.
constanze		Oh, ha, ha, ha.
mozart		Sra-I'm-sick! Sra-I'm sick!
constanze		Yes, you are. You're very sick.
mozart		No, no. Say it backwards, shit-wit. Sra-I'm-sick Say it backwards!
constanze		 Sra-I'm-sick. Sick - kiss I'm - my Kiss my! Sra-I'm-sick - Kiss my arse!
mozart		Em iram! Em iram!
constanze		No, I'm not playing this game.
mozart		No, this is serious. Say it backwards.
constanze		No!
mozart		Just say it - you'll see. It's very serious. Em iram!  Em iram!
constanze		Iram - marry Em - marry me! No, no! You're a fiend. I'm not going to marry a fiend. A dirty fiend at that.
mozart		Ui-vol-i-tub!
constanze		Tub - but i-tub - but I vol - love but I love ui - You. I love you!
mozart		Tish-I'm tee. What's that?
constanze		What?
mozart		Tish-I'm-tee.
constanze		Eat
mozart		Yes.
constanze		Eat my - ah!
mozart		My music! They've started! They've started without me!
arco		Follow me, please. The Archbishop would like a word.
mozart		Certainly!
mozart		Well, I think that went off remarkably well, don't you?
arco		Indeed.
mozart		These Viennese certainly know good music when they hear it.
arco		His Grace is very angry with you.
mozart		What do you mean?
arco		You are to come in here and ask his pardon.
arco		Your Grace.
colloredo		Ah, Mozart. Why?
mozart		Why what, sir?
colloredo		Why do I have to be humiliated in front of my guests by one of my own servants?
mozart		Humiliated?
colloredo		How much provocation am I to endure from you? The more license I allow you, the more you take.
mozart		If His Grace is not satisfied with me, he can dismiss me.
colloredo		I wish you to return immediately to Salzburg. Your father is waiting for you there patiently. I will speak to you further when I come.
mozart		No, Your Grace! I mean with all humility, no. I would rather you dismissed me. It's obvious I don't satisfy.
colloredo		Then try harder, Mozart. I have no intention of dismissing you. You will remain in my service and learn your place. Go now.
mozart		Excuse me!
old salieri		Why?  Would God choose an obscene child to be His instrument? It was not to be believed! This piece had to be an accident. It had to be!
joseph		How good is he, this Mozart?
von swieten		He's remarkable, Majesty. I heard an extraordinary serious opera of his last month. Idomeneo, King of Crete.
von swieten		Tiresome?
von swieten		Majesty, I thought it the most promising work I've heard in years.
joseph		Ah-ha. Well then, we should make some effort to acquire him. We could use a good German composer in Vienna, surely?
von strack		I agree, Majesty, but I'm afraid it's not possible. The young man is still in the pay of the Archbishop.
joseph		Very small pay, I imagine. I'm sure he could be tempted with the right offer. Say, an opera in German for our National Theatre.
von swieten		Excellent, sire!
joseph		Ah-ha. What do you say, Chamberlain?
von strack		In my opinion, it is time we had a piece in our own language, sir. Plain German. For plain people.
joseph		Ah-ha. Kapellmeister?
bonno		 Majesty, I must agree with Herr Dirretore. Opera is an Italian art, solamente. German is - scusate - too bruta for singing, too rough.
joseph		Ah-ha. Court Composer, what do you say?
salieri		I think it is an interesting notion to keep Mozart in Vienna, Majesty. It should really infuriate the Archbishop beyond measure - if that is your Majesty's intention.
joseph		You are cattivo, Court Composer.  I want to meet this young man. Chamberlain, arrange a pleasant welcome for him.
von strack		Yes, sir.
joseph		Well. There it is.
salieri		Si.
salieri		Ah! Here she comes. Fraulein Lorl, good morning.
lorl		Good morning, sir.
salieri		What have you got for me today? Let me see.
salieri		Ah-ha! Siena macaroons - my favourites. Give my best thanks to the baker.
lorl		I will, sir.
salieri		Thank you. Are you well today, Fraulein Lorl?
lorl		Yes, thank you, sir.
salieri		Bene! Bene!
salieri		Grazie, Signore.
mozart		And the other one?
mozart		And the other one?
mozart		Oh, they're both so beautiful, I can't decide. Why don't I have two heads?
joseph		Good, good, good.
joseph		Good morning, gentlemen.
joseph		 Well, what do you have for me today?
von strack		Your Majesty, Herr Mozart -
joseph		Yes, what about him?
von strack		He's here.
joseph		Ah-ha. Well. There it is. Good.
salieri		Majesty, I hope you won't think it improper, but I have written a little March of Welcome in his honour.
joseph		What a charming idea. May I see?
salieri		 It's just a trifle, of course.
joseph		May I try it?
salieri		Majesty.
joseph		Delightful, Court Composer. Would you permit me to play it as he comes in?
salieri		You do me too much honour, Sire.
joseph		Let's have some fun.  Bring in Herr Mozart, please. But slowly, slowly. I need a minute to practice.
salieri		A-flat, Majesty.
joseph		Ah-ha!
majordomo		Herr Mozart.
von strack		Well done, Sire!
joseph		Gentlemen, gentlemen, a little less enthusiasm, I beg you. Ah, Mozart.
mozart		Your Majesty!
joseph		No, no, please! It is not a holy relic.  He was giving the most brilliant little concert here. As he got off the stool, he slipped and fell. My sister Antoinette helped him up herself, and do you know what he did? Jumped straight into her arms and said, Will you marry me, yes or no?
joseph		You know all these gentlemen, I'm sure.
joseph		The Baron Von Swieten.
von swieten		I'm a great admirer of yours, young man. Welcome.
mozart		Oh, thank you.
joseph		The Director of our Opera. Count Orsini-Rosenberg.
mozart		 Oh sir, yes! The honour is mine. Absolutely.
joseph		And here is our illustrious Court Composer, Herr Salieri.
salieri		 Finally! Such an immense joy. Diletto straordinario!
mozart		I know your work well, Signore. Do you know I actually composed some variations on a melody of yours?
salieri		Really?
mozart		Mio caro Adone.
salieri		Ah!
mozart		A funny little tune, but it yielded some good things.
joseph		And now he has returned the compliment. Herr Salieri composed that March of Welcome for you.
mozart		 Really? Oh, grazie, Signore! Sono commosso! E un onore per mo eccezionale. Compositore brilliante e famossissimo!
salieri		My pleasure.
joseph		Well, there it is. Now to business. Young man, we are going to commission an opera from you. What do you say?
mozart		Majesty!
joseph		 Did we vote in the end for German or Italian?
von strack		Did we?
von swieten		I don't think it was really decided, Director.
mozart		Oh, German! German! Please let it be German.
joseph		Why so?
mozart		Because I've already found the most wonderful libretto!
mozart		I - I don't think you have, Herr Director. Not yet. I mean, it's quite n - Of course, I'll show it to you immediately.
joseph		Well, what is it about? Tell us the story.
mozart		It's actually quite amusing, Majesty. It's set - the  whole thing is set in a - in a -
joseph		Yes, where?
mozart		In a Pasha's Harem, Majesty. A Seraglio.
joseph		Ah-ha.
mozart		Exactly.
mozart		Well not especially. It can be in Turkish, if you really want. I don't care.
von swieten		 My dear fellow, the language is not finally the point. Do you really think that subject is quite appropriate for a national theatre?
mozart		Why not? It's charming. I mean, I don't actually show concubines exposing their! their! It's not indecent!  It's highly moral, Majesty. It's full of proper German virtues. I swear it. Absolutely!
joseph		Well, I'm glad to hear that.
salieri		Excuse me, Sire, but what do you think these could be? Being a foreigner, I would love to learn.
joseph		Cattivo again, Court Composer. Well, tell him, Mozart. Name us a German virtue.
mozart		Love, Sire!
salieri		Ah, love! Well of course in Italy we know nothing about that.
mozart		No, I don't think you do. I mean watching Italian opera, all those male sopranos screeching. Stupid fat couples rolling their eyes about! That's not love - it's just rubbish.
mozart		Majesty, you choose the language. It will be my task to set it to the finest music ever offered a monarch.
joseph		Well, there it is. Let it be German.
joseph		Ah, this is yours.
mozart		Keep it, Sire, if you want to. It is already here in my head.
joseph		What? On one hearing only?
mozart		I think so, Sire, yes.
joseph		Show me.
mozart		 The rest is just the same, isn't it?
mozart		That really doesn't work, does it?
mozart		Did you try this? Wouldn't it be just a little more -?
mozart		Or this - yes, this! Better.
salieri		Grazie, Signore.
salieri		Yes?
lorl		Madame Cavalieri is here for her lesson, sir.
salieri		Bene.
cavalieri		 Maestro.
salieri		Good morning.
cavalieri		 Well? How do you like it? It's Turkish. My hairdresser tells me everything's going to be Turkish this year!
salieri		Really? What else did he tell you today? Give me some gossip.
cavalieri		Well, I heard you met Herr Mozart.
salieri		Oh? News travels fast in Vienna.
cavalieri		And he's been commissioned to write an opera. Is it true?
salieri		Yes.
cavalieri		Is there a part for me?
salieri		No.
cavalieri		How do you know?
salieri		Well even if there is, I don't think you want to get involved with this one.
cavalieri		Why not?
salieri		Well, do you know where it's set, my dear?
cavalieri		Where?
salieri		In a harem.
cavalieri		What's that?
salieri		A brothel.
cavalieri		Oh!
salieri		A Turkish brothel.
cavalieri		Turkish? Oh, if it's Turkish, that's different. I want to be in it.
salieri		My dear, it will hardly enhance your reputation to be celebrated throughout Vienna as a singing prostitute for a Turk.
cavalieri		Oh. Well perhaps you could introduce us anyway.
salieri		Perhaps.
cavalieri		What does he look like?
salieri		You might be disappointed.
cavalieri		Why?
salieri		Looks and talent don't always go together, Katherina.
cavalieri		 Looks don't concern me, Maestro. Only talent interests a woman of taste.
cavalieri		Since you are determined, Since you are determined, Calmly, with no ferment, Welcome - every pain and woe. Bind me then - compel me! Bind me then - compel me! Hurt me. Break me! Kill me! At last I shall be freed by death!
cavalieri		 Be freed at last by death! Be freed at last by death! At last I shall be freed By! Death!
old salieri		Understand, I was in love with the girl. Or at least in lust. I wasn't a saint. It took me the most tremendous effort to be faithful to my vow. I swear to you I never laid a finger on her. All the same, I couldn't bear to think of anyone else touching her - least of all the Creature.
joseph		Bravo, Madame. You are an ornament to our stage.
cavalieri		Majesty.
joseph		 And to you, Court Composer. Your pupil has done you great credit.
madame weber		Let us pass, please! Let us pass at once! We're with the Emperor.
flunky		I am sorry, Madame. It is not permitted.
madame weber		Do you know who I am?  This is my daughter. I am Frau Weber. We are favoured guests!
flunky		I am sorry, Madame, but I have my orders.
madame weber		Call Herr Mozart! You call Herr Mozart immediately! This is insupportable!
constanze		Mother, please!
madame weber		Go ahead, Constanze. Just ignore this fellow.  Go ahead, dear!
flunky		 I am sorry, Madame, but no! I cannot let anyone pass.
madame weber		Young man, I am no stranger to theatres. I'm no stranger to insolence!
joseph		Well, Herr Mozart! A good effort. Decidedly that. An excellent effort! You've shown us something quite new today.
mozart		It is new, it is, isn't it, Sire?
joseph		Yes, indeed.
mozart		And German?
joseph		Oh, yes. Absolutely. German. Unquestionably!
mozart		So then you like it? You really like it, Your Majesty?
joseph		Of course I do. It's very good. Of course now and then - just now and then - it gets a touch elaborate.
mozart		What do you mean, Sire?
joseph		Well, I mean occasionally it seems to have, how shall one say?  How shall one say, Director?
joseph		Exactly. Very well put. Too many notes.
mozart		I don't understand. There are just as many notes, Majesty, as are required. Neither more nor less.
joseph		My dear fellow, there are in fact only so many notes the ear can hear in the course of an evening. I think I'm right in saying that, aren't I, Court Composer?
salieri		Yes! yes! er, on  the whole, yes, Majesty.
mozart		 But this is absurd!
joseph		My dear, young man, don't take it too hard. Your work is ingenious. It's quality work. And there are simply too many notes, that's all. Cut a few and it will be perfect.
mozart		Which few did you have in mind, Majesty?
joseph		Well. There it is.
madame weber		Wolfi! Wolfi, my dear!
madame weber		Oh!
mozart		Majesty, this is Madame Weber. She is my landlady.
joseph		Enchanted, Madame.
madame weber		Oh, Sire! such an honour! And, and, and these are my dear daughters. This is Constanze. She is the fiancee of Herr Mozart.
joseph		Really? How delightful. May I ask when you marry?
mozart		Well - Well we haven't quite received my father's consent, Your Majesty. Not entirely. Not altogether.
joseph		Excuse me, but how old are you?
mozart		Twenty-six.
joseph		Well, my advice is to marry this charming young lady and stay with us in Vienna.
madame weber		You see? You see? I've told him that, Your Majesty, but he won't listen to me.
madame weber		Oh, Your Majesty, you give such wonderful - such impeccable - such royal advice. I - I - May I?
joseph		Well. There it is. Strack.
constanze		 Get some water!
mozart		Katherina! I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to write another aria for you. Something even more amazing for the second act. I have to get some water. Her mother is lying on the stage.
cavalieri		Don't bother!
mozart		What?
cavalieri		Don't bother.
mozart		I'll be right back.
constanze		Are you all right?
madame weber		Ah, what an evening! What a wise man we have for an Emperor. Oh, my children!  Now I want you to write your father exactly what His Majesty said.
mozart		You should really go home now, Frau Weber. Your carriage must be waiting.
madame weber		But aren't you taking us?
mozart		I have to talk to the singers.
madame weber		That's all right; we'll wait for you. Just don't take all night.
cavalieri		Did you know? Had you heard?
salieri		What?
cavalieri		The marriage!
salieri		Well, what does it matter to you?
cavalieri		Nothing! He can marry who he pleases. I don't give a damn.
cavalieri		How was I? Tell me honestly.
salieri		You were sublime.
cavalieri		What did you think of the music?
salieri		Extremely clever.
cavalieri		Meaning you didn't like it.
mozart		Oh - excuse me!
cavalieri		Is her mother still lying on the floor?
mozart		No, she's fine.
cavalieri		I'm so relieved.
salieri		Dear Mozart, my sincere congratulations.
mozart		Did you like it, then?
salieri		How could I not?
mozart		It really is the best music one can hear in Vienna today. Don't you agree?
cavalieri		Is she a good fuck?
mozart		What??
cavalieri		I assume she's the virtuoso in that department. There can't be any other reason you'd marry someone like that.
cavalieri		Come in!
constanze		Excuse me, Wolfi. Mama is not feeling very well. Can we leave now?
mozart		Of course.
cavalieri		No, no, no, no. You can't take him away now. This is his night. Won't you introduce us, Wolfgang?
mozart		Excuse us, Fraulein. Good night, Signore.
cavalieri		You really are full of surprises, aren't you? You are quite extraordinary, you little shit!
old salieri		It was incomprehensible. What was God up to? Here I was denying all my natural lust in order to deserve God's gift and there was Mozart indulging his in all directions - even though engaged to be married! - and no rebuke at all! Was it possible I was being tested? Was God expecting me to offer forgiveness in the face of every offense, no matter how painful? That was very possible. All the same, why him? Why use Mozart to teach me lessons in humility? My heart was filling up with such hatred for that little man. For the first time in my life I began to know really violent thoughts. I couldn't stop them.
vogler		Did you try?
old salieri		Every day. Sometimes for hours I would pray!
salieri		Please! Please! Send him away, back to Salzburg. For his sake as well as mine.
colloredo		No! I won't have him back.
leopold		But he needs to be here in Salzburg, Your Grace. He needs me and he needs you. Your protection, your understanding.
colloredo		Hardly.
leopold		Oh sir, yes! He's about to make the worst mistake of his life. Some little Viennese slut is trying to trick him into marriage. I know my son. He is too simple to see the trap - and there is no one there who really cares for him.
colloredo		I'm not surprised. Money seems to be more important to him than loyalty or friendship. He has sold himself to Vienna. Let Vienna look out for him.
leopold		Sir -
colloredo		Your son is an unprincipled, spoiled, conceited brat.
leopold		Yes, sir, that's the truth. But don't blame him. The fault is mine. I was too indulgent with him. But not again. Never again, I promise! I implore you - let me bring him back here. I'll make him give his word to serve you faithfully.
colloredo		And how will you make him keep it?
leopold		Oh, sir, he's never disobeyed me in anything. Please, Your Grace, give him one more chance.
colloredo		You have leave to try.
leopold		Oh, Your Grace - I thank Your Grace! I thank you!
mozart		I will.
priest		And will you, Constanze Weber, take this man, Wolfgang to be your lawful husband?
constanze		I will.
priest		I now pronounce you man and wife.
joseph		Good morning, Court Composer. This is my niece, the Princess Elizabeth.
salieri		Your Highness.
joseph		She has asked me to advise her on a suitable musical instructor. I think I've come up with an excellent idea.
salieri		Oh, Your Majesty, it would be such a tremendous honour!
joseph		I'm thinking about Herr Mozart. What is your view?
salieri		An interesting idea, Majesty. But -
joseph		Yes?
salieri		You already commissioned an opera from Mozart.
joseph		And the result satisfies.
salieri		Yes, of course. My concern is to protect you from any suspicion of favouritism.
joseph		Ah-ha. Favouritism. But I so want Mozart.
salieri		I'm sure there is a way, Majesty. Some kind of a little contest. I could perhaps put together a small Committee, and I could see to it naturally that it will select according to Your Majesty's wishes.
joseph		You please me, Court Composer. A very clever idea.
salieri		 Sire.
joseph		Well. There it is.
mozart		What is this, Herr Chamberlain?
von strack		What is what?
mozart		Why do I have to submit samples of my work to some stupid committee? Just to teach a sixteen-year-old girl.
von strack		Because His Majesty wishes it.
mozart		Is the Emperor angry with me?
von strack		On the contrary.
mozart		Then why doesn't he simply appoint me to the post?
von strack		Mozart, you are not the only composer in Vienna.
mozart		No, but I'm the best.
von strack		A little modesty would suit you better.
mozart		Who is on this committee?
von strack		Kapellmeister Bonno, Count Orsini- Rosenberg and Court Composer Salieri.
mozart		Naturally, the Italians! Of course! Always the Italians!
von strack		Mozart -
mozart		They hate my music. It terrifies them. The only sound Italians understand is banality. Tonic and dominant, tonic and dominant, from here to Resurrection!  Ba-ba! Ba-ba! Ba-ba! Ba-ba! Anything else is morbid.
von strack		Mozart -
mozart		Show them one interesting modulation and they faint. Ohime! Morbidezza! Morbidezza! Italians are musical idiots and you want them to judge my music!
von strack		Look, young man, the issue is simple. If you want this post, you must submit your stuff in the same way as all your colleagues.
mozart		Must I? Well, I won't! I tell you straight: I will not!
constanze		I think you're mad! You're really mad!
mozart		Oh, leave me alone.
constanze		One royal pupil and the whole of Vienna will come flocking. We'd be set up for life!
mozart		They'll come anyway. They love me here.
constanze		No, they will not. I know how things work in this city.
mozart		Oh yes? You always know everything.
constanze		Well, I'm not borrowing any more money from my mother, and that's that!
mozart		You borrowed money from your mother?
constanze		Yes!
mozart		Well, don't do that again!
constanze		How are we going to live, Wolfi? Do you want me to go into the streets and beg?
mozart		Don't be stupid.
constanze		All they want to see is your work. What's wrong with that?
mozart		Shut up! Just shut up! I don't need them.
constanze		This isn't pride. It's sheer stupidity!
salieri		Yes.
servant		Excuse me, sir, there is a lady who insists on talking to you.
salieri		Who is she?
servant		She didn't say. But she says it's urgent.
salieri		 Excuse me, my dear.
constanze		Excellency!
salieri		Madame. How can I help you?
salieri		Frau Mozart?
constanze		That's right, Your Excellency. I've come on behalf of my hus band. I'm - I'm bringing some samples of his work so he can be considered for the royal appointment.
salieri		How charming.  But why did he not come himself?
constanze		He's terribly busy, sir.
salieri		I understand.
salieri		I will look at them, of course, the moment I can. It will be an honour. Please give him my warmest.
constanze		Would it be too much trouble, sir, to ask you to look at them now? While I wait.
salieri		I'm afraid I'm not at leisure this very moment. Just leave them with me. I assure you they will be quite safe.
constanze		I - I really cannot do that, Your Excellency. You see, he doesn't know I'm here.
salieri		Really?
constanze		My husband is a proud man, sir. He would be furious if he knew I'd come.
salieri		Then he didn't send you?
constanze		No, sir. This is my own idea.
salieri		I see.
constanze		Sir, we really need this job. We're desperate. My husband spends far more than he can ever earn. I don't mean he's lazy - he's not at all - he works all day long. It's just! he's not practical. Money simply slips through his fingers, it's really ridiculous, Your Excellency. I know you help musicians. You're famous for it. Give him just this one post. We'd be forever indebted!
salieri		Let me offer you some refreshment. Do you know what these are?
salieri		Cappezzoli di Venere. Nipples of Venus. Roman chestnuts in brandied sugar. Won't you try one? They're quite surprising.
constanze		Oh! They're wonderful.
constanze		Thank you very much, Your Excellency.
salieri		Don't keep calling me that. It puts me at such a distance. I was not born a Court Composer, you know. I'm from a small town, just like your husband.
salieri		Are you sure you can't leave that music, and come back again? I have other things you might like.
constanze		That's very tempting, but it's impossible, I'm afraid. Wolfi would be frantic if he found those were missing. You see, they're all originals.
salieri		Originals?
constanze		Yes.
salieri		These are originals?
constanze		Yes, sir. He doesn't make copies.
old salieri		Astounding! It was actually beyond belief. These were first and only drafts of music yet they showed no corrections of any kind. Not one. Do you realize what that meant?
old salieri		He'd simply put down music already finished in his head. Page after page of it, as if he was just taking dictation. And music finished as no music is ever finished.
constanze		Is it no good?
salieri		It is miraculous.
constanze		Oh yes. He's really proud of his work.
constanze		So, will you help him?
salieri		Tomorrow night I dine with the Emperor. One word from me and the post is his.
constanze		Oh, thank you, sir!
salieri		Come back tonight.
constanze		Tonight?
salieri		Alone.
constanze		What for?
salieri		Some service deserves service in return. No?
constanze		What do you mean?
salieri		Isn't it obvious?
salieri		It's a post all Vienna seeks. If you want it for your husband, come tonight.
constanze		But! I'm a married woman!
salieri		Then don't. It's up to you. Not to be vague, that is the price.
salieri		Yes.
old salieri		Yes, Father. Yes! So much for my vow of chastity. What did it matter? Good, patient, hard-working, chaste - what did it matter? Had goodness made me a good composer? I realized it absolutely then - that moment: goodness is nothing in the furnace of art. And I was nothing to God.
vogler		 You cannot say that!
old salieri		No? Was Mozart a good man?
vogler		God's ways are not yours. And you are not here to question Him. Offer him the salt of penitence. He will give you back the bread of eternal life. He is all merciful. That is all you need to know.
old salieri		All I ever wanted was to sing to Him. That's His doing, isn't it? He gave me that longing - then made me mute. Why? Tell me that. If He didn't want me to serve Him with music, why implant the desire, like a lust in my body, then deny me the talent? Go on, tell me! Speak for Him!
vogler		My son, no one can speak for God.
old salieri		Oh? I thought you did so every day. So speak now. Answer me!
vogler		I do not claim to unravel the mysteries. I treasure them. As you should.
old salieri		 There is no God of Mercy, Father. Just a God of torture.
salieri		Dear God, enter me now. Fill me with one piece of true music. One piece with your breath in it, so I know that you love me. Please. Just one. Show me one sign of your favour, and I will show mine to Mozart and his wife. I will get him the royal position, and if she comes, I'll receive her with all respect and send her home in joy. Enter me! Enter me! Please! Te imploro.
servant		That lady is back, sir.
salieri		Show her in. Then go to bed.
constanze		Well, I'm here. My husband has gone to a concert. He didn't think I would enjoy it.
constanze		I do apologize for this afternoon. I behaved like a silly girl. Where shall we go?
salieri		What?
constanze		Should we stay here? It's a charming room. I love these candlesticks. Were they here earlier? I didn't notice them I suppose I was too nervous.
constanze		Wolfgang was given some candlesticks by King George in England, but they were only wood. Oh, excuse me. Let's not talk about him. What do you think of this? It's real lace. Brussels.
constanze		Well, it's much too good for every day. I keep saying to Wolfi, don't be so extravagant. Presents are lovely, but we can't afford them. It doesn't do any good. The more I tell him, the more he spends. Oh, excuse me! There I go again.
constanze		Do you still want to look at this? Or don't we need to bother anymore? I imagine we don't, really.
salieri		Go! Go! Go!
salieri		Show this woman out!
constanze		You shit! You shit! You rotten shit!
constanze		What are you staring at?
old salieri		Because You will not enter me, with all my need for you; because You scorn my attempts at virtue; because You choose for Your instrument a boastful, lustful, smutty infantile boy and give me for reward only the ability to recognize the Incarnation; because You are unjust, unfair, unkind, I will block You! I swear it! I will hinder and harm Your creature on earth as far as I am able. I will ruin Your Incarnation.
mozart		Stanzi! Stanzi! Stanzi-Manzi!
mozart		Sssh!
schikaneder		 Stanzi-Manzi-Banzi-Wanzi!
mozart		Sssh! Stay here.
schikaneder		 Sssh! You're dishgrashful!
mozart		 Stanzi? How's my mouse? Mouse-wouse? I'm back - puss-wuss is back!
mozart		Stanzi!
mozart		What's the matter? What is it? Stanzi!
mozart		Stop it now. Stop it. I've brought some friends to meet you. They're next door waiting. Do we have anything to eat? They're all starving.
constanze		Tell them to go away. I don't want to see anybody.
mozart		What's the matter with you?
constanze		Tell them to go!
mozart		Sssh. What is it? Tell me.
constanze		No!
mozart		Yes!
constanze		I love you! I love you!
constanze		I love you. Please stay with me. I'm frightened.
joseph		I don't think you understand me, Court Composer.
salieri		Majesty, I did. Believe me, it was a most agonizing. decision. But finally, I simply could not recommend Herr Mozart.
joseph		Why not?
salieri		Well, Sire, I made some inquiries in a routine way. I was curious to know why he had so few pupils. It is rather alarming.
joseph		Oh?
salieri		Majesty, I don't like to talk against a fellow musician.
joseph		Of course not.
salieri		I have to tell you, Mozart is not entirely to be trusted alone with young ladies.
joseph		Really?
salieri		As a matter of fact, one of my own pupils - a very young singer - told me she was - er - well!
joseph		Yes?
salieri		Molested, Majesty. Twice, in the course of the same lesson.
joseph		Ah-ha. Well. There it is.
servant		Sir, there is a Herr Mozart waiting for you in the salon.
salieri		What does he want?
servant		He didn't say, sir. I told him I didn't know when you would be back, but he insisted on waiting.
salieri		Come with me. And stay in the room.
salieri		Herr Mozart, what brings you here?
mozart		Your Excellency, you requested some specimens of my work. Here they are. I don't have to tell you how much I need your help. I truly appreciate your looking at these. I have pressures on me - financial pressures. As you know, I'm a married man now.
salieri		So you are. How is your pretty wife?
mozart		She is well. She is - well, actually, I'm about to become a father! She only told me last night. You are the first to know.
salieri		I'm flattered. And congratulations to you, of course.
mozart		So you see, this post is very important to me right now.
salieri		Why didn't you come to me yesterday, Mozart? This is a most painful situation. Yesterday I could have helped you. Today, I can't.
mozart		Why? Here is the music. It's here. I am submitting it humbly. Isn't that what you wanted?
salieri		I have just come from the palace. The post has been filled.
mozart		Filled? That's impossible! They haven't even seen my work. I need this post. Please, can't you help me? Please!
salieri		My dear Mozart, there is no one in the world I would rather help, but now it is too late.
mozart		Whom did they choose?
salieri		Herr Sommer.
mozart		Sommer? Herr Sommer? But the man's a fool! He's a total mediocrity.
salieri		No, no, no: he has yet to achieve mediocrity.
mozart		But I can't lose this post, I simply can't! Excellency, please. Let's go to the palace, and you can explain to the Emperor that Herr Sommer is an awful choice. He could actually do musical harm to the Princess!
salieri		An implausible idea. Between you and me, no one in the world could do musical harm to the Princess Elizabeth.
mozart		Look, I must have pupils. Without pupils I can't manage.
salieri		You don't mean to tell me you are living in poverty?
mozart		No, but I'm broke. I'm always broke. I don't know why.
salieri		It has been said, my friend, that you are inclined to live somewhat above your means.
mozart		How can anyone say that? We have no cook, no maid. We have no footman. Nothing at all!
salieri		How is that possible? You give concerts, don't you? I hear they are quite successful.
mozart		They're stupendously successful. You can't get a seat. The only problem is none will hire me. They all want to hear me play, but they won't let me teach their daughters. As if I was some kind of fiend. I'm not a fiend!
salieri		Of course not.
mozart		Do you have a daughter?
salieri		I'm afraid not.
mozart		Well, could you lend me some money till you have one? Then I'll teach her for free. That's a promise. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm being silly. Papa's right - I should put a padlock on my mouth. Seriously, is there any chance you could manage a loan? Only for six months, eight at most. After that I'll be the richest man in Vienna. I'll pay you back double. Anything. Name your terms. I'm not joking. I'm working on something that's going to explode like a bomb all over Europe!
salieri		Ah, how exciting! Tell me more.
mozart		I'd better not. It's a bit of a secret.
salieri		Come, come, Mozart; I'm interested. Truly.
mozart		Actually, it's a big secret. Oh, this is delicious! What is it?
salieri		Cream cheese mixed with granulated sugar and suffused with rum. Crema al Mascarpone.
mozart		Ah. Italian?
salieri		Forgive me. We all have patriotic feelings of some kind.
mozart		Two thousand, two hundred florins is all I need A hundred? Fifty?
salieri		What exactly are you working on?
mozart		I can't say. Really
salieri		I don't think you should become known in Vienna as a debtor, Mozart. However, I know a very distinguished gentleman I could recommend to you. And he has a daughter. Will that do?
schlumberg		Quiet! Quiet! Quiet! Down there, damn you.  Welcome to you. Pay no attention, they're impossible. Stop it, you willful things! Come this way. Just ignore them. They're perfectly harmless, just willful. I treat them just like my own children.
mozart		And which one of them do you want me to teach?
schlumberg		What? Ha-ha! That's funny - I like it. Which one, eh? You're a funny fellow.  Hannah! Come this way.
schlumberg		Hannah!
schlumberg		 You won't be teaching this one either. She's my wife.
mozart		 Madame.
schlumberg		This is Herr Mozart, my dear. The young man Herr Salieri recommended to teach our Gertrude. Where is she?
frau schlumberg		Upstairs.
schlumberg		Gertrude!
frau schlumberg		You can't be Herr Mozart!
mozart		I'm afraid I am.
schlumberg		Of course, it's him. Who do you think it is?
frau schlumberg		I've heard about you for ages! I thought you must be an old man.
schlumberg		Gertrude!
frau schlumberg		It's such an honour for us to have you here, Herr Mozart. And for Gertrude.
schlumberg		People who know say the girl's got talent. You must judge for yourself. If you think she stinks, say so.
frau schlumberg		Michael, please! I'm sure you will find her most willing, Herr Mozart. She's really very excited. She's been preparing all morning.
mozart		Really?
frau schlumberg		Ah, now! Here she comes.
mozart		Good morning, Fraulein Schlumberg.
schlumberg		Strudel, this is Herr Mozart. Say good morning.
frau schlumberg		 Perhaps a little refreshment first? A little coffee, or a little chocolate?
mozart		I'd like a little wine, if you have it.
frau schlumberg		Wine?
schlumberg		Quite right. He's going to need it.  Klaus! A bottle of wine. Prestissimo! Now let's go to it. I've been waiting all day for this.
schlumberg		 Especially you, Dudelsachs - not one sound from you.
schlumberg		Come on, then. Up and at it!
mozart		Now, please play me something. Just to give me an idea. Anything will do.
gertrude		 I don't want you to stay.
frau schlumberg		That's all right, dear. Just go ahead, as if we weren't here.
gertrude		But you are here.
schlumberg		Never mind, Strudel. It's part of music, getting used to an audience. Aren't I right, Herr Mozart?
mozart		Well, yes! on the whole. I suppose.  How long have you been playing, Fraulein?
frau schlumberg		Just one year.
mozart		Who was your teacher?
frau schlumberg		I was. But she quite outgrew the little I could show her.
mozart		Thank you, Madame.  Come on now - courage. Play me something you know.
mozart		Perhaps it would be better if we were left alone. I think we're both a little shy.
schlumberg		Nonsense. Strudel's not shy. She's just willful! You give into her now, you'll be sorry later. Strudel - play.
schlumberg		I said play!
frau schlumberg		Michael!
mozart		Perhaps if I were to play a little first, it might encourage the Fraulein.  Why don't you let me try the instrument? All right?
schlumberg		Stop that, Dudelsachs! Stop it at once!  Don't let him disturb you. He'll be all right. He's just a little willful too. Please, please - play. I beg you.
schlumberg		Stop it! STOP!
schlumberg		No, not you. I was talking to the dog. You keep playing. It's most important. He always howls when he hears music. We've got to break them of the habit. Play, please. Please!
schlumberg		That's it. Now keep going, just keep going.  Now you stop that noise, Dudelsachs, you stop it this instant! This instant, do you hear me? Keep going, Herr Mozart, that's it. Go on, go on!
schlumberg		Good, good, good! Very good dog! Very, very good Dudelsachs.  Quick, quick, dear, bring his biscuit.
schlumberg		Now guess who's going to get a nice reward? Clever, clever Dudi.
schlumberg		It's a miracle, Herr Mozart!
mozart		 Well, I'm a good teacher. The next time you wish me to instruct another of your dogs, please let me know. Goodbye, Fraulein, goodbye, Madame! goodbye, Sir!
frau schlumberg		What a strange young man.
schlumberg		Yes. He is a little strange.
mozart		Papa! PAPA!
mozart		Why are you here?
leopold		Am I not welcome?
mozart		Of course, welcome! Welcome ten thousand times. Papa! my Papa!
leopold		You're very thin. Does she not feed you, this wife of yours?
mozart		Feed? Well, of course she feeds me. She stuffs me like a goose all day long. She's the best cook in the world. I mean, since Mama. Just wait, you'll see.
leopold		Is she not here?
mozart		I don't know. Stanzi? Stanzi!
leopold		Do you always live like this?
mozart		Oh, yes. Oh, I mean no - not exactly like this. I mean today - just today, Stanzi - I remember now. She had to go - yes! She had to help her mother. Yes, she's like that. Her mother's a very sweet woman, you'll see.
mozart		Oh! I didn't know you were home. Stanzi, this is my father.
mozart		We'll wait, we'll wait. Why don't you get up now, darling?
mozart		She's very tired, poor creature. You know me: I'm a real pig. It's not so easy cleaning up after me.
leopold		Don't you have a maid?
mozart		Oh we could, if we wanted to, but Stanzi won't hear of it. She wants to do everything herself.
leopold		How is your financial situation?
mozart		It couldn't be better.
leopold		That's not what I hear.
mozart		What do you mean? It's wonderful. Really, it's - it's marvelous! People love me here.
leopold		They say you're in debt.
mozart		Who? Who says that? Now that's a malicious lie!
leopold		How many pupils do you have?
mozart		Pupils?
leopold		Yes.
mozart		Yes.
leopold		How many?
mozart		I don't know. It's not important. I mean, I don't want pupils. They get in the way. I've got to have time for composition.
leopold		Composition doesn't pay. You know that.
mozart		This one will.
leopold		What's that?
mozart		Oh, let's not talk about it.
leopold		Why not?
mozart		It's a secret.
leopold		You don't have secrets from me.
mozart		It's too dangerous, Papa. But they're going to love it. Ah, there she is!
mozart		My Stanzi - look at her! Isn't she beautiful? Come on now, confess, Papa. Could you want a prettier girl for a daughter?
constanze		Stop it, Wolfi. I look dreadful. Welcome to our house, Herr Mozart.
mozart		He's not Herr Mozart. Call him Papa.
leopold		I see that you're expecting.
constanze		Oh, yes.
leopold		When, may I ask?
constanze		In three months! Papa.
mozart		Isn't that marvelous? We're delighted.
leopold		Why didn't you mention it in your letters?
mozart		Didn't I? I thought I did. I'm sure I did.
constanze		May I offer you some tea, Herr Mozart?
mozart		Tea? Who wants tea? Let's go out! This calls for a feast. You don't want tea, Papa. Let's go dancing. Papa loves parties, don't you?
constanze		Wolfi!
mozart		What? How can you be so boring? Tea!
constanze		Wolfi, I think your father's tired. I'll cook us something here.
leopold		Thank you. That'll be fine. Don't spend any money on me.
mozart		Why not? Oh, come, Papa! What better way could I spend it than on you? My kissable, missable, suddenly visible Papa!
schikaneder		No, no! You both lost. You both lost. You both have to forfeit. And the penalty is you must exchange your wigs.
leopold		No, please! This is ridiculous! No, please!
leopold		No, really!
mozart		 This is just a game, Papa.
constanze		This is just a game, Papa!
bystanders		This is just a game, Papa!
mozart		Oh no, Papa, please! Don't spoil the fun. Come on. Here, take mine.
schikaneder		Herr Mozart, why don't you name your son's penalty?
mozart		Yes, Papa, name it. Name it. I'll do anything you say!
leopold		I want you to come back with me to Salzburg, my son.
schikaneder		What did he say? What did he say?
mozart		Papa, the rule is you can only give penalties that can be performed in the room.
leopold		I'm tired of this game. Please play without me.
mozart		But my penalty. I've got to have a penalty.
schikaneder		I've got a good one. I've got the perfect one for you. Come over here.
schikaneder		Now, I want you to play our tune - sitting backwards.
mozart		Oh, that's really too easy. Any child can do that.
schikaneder		And a fugue in the manner of Sebastian Bach.
guests		Another! Do another! Someone else.
mozart		Give me a name. Who shall I do? Give me a name.
guests		Gluck! Haydn! Frederic Handel!
constanze		Salieri! Do Salieri!
mozart		Now that's hard. That's very hard. For Salieri one has to face the right way around.
old salieri		Go on. Mock me. Laugh, laugh!
constanze		 Wolfi! Wolfgang!
mozart		What is it?
constanze		There's a young girl to see you.
mozart		What does she want?
constanze		I don't know.
mozart		Well, ask her!
constanze		She won't talk to me. She says she has to speak to you.
mozart		Oh, damn!
mozart		Yes?
lorl		Are you Herr Mozart?
mozart		That's right.
lorl		My name is Lorl, sir. I'm a maidservant. I was asked to come here and offer my services to you.
mozart		What?
lorl		They'll be paid for by a great admirer or yours who wishes to remain anon - anonymous.
constanze		What do you mean? What admirer?
lorl		I can't tell you that, ma'am.
mozart		Are you saying that someone is paying you to be our maid and doesn't want us to know who he is?
lorl		Yes. I can live in or out just as you wish.
mozart		Papa, is this your idea?
leopold		Mine?
mozart		Are you playing a trick on me?
leopold		I never saw this girl in my life.  Is this a kind of joke?
lorl		Not at all, sir. And I was told to wait for an answer.
leopold		Young woman, this won't do at all. My son can't possibly accept such an offer, no matter how generous, unless he knows who is behind it.
lorl		But I really can't tell you, sir.
leopold		Oh, this is ridiculous.
constanze		What is ridiculous? Wolfi has many admirers in Vienna. They love him here. People send us gifts all the time.
leopold		But you can't take her without reference. It's unheard of!
constanze		Well, this is none of your business.  Whoever sent you is going to pay, no?
lorl		That's right, ma'am.
leopold		So now we are going to let a perfect stranger into the house?
constanze		Who is we? Who is letting who?  Could you please wait outside?
lorl		Yes, ma'am.
constanze		Look, old man, you stay out of this. We spend a fortune on you, more than we can possibly afford, and all you do is criticize, morning to night. And then you think you can -
mozart		Stanzi!
constanze		No, it's right he should hear. I'm sick to death of it. We can't do anything right for you, can we?
leopold		Never mind. You won't have to do anything for me ever again. I'm leaving!
mozart		Papa!
leopold		Don't worry, I'm not staying here to be a burden.
mozart		No one calls you that.
leopold		She does. She says I sleep all day.
constanze		And so you do! The only time you come out is to eat.
leopold		And what do you expect? Who wants to walk out into a mess like this every day?
constanze		Oh, now I'm a bad housekeeper!
leopold		So you are! The place is a pigsty all the time.
constanze		 Do you hear him? Do you?
constanze		 When can you start?
lorl		Right away, ma'am.
constanze		Good! Come in. You'll start with that room there.  It's filthy!
leopold		Sorry, sorry! I'm sorry I spoke! I'm just a provincial from Salzburg. What do I know about smart Vienna? Parties all night, every night. Dancing and drinking like idiot children!
lorl		They're out every night, sir. Till all hours.
lorl		 Oh, thank you, sir.
salieri		Do any pupils come to the house?
lorl		Not that I've seen.
salieri		Then how does he pay for all this? Does he work at all?
lorl		Oh, yes, sir, all day long. He never leaves the house until evening. He just sits there, writing and writing. He doesn't even eat.
salieri		Really? What is it he's writing?
lorl		Oh, I wouldn't know that, sir.
salieri		Of course not. You're a good girl. You're very kind to do this. Next time you're sure they'll be out of the house, let me know, will you?
lorl		Oh, thank you, sir!
lorl		I think I've found out about the money, sir.
salieri		Yes what?
lorl		He kept seven snuff boxes in here. I could swear they were all gold. And now look there's only one left. And inside, sir, look - I counted them - tickets from the pawnshop. Six of them.
salieri		Where does he work?
lorl		In there, sir.
joseph		Bravo, Mozart. Most charming. Yes, indeed. Clever man.
mozart		Thank you, Sire!
von swieten		Well done, Mozart. Really quite fine.
mozart		Baron!
mozart		Majesty, may I ask you to do me the greatest favour?
joseph		What is it?
mozart		May I introduce my father? He is on a short visit here and returning very soon to Salzburg. He would so much like to kiss your hand. It would make his whole stay so memorable for him.
joseph		Ah! By all means.
leopold		Your Majesty.
joseph		Good evening.  We have met before, Herr Mozart.
leopold		That's right, Your Majesty. Twenty years ago. No, twenty-two! twenty- three! And I remember word for word what you said to me. You said - you said --
joseph		Bravo?
leopold		No! Yes, 'bravo,' of course 'bravo'! Everybody always says 'bravo' when Wolfi plays. Like the King of England. When we played for the King of England, he got up at the end and said, 'Bravo! Bravo! Bravo!' three times. Three bravo's. And the Pope four! Four bravo's from the Holy Father, and one 'bellissimo.'
mozart		Father -
leopold		Hush! I'm talking to His Majesty. Your Majesty, I wish to express only one thing - that you who are the Father of us all, could teach our children the gratitude they owe to fathers. It is not for nothing that the Fifth Commandment tells us: 'Honour your Father and Mother, that your days may be long upon the earth.'
joseph		Ah-ha. Well. There it is.
salieri		I've just learned something that might be of interest to you, Herr Director.
salieri		Mozart is writing a new opera. An Italian opera.
bonno		Aie!
salieri		And that's not all. He has chosen for his subject, Figaro. The Marriage of Figaro.
salieri		Exactly.
salieri		Yes.
bonno		What is this Marriage of Figaro?
bonno		Hah!
salieri		I've seen the manuscript.
salieri		Never mind.
von strack		I know we banned this play, but frankly I can't remember why. Can you refresh my memory, Herr Director?
von strack		Oh yes, yes. And that was?
von strack		Ah.
lackey		Herr Mozart.
joseph		Sit down, gentlemen, please.
joseph		Mozart, are you aware I have declared the French play of Figaro unsuitable for our theatre?
mozart		Yes, Sire.
joseph		Yet we hear you are making an opera from it. Is this true?
mozart		Who told you this, Majesty?
joseph		It is not your place to ask questions. Is it true?
mozart		Well, yes, I admit it is.
joseph		Would you tell me why?
mozart		Well, Majesty, it is only a comedy.
mozart		But, Your Majesty -
joseph		 Mozart, I am a tolerant man. I do not censor things lightly. When I do, I have good reason. Figaro is a bad play. It stirs up hatred between the classes. In France it has caused nothing but bitterness. My own dear sister Antoinette writes me that she is beginning to be frightened of her own people. I do not wish to see the same fears starting here.
mozart		Sire, I swear to Your Majesty, there's nothing like that in the story. I have taken out everything that could give offense. I hate politics.
joseph		I think you are rather innocent, my friend. In these dangerous times I cannot afford to provoke our nobles or our people simply over a theatre piece.
mozart		But, Majesty, this is just a frolic. It's a piece about love.
joseph		Ah, love again.
mozart		But it's new, it's entirely new. It's so new, people will go mad for it. For example, I have a scene in the second act - it starts as a duet, just a man and wife quarreling. Suddenly the wife's scheming little maid comes in unexpectedly - a very funny situation. Duet turns into trio. Then the husband's equally screaming valet comes in. Trio turns into quartet. Then a stupid old gardener - quartet becomes quintet, and so on.  On and on, sextet, septet, octet! How long do you think I can sustain that?
joseph		I have no idea.
mozart		Guess! Guess, Majesty. Imagine the longest time such a thing could last, then double it.
joseph		Well, six or seven minutes! maybe eight!
mozart		Twenty, sire! How about twenty? Twenty minutes of continuous music. No recitatives.
von swieten		Mozart -
mozart		 Sire, only opera can do this. In a play, if more than one person speaks at the same time, it's just noise. No one can understand a word. But with music, with music you can have twenty individuals all talking at once, and it's not noise - it's a perfect harmony. Isn't that marvelous?
von swieten		Mozart, music is not the issue here. No one doubts your talent. It is your judgment of literature that's in question. Even with the politics taken out, this thing would still remain a vulgar farce. Why waste your spirit on such rubbish?  Surely you can choose more elevated themes?
mozart		Elevated? What does that mean? Elevated! The only thing a man should elevate is - oh, excuse me. I'm sorry. I'm stupid. But I am fed up to the teeth with elevated things! Old dead legends! How can we go on forever writing about gods and legends?
von swieten		 Because they do. They go on forever - at least what they represent. The eternal in us, not the ephemeral. Opera is here to ennoble us. You and me, just as much as His Majesty.
bonno		Bello! Bello, Barone. Veramente.
mozart		Oh, bello, bello, bello! Come on now, be honest. Wouldn't you all rather listen to your hairdressers than Hercules? Or Horatius? Or Orpheus? All those old bores! people so lofty they sound as if they shit marble!
von swieten		What?
von strack		Govern your tongue, sir! How dare you?
mozart		Forgive me, Majesty. I'm a vulgar man. But I assure you, my music is not.
joseph		You are passionate, Mozart! But you do not persuade.
mozart		Sire, the whole opera is finished. Do you know how much work went into it?
bonno		His Majesty has been more than patient, Signore.
mozart		How can I persuade you if you won't let me show it?
mozart		Just let me tell you how it begins.
von strack		Herr Mozart -
mozart		May I just do that, Majesty? Show you how it begins? Just that?
joseph		Please.
mozart		Look! There's a servant, down on his knees. Do you know why? Not from any oppression. No, he's simply measuring a space. Do you know what for? His bed. His wedding bed to see if it will fit.
salieri		Incredible.
bonno		Si, si! Veramente.
salieri		Well, gentlemen, so be it. In that case I think we should help Mozart all we can and do our best to protect him against the Emperor's anger.
salieri		About the ballet.
salieri		Excuse me - didn't His Majesty specifically forbid ballet in his opera?
salieri		Yes, in the third act.
mozart		Certainly, Herr Director.
mozart		Five minutes, please!
mozart		Yes, but this is not a ballet. This is a dance at Figaro's wedding.
mozart		But surely the Emperor didn't mean to prohibit dancing when it's part of the story.
mozart		What are you doing?
mozart		What are you doing, Herr Director?
servant		Herr Mozart.
mozart		Please! Please. I've no one else to turn to. Please!
salieri		Wolfgang, what is it? Sta calmo, per favore. What's the matter?
mozart		It's unbelievable! The Director has actually ripped out a huge section of my music. Pages of it.
salieri		Really? Why?
mozart		I don't know. They say I've got to re-write the opera, but it's perfect as it is. I can't rewrite what's perfect. Can't you talk to him?
salieri		Why bother with Orsini-Rosenberg? He's obviously no friend of yours.
mozart		Oh, I could kill him! I mean really kill him. I actually threw the entire opera on the fire, he made me so angry!
salieri		You burned the score?
mozart		Oh no! My wife took it out in time.
salieri		How fortunate.
mozart		It's not fair that a man like that has power over our work.
salieri		But there are those who have power over him. I think I'll take this up with the Emperor.
mozart		Oh, Excellency, would you?
salieri		With all my heart, Mozart.
mozart		Thank you! Oh, thank you.
salieri		 No, no, no, Herr Mozart, please. It's not a holy relic.
old salieri		I'm sure I don't need to tell you I said nothing whatever to the Emperor. I went to the theatre ready to tell Mozart that His Majesty had flown into a rage when I mentioned the ballet, when suddenly, to my astonishment, in the middle of the third act, the Emperor - who never attended rehearsals - suddenly appeared.
joseph		What is this? I don't understand. Is it modern?
bonno		Majesty, the Herr Director, he has removed a balleto that would have occurred at this place.
joseph		Why?
joseph		Do you like this, Salieri?
salieri		It is not a question of liking, Your Majesty. Your own law decrees it, I'm afraid.
joseph		Well, look at them.
joseph		No, no, no! This is nonsense. Let me hear the scene with the music.
joseph		Oblige me.
mozart		Oh yes, certainly. Certainly, Herr Director!
mozart		Ladies and gentlemen, we're going from where we stopped. The Count: Anches so. Right away, please!
joseph		 What I hoped by that edict, Director, was simply to prevent hours of dancing like in French opera. There it is endless, as you know.
old salieri		 So Figaro was produced in spite of me. And in spite of me, a wonder was revealed. One of the true wonders of art. The restored third act was bold and brilliant. The fourth was a miracle.
old salieri		And then suddenly - a miracle!
old salieri		Father, did you know what that meant? With that yawn I saw my defeat turn into a victory. And Mozart was lucky the Emperor only yawned once. Three yawns and the opera would fail the same night; two yawns, within a week at most. With one yawn the composer could still get -
mozart		Nine performances! Nine! That's all it's had - and withdrawn.
salieri		I know; it's outrageous. Still, if the public doesn't like one's work one has to accept the fact gracefully.
mozart		But what is it they don't like?
salieri		Well, I can speak for the Emperor. You made too many demands on the royal ear. The poor man can't concentrate for more than an hour and you gave him four.
mozart		What did you think of it yourself? Did you like it at all?
salieri		I think it's marvelous. Truly.
mozart		It's the best opera yet written. I know it! Why didn't they come?
salieri		I think you overestimate our dear Viennese, my friend. Do you know you didn't even give them a good bang at the end of songs so they knew when to clap?
mozart		I know, I know. Perhaps you should give me some lessons in that.
salieri		 I wouldn't presume. All the same, if it wouldn't be imposing, I would like you to see my new piece. It would be a tremendous honour for me.
mozart		Oh no, the honour would be all mine.
salieri		 Grazie, mio caro, Wolfgang!
mozart		Grazie, a lei, Signor Antonio!
old salieri		 Would he actually tell me my music had moved him? Was I really going to hear that from his own lips? I found myself actually hurrying the tempo of the finale.
mozart		 Well?
schikaneder		 Sublime! Utterly sublime!
mozart		That kind of music should be punishable by death.
joseph		I believe that is the best opera yet written, my friends. Salieri, you are the brightest star in the musical firmament. You do honour to Vienna and to me.
salieri		Mozart. It was good of you to come.
mozart		How could I not?
salieri		Did my work please you?
mozart		How could it not, Excellency?
salieri		Yes?
mozart		I never knew that music like that was possible.
salieri		You flatter me.
mozart		Oh no! One hears such sounds and what can one say, but - Salieri!
mozart		Oh. Everybody's here! We've got guests. Good. I've brought some more.
mozart		We'll have a little party. Come in. Come in. You know Herr Schikaneder?  This is! a very nice girl.
constanze		 Wolfi.
mozart		Yes, my love?
constanze		These gentlemen are from Salzburg.
mozart		Salzburg.  We were just talking about Salzburg.  If you've come from my friend the Fartsbishop, you've arrived at just the right moment. Because I've got good news for him. I'm done with Vienna. It's over, finished, done with! Done with! Done with!
constanze		Wolfi! Your father is dead.
mozart		What?
constanze		Your father is dead.
the commendatore		 Don Giovanni!
old salieri		Now a madness began in me. The madness of a man splitting in half. Through my influence I saw to it Don Giovanni was played only five times in Vienna. But in secret I went to every one of those five - all alone - unable to help myself, worshipping sound I alone seemed to hear.
emmanuel schikaneder		Impresario de luxe PRESENTS The Celebrated SCHIKANEDER TROUPE OF PLAYERS IN An Evening of PARODY Music!  Mirth!  Magic! ALL SONGS AND SPEECHES WRITTEN BY EMMANUEL SCHIKANEDER who personally will appear in every scene!
schikaneder		Who is it?
schikaneder		C-c-c-come in!
commendatore		 Don Giovannnnnnnnnni!
commendatore		Down! Down!
commendatore		I'm here! I'm here!
commendatore		 Don Giovannnnnnnni!
schikaneder		Who the devil are you? What do you want?
commendatore		 I've come to dinnnnnner!
schikaneder		Dinner? How dare you? I am a nobleman. I only dine with people of my own height.
commendatore		Are you drunk? You invited me. And my horse. Here he is. Ottavio!
commendatore		Whoa! Whoa! Stop it!
first lady		 Be careful!
second lady		 Be careful!
third lady		 Be careful!
commendatore		 Leave me alone! Stop it! I'm a famous horseman.
ottavio		And I'm a famous horse!
first lady		 He's adorable!
second lady		 Adorable!
third lady		 Adorable!
three ladies		 Give me your hoof, my darling, And I'll give you my heart! Take me to your stable, And never more we'll part!
ottavio		 I'm shy and very bashful. I don't know what to say.
three ladies		 Don't hesitate a second. Just answer yes and neigh.
commendatore		 Stop it. What are you doing? Remember who you are! You're a horse and they are whores.
schikaneder		 This is ridiculous. I won't have any of it. You're turning my house into a circus!
schikaneder		 Shut up. Women, women, women! I'm sick to death of them.
soprano		 Dash me! Bash me! Lash me! Flay me! Slay me! At last I will be freed by death!
commendatore		Shut up.
soprano		 Kill me! Kill me! Kill me! Kill me! At last I shall be freed by death. At last I shall be freed by dea -
eight dwarves		 We're going to make a soprano stew! We're going to make a soprano stew! And when you make a soprano stew! Any stupid soprano will do! Any stew- stew-stew-stew-stew! Any stewpid soprano will do!
first lady		 Behold!
second lady		 Behold!
third lady		 Behold!
commendatore		 How long does it take to cook a soprano?
dwarves		 Five hours, five minutes, five seconds.
commendatore		 I can't wait that long. I'm starving!
ottavio		 So am I.
schikaneder		 In the pot, I have got a good dinner. Not a sausage or stew, but a singer. Not a sausage or stew but a singer. Is the treat that I'll eat for my meat!
commendatore		Oh shut up. I'm sick to death of that tune.
commendatore		Shut up. I'm sick of that one too.
commendatore		And that one, too!
soprano		 Oil me! Broil me! Boil me!
soprano		 Soil me! Foil me! Spoil me!
horse		I can't eat her. Sopranos give me hiccups. I want some hay!
first lady		 Hey!
second lady		 Hey!
third lady		 Hey!
schikaneder		Hey what?
commendatore		Shut up.
schikaneder		Leporello! We want some hay - prestissimo! Leporello - where are you?
first lady		 Behold!
second lady		 Behold!
third lady		 Behold!
commendatore		 Hey! Hey! Watch out!
commendatore		Whoa! Whoa, Ottavio! Whoa!
schikaneder		Well, how do you like that?
mozart		Wonderful!  He liked the monkey, didn't you?
schikaneder		Yes, well, it's all good fun.
mozart		I liked the horse.
schikaneder		Isn't he marvelous? He cost me a bundle, that horse, but he's worth it. I tell you, if you'd played Don Giovanni here it would have been a great success. I'm not joking. These people aren't fools. You could do something marvelous for them.
mozart		I'd like to try them someday. I'm not sure I'd be much good at it.
schikaneder		'Course you would. You belong here, my boy, not the snobby Court. You could do anything you felt like here - the more fantastic the better! That's what people want, you know: fantasy. You do a big production, fill it with beautiful magic tricks and you'll be absolutely free to do anything you want. Of course, you'd have to put a fire in it, because I've got the best fire machine in the city and a big flood - I can do you the finest water effects you ever saw in your life. Oh, and a few trick animals. You'd have to use those.
mozart		Animals?
schikaneder		I tell you I picked up a snake in Dresden last week - twelve foot long  - folds up to six inches, just like a paper fan. It's a miracle.
schikaneder		I'm serious. You write a proper part for me with a couple of catchy songs, I'll guarantee you'll have a triumph- de-luxe. Mind you, it'll have to be in German.
mozart		German!
schikaneder		Of course! What else do you think they speak here?
mozart		No, no, I love that. I'd want it to be in German. I haven't done anything in German since Seraglio.
schikaneder		So there you are. What do you say?
constanze		How much will you pay him?
schikaneder		Ah. Well. Ah,  I see you've got your manager with you. Well, Madame, how about half the receipts?
mozart		Half the receipts! Stanzi!
constanze		I'm talking about now. How much will you give him now? Down payment?
schikaneder		Down payment? Who do you think I am? The Emperor? Whoops, I have to go.
schikaneder		Stay where you are. You're going to like this next one. We'll speak again. Triumph-de-luxe, my boy!
constanze		You're not going to do this?
mozart		Why not? Half the house!
constanze		When? We need money now. Either he pays now, or you don't do it.
mozart		Oh, Stanzi.
constanze		I don't trust this man. And I didn't like what he did with your opera. It was common.
mozart		 Well, you liked it, didn't you? Monkey-flunki-punki.
constanze		Half the house! You'll never see a penny. I want it here, in my hand.
mozart		 Stanzi-manzi, I'll put it in your hand!
constanze		Shut up! I'll not let you put anything in my hand until I see some money.
schlumberg		Herr Mozart. What a surprise. What can I do for you?
mozart		Is my pupil still anxious to learn the art of music?
schlumberg		Well, your pupil is married and living in Mannheim, young man.
mozart		Really? Perhaps your dear wife might care to profit from my instruction?
schlumberg		What is this, Mozart? What's the matter with you?
mozart		Well. Since it appears nobody is eager to hire my services, could you favour me with a little money instead?
schlumberg		What for?
mozart		If a man cannot earn, he must borrow.
schlumberg		Well, this is hardly the way to go about it.
mozart		No doubt, sir. But I am endowed with talent, and you with money. If I offer mine, you should offer yours.
schlumberg		I'm sorry. No.
mozart		Please. I'll give it back, I promise. Please, sir.
schlumberg		My answer is no, Mozart.
mozart		Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please.
von swieten		 This is embarrassing, you know. You introduced Mozart to some of my friends and he's begging from practically all of them. It has to stop.
salieri		I agree, Baron.
von swieten		Can't you think of anyone who might commission some work from him? I've done my best. I got him to arrange some Bach for my Sunday concerts. He got a fee - what I could afford. Can't you think of anyone who might do something for him?
salieri		No, Baron, no. I'm afraid Mozart is a lost cause. He has managed to alienate practically the whole of Vienna. He is constantly drunk. He never pays his debts. I can't think of one person to whom I dare recommend him.
von swieten		How sad. It's tragic, isn't it? Such a talent.
salieri		Indeed. Just a moment - as a matter of fact I think I do know someone who could commission a work from him. A very appropriate person to do so. Yes.
salieri		Herr Mozart?
salieri		I have come to commission work from you.
mozart		What work?
salieri		A Mass for the dead.
mozart		What dead? Who is dead?
salieri		A man who deserved a Requiem Mass and never got one.
mozart		Who are you?
salieri		I am only a messenger. Do you accept? You will be paid well.
mozart		How much?
salieri		Fifty ducats. Another fifty when I have the Mass. Do you accept?
mozart		How long will you give me?
salieri		Work fast. And be sure to tell no one what you do. You will see me again soon.
constanze		Wolfi? Wolfi!
constanze		Who was that?
mozart		No one.
constanze		I heard voices.
constanze		What's the matter?
constanze		What's that? Oh!  Who gave you this? How much is it? Wolfi, who gave you this?
mozart		I'm not telling you.
constanze		Why not?
mozart		You'd think I was mad.
old salieri		My plan was so simple, it terrified me. First I must get the Death Mass and then achieve the death.
vogler		What?
old salieri		His funeral - imagine it! The Cathedral, all Vienna sitting there. His coffin, Mozart's little coffin in the middle. And suddenly in that silence, music. A divine music bursts out over them all, a great Mass of Death: Requiem Mass for Wolfgang Mozart, composed by his devoted friend Antonio Salieri. What sublimity! What depth! What passion in the music! Salieri has been touched by God at last. And God, forced to listen. Powerless - powerless to stop it. I at the end, for once, laughing at Him. Do you understand? Do you?
vogler		Yes.
old salieri		The only thing that worried me was the actual killing. How does one do that? How does one kill a man? It's one thing to dream about it. It's very different when you have to do it, with your own hands.
constanze		Wolfi. Wolfi!
mozart		No. Don't answer it!
constanze		Why?
mozart		Tell him I'm not here. Tell him I'm working on it. Come back later.
schikaneder		Am I interrupting something?
constanze		Not at all.
schikaneder		 Where's our friend?
constanze		He's not in. But he's working on it. He said to tell you.
schikaneder		I hope so. I need it immediately.
schikaneder		Is he happy with it?
schikaneder		Is this it?
schikaneder		What the devil is this? Requiem Mass? Does he think I'm in the funeral business?
mozart		Leave that alone!
schikaneder		Wolfi!
mozart		Put it down!
schikaneder		What is this?
mozart		Put it down, I said! It's nothing for you.
schikaneder		Oh! I'm sorry! I'm sorry! What have you got for me? Is it finished?
mozart		What?
schikaneder		What? The vaudeville, what'd you think?
mozart		Yes.
schikaneder		Can I see it?
mozart		No.
schikaneder		Why not?
mozart		Because there's nothing to see.
schikaneder		Look, I asked you if we could start rehearsal next week and you said yes.
mozart		Well, we can.
schikaneder		So let me see it. Where is it?
mozart		Here. It's all right here, in my noodle. The rest is just scribbling. Scribbling and bibbling. Bibbling and scribbling. Would you like a drink?
schikaneder		Look, you little clown, do you know how many people I've hired for you? Do you know how many people are waiting?
constanze		Leave him alone!
schikaneder		I'm paying these people. Do you realize that?
constanze		He's doing his best.
schikaneder		I'm paying people just to wait for you. It's ridiculous!
constanze		You know what's ridiculous? Your libretto, that's what's ridiculous. Only an idiot would ask Wolfi to work on that stuff!
schikaneder		Oh yes? And what's so intelligent about writing a Requiem?
constanze		Money! Money!
schikaneder		You're mad! She's mad, Wolfi.
constanze		Oh yes, and who are you? He's worked for Kings. For the Emperor.  Who are you?
schikaneder		Listen, Wolfi. Write it. Please. Just write it down. On paper. It's no good to anyone in your head. And fuck the Death Mass.
salieri		Now calm yourself. Calm. What's the matter with you?
lorl		I'm leaving. I'm not working there anymore. I'm scared!
salieri		Why? What has happened?
lorl		You don't know what it's like. Herr Mozart frightens me. He drinks all day, then takes all that medicine and it makes him worse.
salieri		What medicine?
lorl		I don't know. He has pains.
salieri		Where?
lorl		Here, in his stomach. They bend him right over.
salieri		Is he working?
lorl		I'm frightened, sir. Really! When he speaks, he doesn't make any sense. You know he said he saw - he said he saw his father. And his father's dead.
salieri		Is he working?
lorl		I suppose so. He sits there all he time, doing some silly opera.
salieri		 Opera? Opera!
lorl		Please don't ask me to go back again. I'm frightened! I'm very, very frightened.
salieri		 Are you sure it's an opera?
mozart		I don't have it yet. It's not finished. I'm sorry, but I need more time.
salieri		Are you neglecting my request?
mozart		No, no! I promise you, I'll give you a wonderful piece - the best I ever can!
mozart		This is my wife, Stanzi. I've been sick, but I'm all right now. Aren't I?
constanze		Oh yes, sir. He's all right. And he's working on it very hard.
mozart		Give me two more weeks. Please.
salieri		The sooner you finish, the better your reward. Work!
constanze		Wolfi, I think you really are going mad. You work like a slave for that idiot actor who won't give you a penny and here. This is not a ghost! This is a real man who puts down real money. Why on earth don't you finish it?
constanze		Give me one reason I can understand.
mozart		I can't write it!
constanze		Why not?
mozart		It's killing me.
constanze		No, this is really awful. You're drunk, aren't you? Be honest - tell me - you've been drinking. And I'm so stupid I stay here and listen to you!
constanze		It's not fair! I worry about you all the time. I try to help you all I can and you just drink and talk nonsense and - and frighten me! It's not fair!
mozart		Go back to bed.
constanze		Please! Let me sit here. Let me stay here with you. I promise I won't say all word. I'll just be here, so you know no one's going to hurt you. Please, please!
mozart		Stanzi? Stanzi-marini-bini?
frau weber		She's not coming back, you know. She's gone for good. I did it and I'm proud of it. 'Leave,' I said. 'Right away! Take he child and go, just go. Here's the money! Go to the Spa and get your health back - that's if you can.' I was shocked. Shocked to my foundation. Is that my girl? Can that be my Stanzi? The happy little moppet I brought up, that poor trembling thing? Oh, you monster! No one exists but you, do they? You and your music! Do you know how often she's sat in that very chair, weeping her eyes out of her head because of you? I warned her. 'Choose a man, not a baby,' I said. But would she listen? Who listens? 'He's just a silly boy,' she says. Silly, my arse. Selfish - that's all you are. Selfish! Selfish, selfish, selfish, selfish, selfish.
voice		Go back!
papageno		Merciful Gods! If only I knew by which door I came in.  Which was it? Was it this one? Come on, tell me!
voice		Go back!
papageno		Now, I can't go forward and I can't go back. Oh, this is awful!
first priest		 Man, thou hast deserved to wander forever in the darkest chasms of the earth. The gentle Gods have remitted thy punishment, but yet thou shalt never feel the Divine Content of the consecrated ones.
papageno		Oh well, I'm not alone in that. Just give me a decent glass of wine - that's divine content enough for me.
first priest		Man, hast thou no other desire on earth, but just to eat and drink?
papageno		 Well!
papageno		Well, actually I do have a rather weird feeling in my heart. Perhaps it's just indigestion. But you know, I really would like - I really do want - something even nicer than food and drink. Now what on earth could that be?
andante		A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno's wish. A willing, billing, lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish. Be my most tasty little dish! Be my most tasty little dish!
allegro		Then that would be eating and drinking I'd live like a Prince without thinking. The wisdom of old would be mine - A woman's much better than wine! Then that would be eating and drinking! The wisdom of old would be mine - A woman's much better than wine. She's much better than wine! She's much better than wine!
andante		 A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno's wish. A willing, billing, lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish.
allegro		I need to net one birdie only And I will stop feeling so lonely. But if she won't fly to my aid, Then into a ghost I must fade. I need to net one birdie only But if she won't fly to my aid, Then into a ghost I must fade.  To a ghost I must fade! To a ghost I must fade!
andante		 A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno's wish. A willing, billing, lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish.
allegro		At present the girls only peck me. Their cruelty surely will wreck me. But one little beak in my own, And I'll up to heaven be flown! At present the girls only peck me. But one little beak in my own, And I'll up to heaven be flown. Up to heaven be flown! Up to heaven be flown!
salieri		I'll take care of him.
salieri		I have a carriage. Excuse me.
papageno		 What? Who the devil are you?
papageno		Oh. Well, thank you! How wonderful. Some people get all the luck.
papageno		 I can't wait.
papageno		What do you mean - now?
papageno		Well, I don't know! I mean you're a delicious, delightful, delectable little bird, but don't you think you might be just a little tough?
mozart		What happened? Is it over?
salieri		I'm taking you home. You're not well.
mozart		No, no. I have to get back. I have -
salieri		 Thank you. Go.
mozart		 Papa! Papa!
salieri		Come now.
salieri		Where is your wife?
mozart		Not here! She's not well, either. She went to the Spa.
salieri		You mean she's not coming back?
mozart		You're so good to me. Truly. Thank you.
salieri		No, please.
mozart		I mean to come to my opera. You are the only colleague who did.
salieri		I would never miss anything that you had written. You must know that.
mozart		This is only a vaudeville.
salieri		Oh no. It is a sublime piece. The grandest operone. I tell you, you are the greatest composer known to me.
mozart		Do you mean that?
salieri		I do.
mozart		I have bad fancies. I don't sleep well anymore. Then I drink too much, and think stupid things.
salieri		Are you ill?
mozart		The doctor thinks I am. But -
salieri		What?
mozart		I'm too young to be so sick.
salieri		Shall I answer it?
mozart		No! No, it's him!
salieri		Who?
mozart		The man. He's here.
salieri		What man?
mozart		Tell him to go away. Tell him I'm still working on it. Don't let him in!
mozart		Wait! Ask him if he'd give me some money now. Tell him if he would, that would help me finish it.
salieri		Finish what?
mozart		He knows. He knows!
schikaneder		Herr Salieri.
salieri		Yes, I am looking after him.
schikaneder		Can we come in?
salieri		Well, he's sleeping now. Better not.
schikaneder		But he's all right?
salieri		Oh, yes. He's just exhausted. He became dizzy, that's all. We should let him rest.
schikaneder		Well, tell him we were here, won't you?
salieri		Of course.
schikaneder		And say everything went wonderfully. A triumph-de-luxe - say that! Tell him the audience shouted his name a hundred times.
salieri		Bene.
schikaneder		I'll call tomorrow.
salieri		Yes.  And congratulations to all of you. It was superb.
actresses		Thank you! Thank you, Excellency!
schikaneder		Oh, by the way, give him this. This is his share. That should cheer him up, eh?
salieri		Yes, indeed. Goodnight to you all now. It was perfection - truly!
actresses		 Goodnight, Your Excellency. Goodnight!
mozart		What happened?
salieri		He said to give you this. And if you finish the work by tomorrow night, he will pay you another hundred ducats.
mozart		Another? But that's too soon! Tomorrow night? It's impossible! Did he say a hundred?
salieri		Yes. Can I - could I help you, in any way?
mozart		Would you? Actually, you could.
salieri		My dear friend, it would be my greatest pleasure.
mozart		But you'd have to swear not to tell a soul. I'm not allowed.
salieri		Of course.
mozart		You know, it's all here in my head. It's just ready to be set down. But when I'm dizzy like this my eyes won't focus. I can't write.
salieri		Then, let us try together. I'd regard it as such an honour. Tell me, what is this work?
mozart		A Mass. A Mass for the Dead.
officer		What is it?
constanze		I want to go!
officer		Where?
constanze		I want to go back to Vienna.
officer		Now?
constanze		Yes!
officer		Why?
constanze		I feel wrong. I feel wrong being here.
officer		 What are you talking about?
mozart		Where did I stop?
salieri		 The end of the Recordare - Statuens in parte dextra.
mozart		So now the Confutatis. Confutatis Maledictis. When the wicked are confounded. Flammis acribus addictis. How would you translate that?
salieri		Consigned to flames of woe.
mozart		Do you believe in it?
salieri		What?
mozart		A fire which never dies. Burning one forever?
salieri		Oh, yes.
mozart		Strange!
salieri		Come. Let's begin.
salieri		Confutatis Maledictis.
mozart		We ended in F Major?
salieri		Yes.
mozart		So now - A minor. Suddenly.
mozart		The Fire.
salieri		What time?
mozart		Common time.
mozart		Start with the voices. Basses first. Second beat of the first measure - A.  G-sharp, of course.
salieri		Yes.
mozart		Third measure, second beat starting on E.  Do you have that?
salieri		I think so.
mozart		Sing it back.
mozart		Good. Now the tenors. Fourth beat of the first measure - C.  All right?
salieri		Yes.
mozart		Fourth measure, second beat - F.  Flam-mis a-cri-bus ad-dic-tis, flam- mis a-cri-bus ad-dic-tis.
mozart		Now the orchestra. Second bassoon and bass trombone with the basses. Identical notes and rhythm.  The first bassoon and tenor trombone -
salieri		 Please! Just one moment.
mozart		It couldn't be simpler.
salieri		 First bassoon and tenor trombone - what?
mozart		With the tenors.
salieri		Also identical?
mozart		Exactly. The instruments to go with the voices. Trumpets and timpani, tonic and dominant.
salieri		And that's all?
mozart		Oh no. Now for the Fire.  Strings in unison - ostinato on all - like this.
mozart		 Second measure on B.
mozart		 Do you have me?
salieri		I think so.
mozart		Show me.
mozart		 Good, good - yes! Put it down. And the next measures exactly the same, rising and rising - C to D to E, up to the dominant chord. Do you see?
salieri		That's wonderful!
mozart		Yes, yes - go on. The Voca Me. Suddenly sotto voce. Write that down: sotto voce, pianissimo. Voca me cum benedictis. Call me among the blessed.
mozart		C Major. Sopranos and altos in thirds. Altos on C. Sopranos above.  Vo-ca, vo-ca me, vo-ca me cum be-ne- dic-tis.
salieri		Sopranos up to F on the second 'Voca'?
mozart		Yes, and on 'dictis'.
salieri		Yes!
mozart		And underneath, just violins - arpeggio.
mozart		 The descending scale in eighth notes, and then back suddenly to the fire again.
mozart		 And that's it. Do you have it?
salieri		You go fast!
mozart		 Do you have it?
salieri		Yes.
mozart		Then let me hear it. All of it. The whole thing from the beginning - now!
mozart		Do you want to rest a bit?
salieri		Oh no. I'm not tired at all.
mozart		We'll stop for just a moment. Then we'll do the Lacrimosa.
salieri		I can keep going, I assure you. Shall we try?
mozart		Would you stay with me while I sleep a little?
salieri		I'm not leaving you.
mozart		I am so ashamed.
salieri		What for?
mozart		I was foolish. I thought you did not care for my work - or me. Forgive me. Forgive me!
constanze		What are you doing here?
salieri		Your husband is ill, ma'am. He took sick. I brought him home.
constanze		Why you?
salieri		I was at hand.
constanze		Well, thank you very much. You can go now.
salieri		He needs me, ma'am.
constanze		No, he doesn't. And I don't want you here. Just go, please.
salieri		He asked me to stay.
constanze		And I'm asking you -
constanze		Wolfi, I'm back. I'm still very angry with you, but I missed you so much.
constanze		I'll never leave you again. If you'll just try a little harder to be nice to me. And I'll try to do better, too. We must. We must! This was just silly and stupid.
constanze		What is this?
constanze		Oh no, not this. Not this, Wolfi! You're not to work on this ever again! I've decided.
constanze		 This is not his handwriting.
salieri		No. I was assisting him. He asked me.
constanze		He's not going to work on this anymore. It is making him ill. Please.
constanze		 Please.
constanze		Thank you.
salieri		But - but - but -
constanze		Good night.
constanze		I regret we have no servants to show you out, Herr Salieri. Respect my wish and go.
salieri		Madame, I will respect his. He asked me to stay here.
constanze		Wolfi?  Wolfi?
vogler		Why? Why? Why? Why add to your misery by confessing to murder? You didn't kill him.
old salieri		I did.
vogler		No, you didn't!
old salieri		I poisoned his life.
vogler		But not his body.
old salieri		What difference does that make?
vogler		My son, why should you want all Vienna to believe you a murderer? Is that your penance? Is it?
old salieri		No, Father. From now on no one will be able to speak of Mozart without thinking of me. Whenever they say Mozart with love, they'll have to say Salieri with loathing. And that's my immortality - at last! Our names will  be tied together for eternity - his in fame and mine in infamy. At least it's better than the total oblivion he'd planned for me, your merciful God!
vogler		Oh my son, my poor son!
old salieri		Don't pity me. Pity yourself. You serve a wicked God. He killed Mozart, not I. Took him, snatched him away, without pity. He destroyed His beloved rather than let a mediocrity like me get the smallest share in his glory. He doesn't care. Understand that. God cares nothing for the man He denies and nothing either for the man He uses. He broke Mozart in half when He'd finished with him, and threw him away. Like an old, worn out flute.
local priest		The Lord giveth. The Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord.
old salieri		Why did He do it? Why didn't He kill me? I had no value. What was the use, keeping me alive for thirty-two years of torture? Thirty-two years of honours and awards.
old salieri		Being bowed to and saluted, called 'distinguished - distinguished Salieri' - by men incapable of distinguishing! Thirty-two years of meaningless fame to end up alone in my room, watching myself become extinct. My music growing fainter, all the time fainter, until no one plays it at all. And his growing louder, filling the world with wonder. And everyone who loves my sacred art crying, Mozart! Bless you, Mozart.
attendant		Good morning, Professor! Time for the water closet. And then we've got your favourite breakfast for you - sugar-rolls.  He loves those. Fresh sugar-rolls.
old salieri		Goodbye, Father. I'll speak for you. I speak for all mediocrities in the world. I am their champion. I am their patron saint. On their behalf I deny Him, your God of no mercy. Your God who tortures men with longings they can never fulfill. He may forgive me: I shall never forgive Him.
old salieri		Mediocrities everywhere, now and to come: I absolve you all! Amen! Amen! Amen!
****Dialogues from script :Amelia.txt****

amelia		Adventurous? You've got the wrong girl, Mister. You should know that by now. Her eyes study him.    Assessing something as he pours himself four fingers.
fred		Actually. I knew that the moment I met ol' George. He sips his drink.    She says nothing.
amelia		That why I get so many chances to not do it?
fred		Well.   Natural curiosity. His charming smile. She's thinking more about the tequila. She reaches to take his bottle and glass. Moves them to her side of the table.
fred		I mean, why would a guy who needs to run the show. Pick the one girl he knew could kick his tail?
amelia		He thought I hated him.      He never knew I was fascinated.
george		 The first time I met her she sat in that chair. The secretary doesn't know whether to write that down.   And still with his back to her...
george		Miss Earhart?
amelia		Mr. Putnam? GEORGE  I asked you to sit.
amelia		Was that the thing you did with your hand? Sadly, I don't speak dog. His smile now only a trace.       But more genuine.
george		A            Ah.   Well, stand if you like. melia sits.
amelia		I do.
george		In the 12 months since Lindbergh, 55 people in 18 planes have tried. Three planes made it. Fourteen people have died.
amelia		I'll make it.
george		Three women died trying. Two others escaped with their lives. If you do make it, you'd be the first. Which...is the real attraction for both of us, I suspect. She nods.    No smile.
amelia		Always nice to know what the real attraction is. His smile.    Beginning to enjoy this conversation.
george		The plane was bought from Adm. Byrd by Amy Guest, a socialite who wanted the record for herself. Her family wouldn't tolerate the danger. She has asked for a replacement... He gestures.   Perhaps you.
amelia		Why would that matter?
george		Because she wants the world to pay attention. And pretty girls command more attention.
amelia		Was that your advice?
george		Sure. My role is selling this event to the public. There will be a contract for the girl's story with the New York Times. Also a book to be published over her name. Understood...?       G
amelia		Except for the part that goes to you.
george		Which will be as great as I can manage, I assure you.
amelia		You said she wants a flyer.
george		Don't get your hopes up. The celebrated Wilmer Stultz will be the pilot. There'll be a male co- pilot and navigator. The woman will be purely a passenger.
amelia		Why would anyone want a book from a passenger?
george		Because the hook is that we're making the woman the commander. The pilot will sign a contract saying he is under her direction and control. It's her ship, her flight.
amelia		Good for my chances, you said. What are my chan...
george		The job's yours. She blinks.   Stunned speechless.
amelia		You're a busy man, Mr. Putnam.     I can find my way. The look holds.   He shrugs.   You probably can.
george		I honestly feel an apology is in order.
amelia		Fine.   What have I done? She watches his smile.
george		I mean an apology.   For what's coming. His voice softens.
amelia		We.
george		That's right. If you're not in there selling with me, it won't work. The smile turns friendly.
amelia		Spoken like a gentleman. She steps up onto the train. Extends her hand like a man. He shakes it firmly. The train begins to move. She watches his cheery wave as she rolls away.
amelia		Got it.   I think.
melia		Girls, this is Mr. Samuel Chapman. Sam, say hullo to the Octopus Club. The Octopus Club waves to Sam.   The adults wave, too.
amelia		They are, actually. She pats the grass beside her.   Sam has no choice but to sit.
sam		And it's a secret.
amelia		Has to be. Competition, you know. Millionaire heiresses, hot shot girl pilots. If George knew I told you, he'd have me publicly flogged.
sam		And no one else knows.
amelia		Marion. She's giving me a leave of absence.
sam		I would think so. Your name will be in all the papers, and not just Boston. Denison House stands to come in for funding, national attention.
amelia		Specially if I don't make it.
sam		Don't joke about that. She wasn't joking at all.
amelia		Well, I'll have impressive credentials as a long-distance passenger. That's not exactly a career in aviation. She looks up at his eyes.
sam		And where does that leave us?
amelia		You do love to look on the dark side. Whatever did you see in a sunny character like me? She gives him a sweet playful smile.   It doesn't reassure him.
sam		It's not as if I'd been putting pressure on you.
amelia		What love means to you. What it requires. Is the pressure. He stops walking.
sam		I love you. Is that such a terrible problem? She gazes at him.   Can he even hear this?
amelia		The problem is what it's always been. The problem is me.
mabel		Okay, boys. I'll take any questions you wanna throw my way. Except about what's behind this sweater. The boys ROAR.   Mabel keeps her smile tight.
george		Boys, I'd like to introduce your commander, Miss Amelia Earhart.
amelia		We felt `commander' was less grandiose than, say, `empress.' Bill doesn't smile.   The other man does...
george		Say hello to Slim Gordon your navigator. She is shaking hands in that strong, direct way.
george		Nope, those are new, personally suggested by the old man himself. Bill nods on that.   Sure were.
amelia		Hmmn.   What does that do to our fuel?
bill		Costs us at least 400 gallons. Don't bother bringing clothes for Paris, we'll be lucky to hit the nearest beach in Ireland. Real lucky.
george		The Admiral estimates the pontoons only cut our range by 200 miles. But Amelia looks to Bill.   That's not really possible is it?
bill		The Admiral is the Admiral. He gets to estimate any damn thing he wants. All we have to do is figure out how to fly without petrol. She turns to George with challenging eyes.
amelia		I wonder if it can keep them up there. Not that I've ever had enough to try.
amelia		Sorry.    I'll try keeping my mouth shut.
george		What I ought to try. Is listening to you once in awhile.
amelia		Careful.    I could get to like it. No reaction from him. He hops into the boat. Turns, holds out his hand. She hesitates. Clearly doesn't need his help to jump into a boat. Their eyes lock. We are watching her decide. And then... She reaches to clasp his hand.   Hops down beside him.
george		 Simpkin.
amelia		It's in a book. Oh, that's right. You read the ones you publish. Her smile is friendly, not flirtatious. She goes to sit in the bow. He doesn't follow. But he is watching.
amelia		What are you boys doing over there?
george		Trying to make you look like a girl. George studies the photo, then goes to Amelia and begins moving her body into the new pose. Tilting her head to Lindbergh's angle.
george		he more we can make you look like a girl, the better.
amelia		Oh god, is it worth the effort? He cocks his head, studies her.    Nah, guess not.
george		Wondering who should play you in the film of all this. I'm thinking Chaplin.
amelia		Valentino's not available? He shakes his head sadly. Adjusts her collar once more. This time, his hands linger.
george		Amelia Earhart, this is Dorothy Binney Putnam. The women trade smiles.   They shake hands, holding eye contact.
dorothy		Great to meet you. George talks so much about you.  In fact, lately, you're all he does talk about.
photographer		Hold those smiles for one more, please.
amelia		Popping off letters. For my dad, my mom, my sis. You know. In case.
george		I'm honored. That you'd leave these with me.
amelia		Who else? If I do pop off, it's your fault. Said in her sunny way. But she's not kidding.    It takes a beat before he can offer...
george		I'll call them once you're safely on your way.
amelia		Sam will handle that.   They trust him. That registers.
george		I've figured out the Simpkin thing, you know.
amelia		Have you.
george		Sure. There are so few books I haven't published, it was easy to find. Well...?
amelia		But why is he you? Oh.
george		He's brilliant, charismatic...
amelia		So you haven't actually read it. Do you actually read?
george		...neurotic, compulsive, manipulative. Am I getting warmer? She sighs.
amelia		Hi there, boys. How are the ham and eggs? The FLASHES EXPLODE as one.   They keep POPPING as Amelia makes her way to them.
bill		Don't blame us, lady. I think somebody's starting to sell books. The reporters are handing her their morning editions. The New York Times front page headline: BOSTON GIRL STARTS FOR
eporter		Say, Amelia. What have you got for Mabel Boll to chew on?
amelia		Now why would a famous gal like Mabel give a thought to someone like me? I don't have a single sweater made out of gold. The boys ROAR, Slim louder than anyone. Even Bill cracks a smile. They're shouting, teasing, YOU CAN'T KID US!
bill		The ham's a little tough, Commander. But the bacon's swell.
mabel		Well, how would any woman feel about some tart who steals her man? Reporters furiously writing, more flashes EXPLODE.
eporter		Mabel, are you implying Miss Earhart used her feminine charms on your pilot?
mabel		I don't know, Charlie, I never seen her. Has she got any? LAUGHTER, they're all calling out.   She shows them a smoky smile, but stays on message.
reporter		What makes you so cocky that she won't leave first?
mabel		Rusty, we can carry enough fuel to go to China. That thing they're flying can't load enough gas to make Yonkers. Tell that to Putnam's girlie. And while you're at it... She snuggles the gleaming fox fur around her.  MABEL  Tell her I do wear silver.   So I'm two up on her.
bill		Christ, what time is...
amelia		Time to fly. Get up, get dressed, we're going now. She is calm and angry at once.    A powerful combination.   Slim pulls his pants off a chair.
bill		Where's the weather report? She goes to his bed. Hands him a slip of paper.     He blinks, still waking up. Reads.
amelia		Great. Maybe Mabel will think so, too. Because if she doesn't, she's going to Paris and you're going home. Today.
ill		It's not good enough.
amelia		It's fine, there's a tail wind all the way, we'll off-load to 700 gallons, which gets us off the water and the wind gets us to Ireland.
bill		We've had better than this and we haven't gone.
amelia		But this   is the day Mabel's ready, so we're   going now. The weather is going   to get better and we'll be there   to enjoy it.
bill		You're serious.
amelia		Just as serious as you're hung over.  You go now, get the late weather, we'll meet you at the plane. Go. Now! Slim pulls on his shoes, grabs his jacket, his bag. Looks to Bill, but the pilot is glaring at his commander.
amelia		Good.     Slim, start the engines. She still hasn't given the paper to Bill. Slim steps onto a pontoon. Starts CRANKING up the propellers. As the engine KICKS to life...
bill		Have a nice flight.
amelia		Thanks. She motions to Slim, get on board. The navigator grins, starts to climb up, looking back at Bill...
slim		Hey, I'm scared shitless of this dame. She climbs up after him.   One look back...
amelia		Read tomorrow's papers, Bill. We'll both be in them. And disappears. Alone on the dock, Bill hears the engines REV. Jesus, God, she's going to do it. He takes a step toward the plane, but her head appears in the hatch...
amelia		Out of gas. May have to swim for
bill		Mr. Putnam phoned. He says there's fella coming from London. Hilton Railey.
amelia		Oh, yeh. Very important man.   More important than any of us. Really?    Yep.
bill		He says ya mustn't come ashore til he gets here. No matter what. Great.    She doesn't like it, but there it is.   She waves, so long.
amelia		Public relations. Goes back to work.    DISSOLVE TO... LATER. Amelia sits with her papers in her lap, dangling her feet from the hatch. Alone. Hear the BUZZ of... ...a PLANE dropping slowly from the sky, gliding onto the water on its pontoons. She stares at it. Gathers up her things. LATER. Amelia sitting in a tiny dinghy, behind her the Friendship in distance. She is being rowed to shore. Our VIEW is over the back of the man rowing. Amelia is staring past him, vaguely apprehensive. REVERSE ANGLE. She's looking at TWO THOUSAND WELSHMEN swarming the docks. You can't even see the sand. The crowd is silent and staring. No cheers. As if they were staring at an alien or an animal in the zoo. Bill and Slim help pull the dinghy to the rocky shore. But when Amelia jumps out, the crowd...
sheriff		Sorry Ma'am. Shoulda brought more men.
amelia		No, really, this is very sweet, it's an honor. I'm actually enjoying it.
sheriff		That's a good thing. She looks at him as they are jostled along.
amelia		Hullo, Hilton. Railey stands back as FLASHBULBS catch the moment.   He's brought photographers with him. And more.
ailey		Amelia, say hullo to Allen Raymond of the New York Times. A hearty handshake.   She holds out her sheets of paper.
amelia		I believe you've come for these. Both men regard the pages as if they were gold bullion.     Come for these indeed.
amelia		I was a passenger on this journey. Just a passenger. Everything that was done to bring us across was done by Wilmer Stultz and Slim Gordon. All the praise...
reporter		 But you can fly, can't you? Amelia stares at the man.    Conflicting agendas.
amelia		This flight was solely to the credit of Bill and Slim. Women should know, however, that I have had 500 hours solo flying and once held the women's altitude record.
reporter		So you could have done it yourself!
amelia		This particular flight, under these conditions, I wonder if anyone but Bill Stultz could have pulled it off. But certainly, one day a woman will do this. As easily, as skillfully, as professionally as any man. Such calm self-possession.    Such confidence in that.
amelia		Guess you can burn those letters. Dorothy wonders.       Letters?
george		I saved them for your book. One simple shake of Amelia's head.       A soft...
amelia		The book's yours.     The letters are mine. He smiles.       Bows in submission.
george		ou're the boss.
dorothy		Hey, that's my job.  Do you think there's enough of him to boss for the two of us? Amelia still looking at George.    Laughs.
amelia		Barely enough for one. A battery of reporters and flashbulbs wait by our motorcade.
reporter		Miss Earhart, can you tell us some- thing about your future plans?
amelia		Well, being a social worker by trade and passion, I'll be going back to work at Denison House when all this fun is over. She sends the guy a smile, and a dozen FLASHES catch it.
reporter		Mr. Putnam, sir. How did a social worker like Miss Earhart become comfortable as a celebrity so quickly? George smiles.   His eyes still following Amelia.
george		The truth is, she was a celebrity on smaller stages all her life.
george		Lucky Strike endorsement.      I wrote the copy myself.
amelia		What does it say?   `I don't smoke but you should?'
george		It says Lucky Strikes were the only cigarettes aboard the Friendship. That's true.
amelia		True and misleading.      Why would I sign that?
george		So Bill and Slim get paid.
amelia		It's so good to meet you. I've been following your career with a great deal of admiration.
elinor		Um.   Thanks, and.   You, too.
amelia		Feel like a drink?
george		Amelia!   What would her mother say?
amelia		Relax, George. I meant a Coke. As she leads Elinor into the sitting room of their suite, the girl's eye falls on the door to the bedroom. It is slightly ajar, revealing an unmade double bed. Unseen by the others, the kid reacts. Oh, my.
elinor		They're saying you get $500 a week on the lecture circuit.
amelia		All depends. On whether you want the sell or the real.
elinor		Oh, I don't underestimate the value of selling. It's why I'm here.
george		A 16-year-old girl sets an altitude record, then makes headlines illegally flying under the four bridges of the East River. You don't seem to need much help selling yourself.
elinor		Well, actually Mr. Putnam, I was hoping you could do to me what you've done to her. Inadvertently, her eyes flick to the bedroom door. Catching this, our couple shares a dry smile. The kid sees that. Uh- oh.
george		Just so we're clear, young lady. What is your primary ambition? ELINOR  To take Amelia's place as the number one female pilot. The honesty, the suddenness, leave George atypically dumbstruck.
amelia		Well, good for you! I would have expected nothing less. You want a tip?
elinor		I do.
amelia		Keep doing what you're doing. The girl nods, seriously.    Okay.
george		Lovely party, huh?
dorothy		Depends on your point of view. I've been listening to some idiot brag about his girlfriend. Still walking.   She never looks at him.
george		Well, in that case, for your information, it is a lovely party indeed. Anything on your mind?
dorothy		It's not so much that my husband is having an affair with his meal ticket. It's just a pity we can't have one honest conversation about it.
george		What's wrong with this one? A promising start, I'd say, in the honesty department. She finishes her drink. Throws the glass away. From our ANGLE we can now see D Amelia in the window, watching them.
orothy		If this is what you call an honest talk, I'd say you need some practice.
george		Great. Let's try one about you and Fred Upton. She stops walking.   Turns in shock, to see his easy smile.
george		Dorothy and I are through. She sits beside him.     Very close.
amelia		For a long, long time.
george		It's different now. She looks at him.   Squints.    How?
amelia		I can't do that.
george		If you give it a chance, you'll learn to love me. He seems so sunny and strong.     What can he be feeling?
amelia		I already love you.    That's why I can't marry you. GEORGE  Well, that explains it. For a minute there, I thought you were stuck for an excuse.
amelia		I know me.     And you don't.   Not really.
george		What if I promise not to learn?
amelia		The day will come. When I will run away. And when it does... He stops her with a kiss.
george		If you love me. I'll take my chances. He stares in her troubled eyes.   There is no answer.
elinor		Wish I was important enough for you to manage.
george		Well, I've just got one client. And most days she's more than I can manage. Even Elinor's smile seems older, more capable of subtlety.
elinor		Get in line behind the boys she smacked around on the Derby. He grins back.   You bet.
george		And both of those things.      Are the reasons I called you.
elinor		I'm not sure she has much of a chance, Mr. Putnam.
george		Well, the one shot would be putting her in a far more powerful plane than anything she's flown. We're thinking the Lockheed Vega. The girl's shock.    He really means this.
elinor		Sir, I've test piloted the Vega. It's way more than she could ever handle. It wouldn't be safe, let alone successful. He smiles.
george		That's why I'm thinking of you flying with her. You could handle the cross-country flying, the more difficult bits, and I'd pay you $75 a week. Elinor WHISTLES low.
elinor		Well, I think that's the most generous opportunity I've ever been offered. He stares at her.
george		There's just one thing. Obviously, it has to appear that Amelia did all the flying. So when pictures are taken, you'll stand off to one side. Her eyes narrow.    He's completely serious.
elinor		In that case, I'll get my own plane and win the race myself.
george		You haven't changed.
elinor		That's a threat.
george		I'm an intensely loyal person, Elinor. And this is what my loyalty requires. She's glaring.   Reeling.   Trapped.
elinor		She's the one who said I shouldn't let anybody turn me around.
george		She probably meant me. So honest, the words confuse her.
elinor		Obviously, she doesn't see me as a threat.
george		Oh, sure she does. A straight smile...
george		he told you that I shut her out of the Derby. And that's true.
amelia		And when were you going to tell me? GEORGE  Never. I knew you'd go crazy. And I felt it needed to be done. She can scarcely believe this.
amelia		What? You think I wanted it done, but just let you do the dirty work?
george		I didn't say that.
amelia		Because I'm no angel. Business is competition and competition is rough, and I thank my stars that you're there making this life happen for me, but...
george		ou're making your life hap...
amelia		But this is different. It is.
george		rom here on, I'll just stab men in he back. A
melia		You didn't do this for business, anyway.   G
eorge		I did it for fun?
amelia		You did it because you love me. That stops him.
george		did.   I do.
amelia		Well, then. His eyes moving over her face.
george		What about what you said? The day will come when you run away. It will.
amelia		You'll be destroyed. And part of me will, too. And I think we both know it. And yet.
george		y Amelia. Brutal in her frank- ness. Beautiful in her honesty. He steps to her.    Looks in her eyes.   They kiss.
melia		I might fly to Paris. Silence.
george		Which is actually across the Atlantic.
amelia		Hence, the article. Ah.   He nods.
george		Not at all. When would you like to go?
amelia		I'm surprised you're all right with this... WIDEN ANGLE.     George kneeling beside her.   Happily planting his own.
george		Really.
amelia		Mmm-hmmn. I was braced for the lecture. Five years since Lindbergh, no one's made it solo, so many of them died. He looks at her work. Reaches over. Starts packing the earth HARDER around her plant. She just watches, then...
george		ell, they were only men.   This is different. She reaches to his plant and starts LOOSENING the soil...
amelia		I was waiting to hear that I'm only doing this because I was just a passenger last time, and I'd rather die than go on living as a fraud.. No one cracks a smile. It's like Laurel and Hardy in a food fight where each lets the other take his best shot. George
george		Of course not. But if I did... She SMACKS his hand. He just keeps working. She finally grins, smacks him HARDER. He doesn't seem to notice.
george		Elephant hair, I think you wear it on your toe. It's good luck. He puts it in her hand.
amelia		I think luck has rules. And I try to respect them. My favorite is... She glances up.
george		Do you have money?
amelia		No. He pulls out a twenty dollar bill.      Hands it to her.
eorge		Sure.
amelia		Thank god, I thought you were going to tear it in half.
george		I spent our money on ocean liner passage to go bring you back. It's non-refundable. So try to do your part. She nods.   She'll try.   He doesn't want to leave her yet.
amelia		I put it in a letter. Which you'll get if I don't make it. So...mixed emotions, huh? He shakes his head. GEORGE  Either way, something to look forward to. She puts her hands on his face.    She doesn't want to leave him either.
amelia		Excuse me, sir. Where am I? A blink.   The truth...
man		In Gallagher's pasture.
amelia		When I left, I was aiming for Paris. Oh. MAN  It's over there.
george		ell, I'm glad someone besides me finally noticed. His smile is light.    Her eyes watching him.   Then... AMELIA  `Using a man-made perfect machine, tuned by men mechanics, trained by men flyers, on a course laid out by a man. By a lucky break she just managed to make the hop.' She stares at the paper.    His voice comes gently...
george		hy would you even read that garbage?
amelia		Well, it reminds me how much I owe to the men of this world. Keeps me humble.
george		ood. And remembering how little you owe me keeps me humble. And softly...
george		You've made them feel like this.
amelia		That's not enough.
george		Most of them are women. And for them, it's very much enough. She shakes her head.
amelia		The World Telegram said, `a magnificent display of useless courage.'
george		The question is. Can any magnif- icent display of courage be use- less?     A
melia		The point is. Men do it every day. And no one throws a parade. Ah.   Well...
george		One day closer, then. To the day when they won't think to throw one for you. She doesn't turn.   She doesn't smile.
amelia		Reasoning with me. A magnificent display of useless courage. He nods to himself.
george		And.   It's fun. From the stage...
george		If a bomb goes off tonight, the whole government of the United States is out there...
george		Some dog catcher will have to become President. She smiles.    Just for him.
amelia		Ladies.
amelia		Thursday, I'll be in Boston. Meeting Gene Vidal and Paul Collins. Said lightly. Not even looking at him.     While through the glass, it's become quite a tussle.
george		Don't tell me Gene wants to resurrect Transcontinental?
amelia		No, he's starting a shuttle service. Washington, New York, Boston... One woman goes flying from view, as a younger one gets her place.
george		Gene's a dashing guy. He could talk anyone into anything. Their look holds.
gene		Transcontinental was too ambitious. Too many hops, too tough on the ladies. But the shuttle... A lean athlete's body, easy grace in every movement. Strikingly handsome features that convey not only intellect, but kindness and decency.
amelia		What on earth would you need me for? She's making a real mess of the lobster.    Gene notices.   PAUL COLLINS doesn't...
paul		Hasn't George taught you anything? Lady Lindy, the queen of the air, the best known woman in the entire U.S. of A? Gene reaches over, as if it were his own plate, and begins cracking her lobster for her. She looks in his eyes and tries to concentrate.
dissolve to...		LATER. Paul has gone. Gene and Amelia are at the bar, huddled over his beer and her Coke.
gene		I'm rattling on here, and you've got a morning train. But she's just staring in his eyes.   This could be her last chance to ask...
amelia		How's Nina doing?
gene		Oh, fine. Really?   He smiles, gently.
amelia		If you two get bored, I could tag along sometimes.
gene		You suggesting you're less boring than I am?
amelia		Well, yeh. He smiles first.    Hers is slower, but here it comes.
gene		Gore would love that. He has a little crush, I'm afraid.
amelia		At seven?
gene		He's eight. Well, then. He breaks the look.     Fishes out some cash for the bar tab.        G
amelia		Are you kidding, it's a godsend. No matter how hard George and I work, how many lectures we cram in, there's never enough money for the next adventure. He looks at her. Lets the silence sit there.     His eyes seem to convey a depth of understanding.
gene		The next adventure.    What is it? She shrugs.    No idea.
amelia		Wish you'd do something about that.
gene		I'm serious, Amelia. Her soft smile.
amelia		I know.   Always.
gene		The only way you can stay where you are. And be who you are... Serious indeed.
gene		The price of fame, literally. Do you and George talk about this? Silence.
amelia		We don't have to.
gene		With all respect.    Yes, you do.
amelia		For understanding. There is no smile. Without a word, she goes into her room. CLOSES the door behind her. e stands alone. Do I knock on that door?     Then, smiles to himself, and simply... Walks away.
melia		So he hasn't actually forbidden you.
eleanor		Franklin doesn't forbid. He just feels it's a waste of my valuable ime to learn. Since I can't afford to buy a plane.
amelia		The wrong Roosevelt got elected.
eleanor		And it will take at least four years to correct the mistake. Keeps eating.
amelia		I think the structure may be less important than the man chosen to run it. Said casually, looking at her plate.
eleanor		My hearing is failing. I missed the words `or woman,' which you undoubtedly added after, or per- haps before, the word `man.'
amelia		his could be one of those rare instances. When the most accomplished candidate. Turns out to be male. Glances up for the reaction.
eleanor		How exciting. I love finding the exception that proves the rule. Is t a name I know? Amelia's straight gaze.   Her small smile.
amelia		How do you feel about flying at night? Eleanor's eyes register the change of topic.     Rolling with it...
eleanor		I've never done it.   Franklin finds t dangerous.
amelia		Outstanding.
amelia		It's dual controls.   No one will ever know. Hesitation.
eleanor		Dear God. The Condor purrs along through the night air. The moon bobs slightly off to one side. Eleanor's eyes are swimming with the thrill of this.
amelia		I feel like a Coke.   Can I get you something? And stands up. Only the trace of her smile as the pilot's eyes WIDEN in absolute shock.
roosevelt		Today, we proudly announce an appointment critical to America's commerce, and to its role as technology's leader in the Twentieth Century. PAN to Gene at his side.   Sober.   Distinguished.   Proud.
amelia		Have I told you what a perfect job ou did on the peonies? They're miraculous.
amelia		Sorry.
george		It's all right. You've been distracted lately. No spin on that.   If G anything, the tone is kind.
amelia		When are you leaving?
george		Thing is.     I'd like you to come. She stiffens only slightly.     Can he sense it?
amelia		I don't really see how I can.
george		I've talked to the promoters, they'll switch some lecture dates for us. Now he's looking at her profile.     Saddened, if not surprised, by what he sees.
amelia		Well, it's not just that. There's y work on the shuttle, we're at a critical stage, and...I've just started as Gene's consultant at the Aeronautics Branch... She knows he's watching.    Shakes her head.    Keeps on working.
george		Normally, I'd be worried about leaving you here alone. But I suppose that won't be a problem, will it? She stops now. Looks up at him.      If he wants a direct conversation, he can have it.
amelia		What are you trying to say?
george		I think I've just said it. A long held look.       Neither backing away.   Sadness on both sides. GEORGE  Is there anything you want to say? She sighs.       Her fingers reach out, rub his hand with affection.
amelia		I can't think of anything helpful. He nods.   Well, then.      Rises slowly... Walks back toward the house, his garden tools forgotten.          She stares after him.
eorge		I found something you'd written. Draws a breath.     Reads...
amelia		I suppose I thought.      It was too revealing. WIDEN ANGLE. Gene enters the room with a drink in his hand and sits down next to her, concerned by her obvious distress. AMELIA  I'm so glad you have it now.
gene		If you don't drink, why do you come o bars?
amelia		Must be the ambience.   And the nuts.
gene		What worries me is, in some of these bars the nuts are the ambience. Specially when they make a pass at you.
amelia		Any guy would have to be nuts to do that. I'm considerable trouble, if you haven't noticed.
gene		You keep advertising that, but I'm still waiting to see it. She looks down at her fingers as they shell.    Barely audible...
amelia		You'll see it.
gene		Well, here's your chance. I'm taking Gore to the conference in Bermuda. He wants you to come.
amelia		Gore, huh?
gene		Sure.   I'm completely indifferent.
amelia		I wish. Do you?
gene		That's a wonderful idea. Especially now. Something in the way he said that.
amelia		What's special about now?
gene		A good time for some positive press about you as a role model. Her eyes harden.   Whatever do you mean?
amelia		Not unless someone makes me.
gene		Well, someone should. Because they're all saying you took recklessly dangerous solo flights for no earthly purpose except publicity. Meaning, money. Dead.   Silence.     G
amelia		How thoughtless of me to be doing ll this in a society where no one else is interested in making money. Present company included. He's not afraid of her.
gene		Look, George had you taking money rom the sugar cartel for the Hawaii flight, the Mexican Government for theirs, he's selling commemorative stamps which you carried on the flights...
amelia		If this is about George, just say o. Because we made those calls, nd we includes me.
gene		I'm sorry I said it that way. This s actually about you, because I'm picking a fight, apparently a useless one, for the benefit of someone I care about.
amelia		And what's your point? Women are eld to some higher standard? Bankers and industrialists are ad- mired for succeeding, but women are just considered selfish and grasping? ENE  Of course they are.
amelia		Well, let's change that, shall we? r would you just prefer to adopt t, since groveling would be easier. Staring at each other.
gene		If you want to make money, my guess s that people viewing you as Lady Lindy, America's Sweetheart of the Skies, the wife/mother/daughter they all wished they had. Would be helpful.
amelia		Thanks for the tip.
gene		Thanks for not being defensive. Full beat.
amelia		Well, I'm an open-minded girl. And o prove it, I'm hereby resigning as your consultant at the S            Aeronautics Branch. he throws some money on the table for the drinks.  AMELIA  Next time you read the papers.      Try reading between the lines. Walks out.       Gene makes no move to follow.   He's said his piece.
amelia		I came to Washington today with the National Women's Party, to ask the President for his aid in passing the Lucretia Mott Amendment for equal rights. She waits for the press to quiet.
amelia		...including them wanting us to say darn instead of damn. Laughter.   The girl flushes a little, her point is a crucial one...
amelia		Don't. She meant that.      And no one is laughing now.
amelia		Trust me. Only a husband talks like that. In their laughter, she goes to the phone.      EVERYBODY hangs on every word of... AMELIA  Yes?  Yes. Yes... (hand over phone, to the
amelia		Are you going to tell me your surprise, or do I have to get physical?
george		Boy, that is the last thing I'd want. Well, then?
amelia		Except it would have to be an Electra, and they cost...
george		...$36,000. After a generous discount from Lockheed.
amelia		May as well be a billion.
george		...not to mention at least another 36 to get it modified and ready. She glances at him.      He looks awfully smug.
amelia		And your surprise is, you robbed a bank.
george		Actually.    A university. They stop.    What on earth...?
amelia		Think I could help? He looks in her eyes.
george		Nah. She grins.
amelia		Cat food.    A whole case.
amelia		As President Elliot has said, it would be a shining adventure, beckoning with new experiences. Making me more useful to the program here at Purdue. She looks into the eyes of each in turn...
gore		So you'd be the first one, right? ou always like that. First one?
amelia		Well, there's Magellan, 400 years go. Actually, he didn't make it. And he died. And he used a boat.
gore		So it's almost the same, except it's completely different.
amelia		Pretty much. He glowers at her.    She glowers back.
gene		There are men who say they flew around the world, but they didn't ly around all of it.
gore		Because at higher latitudes, it's short trip. At the North Pole, ou just spin in a circle and you've gone around the world.
amelia		So why are you asking? Just to show how smart you are?
gore		Pretty much.
amelia		No one's tried it.    You think I should? No answer.
gore		Okay.
amelia		Okay. Is she serious?       She seems to be.
gene		Ask her about the Pacific. The maximum range of the Electra is 4000 miles. And the closest land est of Honolulu is farther than that. Gore looks to her.       Well?
amelia		I'll have to refuel.
gore		Where?
amelia		In the air. One plane to another. The boy is staring at her now.       Staring.
gore		You're really going to do all this, aren't you?
amelia		Well, don't you think I can? A beat.
gore		I guess we'll find out.
amelia		Pretty much. HOLD on Gene.   He smiles at his kid...
gene		Go out to the car and get Sara. Ask if she'll take you for an ice cream. Okay? The boy knows he's being dismissed. Looks from his dad to Amelia, who steps forward to give him a hug and a kiss.
amelia		We'll play some cards before you leave. Okay, then. He waves. One more glance at dad, and Gore goes. Gene gestures for Amelia to come with him, away from the mechanics. What's up? But he's already walking to... ...a little folding table, off in a corner.     She follows. Sits. Well...?       G
ene		You can't refuel in the air. Just like that.
amelia		s that an opinion or an order? His rueful smile.
gene		The only good thing about losing our former relationship is I feel a little freer to tell you when you're being completely crazy.
amelia		Oh, I bet there are more advantages than just that. No one's backing down on this.
gene		You're not a good enough pilot to o mid-air refueling. You will not be able to control the Electra or that docking maneuver for that amount of time.
amelia		I've taken bigger risks.
gene		I've noticed. Don't be so proud of it. He reaches into a pocket. Pulls out a folded sheet of paper. It opens to reveal a MAP of the Pacific. A dot is CIRCLED in red.
amelia		It's your vacation home.
gene		We're colonizing it, because when the Japanese make their move, we're going to need a refueling strip there. She blinks.   The Japanese.
amelia		Hullo, Fred. It's good to meet you. She holds out her hand. He juggles the mugs, so he can shake it. Strong look in each other's eyes. Hands her a mug...
fred		I hear you like your coffee black.
amelia		This time of day, I like it with bacon and eggs. His slight grin.       A handsome guy.
fred		Be right back.
amelia		Over easy on the eggs.      Your job could depend on it. Silence between them.       Comfortable smiles.
fred		Are we sizing me up? And, of course, this is exactly what she's doing.
amelia		I'm told that mid-air refueling would be beyond my abilities.
fred		Maybe, maybe not. 20% it works. 0% you crash. 60% you don't get he fuel, so you're cooked anyway.
amelia		Better odds of hitting that island?
red		How do you feel about 100%? Watching his eyes as he says that.    Evaluating.
amelia		Even with cloud cover?
fred		I've crossed the Pacific by air 18 times. Pan Am told you I'm the best celestial navigator they've ever seen.
amelia		They did.
fred		Someone else told you I have a drinking problem. Which is a big art of why we're here, yes? No answer.
amelia		My dad drank. He lied all the time. Rest his soul.
fred		You trusted Bill Stultz. That worked out. Rest his soul.
amelia		Bill just had to find Europe. We're looking for something less than two miles long, with nothing higher on it than 18 feet. He shakes his head.
fred		That's what you're looking for. I'm looking for coordinates on a map. And if it doesn't work... He spreads his large hands...
amelia		Did I pressure the navy to build a landing strip at Howland Island? How exactly would I do that? L         Threaten not to enlist? aughter in the room.   More flashes.
george		Wait a minute, you're flying around the world? Don't you know a woman's place is in the home?? The press ROARS with laughter.
george		I begged to go. But it seems that between 185 pounds of husband and
amelia		Who am I to argue with `experts?' I'll just give you my plain old common-sense thinking on this... Pens come up, cameras jockey for position. This is what they're waiting for. She holds up one finger. First...
fred		Lovely. We've got so much fuel we can't possibly get off the ground. Much safer than flying.
amelia		Well, we need enough for a third pass at Howland. After you miss it the first couple times around. Ah.
fred		Good thinking. he runway lights go ON, and...
fred		Good reaction, cutting the switch. You saved our ass. She doesn't even hear, THROWING open the cockpit, WAVING to signal they're all right, we SMASH CUT TO...
george		Three weeks, she'll be good as new. It's a remarkable crew. The best
amelia		...the best that money can buy. I just can't believe I've done this o us. All the money wasted that's never coming back.
george		You cut the engines. It would have cost a bundle more to replace a burned-up plane. Not to mention pilot. She shakes her head.    No.
amelia		I overreacted. The plane was too heavy, I should have used the rudder pedal instead of the throttle. Tears stand in her eyes. She is so ashamed and remorseful. He lets it stay silent as they walk. Then...
george		t's only money, we'll figure it out. We always do.
amelia		I'll make it back and more, I promise. The book sales, the lectures, this flight will keep us going another three years.
george		Maybe.   Or...
amelia		No, it will. Our prices, our sales, are going to double.
amelia		You mean after.
george		Or.     Even now. A strong smile.    He nods.     We could.
amelia		So my exit would be a stupid crash. nd withdrawing from a world- publicized attempt to finally do something no man had done before.
george		Yeh. That. And it would be fine ith me. Her eyes overwhelmed A his offer. by                  Her voice soft with...
melia		But that's because you're an idiot.
george		Lucky for you. A held beat.
amelia		And what if it's not something I have to show the world? Hmmn?
amelia		What if it's something I have to show me. He has no answer for that.       Takes her hand.   They head toward the house.
george		Have fun.
amelia		Who let you off the hook on this? She takes his hand firmly and together they cross the hangar toward Gene. He smiles, unfolds a third chair. As they arrive, Amelia steps forward... ...kisses Gene on the cheek.    George shakes his hand.
gene		Thanks for letting me come. As they sit, Gene looks from one to the other.
george		She'd outvote you all by herself. he does it to me every day. Gene's smile can't mask the concern in his eyes.
amelia		I don't have a choice. I have to reverse my route and fly east. If go west now, I'm risking hurricanes in the Caribbean and monsoons in Africa...
gene		But you're flying Howland last, when you're exhausted. She knows this.   In the silence...
eorge		Gene, this way our first leg is Oakland to Miami. It's a shakedown o make sure the plane is right. That's crucial. Gene nods, slowly.    His eyes still locked on her.
gene		Maybe I'm obsessing on Howland because it was my bright idea, and I'd feel responsible if...
amelia		Well, if I do pop off, I'll try to make it somewhere that's not your fault.
gene		I'd appreciate that. Draws a breath.
amelia		But I'll have Fred so I won't miss. In fact, I'm taking Fred along for this whole trip. Surprisingly, he doesn't seem to like this.   She smiles.
gene		You and Fred alone for a month...
amelia		If you're worried about his drinking, I'll deal with it. Straight look.
gene		How do you feel?
george		Tip-top. Every little girl needs a man around. Even strong girls like ours, hmmn? A very direct gaze.   Words neither said nor needed.
amelia		I'll be flying sky no one's ever been in. You made that happen. She looks down to his easy smile.
george		Hate to think where you'd be without me. She smiles back.       Tenderness we don't always see.
amelia		I'll try to make you proud.
george		You did that long, long ago. Only ne person left to prove yourself o. Just make sure you do it.
amelia		And then what?
george		Then the best part.    The future. She stares in his eyes.       Leans to him. AMELIA  Oh yeh.    That. She brings her hands to his face. Her mouth to his.      Deep. Longing. Her body sinks into him. LONG ANGLE.      Two alone.   Only each other.
amelia		If you'll fly the plane.   Make it twenty. And then...
george		We're saying he's cruel?
amelia		No.
george		Controlling?
amelia		Insecure.
george		Especially the mice.
amelia		Exactly. Each poor mouse thinks it's all about her. Staring at each other.
george		And one of them.    Is right. AMELIA  She knows. And then...
george		want you to give me something. He's never sounded quite like this before.
amelia		Don't you know I couldn't? Even if part of me wanted to. Very, very much. The look holds.
george		Well, I love you back.
amelia		Thanks. Takes a step back toward the hangar door. One hand slightly up, stay here. Then, the smile he's waited for.
amelia		That's more like it. She starts to TURN the plane around.
red		Black eagles. If one of those clips a propeller. Or flies into the engine... Her tired features form a smile.
amelia		've got an idea. Let's never land. Better safe than sorry. He takes her point.    She turns back to work...
fred		Cream, no sugar.
fred		Howland Island. He strikes a match. SNUFFS the flame. Puts the burned-out match head just by the scrap of cracker.
george		Mrs. Earhart? Mr. Earhart, here. He looks elegant in crisp suit and tie. INTERCUT: Amelia's eyes WIDE. She seems truly thrilled. INTERCUT BETWEEN THEM now throughout...
amelia		Oh, my goodness.   Simpkin, is it really you? George makes a PURRING sound.     A sharp MEOW.
george		It gets worse, I bought a brand-new suit and tie. Got a date with my wife.
amelia		We can't possibly afford this.
george		ure, we can. It's Tuesday's call o Lae that we can't afford. AMELIA  You hang up the phone this minute. You'll bankrupt us and I'll have to walk home.
george		easoning with me. A magnificent display of useless courage. Her eyes remember.    A soft...
amelia		..and it's fun. HOLD on her face.    And MATCH DISSOLVE TO...
fred		A touching love story, really. He's been drinking, we can hear it in his voice.   SEE the bottle now. Nearly gone.
amelia		An honest one. It's what you wanted. He nods.   That's right.
fred		I wonder if it's honest enough for George. If it's what he wanted. ou know.
amelia		If you mean Gene, we're not together anymore. In that way. Not for a long time.
fred		Whose choice was that? She doesn't like his tone.      Shifts in her seat.
amelia		It was mine.
fred		Well, isn't it always? You choose in, you choose out. Makes things easy.
amelia		Anything but easy. Are you disapproving of the way I live?
fred		Hell, no. It's just like me. In fact, it's like most guys I know. His smile.
melia		If you have a point, Fred.   Make it.
fred		Oh, I believe I have. She rises slowly. Zips her flight jacket.        Takes her slicker from the back of her chair.
amelia		Allow me to cut you a deal, my friend. Steel in the spine of that.
balfour		Ready, Mum. He stands and she takes his seat. He shows her the key to press, then steps back toward the window. But she makes no move to the radio. Just stares at him. He doesn't understand. AMELIA  Feel like stepping out for a smoke...?
balfour		I don't smoke.
amelia		...or something? Oh.   The monsoon beats down.
balfour		If you need help, I'll be right outside. In the rain.
amelia		Thank you.     I'll only be a moment.
eorge		You should be sleeping. He smiles to keep his voice up. The eyes aren't smiling.       We INTERCUT their conversation throughout...
amelia		You should be working.
george		I'm running a big adventure here, 'm a very important fellow.
amelia		You told me I was the star.   And you were no one at all. GEORGE  I thought I was lying. Guess the joke's on me. Silence.
amelia		I'm mad at him. I'll be in Honolulu on the 3rd, and with you in Oakland for Fourth of July. Okay?
george		Don't keep me waiting.
amelia		I won't dare. You're a very important feline. Uh, fellow.
george		Talk to me about Fred.
amelia		Fred is fine. He's calculating head-wind speed versus fuel as we speak. CLOSE on his face.
george		You wouldn't sell a salesman would you?
amelia		He's fine.
george		So what's that I hear in     your voice? A beat.
george		Is he drinking? AMELIA  I can handle it.
george		Call it off. Right now.      I mean it.
amelia		I can handle it. And then...
amelia		I love you. Silence.
george		After the Fourth.     We're going home.
amelia		Where's that?
george		For me?   Anywhere you are. She begins to cry. Both hands fly to her mouth and she looks away. She swallows hard.
amelia		I'm going to like it there. And then...
george		Well.    If you insist. She nods.   She does.
amelia		t's late here. Guess I'll go curl up under a teacup.
george		I'll go tell the world you're on your way. Neither wants to let go.      We feel it so strong. GEORGE  See ya. And he's gone.      She stares at the radio.
fred		You're finding the range. But it might be easier to just shoot me. She stares at him for a moment.       A subdued voice...
amelia		Traveling light, that's all. She sits on the lip of the hatch.       Her legs dangling.   Her eyes down.
fred		Got room for 190 pounds of asshole? No answer.       She's still looking down.   He's never seen her like this.
amelia		It's fine. Her eyes come up.
fred		I can run into town before we go. et that in the post for you. She shakes her head slowly.
amelia		It's for my husband. I'm going to hand it to him. So I can watch his face as he reads it. She sniffles slightly.
george		ire back. Tell him to forget the Morse Code. They didn't bring the receiver. The young man looks concerned.
cipriani		The direction finder.   How long has this been on? The seaman turns back at the door.   What?
bellarts		That's her on 3105. She said `cloudy and overcast.' O'Hare looks at him. Are you serious? Bellarts mimes typing with his fingers. O'Hare starts typing into the log.
bellarts		Commander estimated 7:00. If she's having trouble on voice transmission, stay with Morse. And begins to carefully pack his pipe.      Dalten begins to transmit Morse Code. DISSOLVE TO...
dalten		She's got to stay on longer. Bellarts dictating as O'Hare types...
bellarts		Earhart signal strength 4, but on
bellarts		Tommy, intercom top deck, double check the smoke stack... INTERCUT: AERIAL ANGLE high above the ship.       BLACK SMOKE PLUMES into clear sky...
thompson		You've got her signal, dammit. What about the direction finder?
bellarts		Cipriani reports the battery's dead, sir. It was left on all night. Full beat. THOMPSON  I don't believe this is happening.
****Dialogues from script :American.txt****

ingrid		What are you looking for?
jack		Nothing.
ingrid		There are no wolves in the woods so close to the city.
ingrid		Snow-hare.
ingrid		A hunter?
ingrid		You have a gun.
ingrid		You have a gun! How do you have a gun? Why should you carry such a weapon?
ingrid		Jack?
ingrid		Jack talk to me!
ingrid		Who is he?
jack		A hunter.
ingrid		He's not dressed like a hunter. Why is he alone? Hunters always go in pairs. For safety.
jack		Go for help. Call the police.
jack		Blending in?
larry		Jack. What brings you to Rome?
jack		I closed the Stockholm account.
jack		But there were complications.
jack		Collateral damage. Two shooters. Unidentified. [A beat] And a girl.
larry		There's a bar across the street: the L'Aquila. Freshen up. Sit tight. Give me two hours.
larry		 You started smoking again?
jack		Guess so.
larry		Since when?
jack		Since now.
waiter		Cafe?
larry		Due.
larry		Stockholm account. Final installment.
larry		You can't stay here, Jack. You won't see `em coming, not in a big city. But you can't go far, either. If the gentlemen whose accounts you closed belonged to Brink, Gallazzo, Simenov- any of the first division- you have four or five hours at most before every airport, train station, bus stop, toll booth and ski lift from Stockholm to Skopje is under surveillance.
jack		So.
larry		So. You find a hole- somewhere nearby- and you crawl into it and you stay put until I say it's safe to come out.
larry		Turn right outside the bar then second left. Via Spinetti. You'll find a silver Citroen C2 with Chieti plates. Check the glove box and follow the map. Castelvecchio. It's a fucking fortress. Literally. And as dead as a graveyard. Anyone within a three to five mile radius you'll see `em coming.
larry		Get there. Stay there.
larry		Do nothing `till you get my call.
jack		Buon giorno.
jack		America.
jack		Si. Il Americano.
jack		I'm no good with machines.
father benedetto		You are American.
jack		Si.
father benedetto		You speak Italian?
jack		Poco.
father benedetto		Va bene! You stay at Pensione Arbruzzo.
jack		Not for much longer.
father benedetto		On vacation?
jack		Working vacation.
father benedetto		Lavoro? Che genere de lavoro?
jack		Photographer.
father benedetto		Va bene. Che genere de fotografia?
jack		Pictures of the region. Architecture, landscapes...
father benedetto		People?
jack		No people. Sights and landmarks. For guidebooks, magazines...
father benedetto		Ah! Magazine! Which magazine?
jack		Actually it's a syndicate. Lots of different publications. Um... Casa editrice.
father benedetto		Va bene. So you must share a glass of wine with me. Questa sera. This evening.
jack		You're very kind, but I...
father benedetto		Certo. You want to know the truth about Abruzzo? A priest sees everything.
jack		Did I forget to mention my electromagnetic hypersensitivity?
jack		Who's the client?
jack		This is a small town, Larry. I don't like small towns. I grew up in one. Besides, I'm already attracting attention.
jack		I'll think about it.
father benedetto		Que siamo! The quality of the brandy is good, the liquor is smooth and the glass warmed by the sun.
father benedetto		 The only good thing to come from the Francesi, everything else...
father benedetto		The French are... pezzi di merda. This is not an American discovery. Italians have known this for centuries. [In ITALIAN] When Rome called France the province of Gaul, they were just the same. Arrogant sensualists. Their cuisine is fussy and their wine effeminate. Only their brandy is worthy of any attention.
father benedetto		 Forgive me. I speak too fast. You study our history?
jack		No.
father benedetto		You come to Italy to make a guide book and you don't care about history?
jack		I take pictures, father.
father benedetto		Of course. You are American. You think you can escape history. You live for the present.
jack		I try to, father.
jack		Un po' di formaggio, per favore.
old woman		Quale? Pecorino, parmigiano?
jack		Questo.
jack		E un po' di pecorino.
woman		Grazie.
jack		Prego. You're welcome.
woman		You're American.
jack		"Amidst gathering clouds".
woman		You're assuming I'm English or you'd never have mentioned the weather. In fact I'm Belgian but I went to boarding school in England. And am quite happy to converse on all subjects meteorological.
waiter		Buon giorno. Desidera?
woman		Una spremute di limone. Per favore.
waiter		Signore?
jack		Una gelata alla fragola. Per favore.
jack		Edward.
woman		Mathilde.
mathilde		It's hot. My car has no air conditioning. I asked for it, but...
jack		What car did they give you?
jack		Range?
mathilde		One fifty to one seven five meters.
jack		Time?
mathilde		Five seconds. Seven at the most.
jack		Targets?
mathilde		One.
jack		Fire rate?
mathilde		Rapid.
jack		Magazine capacity?
mathilde		Large. Preferably 9mm Parabellum.
mathilde		The weapon must be fairly light. And compact. Possible to be broken down into its constituent parts.
mathilde		As compact as possible.
jack		You want a submachine gun to fit in a lady's purse?
mathilde		A small vanity case would be permissible.
jack		A small briefcase would be possible.
jack		X-rays? Camouflage: lap-top, DVD player, MP3 or digital camera?
mathilde		Not necessary.
jack		Noise?
mathilde		Silencer.
jack		No such thing. You'll have to make do with a suppressor like everyone else. It'll dampen the decibels, dislocate the sound source and reduce muzzle flash. I can't make you silent but I can make you invisible as the Finnish phrase goes, but only as long as you're prepared to lose some range.
jack		Two o'clock.
mathilde		Excuse me?
jack		By the clothes stall. Light blue shirt, open at the neck, expensive buff suede shoes. Is he with you?
mathilde		I didn't see him. In any case, I'm alone.
mathilde		I can accept a slight loss of range.
jack		You want a weapon with the firing capacity of a submachine gun and the range of a rifle.
mathilde		Can you do it?
jack		Give me a month. To trial. Then a week for final adjustments.
jack		Buon giorno.
jack		Il fermo posta?
postmaster		Nome?
jack		Clarke.
postmaster		Clarky?
jack		Clarke. Una pacchetto.
postmaster		Pacchetto!
postmaster		Clarky, Clarky, Clarky. Ecco.
jack		Grazie.
postmaster		Identificazione.
italian girl		Amore?
jack		Your source in Rome.
jack		I hope you paid below the odds. The more you pay them the more cops gossip in the locker room.
jack		Yet.
father benedetto		All the sheep in my flock are dear to me, but some are dearer than most. Especially those that have strayed from the fold.
father benedetto		Fabio. He is a... [in ITALIAN] 'car doctor'. But I suspect his practice is not entirely sound. Ecco!
father benedetto		Fagiano. Pheasant. With sauce of orange juice, orange peel, chestnuts, garlic, Marsala wine and... Come si dici in Inglese? Brodo di Pollo. Chicken broth.
father benedetto		Also: salsify in garlic butter. Mange-tout. Fried wild mushrooms with truffle.
jack		Sinful.
father benedetto		The Holy Father eats better than this.
jack		Have you ever wanted to be anything other than a priest?
father benedetto		Have you ever wanted to be anything other than a... come se dice in Inglese...?
jack		Photographer?
father benedetto		Photographer.
jack		I do what I'm good at.
father benedetto		I'm sure you have other talents. You have the hands of a craftsman, not an artist. You are good with machines. Yet you told me just the opposite when we first met.
father benedetto		Journalism cannot make you a rich man.
jack		No.
father benedetto		Perhaps you are rich already?
jack		I'm not a young man. I have my savings.
father benedetto		 My meagre income is subject to the vagaries of the stock market and with church attendance declining there's less and less money in the offertory. But if a man has God in his vaults...
jack		I don't think God is interested in me. Father.
father benedetto		 I know better than to try to make a convert over pheasant and Trebbiano.
jack		What are the snakes for, father?
father benedetto		"The grave soul keeps its own secrets, and takes its own punishment in silence."
jack		Sono un amico di Padre Benedetto.
fabio		L'Americano?
jack		Buon giorno.
jack		I'm taking pictures forty minutes north of here. Right up in the mountains. Father Benedetto said you might be able to help.
fabio		 You need models. For your photographs? Italian girls?
jack		My publisher wouldn't stretch to a four by four and the park trails are playing havoc with my chassis.
fabio		 Want me to take a look?
jack		Not really. I just need something to work on a ruptured driveshaft.
fabio		 You're a mechanic?
jack		Just a hobby. I tinker.
fabio		 Help yourself. [In ENGLISH] My garage is your garage.
jack		I appreciate that.
jack		Bene?
fabio		Si! Si! Va bene!
jack		Quant'e?
fabio		Niente!
jack		Ciao. Grazie.
fabio		Ciao, Americano!
jack		E Clara qui? [Is Clara here?]
second girl		Non e stasera qui. [She's not here tonight.]
second girl		Volete una bevanda? [Would you like a drink?]
jack		Forse un altro tempo. [Perhaps another time.]
jack		I've got company.
jack		If he's not baby-sitting the Belgian contract then he's either a Joe, a cop or a shooter. He's not with The Company, they're fast: it's been three days and no TA. He's not intel: they're deep background and he wants to be noticed. He might be a cowboy but he can't be a cop: they work in pairs and he's alone. Strike Guarda di Finanza, State Police and NOCS: he's not Italian- he doesn't look like one, dress like one or behave like one. So who the hell is he?
jack		Larry?
jack		What's he waiting for?
jack		I can handle it.
jack		It's a bad line.
jack		Yes?
mathilde		Mr. Clarke. How good to see you again.
mathilde		Refreshments?
jack		The Carabinieri around here like roadblocks. It's cover.
mathilde		You picked a beautiful spot.
mathilde		You would be hard pressed to make a fast get away in this.
mathilde		I would have thought you to have had at least an Alfa Romeo.
jack		This attracts less attention.
mathilde		Is it far?
jack		Fifty minutes.
mathilde		Up there?
mathilde		The train was tiring. One has to keep alert so much in cities.
jack		I'll wake you before the turn-off.
mathilde		Are we nearly there?
jack		The turn-off's up ahead.
mathilde		I told you I work alone.
jack		Just a precaution.
mathilde		Are those houses occupied?
jack		Derelict. I checked three days ago.
mathilde		We should check again.
jack		I'll check alone. There are adders the mountains. And vipers. Your shoes.
mathilde		I'll be careful.
mathilde		You have tested the gun here before?
jack		Yes.
mathilde		It's beautiful here.
mathilde		I wish everywhere could be this tranquil.
jack		You'd be out of a job.
mathilde		You don't like the peace?
jack		It's hard to like something you know nothing about.
mathilde		Rounds?
jack		I've made up two sorts.
jack		Thirty lead and thirty jacketed.
mathilde		I should like a hundred of each.
mathilde		And fifty explosive.
jack		Not a problem.
jack		Will mercury do?
mathilde		Mercury will do very nicely.
mathilde		I have made my own targets.
jack		Watch out for vipers.
mathilde		Muzzle velocity?
jack		At least three hundred and sixty miles per hour. That's including twenty off the top for the sound suppression.
mathilde		Socimi?
jack		Eight-two-one.
mathilde		I've not had one before.
jack		You'll find it easy. I've re- balanced it for the longer barrel. The fulcrum is two centimetres forward of the grip now. Which won't matter if you're firing- and I'm guessing you are- from a fixed position.
jack		No major recoil issues. You should be able to hold onto any target. Even the smallest.
mathilde		You've done a good job, Mr. Clarke. Thank you. Thank you very much.
jack		Good shot.
mathilde		Go to the stones and fire near me.
mathilde		Say...
mathilde		...into the bush with the yellow flowers. Two bursts. Five seconds apart.
mathilde		The sound suppression is superb. I couldn't place the direction of fire.
mathilde		I shall require the rounds and the weapon by the first of next month. In the meantime would you tighten the adjusting screws on the sight, they are too loose. And lengthen the stock by three centimetres. I also want a sixty round magazine.
jack		You'll upset the balance.
mathilde		I'm prepared to accept that.
jack		Then I'm happy to oblige.
mathilde		What about the a case?
jack		A briefcase. Samsonite. Standard pattern in black with combination locks. Is there a number you'd prefer?
mathilde		Eight-two-one.
jack		Eight-two-one.
mathilde		What do you want done with these?
jack		Throw them in the lake.
mathilde		How thoughtful.
mathilde		I don't know Italian wine.
jack		Aspirinio. Like Mosacata but frizzante.
jack		It wouldn't look right if the picnic wasn't touched.
mathilde		You chilled the wine. I thought...
jack		It had to be chilled. They're Italian cops.
mathilde		 You think of everything.
jack		I'm paid to. Don't move.
mathilde		Wow.
mathilde		It's so beautiful.
jack		Parnassius apollo. It's endangered.
mathilde		You like coming here.
jack		It serves its purpose.
mathilde		You've never taken a woman here before?
jack		No.
mathilde		 Perhaps you do not have a woman in your life. It is not easy for us to keep relationships. Not in our world.
jack		I have an acquaintance.
mathilde		Friendships are transitory. It is...
jack		Wild boar.
mathilde		I wish you hadn't brought me here.
mathilde		This is the sort of place I wish I'd discovered by myself. Then maybe one day I could have retired here. But you already know it.
jack		I'm much older than you. By the time you've retired I'll be dead.
mathilde		We will meet as before?
mathilde		On the first of next month?
mathilde		Around noon?
mathilde		Thank you for a lovely day. Mr. Butterfly.
mathilde		You must take your mistress to the meadow for a picnic.
barman		Sergio Leone. Italiano.
barman		 You like cow boy movie?
jack		Hokey.
clara		Morboso?
clara		 Morboso.
jack		Morboso?
clara		Morboso is like... when you can't stop thinking about something.
clara		Or someone.
jack		You needn't act.
clara		Act?
jack		You might have to act with your other clients but you don't have to pretend anything at all with me.
jack		I want you to be yourself with me. Be as indifferent as you like. I came here to get pleasure, not to give it.
clara		Maybe I pretend very well. I got more tip than the other girls usually get.
jack		I don't sleep with the other girls.
father benedetto		I've been looking for you.
father benedetto		A man was here asking questions about you.
jack		Here?
father benedetto		He came to the church this afternoon.
jack		What did he want?
father benedetto		To know where you live. He said he was a friend from Switzerland.
jack		Switzerland?
jack		And you told him?
father benedetto		Of course I do not tell him. How do I know him? He is maybe the police. Certainly he is no friend. A friend would know your pensione. Besides...
father benedetto		Friends do not carry guns.
father benedetto		If you live in Italy, and you are a man of the cloth, you meet many people. Besides, I lived once in Naples. If you live in Naples you know the difference between a fat wallet and a... custodia per armi di spalla. How you say in English?
jack		Shoulder holster.
father benedetto		Si.
jack		You're a true friend, father.
father benedetto		I am a priest.
father benedetto		Signor Clarke?
father benedetto		I make a mistake. He did not say he was from La Svizzera: Switzerland. He said- forgive me the names in Italian are so similar- La Svezia: Sweden.
barman		 Someone left this for "L'Americano". This afternoon.
jack		Grazie.
clara		Buon giorno!
jack		Buon giorno.
clara		You are hurt?
jack		I'm fine.
clara		What's wrong with you?
jack		It's nothing really. Just a broken rib. Un costollo rotta?
clara		Stronzo! Let me help you!
jack		I came off my bike.
clara		But you have to go to the hospital!
jack		No, no, no. I have pain killers. I just need a strong cup of coffee.
clara		I know a place which make the strongest coffee in L'Aquila.
clara		Ve bene. Tutto posto. Signor Farfalla. [Good. Everything's OK. Mr. Butterfly.]
jack		Why d'you call me that?
clara		You have a tattoo. On your back.
jack		How did he know I was here, Larry?
jack		I doubt it.
clara		My friend Anna. This is my friend Signor Farfalla.
jack		How do you do?
anna		I am very well thank you.
jack		Will you take a coffee with me?
clara		That would be very good.
jack		Prego.
clara		Anna is learning English.
jack		Have you been to England?
anna		But you are...
anna		Lui Americano?
jack		I am.
anna		Ah. I have not been to England only to France. But I would love to go to America.
jack		Due cappuccini e un cafe corretto.
clara		Anna is like all Italians. She thinks America is like in the movies. Little Italy, "West Side Story", "Chicago". 
jack		If not with gold, than at least not with enough medieval cobbles to loosen every-self tapping screw in a Fiat.
jack		Where do you come from, Anna?
jack		Dove abita?
anna		Ah, yes! I live in Via dell' Argilla. Nearby to Clara.
clara		Perhaps we will have a drink together soon? I am free...
clara		...on Monday.
jack		Great. I'll see you then.
clara		But Eduardo... Where would you like to meet?
jack		How about our usual place?
clara		Our usual place?
clara		I forgot. Where is our usual place?
jack		You've forgotten?
clara		Remind me.
jack		Maybe we should try something different.
clara		Where would you like to try, Eduardo?
jack		Locanda Grapelli?
clara		Locanda Grapelli! Si!
anna		This is the best food in the area.
jack		Good.
clara		Seven?
jack		Seven.
clara		Locanda Grapelli.
jack		Locanda Grapelli.
clara		You'll be there?
jack		I'll be there.
clara		See you then, Eduardo.
jack		See you then, Clara. It was a delight to meet you Anna. Arrivederci.
anna		Arrivederci, Signor Farfalla.
father benedetto		Buon giorno!
father benedetto		I walk here to meditate. Once a week, Wednesday, the farthest one can travel in the week from the Sabbath. The trees are like the Stations of the Cross: by certain trees I thank God for certain favours he has granted me, or certain gifts he has made to me and all men. For example, here by this pine, I thank him for the many friendships I have and ask him to look after those of my friends who are troubled.
father benedetto		Some walk here in the cool of evening. Others come at night.
father benedetto		I wonder how many bastards have been made here?
father benedetto		Perhaps you'll stay and settle here yourself?
jack		What makes you think I'm leaving?
father benedetto		You told me as much when we first met. Besides, those who seek for peace seldom find it. They're always moving on, looking elsewhere. [A BEAT] And they are usually sinners.
jack		All men are sinners.
father benedetto		Some are greater sinners than others. And those who seek peace have much sinning in their history.
jack		I don't seek peace. I never have.
father benedetto		Until now.
jack		Perhaps. Perhaps I'll stay. The valley. The villages. The mountains.
father benedetto		Forgive me. This is the priest in me speaking. And the friend. But you have done much sinning, Signor Clarke. You still do.
jack		I see a whore. She's young enough to be my daughter.
father benedetto		I do not refer to the sins of carnality. But to the deadly sins...
jack		Aren't all sins equal?
father benedetto		We are not discussing theology, my friend, but you. You like this town, this valley. 
father benedetto		You want to speak but you dare not. You know no one sufficiently well to share your history with them. You know I am trustworthy yet still you are cautious.
father benedetto		What job do you do, Signor? Are you on the run, as they say?
jack		Who says?
father benedetto		It's an expression, no?
jack		Everyone's on the run from something.
father benedetto		Some men watch some of the shadows. You watch them all.
jack		I've done nothing I didn't have good cause to do.
father benedetto		Do you wish to tell me?
jack		For what reason?
father benedetto		For your own sake. Perhaps I can pray for you?
jack		I make things. Artifacts.
father benedetto		Counterfeit money?
jack		Why do you say that?
father benedetto		You work in metal. You are given some steel by Fabio, the car doctor.
jack		You know a lot about me.
father benedetto		I know only what you do in the town. People talk to me. I am their priest and they trust me.
jack		And I should too?
father benedetto		Of course.
jack		Fabio. The `car doctor'. Was he conceived here father?
father benedetto		Why do you ask me that?
jack		He looks like you. Even more than he does in the photos you keep of each other. Where was he conceived, father? Under one of these trees? At night? Like all the other bastards?
father benedetto		I do not remember, Signor. It was twenty-five years ago.
father benedetto		In the end it is I who confesses to you.
jack		Expecting me to reciprocate?
father benedetto		Perhaps. For your own good. You cannot doubt the existence of Hell. You live in it. It is a place without love. As for me, I go about my daily duties because the town requires it of me. Some know what you know. Perhaps I have no right to wear these robes. But I do have a heart full of a father's love. Something close to His heart! And for that I am both grateful and happy.
father benedetto		What do you have, my friend?
clara		I did not think you would come.
jack		I wasn't sure you meant me to.
clara		Certo.
waiter		Per due?
clara		Si.
clara		Una botiglia di acqua minerale non gasata et... una Parasini, per favore.
waiter		Menu in Inglese?
jack		No, grazie.
waiter		Tedesco? Olandese?
clara		 He speaks Italian. So do I. Listen:
clara		Una botiglia di acqua minerale et una Parasini, per favore.
waiter		Gasata?
clara		Non gasata.
clara		 Cittadina.
jack		Small towns.
clara		Parasini. From Calabria. It is good, you will agree?
jack		It is. Very good.
clara		Can I ask you something, Eduardo?
jack		Sure.
clara		You are married?
jack		No.
jack		I doubt any of the couples here are. With the exception of the Germans at table seven. She's wearing a wedding ring and they haven't spoken a word to each other for eight and half minutes.
clara		I was sure this was your secret.
jack		What makes you think I have a secret? I'm an ordinary man. I cough. I fart. I earn a living.
clara		I do not think you are an ordinary man. I think you are a good man. But you have a secret.
clara		He thinks we are a couple.
jack		Why spoil the illusion?
clara		 As long as we know it is an illusion.
waiter		Buona sera. Desidera?
clara		Woooow!
jack		How is it?
clara		Bitchin'.
jack		 Bitchin'?
clara		It's- come se dice- `slang', no? Eco.
jack		No thanks.
clara		Come on, Eduardo!
clara		It is good, you will agree?
jack		 I will agree.
clara		 My English is nice!
jack		It's bitchin'.
clara		 You know how to swear in Italian?
jack		Sure. Bastardo. Imbecile.
clara		"Imbecile?" Eduardo! Try: Mangia merde e morte: tuo cazzo un brufolo.
jack		Eat shit and die, pimple dick?
clara		Perdone!
jack		I guess I've led a sheltered life. Of sorts.
clara		Shell-tered?
jack		Too much work.
clara		Too much work.
clara		I don't apologise, Eduardo.
jack		For what?
clara		For this I do. My job.
jack		Never apologise.
clara		Except this job is full of testa di cazzo.
jack		Mine too.
clara		Lei?
jack		Si.
clara		But you are too young to... pensione?
jack		Retire.
clara		Si.
jack		Liar.
clara		No!
jack		Would you be flattering me if I wasn't a client?
jack		Am I a client?
clara		This say yes.
clara		This...
clara		This cannot be for sale. But I am not want to... come se dice?
jack		Give it away.
clara		Stronzo! I buy you a present!
jack		Grazie.
jack		Grazie, Clara.
clara		Prego. Eduardo.
clara		My apartment is not far from here.
jack		Where?
jack		I don't deliver, Larry. I never deliver. It's too dangerous. She comes to me. I know the town. That's what we agreed.
jack		Breach? What breach?
larry		Our pretty young Belgian client and her associates think someone on your long list of enemies might have put a tail on you.
larry		Course not, Jack. But if, for the sake of argument, it was possible- I'm thinking it could be Galazzo. Or Simenov. Or Italian undercover.
larry		The crooked kind.
larry		The Belgians think they're planning to wait for the drop and exterminate you and Mathilde in one swoop.
larry		I'm fucked if I know, Jack. If you want my opinion, they're just being jittery. I told `em you were the most security conscious professional I know. I told `em no one gets close to you.
jack		They don't.
jack		They can. They can trust me and so can you.
jack		I've never jeopardised an operation in my life.
larry		Jack? [A BEAT] Jack? I'm sorry.
larry		That was, um.... I'm just saying you can be relied on.
larry		Jack?
clara		Ciao, Eduardo!
jack		Put them in the back. We've got a way to go.
clara		Where we go?
jack		Swimming.
clara		How far do we go? To Fanale?
jack		An hour. And we're not going to the sea, we're going to the lakes. In the mountains.
clara		For a... come se dice... you have in the back...
jack		A picnic.
clara		A pick-nick! We are going for a pick-nick. Just the two of us.
clara		I have practise my English, Eduardo. I love to have pick-nick. It is a beautiful day, isn't it?
jack		It is.
clara		Is it more far?
jack		Ten kilometres. Another twenty minutes.
clara		Twelve kilometres? In twenty minutes?
jack		We're going off the beaten track.
jack		Lontano. Fuori mano.
clara		You will speak Italian. One day, I will teach you.
clara		Where are we going?
jack		You shall see.
clara		I think it is good we should stay close to the road.
jack		There's no need to worry. I've been here before several times. Taking photographs.
jack		You're not afraid of coming into the wild with me, are you?
clara		No!
clara		Of course I am not. Not with you. But this...
clara		...sentiero!
clara		You should have a jeep. A Toyota. It is not good for a... berlina.
jack		This is a Citroen!
jack		This was made by the French for taking potatoes to market. Besides, I always come here in this car.
clara		You sure?
jack		Of course. I don't want to walk back to town any more than you do.
clara		I think you are crazy. This will go to nowhere.
jack		I assure you it does.
clara		Now there is no road!
clara		Is this where we go?
jack		No. Not quite. We go another hundred metres, through the wood. But from here we just roll forward. No motor. No sound. And you'll see a wonder.
jack		You won't need to hold on. I'll go slowly. Just relax and look.
clara		No one comes here?
jack		No.
clara		Just you.
jack		Yes.
clara		Well?
clara		I am going to swim in the lake. Are you coming?
jack		There are vipers! Vipera! Marasso!
clara		Maybe! But I am lucky!
clara		 He is an Italian bird! We disturb his siesta!
clara		Come, Signor Farfalla!
clara		Come!
clara		Stand by me.
clara		Keep still. Watch.
jack		If we stay here for a year, they'll devour us.
clara		It is said that if these fishes bite at two hands holding, then love is good for the people.
jack		Maybe we should...
clara		Do you make love in the water?
jack		I haven't.
clara		What's wrong?
jack		Let's eat.
clara		Eduardo.
clara		Is this your real name?
jack		Is Clara yours?
clara		Si. Yes.
jack		Edward is my real name.
clara		Ed-ward.
clara		You are sure you are not married, Eduardo?
jack		Quite sure.
clara		Will you put this on my back?
clara		Eduardo?
clara		Amore?
clara		Eduardo, what's wrong?
jack		Nothing.
clara		Grazie, Eduardo.
jack		I still don't understand. What's the point of a gun if it's not loaded?
clara		One of the girls borrow it to me after the second hooker in Chieti is murdered. With some of the clients it make me feel safe. I don't tell the police, of course, but... Madonna, Eduardo. How they do to these two women! A police agente from Rome show me photographs. They show photographs to everyone in Via Lampedusa.
clara		Non capito... how one person hurt another in this way.
jack		Does the gun make you feel safer with me?
clara		You are not a client.
jack		Then why's it in your purse?
clara		I have to work tonight, amore.
clara		What will you do?
jack		I guess I'll go to work too.
clara		And after that? Tomorrow and the next day.
jack		I can't stay here forever.
clara		I want always to stay here.
jack		It's time to go home.
clara		Let me come to your home.
jack		I can't, Clara. One day...
clara		Stay forever here.
father benedetto		Ciao Fabio, come stai?
il postino		Bene grazie, Padre.
father benedetto		Dear Father Benedetto. I promised myself that I would write to you- as your friend- to say goodbye...
mathilde		Hello. I see you have brought it in from the car with you.
jack		All there, as agreed.
mathilde		What's in the paper bag?
jack		Sweets. For your journey.
jack		I guessed you'd have a sweet tooth.
mathilde		That is most thoughtful of you.
jack		I suppose I'll read about this in the Times or the International Herald Tribune. Or Il Maessagiero.
mathilde		Yes, I expect so.
mathilde		I'm just going to the ladies. Wait here.
mathilde		Shall we go.
mathilde		You won't need your piece.
jack		You never know.
mathilde		OK?
jack		Sure. You?
mathilde		Everything's just fine.
mathilde		Final payment.
mathilde		Buy yourself a retirement clock.
jack		How do you know I'm retiring?
mathilde		Have you taken your girl up to the meadow yet?
mathilde		 Do it.
mathilde		Goodbye, Mr. Butterfly.
jack		CLARA!
larry		Not only did you not kill him, you gave him my fucking money?
mathilde		What else could I do? There were kids everywhere. Besides he's suspicious.
larry		He's paranoid. That's why I'm paying you the GDP of a small country to get close to him. You could have got him in the sack. You should have got him in the car park. Now you're going to have to take him out long range!
mathilde		I prefer it that way.
mathilde		The Socimi is the perfect weapon.
larry		Let's hope his workmanship is up to scratch.
larry		Sweden turned Jack into a liability. Three stiffs: two shooters and an innocent civilian. I can't afford a mistake like that again. Europol are crooked but they aren't cheap. Jack's supposed to make me money. Not run up cleaning bills.
mathilde		He made short work of the last guy you hired.
larry		Never mind Larson. He didn't stand a chance, not against someone as paranoid as Jack. The Swede was only there to take Jack's heat off you. So don't fuck this up again.
larry		Mind if I help myself?
larry		Shit.
larry		Is there any actual candy in this gas guzzler?
jack		When can I see you?
clara		I have to work tonight.
clara		You come to my apartment after.
jack		If I asked you would you come away with me?
clara		Come away with you?
jack		Why not?
clara		Together?
jack		Together.
clara		Where?
jack		Wherever. Then when we're through, we could come back here. For good.
clara		To live?
jack		Where else?
clara		Forever?
jack		Forever.
jack		Unless you have other plans.
clara		Other plans?
clara		I love you, Signor Eduardo Farfalla.
jack		I...
clara		What's happening?
jack		Someone got what was coming to them.
jack		Go to your apartment and pack. Wait `till I get there. Don't answer the door to anyone but me.
clara		Eduardo, please?
jack		Trust me.
clara		I trust you.
jack		Clara. My name is not Eduardo.
clara		No?
jack		My name is Jack.
clara		Jack.
clara		You promise you're not married?
jack		I promise. Take this.
jack		Look after it. In case.
clara		 In case?
jack		Now go.
larry		You're too old for this life, Jack.
larry		You get sentimental then you fuck things up.
jack		What will you tell them?
father benedetto		I will them that the man who wrote this letter is my friend.
father benedetto		Jack.
****Dialogues from script :American_Beauty.txt****

jane		I need a father who's a role model, not some horny geek-boy who's gonna spray his shorts whenever I bring a girlfriend home from school.  What a lame-o. Somebody really should put him out of his misery.
jane		 Yeah, would you?
carolyn		Good morning, Jim!
carolyn		 I just love your tie! That color!
carolyn		Well, I'll tell you. Egg shells and Miracle Grow.
carolyn		Jane. Honey. Are you trying to look unattractive?
jane		Yes.
carolyn		Well, congratulations. You've succeeded admirably.
carolyn		Lester, could you make me a little later, please? Because I'm not quite late enough.
jane		Nice going, Dad.
lester		Hello, this is Lester Burnham from Media Monthly magazine, I'm calling for Mr. Tamblin, please?... Well, we're all under a deadline here, uh, but you see, there is some basic information about the product launch that isn't even covered in your press release and I... Yeah. Can I ask you a question? Who is Tamblin? Does he exist? 'Cause he doesn't ever seem to come in... Yeah, okay, I'll leave my number...
brad		Hey Les. You got a minute?
lester		For you, Brad? I've got five.
brad		I'm sure you can understand our need to cut corners around here.
lester		Oh, sure. Times are tight, and you gotta free up cash. Gotta spend money to make money. Right?
brad		Exactly. So...
lester		 Like the time when Mr. Flournoy used the company MasterCard to pay for that hooker, and then she used the card numbers and stayed at the St. Regis for, what was it, like, three months?
brad		 That's unsubstantiated gossip.
lester		That's fifty thousand dollars. That's somebody's salary. That's somebody who's gonna get fired because Craig has to pay women to fuck him!
brad		Jesus. Calm down. Nobody's getting fired yet. That's why we're having everyone write out a job description, mapping out in detail how they contribute. That way, management can assess who's valuable and--
lester		Who's expendable.
brad		It's just business.
lester		 I've been writing for this magazine for fourteen years, Brad. You've been here how long, a whole month?
brad		 I'm one of the good guys, Les. I'm trying to level with you. This is your one chance to save your job.
carolyn		--there is no decision, you just write the damn thing!
lester		You don't think it's weird and kinda fascist?
carolyn		Possibly. But you don't want to be unemployed.
lester		Oh, well, let's just all sell our souls and work for Satan, because it's more convenient that way.
carolyn		Could you be just a little bit more dramatic, please, huh?
carolyn		So we've finally got new neighbors. You know, if the Lomans had let me represent them, instead of--  --"The Real Estate King," that house would never have sat on the market for six months.
lester		Well, they were still mad at you for cutting down their sycamore.
carolyn		Their sycamore? C'mon! A substantial portion of the root structure was on our property. You know that. How can you call it their sycamore? I wouldn't have the heart to just cut down something if it wasn't partially mine, which of course it was.
jane		Mom, do we always have to listen to this elevator music?
carolyn		 No. No, we don't. As soon as you've prepared a nutritious yet savory meal that I'm about to eat, you can listen to whatever you like.
lester		So Janie, how was school?
jane		 It was okay.
lester		Just okay?
jane		No, Dad. It was spec-tac-ular.
lester		Well, you want to know how things went at my job today?
lester		They've hired this efficiency expert, this really friendly guy named Brad, how perfect is that? And he's basically there to make it seem like they're justified in firing somebody, because they couldn't just come right out and say that, could they? No, no, that would be too... honest. And so they've asked us--  --you couldn't possibly care any less, could you?
jane		 Well, what do you expect? You can't all of a sudden be my best friend, just because you had a bad day.
jane		I mean, hello. You've barely even spoken to me for months.
lester		Oh, what, you're mother-of-the-year? You treat her like an employee.
carolyn		 What?!
carolyn		 What?
lester		I'm going to get some ice cream.
lester		Honey, I'm sorry. I...
lester		I'm sorry I haven't been more available, I just... I'm...
lester		 You know, you don't always have to wait for me to come to you...
jane		Oh, great. So now it's my fault?
lester		I didn't say that. It's nobody's fault. Janie, what happened? You and I used to be pals.
carolyn		I will sell this house today.
carolyn		I will sell this house today. I will sell this house today. I will sell this house today.
carolyn		I will sell this house today.
carolyn		Welcome. I'm Carolyn Burnham!
carolyn		This living room is very dramatic. Wait 'til you see the native stone fireplace!
carolyn		A simple cream would really lighten things up. You could even put in a skylight.
carolyn		Well, why don't we go into the kitchen?
carolyn		It's a dream come true for any cook. Just filled with positive energy. Huh?
carolyn		...and you'll be surprised how much a ceiling fan can cut down on your energy costs.
carolyn		You know, you could have some really fun backyard get-togethers out here.
carolyn		 What do you call this? Is this not a plant? If you have a problem with the plants, I can always call my landscape architect. Solved.
carolyn		I have some tiki torches in the garage.
carolyn		Shut up. Stop it. You... Weak!
carolyn		Weak. Baby. Shut up. Shut up! Shut up!
angela		Who are you looking for?
jane		My parents are coming tonight. They're trying to, you know, take an active interest in me.
angela		Gross. I hate it when my mom does that.
jane		They're such assholes. Why can't they just have their own lives?
lester		What makes you so sure she wants us to be there? Did she ask us to come?
carolyn		Of course not. She doesn't want us to know how important this is to her. But she's been practicing her steps for weeks.
lester		Well, I bet money she's going to resent it. And I'm missing the James Bond marathon on TNT.
carolyn		Lester, this is important. I'm sensing a real distance growing between you and Jane.
lester		Growing? She hates me.
carolyn		She's just willful.
lester		She hates you too.
announcer		 And now, for your half-time entertainment, Rockwell High's award- winning Dancing Spartanettes!
lester		We can leave right after this, right?
jane		Oh shit, they're still here.
lester		Janie!
carolyn		Hi! I really enjoyed that!
lester		Congratulations, honey, you were great.
jane		I didn't win anything.
lester		 Hi, I'm Lester. Janie's dad.
angela		Oh. Hi.
jane		This is my friend, Angela Hayes.
lester		Okay, good to meet you. You were also good tonight. Very... precise.
angela		 Thanks.
carolyn		 Okay, we have to go.
lester		So, what are you girls doing now?
jane		Dad.
angela		We're going out for pizza.
lester		Oh really, do you need a ride? We can give you a ride. I have a car. You wanna come with us?
angela		Thanks... but I have a car.
lester		Oh, you have a car. Oh. That's great! That's great, because Janie's thinking about getting a car soon too, aren't you, honey?
jane		 Dad. Mom's waiting for you.
lester		Well, it was very nice meeting you, Angela. Any, uh, friend of Janie's is a friend of mine.
lester		Well... I'll be seeing you around then.
jane		Could he be any more pathetic?
angela		I think it's sweet. And I think he and your mother have not had sex in a long time.
lester		It's the weirdest thing.
lester		I feel like I've been in a coma for about twenty years, and I'm just now waking up.
lester		Spec-tac-ular.
jane		I'm sorry my dad was so weird tonight.
angela		It's okay. I'm used to guys drooling over me. It started when I was about twelve, I'd go out to dinner with my parents. Every Thursday night, Red Lobster. And every guy there would stare at me when I walked in. And I knew what they were thinking. Just like I knew guys at school thought about me when they jerked off.
jane		Vomit.
angela		No, I liked it. And I still like it. If people I don't even know look at me and want to fuck me, it means I really have a shot at being a model. Which is great, because there's nothing worse in life than being ordinary.
jane		I really think it'll happen for you.
angela		Oh, I know. Because everything that was meant to happen, does. Eventually.
jane		Asshole.
angela		 Hello? Hello?
jane		Hello?
angela		Why'd you call me?
jane		I didn't.
angela		Well, my phone just rang and I answered it and somebody hung up and then I star sixty-nined and it called you back.
jane		I was in the shower.
jane		Oh, gross.
ricky		Be right there.
ricky		Mom.
barbara		Hello.
ricky		I don't eat bacon, remember?
barbara		 I'm sorry, I must have forgotten.
ricky		What's new in the world, Dad?
colonel		This country is going straight to hell.
colonel		Are you expecting anyone?
barbara		No.  No.
colonel		 Colonel Frank Fitts, U.S. Marine Corps.
colonel		Let's cut to the chase, okay? What are you guys selling?
colonel		Yeah, yeah, yeah. But you said you're partners. So what's your business?
colonel		How come these faggots always have to rub it in your face? How can they be so shameless?
ricky		That's the whole thing, Dad. They don't feel like it's anything to be ashamed of.
colonel		Well, it is.
ricky		Yeah, you're right.
colonel		Don't placate me like I'm your mother, boy.
ricky		Forgive me, sir, for speaking so bluntly, but those fags make me want to puke my fucking guts out.
colonel		Me too, son. Me too.
angela		I'm serious, he just pulled down his pants and yanked it out. You know, like, say hello to Mr. Happy.
angela		It wasn't gross. It was kind of cool.
angela		Of course I did. He is a really well- known photographer? He shoots for Elle on like, a regular basis? It would have been so majorly stupid of me to turn him down.
angela		Hey. That's how things really are. You just don't know, because you're this pampered little suburban chick.
angela		 I am so sick of people taking their insecurities out on me.
jane		Oh my God. That's the pervert who filmed me last night.
angela		Him? Jane. No way. He's a total lunatic.
jane		You know him?
angela		Yeah. We were on the same lunch shift when I was in ninth grade, and he would always say the most random, weird things, and then one day, he was just like, gone. And then, Connie Cardullo told me he his parents had to put him in a mental institution.
jane		Why? What did he do?
angela		What do you mean?
jane		Well, they can't put you away just for saying weird things.
angela		You total slut. You've got a crush on him.
jane		What? Please.
angela		You were defending him! You love him. You want to have like, ten thousand of his babies.
jane		Shut up.
ricky		Hi. My name's Ricky. I just moved next door to you.
jane		I know. I kinda remember this really creepy incident when you were filming me last night?
ricky		I didn't mean to scare you. I just think you're interesting.
jane		Thanks, but I really don't need to have some psycho obsessing about me right now.
ricky		I'm not obsessing. I'm just curious.
angela		What a freak. And why does he dress like a Bible salesman?
jane		He's like, so confident. That can't be real.
angela		I don't believe him. I mean, he didn't even like, look at me once.
ricky		Hey.
barbara		 I'm sorry, what?
ricky		Mom. Nobody said anything.
barbara		Oh. I'm sorry.
carolyn		--everyone here is with their spouse or their significant other. How would it look if I showed up with no one?
lester		Well, you always end up ignoring me and going off--
carolyn		Now listen to me. This is an important business function. As you know, my business is selling an image. And part of my job is to live that image--
lester		Just say whatever you want to say and spare me the propaganda.
carolyn		 Listen, just do me a favor. Act happy tonight?
lester		 I am happy, honey.
carolyn		 Oh! Buddy!
carolyn		 Buddy! Buddy. Hi! Good to see you again.
buddy		It's so good to see you too, Catherine.
carolyn		Carolyn.
buddy		Carolyn! Of course. How are you?
carolyn		Very well, thank you.  Hello, Christy.
christy		Hello.
carolyn		My husband, Lester--
buddy		 It's a pleasure.
lester		Oh, we've met before, actually. This thing last year. Or the Christmas thing at the Sheraton.
buddy		Oh, yes.
lester		It's okay. I wouldn't remember me either.
carolyn		 Honey. Don't be weird.
lester		All right, honey. I won't be weird.  I'll be whatever you want me to be.
lester		We have a very healthy relationship.
buddy		I see.
lester		Well. I don't know about you, but I need a drink.
lester		Whoa. Put a little more in there, cowboy.
ricky		Excuse me. Don't you live on Robin Hood Trail? The house with the red door?
lester		 Yeah.
ricky		I'm Ricky Fitts. I just moved into the house next to you.
lester		Oh. Hi, Ricky Fitts. I'm Lester Burnham.
ricky		Hi, Lester Burnham.
ricky		Do you party?
lester		Excuse me?
ricky		Do you get high?
carolyn		You know, I probably wouldn't even tell you this if I weren't a little tipsy, but... I am in complete awe of you. I mean, your firm is, hands down, the Rolls Royce of local Real Estate firms, and your personal sales record is, is, is very intimidating. You know, I'd love to sit down with you and just pick your brain, if you'd ever be willing. I suppose, technically, I'm the "competition," but... I mean, hey, I don't flatter myself that I'm even in the same league as you...
buddy		I'd love to.
carolyn		 Really?
buddy		Absolutely. Call my secretary and have her schedule a lunch.
carolyn		I'll do that. Thank you.
lester		...did you ever see that movie, where the body's walking around holding its own head? And then the head goes down on that babe?
ricky		Re-Animator.
catering boss		 ...do whatever it is you're doing out here.
ricky		Fine. So don't pay me.
catering boss		Excuse me?
ricky		I quit. So you don't have to pay me. Now, leave me alone.
catering boss		Asshole.
lester		I think you just became my personal hero.  Doesn't that make you nervous, just quitting your job like that? Well, I guess when you're all of, what? Sixteen?
ricky		Eighteen.  I just do these gigs as a cover. I have other sources of income. But my dad interferes less in my life when I pretend to be an upstanding young citizen with a respectable job.
carolyn		What are you doing?
lester		Honey, this is...  Ricky Fitts. This is Ricky Fitts.
ricky		I'm Ricky Fitts, I just moved in the house next to you. I go to school with your daughter.
lester		With Jane? Really?
ricky		Yeah. Jane.
carolyn		Hi.  I'm ready to go. I'll meet you out front.
lester		Uh-oh. I'm in trouble. Nice meeting you, Ricky Fitts. Thanks for the, uh, thing.
ricky		Any time.
ricky		 Lester. If you want any more, you know where I live.
jane		Oh, shit. They're home. Quick, let's go up to my room.
angela		I should say hi to your dad.  I don't want to be rude.
angela		You're looking good, Mr. Burnham.
angela		Last time I saw you, you looked kind of wound up.  Ooh, is that root beer?
angela		I love root beer, don't you?
jane		Mom, you remember Angela.
carolyn		 Yes, of course!
jane		I forgot to tell you, she's spending the night. Is that okay?
lester		Sure!
jane		I'm sorry about my dad.
angela		Don't be. I think it's funny.
jane		Yeah, to you, he's just another guy who wants to jump your bones. But to me... he's just too embarrassing to live.
angela		Your mom's the one who's embarrassing. What a phony.
angela		Your dad's actually kind of cute.
jane		Shut up.
jane		Shut up.
angela		Oh, come on. Like you've never sneaked a peek at him in his underwear? I bet he's got a big dick.
jane		You are so grossing me out right now.
angela		 If he built up his chest and arms, I would totally fuck him.
jane		Yeah, it was the sound of you being a huge disgusting pig.
angela		I'm serious.
angela		See?
angela		 Oh my God. Jane.
angela		It's that psycho next door. Jane, what if he worships you? What if he's got a shrine with pictures of you surrounded by dead people's heads and stuff?
jane		Shit. I bet he's filming us right now.
angela		 Really?
lester		Shit. Shit!
ricky		Welcome to America's Weirdest Home Videos.
ricky		Coming, Dad.
ricky		I'm sorry, I must have locked it by accident. So what's up?
colonel		I need a urine sample.
ricky		Wow. It's been six months already. Can I give it to you in the morning? I just took a whiz.
colonel		Yeah, I suppose.  Well. Good night, son.
angela		I've been waiting for you.
angela		You've been working out, haven't you? I can tell.
angela		I was hoping you'd give me a bath... I'm very, very dirty.
carolyn		What are you doing?
lester		Nothing.
carolyn		You were masturbating.
lester		I was not.
carolyn		Yes, you were.
lester		All right, so shoot me. I was whacking off.
lester		That's right. I was choking the bishop. Shaving the carrot. Saying hi to my monster.
carolyn		That's disgusting.
lester		Well, excuse me, but I still have blood pumping through my veins!
carolyn		So do I!
lester		Really? I'm the only one who seems to be doing anything about it.
carolyn		Lester. I refuse to live like this. This is not a marriage.
lester		This hasn't been a marriage for years. But you were happy as long as I kept my mouth shut. Well, guess what? I've changed. And the new me whacks off when he feels horny, because you're obviously not going to help me out in that department.
carolyn		Oh. I see. You think you're the only one who's sexually frustrated?
lester		I'm not? Well then, come on, baby! I'm ready.
carolyn		 Do not mess with me, mister, or I will divorce you so fast it'll make your head spin!
lester		On what grounds? I'm not a drunk, I don't fuck other women, I don't mistreat you, I've never hit you, or even tried to touch you since you made it so abundantly clear just how unnecessary you consider me to be. But. I did support you while you got your license. And some people might think that entitles me to half of what's yours.
lester		Turn out the light when you come to bed, okay?
lester		It's a great thing when you realize you still have the ability to surprise yourself. Makes you wonder what else you can do that you've forgotten about.
lester		Hey! You guys!
lester		 Well, I just started.
lester		I figured you guys might be able to give me some pointers. I need to shape up. Fast.
lester		I want to look good naked.
colonel		What is this, the fucking gay pride parade?
lester		Hey! Yo! Ricky!  My entire life is passing before my eyes, and those two have barely broken a sweat.
lester		Sorry, hi. Lester Burnham, I live next door. We haven't met.
colonel		 COLONEL Frank Fitts, U.S. Marine Corps.
lester		Whoa. Welcome to the neighborhood, sir.
lester		So, Ricky, uh, I was thinking about the, uh... I was gonna... the movie we talked about...
ricky		 Re-Animator.
lester		Yeah!
ricky		You want to borrow it?  Okay, it's up in my room. Come on.
ricky		Can you hold this for a sec?
lester		Sure.
ricky		I don't think my dad would try to come in when somebody else is here, but you never know.
lester		 What is this?
ricky		Urine. I have to take a drug test every six months to make sure I'm clean.
lester		Are you kidding? You just smoked with me last night.
ricky		It's not mine. One of my clients is a nurse in a pediatrician's office. I cut her a deal, she keeps me in clean piss.
lester		You like Pink Floyd?
ricky		I like a lot of music.
lester		Man, I haven't listened to this album in years.
ricky		How much do you want?
lester		I don't know, it's been a while. How much is an ounce?
ricky		 Well, this is totally decent, and it's three hundred.
lester		Wow.
ricky		 But this shit is top of the line. It's called G-13. Genetically engineered by the U.S. Government. Extremely potent. But a completely mellow high, no paranoia.
lester		Is that what we smoked last night?
ricky		This is all I ever smoke.
lester		How much?
ricky		Two grand.
ricky		You don't have to pay now. I know you're good for it.
lester		Thanks.
ricky		 There's a card in there with my beeper number, call me anytime day or night. And I only accept cash.
lester		 Well, now I know how you can afford all this equipment. When I was your age, I flipped burgers all summer just to be able to buy an eight track.
ricky		That sucks.
lester		No actually, it was great. All I did was party and get laid.  I had my whole life ahead of me...
ricky		My dad thinks I pay for all this with catering jobs.  Never underestimate the power of denial.
lester		Uh-oh, mom's mad.
carolyn		What the hell do you think you're doing?
lester		Bench presses. I'm going to wail on my pecs, and then I'm going to do my back.
carolyn		I see you're smoking pot now. I'm so glad. I think using illegal psychotropic substances is a very positive example to set for our daughter.
lester		You're one to talk, you bloodless, money- grubbing freak.
carolyn		 Lester. You have such hostility in you!
lester		Do you mind? I'm trying to work out here.  Unless you want to spot me.
carolyn		You will not get away with this. You can be sure of that!
lester		 That's. What. You. Think.
brad		 Well, you obviously have no interest in saving yourself.
lester		 Brad, for fourteen years I've been a whore for the advertising industry. The only way I could save myself now is if I start firebombing.
brad		Whatever. Management wants you gone by the end of the day.
lester		Well, just what sort of severance package is "management" prepared to offer me? 
lester		Considering the information I have about our editorial director buying pussy with company money.
lester		Which I'm sure would interest the I.R.S., since it technically constitutes fraud. And I'm sure that some of our advertisers and rival publications might like to know about it as well. Not to mention, Craig's wife.
brad		What do you want?
lester		One year's salary, with benefits.
brad		That's not going to happen.
lester		Well, what do you say I throw in a little sexual harassment charge to boot?
brad		Against who?
lester		Against you.
lester		Can you prove you didn't offer to save my job if I'd let you blow me?
brad		Man. You are one twisted fuck.
lester		 Nope. I'm just an ordinary guy with nothing to lose.
lester		Yeah!
buddy		Carolyn.
carolyn		Buddy.
buddy		I'm so sorry I kept you waiting. Christy left for New York this morning, and... let's just say things were very hectic around the house.
carolyn		What's she doing in New York?
buddy		She's moving there.  Yes. We are splitting up.
carolyn		Buddy. I'm so sorry.
buddy		 Ah, it's for the best.
carolyn		When I saw you two at the party the other night, you seemed perfectly happy.
buddy		Well, call me crazy, but it is my philosophy that in order to be successful, one must project an image of success, at all times.
angela		Why?
angela		I think maybe you forgot your medication today, mental boy.
jane		 Look. I want you to stop filming me.
ricky		Okay.
angela		Well, whatever.  This is boring. Let's go.
jane		 Do you need a ride?
angela		 Are you crazy? I don't want to end up hacked to pieces in a dumpster somewhere.
ricky		It's okay. I'll walk. But thanks.
angela		Yeah, see? He doesn't want to go anyway. C'mon, let's go.
jane		 I think I'm going to walk, too.
angela		What? Jane, that's like, almost a mile.
carolyn		Yes! Oh, God! I love it!
buddy		You like getting nailed by the king?
carolyn		Oh yes! I love it! Fuck me, your majesty!
lester		AMERICAN WOMAN, STAY AWAY FROM ME... AMERICAN WOMAN, MAMA LET ME BE... DON'T COME A HANGIN' AROUND MY DOOR... I DON'T WANT TO SEE YOUR FACE NO MORE...
lester		What?
lester		Uh... no. But thank you.  I'll have a Big Barn Burger, Smiley fries, and an orange soda.
counter girl		Would you like some Smiley Sauce?
lester		No. No, actually... I'd like to fill out an application.
counter girl		There's not jobs for manager, it's just for counter.
lester		Good. I'm looking for the least possible amount of responsibility.
manager		I don't think you'd fit in here.
lester		I have fast food experience.
manager		Yeah, like twenty years ago.
lester		Well, I'm sure there have been amazing technological advances in the industry, but surely you have some sort of training process. It seems unfair to presume I won't be able to learn.
carolyn		That was exactly what I needed. The royal treatment, so to speak.
carolyn		I was so stressed out.
buddy		Know what I do when I feel like that?
carolyn		What?
buddy		I fire a gun.
carolyn		 Really.
buddy		Oh yeah, I go to this little firing range downtown, and I just pop off a few rounds.
carolyn		 I've never fired a gun before.
buddy		Oh, you've gotta try it. Nothing makes you feel more powerful.  Well, almost nothing.
jane		So how do you like your new house?
ricky		I like it.
jane		The people who used to live there fed these stray cats, so they were always around, and it drove my mother nuts. And then she cut down their tree.
ricky		Have you ever known anybody who died?
jane		No.  Have you?
ricky		No, but I did see this homeless woman who froze to death once. Just laying there on the sidewalk. She looked really sad.
ricky		I got that homeless woman on video.
jane		Why would you film that?
ricky		Because it was amazing.
jane		What was amazing about it?
ricky		When you see something like that, it's like God is looking right at you, just for a second. And if you're careful, you can look right back.
jane		And what do you see?
ricky		Beauty.
ricky		Mom, I want you to meet somebody.  Mom.
barbara		 Yes?
ricky		I want you to meet somebody. This is Jane.
jane		Hi.
barbara		Oh, my. I apologize for the way things look around here.
ricky		This is where my dad hides out.
jane		I take it he's got a thing for guns.
ricky		You got to see this one thing...
ricky		My dad would kill me if he knew I was in here.
jane		Did you steal his keys?
ricky		No. One of my clients is a locksmith. He was short on cash one night, so I let him pay me in trade.
ricky		Turn it over.
jane		Oh my God.
ricky		It's like official state china of the Third Reich. There's a whole subculture of people who collect this Nazi shit. But my dad just has this one thing.
ricky		What's wrong?
jane		Nothing.
ricky		 No, you're scared of me.
jane		No I'm not.
ricky		You want to see the most beautiful thing I've ever filmed?
ricky		It was one of those days when it's a minute away from snowing. And there's this electricity in the air, you can almost hear it, right? And this bag was just... dancing with me. Like a little kid begging me to play with it. For fifteen minutes. That's the day I realized that there was this entire life behind things, and this incredibly benevolent force that wanted me to know there was no reason to be afraid. Ever.
ricky		Video's a poor excuse, I know. But it helps me remember... I need to remember...
ricky		 Sometimes there's so much beauty in the world I feel like I can't take it... and my heart is going to cave in.
jane		 Oh my God. What time is it?
jane		Sorry I'm late.
carolyn		 Why don't you tell our daughter about it, honey?
lester		Janie, today I quit my job. And then I told my boss to fuck himself, and then I blackmailed him for almost sixty thousand dollars. Pass the asparagus.
carolyn		Your father seems to think this kind of behavior is something to be proud of.
lester		And your mother seems to prefer I go through life like a fucking prisoner while she keeps my dick in a mason jar under the sink.
carolyn		 How dare you speak to me that way in front of her? And I marvel that you can be so contemptuous of me, on the same day that you lose your job!
lester		Lose it? I didn't lose it. It's not like, "Oops, where'd my job go?" I quit. Someone pass me the asparagus.
carolyn		Oh! Oh! And I want to thank you for putting me under the added pressure of being the sole breadwinner now--
lester		I already have a job.
carolyn		 No, no, don't give a second thought as to who's going to pay the mortgage. We'll just leave it all up to Carolyn. You mean, you're going to take care of everything now, Carolyn? Yes. I don't mind. I really don't. You mean, everything? You don't mind having the sole responsibility, your husband feels he can just quit his job--
lester		 Will someone pass me the fucking asparagus?
jane		 Okay, I'm not going to be a part of this--
lester		 Sit down.
lester		I'm sick and tired of being treated    like I don't exist. You two do whatever    you want to do whenever you want to do    it and I don't complain. All I want is the    same courtesy--
carolyn		 Oh, you don't complain? Oh, excuse me. Excuse me. I must be psychotic then, if you don't complain. What is this?! Am I locked away in a padded cell somewhere, hallucinating? That's the only explanation I can think of--
lester		 Don't interrupt me, honey.
lester		Oh, and another thing. From now on, we're going to alternate our dinner music. Because frankly, and I don't think I'm alone here, I'm really tired of this Lawrence Welk shit.
jane		Go. Away.
carolyn		I wish that you hadn't witnessed that awful scene tonight. But in a way, I'm glad.
jane		Why, so I could see what freaks you and Dad really are?
carolyn		Me?
jane		Aw, Christ, Mom.
carolyn		 You cannot count on anyone except yourself. It's sad, but true, and the sooner you learn it, the better.
jane		Look, Mom, I really don't feel like having a Kodak moment here, okay?
carolyn		You ungrateful little brat. Just look at everything you have. When I was your age, I lived in a duplex. We didn't even have our own house.
colonel		You little bastard--
colonel		How did you get in there?
colonel		 How!? How?! C'mon, get up! Fight back, you little pussy!
ricky		No, sir. I won't fight you.
colonel		How did you get in there?
ricky		I picked the lock, sir.
colonel		What were you looking for? Money? Are you on dope again?
ricky		No, sir. I wanted to show my girlfriend your Nazi plate.
colonel		Girlfriend?
ricky		Yes, sir. She lives next door.
ricky		Her name's Jane.
colonel		This is for your own good, boy. You have no respect for other people's things, for authority, for...
ricky		Sir, I'm sorry.
colonel		You can't just go around doing whatever you feel like, you can't--there are rules in life--
ricky		Yes, sir.
colonel		You need structure, you need discipline--
ricky		 Discipline. Yes, sir, thank you for trying to teach me. Don't give up on me, Dad.
colonel		Oh, Ricky...
colonel		You stay out of there.
attendant		 I gotta say, Mrs. Burnham, when you first came here I thought you would be hopeless. But you're a natural.
carolyn		Well, all I know is... I love shooting this gun!
lester		What?
carolyn		Ah, whose car is that out front?
lester		Mine. 1970 Pontiac Firebird. The car I always wanted and now I have it. I rule!
carolyn		Where's the Camry?
lester		I traded it in.
carolyn		Shouldn't you have consulted me first?
lester		Hmm, let me think... No. You never drove it.  Have you done something different? You look great.
carolyn		 Where's Jane?
lester		Jane not home. We have the whole house to ourselves.
lester		Christ, Carolyn. When did you become so... joyless?
carolyn		 Joyless?! I am not joyless! There happens to be a lot about me that you don't know, mister smarty man. There is plenty of joy in my life.
lester		 Whatever happened to that girl who used to fake seizures at frat parties when she got bored? And who used to run up to the roof of our first apartment building to flash the traffic helicopters? Have you totally forgotten about her? Because I haven't.
carolyn		 Lester. You're going to spill beer on the couch.
lester		So what? It's just a couch.
carolyn		This is a four thousand dollar sofa upholstered in Italian silk. This is not "just a couch."
lester		It's just a couch!
lester		This isn't life. This is just stuff. And it's become more important to you than living. Well, honey, that's just nuts.
lester		 I'm only trying to help you.
jane		 Don't.
ricky		Why?
jane		 It's weird, watching myself. I don't like how I look.
ricky		I can't believe you don't know how beautiful you are.
jane		I'm not going to sit here for that shit.
jane		Ha. How does it feel now?
ricky		Fine.
jane		You don't feel naked?
ricky		I am naked.
jane		You know what I mean.
jane		Tell me about being in the hospital.
ricky		When I was fifteen, my dad caught me smoking dope. He totally freaked and decided to send me to military school. I told you his whole thing about structure and discipline, right?  That's when my dad put me in the hospital. Then they drugged me up and left me in there for two years.
jane		Wow. You must really hate him.
ricky		He's not a bad man.
jane		Well... you better believe I'd hate my father if he did something like that to me.  Wait. I do hate my father.
ricky		Why?
jane		He's a total asshole and he's got this crush on my friend Angela and it's disgusting.
ricky		You'd rather he had the crush on you?
jane		Gross, no! But it'd be nice if I was anywhere near as important to him as she is. 
jane		I know you think my dad's harmless, but you're wrong. He's doing massive psychological damage to me.
ricky		How?
jane		Well, now, I too need structure. A little fucking discipline.
jane		I'm serious, though. How could he not be damaging me? I need a father who's a role model, not some horny geek-boy who's gonna spray his shorts whenever I bring a girlfriend home from school.  What a lame-o. Somebody really should put him out of his misery.
ricky		Want me to kill him for you?
jane		Yeah, would you?
ricky		 It'll cost you.
jane		Well, I've been baby-sitting since I was about ten. I've got almost three thousand dollars. 'Course, I was saving it up for a boob job.
jane		But my tits can wait, huh?
ricky		You know, that's not a very nice thing to do, hiring somebody to kill your dad.
jane		Well, I guess I'm just not a very nice girl, then, am I?
jane		 You know I'm not serious, right?
ricky		Of course.
ricky		Do you know how lucky we are to have found each other?
lester		Remember those posters that said, "Today is the first day of the rest of your life?" Well, that's true of every day except one.  The day you die.
carolyn		Jane, hurry up. I've got a very important appointment--
jane		Mom, is it okay if Angela sleeps over tonight?
carolyn		Well, of course, she's always welcome.  You know, I thought maybe you two had a fight. I haven't seen her around here in a while.
lester		What?
jane		 I've been too embarrassed to bring her over. Because of you, and the way that you behave.
lester		What are you talking about? I've barely even spoken to her.
jane		 Dad! You stare at her all the time, like you're drunk! It's disgusting!
lester		 You better watch yourself, Janie, or you're going to turn into a real bitch, just like your mother.
lester		 Fuck.
colonel		 You ready to go?
ricky		Oh, I don't need a ride. I'm going to go in with Jane and her mom.
lester		Yo, Ricky. How's it going?
ricky		Pretty decent, Mr. Burnham.
lester		You need more than that, my little hombre.
carolyn		I think we deserve a little junk food, after the workout we had this morning.
buddy		 I'm flattered.
lester		 Smile! You're at Mr. Smiley's!
carolyn		 Buddy, this is my--
lester		Her husband. We've met before, but something tells me you're going to remember me this time.
counter girl		 Whoa. You are so busted.
carolyn		 You know, this really doesn't concern you.
lester		Actually, Janeane is senior drive-thru manager, so you kind of are on her turf.  So. This makes sense.
carolyn		 Oh, Lester--
lester		Honey, it's okay. I want you to be happy.  Would you like Smiley Sauce with that?
carolyn		Lester, just stop it!
lester		Uh-uh. You don't get to tell me what to do. Ever again.
buddy		I'm sorry. I guess we should cool it for a while. I'm facing a potentially very expensive divorce.
carolyn		Oh, no. I understand completely.  In order to be successful, one must project an image of success. At all times.
carolyn		Stop it. Stop it!
lester		Shit.
ricky		 I have to run next door. Jane left her geometry book in my bag and she needs it to do her homework.
angela		So you and psycho boy are fucking on like, a regular basis now, right?
jane		 No.
angela		Oh, come on. You can tell me. Does he have a big dick?
jane		Look, I'm not gonna talk about his dick with you, okay? It's not like that.
angela		Not like what? Doesn't he have one?  Why don't you want to talk about it? I mean, I tell you every single detail about every guy that I fuck.
jane		Yeah, and maybe you shouldn't, all right? Maybe I don't really want to hear all that.
angela		Oh, so now that you have a boyfriend, you're like, above it?  We gotta get you a real man.
ricky		 You got any papers?
lester		Yeah, in the cigar box, right over there.  You know, put up a fight, dude! You are such a pushover. "No I can't. Really. Okay."
ricky		You should learn to roll a joint.
lester		Oh. Hi.
jane		Where's Mom?
lester		Don't know.
angela		Hi, Mr. Burnham.
lester		Hi.
angela		Wow. Look at you. Have you been working out?
lester		Some.
angela		You can really tell. Look at those arms.
lester		You like muscles?
angela		I--I should probably go see what Jane's up to.
ricky		From my job.
colonel		Don't lie to me.  I saw you with him.
ricky		 You were watching me?
colonel		What did he make you do?
ricky		 Dad, you don't really think... me and Mr. Burnham?
colonel		I will not sit back and watch my only son become a cocksucker!
ricky		Jesus, what is with you--
colonel		I swear to God, I will throw you out of this house and never look at you again.
ricky		 You mean that?
colonel		Damn straight I do. I'd rather you were dead than be a fucking faggot.
ricky		You're right. I suck dick for money.
colonel		Boy--
ricky		Two thousand dollars. I'm that good.
colonel		Get out.
ricky		And you should see me fuck. I'm the best piece of ass in three states.
colonel		 Get out!! I don't ever want to see you again!!
ricky		What a sad old man you are.
colonel		 Get out.
ricky		Mom, I'm leaving.
barbara		Okay, wear a raincoat.
ricky		 I wish things would have been better for you. Take care of Dad.
tape voice		--disinvesting problems of their power, and removing their ability to make us afraid. This is the secret to "me- centered" living. 
tape voice		Only by taking full responsibility for your problems--and their solutions--will you ever be able to break free from the constant cycle of victimhood.
tape voice		Remember, you are only a victim if you choose to be a victim...
jane		I don't think we could be friends anymore.
angela		You are way too uptight about sex.
jane		Just don't fuck my dad, all right? Please?
angela		Why not?
jane		 Dad! Leave us alone!
ricky		 If I had to leave tonight, would you come with me?
jane		What?
ricky		If I had to go to New York. To live. Tonight. Would you come with me?
jane		Yes.
angela		You guys can't be serious.  You're just a kid. And he's like, a mental case. You'll end up living in a box on the street.
jane		I'm no more a kid than you are!  We can use my plastic surgery money.
ricky		We won't have to. I have over forty thousand dollars. And I know people in the city who can help us get set up.
angela		What, other drug dealers?
ricky		Yes.
angela		Jane, you'd be out of your mind to go with him.
jane		Why do you even care?
angela		Because you're my friend!
ricky		She's not your friend. She's somebody you use to feel better about yourself.
angela		Go fuck yourself, psycho!
jane		You shut up, bitch!
angela		Jane! He is a freak!
jane		Well, then so am I! And we'll always be freaks and we'll never be like other people. And you'll never be a freak because you're just too perfect.
angela		Oh, yeah? Well, at least I'm not ugly.
ricky		Yes, you are. And you're boring. And you're totally ordinary. And you know it.
angela		You two deserve each other.
lester		Jesus, man. You're soaked.
lester		You want me to get Ricky? He's in Jane's room.
lester		You okay?
colonel		 Where's your wife?
lester		Uh... I don't know. Probably out fucking that dorky prince of real estate asshole. And you know what? I don't care.
colonel		Your wife is with another man and you don't care?
lester		Nope, our marriage is just for show. A commercial, for how normal we are. When we are anything but.
lester		You're shaking.
lester		We really should get you out of these clothes.
colonel		 Yes...
lester		It's okay.
lester		 Just tell me what you need.
lester		Whoa, whoa, whoa. I'm sorry. You got the wrong idea.
tape voice		"I refuse to be a victim." When this becomes your mantra, constantly running through your head--
carolyn		I refuse to be a victim.
angela		I hope you don't mind if I play the stereo.
lester		Not at all.  Bad night?
angela		Not really bad, just... strange.
lester		 Believe me. It couldn't possibly be any stranger than mine.
angela		Jane and I had a fight.  It was about you.
angela		She's mad at me because I said I think you're sexy.
lester		 Do you want a sip?
lester		So... are you going to tell me? What you want?
angela		I don't know.
lester		You don't know?
angela		What do you want?
lester		Are you kidding? I want you. I've wanted you since the first moment I saw you. You are the most beautiful thing I have ever seen.
angela		You don't think I'm ordinary?
lester		You couldn't be ordinary if you tried.
angela		Thank you.  I don't think there's anything worse than being ordinary...
carolyn		I refuse to be a victim. I refuse to be a victim. I refuse to be a victim...  Lester, I have something I have to say to you...
jane		Are you scared?
ricky		I don't get scared.
jane		My parents will try to find me.
ricky		Mine won't.
angela		This is my first time.
lester		You're kidding.
angela		 I'm sorry.
angela		I still want to do it... I just thought I should tell you... in case you wondered why I wasn't... better.
angela		 What's wrong? I thought you said I was beautiful.
lester		 You are beautiful.
lester		You are so beautiful... and I would be a very lucky man...
angela		I feel so stupid.
lester		Don't.
angela		I'm sorry.
lester		You have nothing to be sorry about.
lester		 It's okay. Everything's okay.
angela		Wow. I was starving.
lester		Do you want me to make you another one?
angela		No, no, no. I'm fine.
lester		 You sure?
angela		I mean, I'm still a little weirded out, but...  ...I feel better. Thanks.
lester		How's Jane?
angela		What do you mean?
lester		I mean, how's her life? Is she happy? Is she miserable? I'd really like to know, and she'd die before she'd ever tell me about it.
angela		She's... she's really happy. She thinks she's in love.
lester		 Good for her.
angela		How are you?
lester		 I'm great.
angela		 I've gotta go to the bathroom.
lester		 I'm great.
lester		Man oh man...  Man oh man oh man...
jane		Oh God.
ricky		 Wow.
****Dialogues from script :American_Gangster.txt****

final shooting script		July 27, 2006
bumpy		The corner grocery's a supermarket. Candy store's a MacDonald's. And this place. 
bumpy		What right do they have cutting out the suppliers, pushing all the middlemen out, buying direct from the manufacturer - Sony this, Toshiba that, all them Chinks - putting Americans out of work?
bumpy		What am I supposed to do with a place like this, Frank? Who am I supposed to ask for, the assistant manager?  This is the problem. This is the way it is now: You can't find the heart of anything to stick the knife.
frank		What is it?
bumpy		Forget it, Frank. No one's in charge.
reporter		- whose passing has brought together a who's who of mourners on this chilly afternoon. The Governor has come down. The mayor of New York - its Chief of Police and Commissioner - sports and entertainment luminaries -
tosca		White wine, please.
banker		How you doing, Frank?
frank		All right.
banker		What a loss. 
banker		Bumpy set something up for you?
tango		Hey, Frank, get me an ashtray while you're at it.
charlie		I know you're hurting, Frank.    So am I.
charlie		You going to be all right?
frank		Yeah.
charlie		I'm sure Bumpy never told you, but he made me promise, anything ever happened to him, I'd make sure you didn't go without.
frank		I'll be fine, Charlie. Half the people here owed Bumpy money when he died. A lot of money. If they think I'm going to forget to collect, they're wrong.
charlie		That's the spirit. Go get them.
professor		Mr. Roberts, Give us U.S. vs. Meade -
richie		I don't like being like that.     I want to beat it.
clerk		Hey -
richie		He knows me, he'll take it from me. I've known him since high school.
campizi		I swear to God, Richie, I didn't know it was you. I would never slam a door on your hand. Knowingly.
richie		You bit my fuckin hand -
campizi		What can we do, Richie? You don't want to do this. For old times sake, what can we do? Who do you want? Who can I give you? You want Big Sal's bookie? You want his accountant? I'll give him to you.
trupo		Now just enough for the reagent test.
rossi		They basically control the market with it. What the fuck has happened to the world, Frank?
frank		Fuckin crooks.
rossi		Sad about Bumpy.
rossi		Things are never going to be the same in Harlem. The girls, the clubs, the music - walk down the street, nobody bothers you because Bumpy's making sure of it.  How bad is it there now?
frank		It's chaos.    Every gorilla for himself.
rossi		Who can live like that? There has to be order. That would never happen with Italians. More important than any one man's life - is order.
frank		Thank you, Charlene.      Last one.
charlene		It's all right with me, Frank, you can stay all day if you want, but I wouldn't. It's nice outside.
frank		Then maybe I'll have to go for a walk. Just cause you said so.
red top		On the house for our men in uniform.
serviceman 1		Why, thank you, sugar, that's very kind.
red top		Thank Frank.
frank		How's Nate?   You seen him?
serviceman 1		All the time. Nate is everywhere. He's good. Got himself a club now.
frank		Where, Saigon?
serviceman 1		Bangkok.
serviceman 2		I don't think he's ever coming home.
frank		You're gonna have to boot it a couple times. Cops keep cutting it, selling it, cutting it -
serviceman 1		I don't want to say anything cause the price is right - but the shit in Nam is way, way, way, way, way -
campizi		That's him.
richie		All right.   Get lost.    Get out.
richie		Let's see who comes for the car.
richie		We saw him with the slips, Javy.
richie		Yes, I do, and so do you, don't give me that bullshit -
richie		I got night school.
richie		Not when it's less.
richie		Than what I make now.
richie		They do in the Prosecutor's Office. Three thousand less. RIVERA You're fuckin kidding me.
richie		Fuck this -
richie		Check inside.
richie		Javy ...
richie		This isn't a couple of bucks.
richie		We're talking about principle?
richie		 Yes, we are.
toback		How much.
richie		Nine hundred and eighty thousand.
toback		What happened to the rest?
toback		What're you doing counting this in front of everybody? Are you out of your fuckin mind? Take it into a room. Now.
tango		Didn't you see the jar, Frank? I think you walked right past it.
tango		The money jar. On the corner.      What I got to do, put a sign on it?
tango		Bumpy don't own 116th Street no more, Frank. Bumpy don't own no real estate in Harlem no more. I'm the landlord now and the lease is twenty-percent.
tango		Then don't sell dope, Frank. Get a fuckin job. You need a job? You can be my driver, drive me around, open my door, yes, sir, no sir, where to, sir, right away, Massa Johnson, sir.
frank		Twenty percent?
tango		Of every dollar. Every VIG, every truckload, every girl, every ounce.      In the jar.
frank		Twenty percent's my profit. If I'm giving it to you then what am I doing? Twenty percent puts me, and everyone you know, out of business, which puts you out of business.  There are ways to make money legitimately, and then there's this way. Not even Bumpy took twenty percent.
tango		Bumpy's fuckin dead.
frank		There.   That's twenty-percent.
bumpy		He's got the stick - the cane - and he'll use if he has to. 
bumpy		What right do they have cutting out the suppliers, the middlemen, buying direct, putting Americans out of work ... This is the way it is now, Frank.
frank		Get yourself a new suit.
richie		I'm sorry.
laurie		I don't know, Richie.
richie		It couldn't be avoided. Next weekend I'll be able to take him.
laurie		I'm moving.
richie		What?   Where?
laurie		To the St. Regis, what do you care.  My sister's.
richie		Your sister's. In Vegas?
richie		You can't move to Vegas.     Not with Michael anyway.
laurie		What am I supposed to do with him?       Leave him with you? There's a picture.
richie		 Hey, you want to shut up over there?
richie		No court will allow it for one thing. I won't allow it.
laurie		You?
richie		When am I supposed to see my son?
laurie		Last weekend!
richie		Laurie, you can't raise a kid in Las Vegas.
laurie		Oh, like this is a good environment. Around your friends. There are less creeps in Vegas.
richie		What's he going to grow up to be in a mobbed up place like that? What are you thinking?
laurie		I'm thinking - Richie - of him!
richie		Goddamn it -
richie		I told you nice to shut the fuck up. Now I'm gonna kill you.
richie		Pick up the fuckin glass!
thai		He say how much he wants?
nate		He said "a lot." What that means, I don't know. Four or five keys?
thai		He's your cousin.
nate		My cousin-in-law.    My ex-wife's cousin.
thai		Ask him how much he wants.
nate		How much you gonna want, Frank?
frank		A hundred kilos.
nate		No one I know can get that much. It'd have to be pieced together from several suppliers and none of it's gonna be 100- percent pure.
frank		That's not what I want.
nate		I know that. But that means dealing with the Chiu-Chou syndicates in Cholon or Saigon - if they'll deal with you -
frank		No, even then it's too late. It's been chopped. I want to get it where they get it. From the source.
nate		You're gonna go get it.
frank		Why not.
nate		You're gonna go into the fuckin jungle -
frank		I've lived in jungles all my  -
nate		No. This is the jungle. Tigers. Vietcong. The fuckin snakes alone will kill you.
nate		He says this whole area's controlled by the Kuomintang - Chiang Kai-Shek's defeated army.
frank		They ain't Chinese.
general		How would you get it into the States?
frank		What do you care?
general		Who do you work for in there?
frank		What do you care?
general		Who are you really?
frank		It says right there.   Frank Lucas.
general		I mean, who you represent?
frank		Me.
general		You think you're going to take a hundred kilos of heroin into the US and you don't work for anyone? Someone is going to allow that?
general		I don't believe a word of this.
general		After this first purchase, if you're not killed by Marseilles importers - or their people in the States - then what?
frank		Then there'd be more. On a regular basis. Though I'd rather not have to drag my ass all the way up here every time.
general		Of course not.
colonel		Where's it now?
nate		Bangkok. I can bring it here or anywhere in between.
colonel		A hundred kilos.  I never seen that much dope in one place. NATE It's bigger than an Amana refrigerator- freezer.
nate		Fifty grand. In advance. That'll cover them, the pilots and the guys on the other end.
frank		Give them a hundred.
nate		Fifty, to cover them all.
frank		A hundred. And it's all I got left. So if that dope doesn't arrive, for whatever reason -  Cousin or no cousin - don't let me down.
nate		I'll let you know when it's in the air.
richie		Is he dead?
richie		Where are you? Javy, where are you?
dispatcher		There are no cars in that area, Detective Roberts.
richie		Bullshit. I got a man in trouble and I need back-up.
dispatcher		I missed that - you're breaking up -
richie		I said, put the fucking call out again -
dispatcher		I just did. No one responded.     I'll try again, but -
paramedic		You got no back-up? Why is that?
richie		Bandage his head.
paramedic		Detective ... he's dead.
richie		I know he's fucking dead. Bandage his head, clean him up, put him on a gurney and prop it up so he's sitting. And open his eyes.
richie		Step back, injured man coming out. Let them do their job and he'll be all right. Ma'am. Excuse me. Step back. Sir. Please.
richie		You robbed him, didn't you.
richie		This.   Where'd this come from?
richie		You lying piece of shit -
richie		Yeah.
richie		You robbed him, and then you shot him, and I helped you get out of there. How many more you shot? 
richie		You're a disgrace.
richie		Don't look down there. Look here.  You ever fuckin threaten me again, I'll kill you.
army captain		Open the trunk.
chemist		Typically what I see is 25 to 45 percent pure. I've never seen anything like this. No alkaloids, no adulterants, no dilutents. It's a hundred percent. May I?
jimmy		Yeah ... for you.
teddy		Who is it?
teddy		Yeah.
teddy		Who's this?
teddy		Frank who?
sheila		I'm not talking about your proclivities, Richie. Those I only know too well. I'm talking about being a cop.
richie		About taking money? I don't care about money. I don't do that.
sheila		Because it'll come out. You're going to have to sit down with shrinks and social workers, her lawyers, the judge, lots of questions.
richie		What's going on there?
richie		I play softball on Sundays with some guys.
sheila		Wise guys.    That's going to look good.
richie		I grew up with them, big deal.
sheila		What about Anthony Zaca?
richie		What about him? SHEILA Richie, I'm just trying to understand things your wife has said. If they're not true, tell me.
richie		Yeah, Tony's one of them.
sheila		Is he also your son's godfather?
sheila		Do you really care about this? Or do you just not want her to win - ever. How often do you see your son as it is?
richie		Not enough.   But she wants to make it never.
bailiff		All rise -
turner		He got an arm on him.     Major League arm, ain't that right.
frank		You show me after supper.
turner		You can't catch him. He'll take your head off. We're talking 95-mile-an-hour. You know how fast that is? You see the ball leave his hand, and that's the last you see it before it knocks you down.
frank		 Is that right.
frank		This is your room.
frank		I had it made. From memory. MRS. LUCAS You were five when they took it away. How could you remember it?
frank		I remember.
frank		I was with him every day for fifteen of them, looking after him, taking care of things, protecting him, learning from him.
frank		Bumpy was rich, but never white   man rich. Why? Because he didn't own the    company. He thought he did. He didn't.     He only managed it. Someone else owned    it. So they owned him.
frank		Nobody owns me. Because I own my company.
frank		And my company sells a product that's better than the competition's at a price that's lower.
teddy		What are we selling, Frank?
redtop		Hi, Frank.
frank		Honey, these are my brothers.
frank		What matters in business is honesty, integrity, hard work, loyalty, and never forgetting where you came from.
frank		I'll be right back.
frank		Hey, Tango, what's up.    I was just thinking about you. 
tango		The fuck you want, Frank -
tango		What're you going to do, boy? Shoot me in broad daylight? In front of everyone?
frank		Yeah, that's right.
frank		For the cops. Should be enough.
frank		That basically's the whole picture right there.
detective		Did you know his girlfriend? Good- looking girl. One of his informants.
richie		Beth.
detective		Should've seen their place.    Like animals lived there.
richie		I have seen it.
detective		 Chose a good night, huh?   Grand Central Station in here.
medical examiner		It's been like this. I'm lucky I get home before midnight; lots of careless- ness.
richie		But it's federal. I'd have to answer to who? FBI?
toback		Me and the U.S. Attorney. No one else. No FBI. Hoover knows better than to mix his men with dope. Too much temptation for the feeble-minded.
richie		You know why I don't have it.
toback		Doesn't matter.
richie		No, they're all on the take and I'm not and it doesn't matter to anyone. Instead of giving you a medal for turning in money, they bury you.
toback		It's fucked up. You're right. Maybe this's an opportunity away from all that.
richie		I'll do it, but only like this: I don't set foot in a police station again. I work out of a place of my own. And I pick my own guys. Guys I know wouldn't take a nickel off the sidewalk.
toback		Done.
richie		This is the only floor we'll be using.
frank		No loan, no contingencies.    Cash sale.
singer		Mr. Joe Louis, ladies and gentlemen.
frank		Who's the beauty queen?
charlie		She is a beauty queen.    No kidding. Miss Puerto Rico. Her glance crosses Frank's briefly but is yanked to the entrance of the club when Frank's brothers come in with their wives and girlfriends. Teddy's in a parrot green suit, gold chains, hat, acting like he owns the place.
frank		What is this?
teddy		What. These are clothes.     This is a very nice  -
frank		I'm wearing clothes. These are clothes. Those -  - are a costume. With a sign on it that says Arrest me. You look like fuckin Jackie Fox.
teddy		What's wrong with Jackie.    I like Jackie.
frank		You like Jackie? You want to be Superfly? Go work for him, end up in a cell with him.
frank		The guy making all the noise in the room is the weak one. That's not who you want to be.
teddy		He wants to talk to you by the way.     I told him I'd tell you.
frank		You and Jackie were talking about me?
teddy		Not about you. We were talking. He said he wanted to talk to you about something.
frank		I'm taking you shopping tomorrow.
teddy		I went shopping today.
frank		You go shopping every day.    Like a girl.
joe louis		It's a tax thing. It's a mistake my lawyers will straighten out, but for the time being it's a headache -
frank		How much you owe?
joe louis		It's nothing, like - fifty grand.
frank		Sure.   Don't worry about it.
joe louis		Thank you.   I'll pay you back soon as -
frank		Joe. It's a gift. Not a loan.       You don't owe me nothing.
ana		Hi.   I'm Ana.
frank		I'm Frank.
ana		You're Frank and this is your place.  Why's it called Small's? Why don't you call it Frank's?
frank		Because I don't have to.
richie		I'm reluctant to bring anyone in I don't personally know.
spearman		You know me, and I vouch for them.
spearman		Richie, we work together. You want me, you got to take them, too.
richie		Where are they? Spearman looks out across the crowded dance floor.
spearman		That's Jones. With the skinny white woman.
spearman		That's Abruzzo, with the fat black one.
spearman		Both are good with wires. Have good informants. They're honest. And they're fearless. They'll do anything. They're insane, Richie, like you.
frank		I got it.
frank		I hope you weren't waiting long. A woman as beautiful as you shouldn't have to wait for anything.
ana		This is your father?
frank		You really don't know who that is?  It's Martin Luther King.
ana		It is not.
frank		You're right. He was as important as Dr. King, though. 
ana		What'd he do?
frank		A lot of things. He had a lot of friends. He served New York and it served him.
ana		What was he to you?
frank		Teacher.
ana		What'd he teach you?
frank		How to take my time ... how if you're going to do something, do it with care ... do it with love.
ana		Anything else?
frank		How be a gentleman.
ana		That's what you are?
frank		I got five different apartments in the city I could've taken you to. I brought you here instead -
frank		To meet my mother.
richie		Our mandate is to make major arrests. No street guys - we want the suppliers - the distributors.
richie		Heroin, cocaine, amphetamines. No grass under a thousand pounds. Less than that, someone else can waste their time.
richie		We'll be handling big shipments, big money, big temptation.  Yeah.
jones		There's a story about you. About turning in some money. A lot of money. Is it true?
richie		It's not true.
jones		Stuff's ten percent pure. Strong enough to smoke for all those suburban white kids afraid of needles.
richie		You paid ten bucks for it?
jones		And it's all that's out there.
richie		Now, how is that possible? Who can afford to sell shit twice as good for half as much? Richie glances to a Table of Organization: Surveillance photos haphazardly thumb-tacked to a bulletin board - known dope men in the hierarchies of their individual crime families - almost all of them Italian.
teddy		We're going to be here all night if we count every bill.
banker		You got a stockbroker, Frank?
frank		I deal with enough crooks as it is.
banker		This one couldn't be more honest. Ask around. He's got a lot of clients in the business. You can't leave all your money in safety deposit boxes; give him a call.
charlie		Frank.   This is Mike Sibota.
frank		Mr. Sibota.   What can I get you?
sibota		A left-hander from what Charlie tells me. Your nephew?
frank		It's been his dream all his life to play for the Yankees - and he's good enough.
sibota		So I hear. You have him come see me. We'll give him a try-out.
detective		What's this?  Oh, that's it, I'm taking you in.
jimmy		 You can't take me in for that, I got       a license for that, motherfucker.
detective		 But first -
detective		All right, now I'm arresting you.
teddy		Let him go.   This is for you.
detective		What is that, a bribe?     Oh, now you're all under arrest. 
jimmy		What is that?
detective		I'm taking you all in.
jimmy		I said, what the fuck was that?
detective		What was what?
jimmy		Oh, he's all right. I just shot him in the leg. You got a health plan, what are you complaining about. He's fine. Here -  Five hundred all right? Six? Look, he's feeling better all the time.
frank		I can't have this kind of stupidity.
teddy		It was an accident.   He feels terrible about it.
frank		He doesn't feel shit, coked up all the time. Get rid of him.
teddy		Frank. He's your cousin. What's he gonna do? Go back home? I'll talk to him. I'll straighten him out.
frank		Gimme those glasses.
teddy		What?   Why?
jones		Ice Pick Paul goes here -
abruzzo		No, he's under Benny Two-Socks -
jones		No, you're thinking of Benny the Bishop. Benny Two-Socks is Tosca's deadbeat son- in-law. SPEARMAN Jonesy's right.
jones		What're you doing?     We just -
toback		This is more than a year's salary, Richie. If it disappears, I won't be able to get it for you again.
richie		It'll never be out of my sight.
richie		It's got to be `Blue Magic.'
mechanic		Yeah, yeah, it's `Blue.' You can pick it up here tomorrow. Where's the rest of the money?
richie		That's half. I'll give you the other half tomorrow when you give -
mechanic		No, no, no, I don't do that.    Go fuck yourself.
spearman		He's going into New York.   Are we?
richie		What are they going to do, arrest us?
spearman		They could. New York cops.     They can do worse than that.
richie		We're not losing that money.    Go.
richie		Get out.
taxi driver		What?
richie		Get the fuck out of the car!
richie		That's my money.
richie		The bills are sequenced and registered with the Essex County Prosecutors Office.
richie		Honest mistake. Just give it back to me.
trupo		When's the last time I was in Jersey? Let me think. Never. What're you doing coming over here without letting anybody know? You don't know you can get hurt doing that? 
richie		Yeah, I know, like everyone else. Some of them will steal no matter what. There can be a camera on them they'll do it. Some'll never do it. The rest are capable of either, depending how their department leans ... Only theirs isn't leaning, it's fallen over. The patrol cars don't even stop in Harlem, just roll down the window so the dealers can throw the money in. I saw drops made on precinct steps. TOBACK What were you doing there?
richie		It's where this dope is coming from. Blue Magic. Out of New York. What am I supposed to do, ignore it?
toback		The cab driver's filed aggravated assault and grand theft charges -
richie		Then my investigation's over.
toback		You're not listening to me. I said: I don't want to hear about it ... You do whatever you have to do, go wherever you have to go to find out who's bringing this shit into the country ... Just don't tell me.  Get some sleep. A150 - 152 OMIT                                       A150 - 152 OMIT
tony		When you asked me to be your son's godfather, I took it very seriously.
richie		I know.
tony		I said yes, I'd take on this responsibility, take care of your son, God forbid something happened to you -
richie		Tony, the things she's telling Child Social Services make me look very bad: Out all night. Lowlife informants hanging around.   Women -
tony		Old friends like me.
tony		It's all right. I understand. They ask me, I'll tell them what you want me to tell them. I'll lie for you.
richie		Thank you.
tony		What.
richie		You don't have to talk about it, you don't want. What do you hear about Blue Magic? Anything?
tony		A lot of sorrow and misery from guys being put out of business. That's all. 
richie		Nothing about who's bringing it in?
tony		Guys down south is all I heard.
richie		Down south, Florida?   Cubans?   What.
tony		I don't know. All I can tell you is whoever it is, they're upsetting the natural order of things.
tosca		Pull -
ana		It's very nice.
frank		Pull -
tosca		She's a lovely girl.    You should marry her.
frank		Too many things to look after right now to think about that.
tosca		Frank. That's a mistake. If I may say. Don't take her for granted, girl like that.
tosca		You interested in history, Frank? The events that have brought us to where we are today? You know who was? Bumpy.
frank		Bumpy was interested in a lot of things.
tosca		I always wonder if people know when history's being made. And what they're doing at the time. This, for instance, could be a historic moment, and you're sipping a glass of ice water.
frank		He didn't have what you needed. You had what he needed. We've always had to come to you.
tosca		Yes.   Until now.
tosca		Monopolies are illegal in this country, Frank, because no one can compete with a monopoly. If they let the dairy farmers do that, half of them would go out of business tomorrow.
frank		I'm just trying to make a living.
tosca		Which is your right. Because this is America. But not at the unreasonable expense of others. That's un-American.  You know the price you pay for a gallon of milk doesn't represent its true cost of production. It's controlled. Set.
frank		I set a price I think is fair.
tosca		It's very unfair, in fact. Your customers are happy, but what about your fellow dairy farmers? You're not thinking of them.
frank		 I'm thinking of them as much as they ever thought of me.
tosca		All right. I can see you're getting excited. Don't get excited. That's not why I invited you to my home. To get excited.
tosca		Here, I got something for you.
tosca		Now what if - I'm just thinking out loud - you sold some of your inventory wholesale and I helped with the distribution. 
frank		I don't need it. I already got everything from 110th Street to Yankee Stadium, river to river.
tosca		Which is a little mom and pop store compared to what I'm talking about. I could make you bigger than K-Mart. L.A., Chicago, Detroit, Vegas. I'm speaking nationwide. And I'd guarantee you peace of mind. You know what I mean by that.
tosca		Frank. You can see I'm a Renaissance man. Unfortunately not all my people are as enlightened. Ask them, What is civil rights, they don't know. They're not as open to change from the way things are done and who's doing it. But I can talk to them so there won't be any misunderstanding. That's what I mean by peace of mind.
frank		You pay what a kilo now, 75, 80? I'd consider 50. And I can get you as much as you want. Tosca slips on his best poker face. Fifty thousand a kilo would be an extraordinary coup for him.
tosca		You see, I was right. This is a historic moment. You're going to be bigger than Bumpy himself.
tosca		Can't smoke it here, unfortunately. Grace doesn't like it. Take it with you.
ana		Why would you trust these people, the way they look at you?
frank		They look at me like it's Christmas and I'm Santa Claus.
ana		They looked at us like we're the help.
frank		 No.   They're working for me now.
ana		Yes.
ana		I bought you something, too.
frank		What is it?
ana		Come on. You look great.  You want to miss the fight? Come on.
tosca		Hey, Frank, you keep that hat on, I'm gonna miss the fight -
richie		That's is the plate number on the limo. Check with the company, who rented it.
spearman		He's a supplier at most. Or just a pimp. We'd've heard of him otherwise.
richie		No, he's bigger than that. His seats were phenomenal; better than Al Tosca's. Joe Louis and Ali shook his fuckin hand.
richie		Originally from Greensboro, North Carolina. Couple of arrests years ago. Gambling, robbery, unlicensed firearm. 
richie		Five brothers, he's the oldest, lots of cousins, all living here now, spread out around the boroughs and Jersey. The brothers are -
richie		Except for the chinchilla coat, which no one can explain, Frank's life seems orderly and legitimate.
richie		Then goes to work. Meeting with his accountant, or lawyer, dropping in on one of the several office buildings he owns.
richie		Nights, he usually stays home. When he does go out, it's to a club or dinner - with his new wife - friends, celebrities, sports figures - never O.C. guys.
richie		Sundays he takes his mother to church. Then drives out to change the flowers on Bumpy's grave. Every Sunday, no matter what.
toback		Not your typical day in the life of a dope man, Richie.
richie		Neither was Bumpy Johnson's and he owned Harlem.
toback		You think Frank Lucas took over for Bumpy Johnson? His driver? That's a little far-fetched.
richie		Is it?   Everything he does, he does like Bumpy.
toback		Bumpy never wore a chinchilla coat in his life.
richie		We haven't seen that again. That apparently has been retired to the closet.
charlie		She's the most beautiful bride I ever saw, Frank.
frank		I wish Bumpy could've met her.     I wish she could've met him.
richie		Won't get any informants. Not inside. It's like a Sicilian family. Like he's structured his own family the same way to protect himself.
richie		Being with Bumpy long as he was, he would have been around Italians a lot. Enough to learn that much.
richie		But it's not even Frank Lucas I want. I want to know who he's working for: Which Italians are bringing the heroin in.
trupo		Hello, Frank.
frank		Detective.
trupo		You sure you done the right thing? She's a beautiful girl - there's no question - but she's got an attitude on  -
frank		Listen   to me. Before you say another word -   about her - or me - remember that you're   saying it on the most important fuckin   day of my life.
trupo		Man walks around in a fifty thousand dollar chinchilla coat and he never even bought me a cup of coffee? Something wrong there.
frank		I don't know what you're talking about.
trupo		You pay your bills, Frank?
frank		You want to keep talking, talk to my lawyer, here's his card. You call him, because we're done here -
trupo		Do you pay your bills, I asked you.
frank		If you're not getting your share, it's not my fault, go ask the chief of police.
trupo		What's my share? You don't even know me. Maybe I'm special.
frank		No, you're all the fuckin same.
frank		Detective ... There are some things you don't do. This is one of them. Not on a man's wedding day.
trupo		Have a nice honeymoon.
jimmy		Where is it?
darylynn		Fuck you, I'm not telling you. She comes past the TV and into the kitchen past a table covered with dope paraphernalia.
jimmy		Where is my fuckin dope? You and your girlfriends take it again? I'll fuckin kill you.
sheila		Richie, yes, fuck me like a cop, not a lawyer -  No, no, no -
richie		Yeah -
richie		Because it's an attempted homicide, that's Grand Jury. Now, that Grand Jury could come in very favorably. Might turn out to be Attempted Manslaughter. Self Defense even. She had a knife. Depends on how I want to deal with you. You see where this is going.
jimmy		The fuck is this place?
richie		Let's say you beat it somehow. What do you think Cousin Frank'll think of that? He knows you had to sit here listening to something like this. And then you beat an attempted murder? Is he stupid? He'll assume you talked.
richie		You fucked up, Jimmy. But nobody knows. Frank doesn't know. Yet. Do you want him to read about it in the paper? Or do you want to walk out of here - no bail, no trial - just walk out, now.  206   EXT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAWN                          206  Jimmy has thought about it all night and walks out of the building into the chilly morning air.  RICHIE V/O Jimmy?   Look at me -  Jimmy looks over his shoulder as if Richie just called to him from it, which he didn't. There's no one in sight -  RICHIE V/O Any time I want to change my mind? I don't like the quality of your work? I can find a witness saw you shoot your girlfriend. It just took me a while. I even know what he'll look like. He'll look just like you.  207   EXT. MEAT PACKING DISTRICT - DAY                                 207  Teddy's car comes around a corner and down the street.  208   INT. TEDDY'S CAR - MOVING - DAY                                  208  Jimmy Racine, wired, looks in the rear view mirror at Teddy in the back seat, and, behind him, Richie's car following. 209   INT. RICHIE'S CAR - SAME TIME                                    209  Richie keeps Teddy's car in view ahead. Glances in his mirror at the cars following him. His detectives.  210   EXT. MEAT PACKING DISTRICT - LATER - DAY                         210  The detectives' cars parked behind a warehouse. Richie peers into binoculars at: Teddy's car parked by Frank's outside another warehouse loading dock. Frank gets out, discusses something with his brother, comes past Jimmy to some men in bloody white coats.  He talks to them, returns to his car, takes a valise from the trunk. He snaps it open revealing stacks of cash, hands it over and walks to a semi-truck, glancing once in Richie's direction. Though he can't see anyone there he gives a wave to them - or is it to the truck driver to pull out - 
frank		Stevie. Come over here. 
stevie		I don't want to play pro ball, I decided.
frank		What're you   talking about? This is your dream since   you were their age -  Maybe I can   set it up again.
stevie		It's not what I want. I want to do what you do, Uncle Frank. I want to be you.
teddy		We got a problem.
teddy		He's been cutting it so much it's down to two, three percent pure. FRANK You tested it. You're sure.
frank		The fuck you looking at?
jackie		Frank.   Welcome.
frank		We need to talk.
jackie		Great.   Girls, get out.
jackie		You talked to Charlie. You want to hear more about my Black Coalition. Let me explain it to you -
frank		That's not why I'm here.  Everybody's happy, Jackie. Charlie, Baz, the cops, the Italians, everybody. Everybody except you.
jackie		I'm happy.
frank		Then I don't understand. Why do you have to take something that's perfectly good the way it is, and wreck it?
frank		Brand names mean something, Jackie. Consumers rely on them to know what they're getting. They know the company isn't going to try to fool them with an inferior product. They buy a Ford, they know they're gonna get a Ford. 
jackie		What the fuck are you talking about, Frank?
frank		What you're doing, as far as I'm concerned, when you chop my dope down to five percent, is trademark infringement.
jackie		With all due respect, Frank, if I buy something, I can do whatever I want with it.
frank		That's not true. That's where you're wrong.
jackie		If I buy a car, I can paint it, God damn it.
frank		Jackie, you don't need to. You don't need to make more money than you can with Blue the way it is. No one does. At a certain point it's just greed.
jackie		What do you want, Frank?    You want me to call it something else?
frank		I have to insist. You call it Blue Magic, that's misrepresentation.
jackie		Fine. I'll call it Red Magic, even though it doesn't sound as good.
frank		That's all I'm saying.   Wrap it in red cellophane and - 
jackie		Pink Magic.   Black Magic -
frank		Whack it down to nothing, tie a bow around it and call it Blue Dogshit if you want, just don't let me catch you doing this again.
jackie		Catch me? Insist? Infringement? I don't like these words as much as please - thank you - sorry to bother you, Jackie. These are better words to use you come into my place without an invitation.
teddy		Give me the keys; take a cab home.
frank		You don't go over there any more.
frank		It's all right, pull over, what are they going to do? Give us a ticket?
teddy		Frank?   Some of it's in the trunk.
trupo		Hello, Frank.
frank		Detective. How's it going?        You have a nice Thanksgiving?
trupo		I did not, as a matter of fact.       Get out of the car.
frank		Where's the Shelby?
trupo		The Shelby's gone, Frank.
trupo		Now what are we gonna do about this?
frank		We're gonna shut the trunk and say good night, forget you pulled us over.
trupo		I got a better idea.
trupo		Or would you rather I took it all and threw you and your brother in the fuckin river?
frank		I don't know, would you rather it's your fuckin house blows up next time?
trupo		I loved that car.
frank		I know.
trupo		Let's go.
frank		Don't you ever put me in a car with dope in it.
richie		Yeah.   Tony.    How's it going?
richie		This is nice, where's this?
tony		Aspen.   Just got back.    Had a great time.
richie		I'd like to ski Aspen some day. TONY Know who we met? Burt Reynolds. I'm not kidding. Lot of people from Hollywood go up there now, buying up everything.
richie		This is your place?
tony		Are you kidding? You know what it's worth? Ski-in-ski-out, five bedrooms, sauna, everything. We were guests.  No ... No, that's your place.
tony		Isn't there something we can do - about leaving the big guy alone? You know who I mean.
richie		If I don't report what you just said to me, you know I could be in a lot of trouble. If I do, then it's you.
tony		I'm hoping you won't do that.
tony		I'm not taping it. How do you know? Because we're friends and I'm telling you. This is a real offer.
richie		Tell Marie I'm sorry I had to leave. You can tell her why.
richie		INS, FBI, IRS - I can't get anything out of them. Nothing on his travel, his bank accounts, property holdings - nothing.
toback		That's because they all think you're on the take and you think they are.
spearman		Richie.   Excuse me.
richie		Who took it out? 
fbi agent		We can't say without compromising our source. You understand.
richie		No.    I don't. Not when it's my life.
fbi agent		If you want, we can assign someone to you.
richie		Who?    FBI?   You're going to protect me?
man		Don't shoot!    For God's sake.
richie		Talk.
man		Are you Richard Roberts?      I got a subpoena.
richie		Laurie. I'm sorry I couldn't give you the kind of life you wanted. I'm sorry it was never enough. But don't punish me for being honest. Don't take my son away.
laurie		What are you saying? That because you were "honest" and didn't take money like every other cop, I left you?
laurie		You don't take money for one reason: to buy being dishonest about everything else. And that's worse than taking money nobody gives a shit about - drug money, gambling money nobody's gonna miss.  I'd rather you took it and been honest with me. Or don't take it, I don't care. But don't then go cheat on me. Don't cheat on your kid by never being around. Don't go out and get laid by your snitches and secretaries and strippers. I can tell just by looking, she's one of them.
laurie		You think you're going to heaven because your "honest." You're not. You're going to the same hell as the crooked cops you can't stand.
bailiff		All rise - 232   INT. COURTROOM - LATER - DAY                                     232
sheila		Your honor, a lot has been said here today about how unsavory Mr. Roberts' environment is for a child. How dangerous it is. I'm sorry, but this is our world. This is where we live and we tell him, Protect us. We give him that responsibility, and then say, Oh, but we don't trust you to raise a child. We don't think you're fit for that.
richie		I'm not.
richie		You're right. This is no place for him. Around me. Take him. The further away the better. For him.
doc		Frank -
frank		Yeah, I see them.
frank		Here you go, boys.   Merry Christmas.
frank		Paying cops is one thing, I understand that. I been paying them since I was ten - put more of their kids through college than the National Merit Award. This is different, this Special Investigations Unit. They think they are special.
charlie		They're fucking crooks.   No code of ethics.
frank		Someone's been following me. Besides cops. I see cars where they shouldn't be. Guys I don't know -
charlie		Me, too.
frank		Bumpy hardly ever went out at a certain point. He stayed in - read - watched TV - played chess. I thought he chose to lead a quiet life. He didn't. He couldn't go out without something happening.
ana		We can still go out.
frank		Where? With who? Everyone I know is under surveillance. I can't even be with my family at Christmas anymore.
ana		Why don't you just pay who you have to pay?
frank		I do pay them, I pay them all. Cops, accountants, lawyers, who don't I pay? Everybody. I pay them a fortune, it doesn't matter. It doesn't satisfy them. The more you pay, the more they expect. 
frank		Put on something nice, we're going out.
frank		Keep going.
doc		Around back?
frank		Fuck that. I'm not going to sneak into my own club. Just drive.
ana		I'm going to wait in the car.
doc		Go ahead, Frank.       I'll wait for it.
frank		You can carry it all?      We ordered a lot.
frank		Don't forget the yellow sauce. 244 OMIT                                                            244 OMIT
frank		Doc's got the keys.   Let's go back.
ana		The lights give me a headache, you go.
frank		I'm not leaving you on the street.
ana		Get the keys, Frank, it's cold.
doc		Gimme some of that yellow sauce.
doc		You hit?
frank		What the fuck was that?
frank		Who didn't like Charlie?   Everybody liked Charlie ...
ana		Who shot at us?  It doesn't matter. We're leaving.
frank		Go home.   Go see your kids.
frank		What are you doing?     Where've you been?
ana		We're leaving from here.      Money's in the car.
frank		What money?
ana		Everything from your mother's house.
frank		In your car?
ana		Yes.
frank		Where's the car?
ana		Out front. FRANK With ten million dollars in it?
ana		I didn't count it.
frank		Are you crazy? Take it back to Teaneck. What are you doing driving around without security? Doc'll take you back.
ana		We're not going there, we're going to the airport. We're leaving the country.
frank		To go where?    No, we're not.
ana		Frank, Charlie's dead. They tried to kill us. What else has to happen - ?
frank		Shhh.   Come on, now.   Shhh.
frank		Where are we going to go? Spain? China? Which fuckin place is it going to be?
ana		We can go anywhere we want.     We can live anywhere.
frank		We can run and hide is what you're saying.
frank		This is where I'm from. This is where my family is. My business. My mother. This is my place. This is my country. This is America.
spearman		Said he'll only talk to you.
trupo		From what I hear, it was the Corsicans. The French Connection, Fernando Rey, the exporters Frank has put out of business. Now, I can take care of him in New York, but I don't want to have to worry every time he drives across the bridge to Jersey someone's gonna take another shot at him.
trupo		We need to start working together. We need to step up our efforts. Next time their aim could be better. We need to keep this cash cow alive.
trupo		Jesus. What the fuck you doing here? You actually going to arrest Frank Lucas? What's the matter with you?
richie		I'm crazy. Can't you tell that? I'm crazy enough to shoot someone and make it look like an accident next time he comes over the bridge without my permission. Get the fuck out of New Jersey.
frank		"I can guarantee you peace of mind," you said. Do I look like a man with peace of mind to you? They shot at my wife. Who does that? 
tosca		I don't know that it was any of them, Frank. Neither do you.
frank		Then maybe I'll kill them all just to make a fuckin point.
tosca		You want to know who it was? I can tell you. It was a junkie. Or a rival. Or some dumb ass kid trying to make a name for himself. Or someone you forgot to pay off. Or slighted without realizing it. Or someone you put out of business by being too successful.  Success has a lot of enemies. Your success is who took a shot at you. How you gonna kill it? By being unsuccessful? You can be successful and have enemies, or unsuccessful and have friends. It's the choice we make.
nate		Hello?
frank		I'm watching the news.     Where the hell's everyone going?
nate		Home.    The war's over.
frank		Just like that? We're going to leave the fuckin country to the communists?
nate		We been here since 1961, Frank.
frank		I haven't!
general		Opium plants are hearty enough to outlive any war. They'll still be here long after the troops are gone. But what are you going to do for transportation when the last US plane goes home?
frank		I'll figure something out.      You'll see me again. The General seems fond of Frank, and not only because of all the money on the table.
general		It's not in my best interest to say this, Frank ... but quitting while you're ahead is not the same as quitting.
frank		That's what my wife thinks.
general		But you don't think she's right.
frank		Give them half!
frank		Cut half of them loose!      The mules!
frank		Tomorrow will be fine.
teddy		Short Term Lot 3. This the Mustang were talking about ... Camero? ... What's the plate number? 
abruzzo		There's no Short Term Lot 3 at Newark. They're lettered, A, B, C, D -
jimmy		I'm just telling you what I heard -
abruzzo		Then you heard wrong!
jones		And this isn't a Jersey plate. Or New York. Not with just two letters. It's three and three, not two and three -
jimmy		It's what he said -
jones		Then what the fuck is it -
jimmy		The fuck should I know -
abruzzo		You're fuckin lying -
jimmy		It's what he said.   I'm sure.
spearman		KA 760 -
jimmy		Yes!
richie		None of you ever been in the service? It's an Air Force tail number.
richie		Captain, I'm Richard Roberts, Director of the Essex County Narcotics Bureau.
trupo		Your husband's illustrious career is over. The Feds are going to come in and take it all. Everything. But not before I get my gratuity. Where's the money?
ana		There was some on that dresser, but it's gone now so I guess you  -
trupo		The money! The getaway money Frank and every other gangster keeps in his house! 
ana		If you leave now, there's a chance Frank might not kill you -
ana		I'm sorry.
richie		Open it.
richie		The warrant permits me to search the plane and its cargo.
army captain		But you don't have my permission.
richie		I don't need it.
us attorney		That's enough.
us attorney		That was a military transport plane. If there was heroin on board then someone in the military would have to be involved. Which means that even as it fights a war that's claimed 50,000 Americans lives, the military is smuggling narcotics.
us attorney		That's how these events are being interpreted by General Easton in that call to me. That someone employed by the this office believes the United States Army is in the drug trafficking business - and is trying to prove it by desecrating the remains of young men who've given their lives in the defence of democracy.
richie		There are drugs on that plane -
us attorney		Shut the fuck up.
us attorney		Is it any wonder then, because of your actions, the entire federal narcotics program is now in jeopardy of being dismantled as completely and enthusiastic- ally as that fucking transport plane? That's what you've accomplished Mr. Roberts. Single-handedly.
richie		I had good information the target of my investigation was bringing dope in on that plane.
us attorney		And that target is?
richie		Frank Lucas.
us attorney		Who?  Who's Frank Lucas?  Who's he work for? Which family?
richie		He's not Italian. He's black.
us attorney		Is that supposed to be some kind of joke? You're this close to the end of your career in law enforcement, you're making jokes?
richie		I believe Frank Lucas is above the mafia in the dope business. I believe he buys direct from the source in Southeast Asia, cuts out all the middlemen, and uses US military planes and personnel to bring pure No. 4 heroin into United States.
us attorney		Does he. And how many arrests has he made in his so-called investigation?
richie		I was promised when I took this job, it was about real arrests.
us attorney		Does that mean `none?'
richie		I have cases against most of Frank's organization. Not him -
us attorney		 Frank's organization -
richie		That's right.
us attorney		No fucking nigger has accomplished what the American Mafia hasn't in a hundred years!
richie		Yeah, you'd know, sitting here, having never been on the  -
us attorney		Lou, get this fucking kike out of here -
toback		He was out of line, Richie.
frank		Ten million dollars means nothing to me. 
frank		This - is his death warrant.
frank		Is that where I'm going?
toback		Where is it?
toback		You know that it's there.     You're sure.
richie		Lou. We're ready to go in there knowing there's a good chance we won't all come out. That's what we're willing to do. All I'm asking you to do get me a warrant.
richie		We don't have a lot of time to fuck around -
jones		How long we gonna wait for it?
richie		It'll be here.
spearman		I got to talk to Teddy.
spearman		What the fuck is that? I got business with Teddy and it's none of your fuckin business except to knock on the fuckin door and get him.  As the guy stands, pumping the shotgun, Spearman yanks it hard against his throat like a garrote, forcing him to the floor. The shotgun explodes, showering plaster and pellets. Jones and Abruzzo are instantly all over the other guy as Richie swings the sledgehammer into the door -  335   INT. APARTMENT, THE PROJECTS - CONTINUOUS                      335  The door splinters - the room already in chaos - Teddy, panicked, runs for the bedroom - the detectives crash in yelling at the girls to get down - a shot from somewhere inside wings Abruzzo - Jones and Spearman firing back - crawling across the floor like an infantrymen -  Richie comes into the darkened bedroom leading with his pistol. But Teddy's gone. He sees a tapestry of a tiger on a wall. Pulls at it, finds a big hole knocked into another dark apartment, climbs through, sees an open door -  336   INT. THE PROJECTS BUILDING - CONTINUOUS                        336  As Richie rushes out to the hallway he can hear footfalls echoing in the stairwell. He starts down, taking the stairs five at a time, chases Teddy down two flights -  Teddy yanks open a door, runs down a corridor, bangs into an apartment. Richie reaches the apartment just as Teddy is goes out onto an exterior balcony - Richie continues along the interior corridor, running parallel to Teddy on the balcony, who trips over some debris and garbage, looking over his shoulder for Richie -  Richie cuts through another apartment to head him off, but the door to the balcony is nailed shut. So are the windows. Richie looks around, grabs a small portable television and, just as Teddy runs past, hurls it through a window at him, hitting him in the head.  He falls hard, dazed. Richie hurries through the broken window. Teddy comes to and fights back, until Richie breaks his femur with his bare hands. Teddy howls in excruciating pain -  337   INT/EXT. DRY CLEANERS - DAY                                    337  Police cars outside.    Eugene Lucas is cuffed and led away. 
richie		What kind of trees are these?
frank		You think you got Frank Lucas.      You got nothing.
frank		Here he is, let me talk to him alone. 
frank		I just heard something. I said it couldn't be true. You didn't really turn in a million dollars you found in the trunk of a car, did you?
frank		Want me to tell you what happened to it? It ended up in cops' pockets.
richie		Maybe.
frank		Maybe? No. It did. All you did was give it to them for nothing in return. Not nothing: You got their contempt.
frank		Why'd you do that? What're you trying to prove, you're better than them? You're not better than them. You are them.
richie		I don't have the time or interest to listen to  -
frank		You did it because it was right. That's all. Why's that hard to say? The question is would you do it again? That was a long time ago. It'd be very easy to find out. Tell me you want to find out, tell me the address, and a car will be there, the trunk loaded.
richie		No, thanks.
frank		Who the fuck are you to say no to that? You think that impresses me?
frank		Let me ask you something. You think by putting me in jail, you're going to stop even one junkie from dying? Because you won't. If it isn't me, it'll be someone else. With me or without me, nothing's going to change.
richie		Then that's the way it is.
frank		You have any sort of case? Or just that idiot drives for my brother. Is he your case? Because if it's just him and the powder, it's not enough.
richie		Then you got nothing to worry about.
frank		My brothers won't talk to you. My cousins. None of my family. No one but that mother fucking driver. RICHIE I got more than that. I got a line of people wanting to testify that stretches out the door and around the block.
frank		Bullshit.
richie		Is it? Tony the Bug.     Benny Two-Socks. Carmine Camanetti.
frank		Who the fuck are they? I don't know them and they don't know me.
richie		They sell dope for the Mazzano crime family. Which you all but put out of business.
frank		This is who you're going to put on the stand? Guys who don't know me? Who got nothing to do with me?
richie		They have everything to do with you. And the only thing they hate more than you is what you represent.
frank		I don't represent nothing.
richie		You don't? Black businessman like you? Of course you do. But once you're gone, things can return to normal.
frank		Look at me. You looking? Can you tell by looking it would mean nothing to me if tomorrow you turned up dead?
richie		Get in line. That one stretches around the block, too.
frank		What can we do?
richie		You know what you have to do.
richie		They're not. Not the ones in business with you. They're not my kind any more than the Italians are yours.
frank		What can you promise me?
richie		I can promise you if you lie to me about one name, you'll never get out of prison. Lie about one dollar in one offshore account, you'll never get out. You can live rich in jail the rest of your life, or poor outside it, that's what I can promise.
frank		You know, I don't care if the feds take all my buildings, my stocks, my off-shore accounts. They can take it all, I don't care - use it to build battleships, paint bridges, whatever the fuck they want. Fight another war. But those other motherfuckers - the cops - put my money in their pockets. Millions.
richie		I believe it.
richie		I want to know everyone   you've met for the last twenty years.    Everyone you sold to. Every cop you ever    paid off. Every one who ever stole from   you. Every one you remember.
frank		Oh, I remember them all.   That's not the problem.
richie		What is?
frank		The jail's aren't big enough.
frank		You go up here. Your "special."
frank		Frederick Douglass Boulevard? What was wrong with just plain 8th Avenue?
frank		I used to sit here with Ana in my old car. She hated it. Now I don't even have a car. Or her.
frank		Just do what?
richie		What?
frank		The fuck is that? Just do what?
richie		Sneakers.   Expensive ones.
frank		Who the fuck would buy those?
richie		Your brothers know you're out? FRANK I haven't talked to them in years. It's better that way. For them. I don't know where they are. Went back to Greensboro when they got out, I guess.
frank		What am I going to do now, be a janitor? What do I know how to do? How am I going to live?
richie		I told you I wouldn't let you starve.
frank		You told me but you can barely take care of yourself. 
frank		I won't.   I'm just saying I could.
frank		Thanks for the clothes.
richie		You're welcome.
frank		Uh-oh. Look out. Here come the gangsters.
gangsta 2		What.
gangsta 1		Nothing.
frank		Every idiot gets to be young once.
frank		Let's get out of here.
****Dialogues from script :American_Graffiti.txt****

wolfman		Awwrigght, baay-haay-baay! I got a oldie for ya--gonna knock ya right on de flowa--baay-haay-hee-baay!
terry		Hey, whadaya say? Curt? Last night in town, you guys gonna have a little bash before you leave?
steve		The Moose have been lookin' for you all day, man.
curt		 Oh great...
terry		Whadaya got, whadaya got? Wow--two thousand dollars. Two thousand doll-- !!
steve		Mr. Jenning couldn't find you, so he gave it to me to give to you. He said he's sorry it's so late, but it's the first scholarship the Moose Lodge has given out. Oh yeah, he says they're all very proud of you.
curt		Well... ah... why don't you hold onto it for a while?
steve		What's with you? It's yours! Take it! I don't want it.
terry		I'll take it.
curt		Steve... Ah, I think we'd better have a talk. I've gotten-
steve		Your sister calls. I'll talk to you later.
curt		Now, Steve! Let her wait.
steve		Okay, make it short and sweet.
curt		Yeah, well... Listen...  I... I don't think I'm going tomorrow.
steve		What! Come on, what are you talking about?
curt		I don't know. I was thinking I might wait for a year... go to city--
steve		You chicken fink.
curt		Wait, let me explain--
steve		You can't back out now! After all we went through to get accepted. We're finally getting out of this turkey town and now you want to crawl back into your cell--look, I gotta talk to Laurie.  Now take it. We're leaving in the morning. Okay?
steve		You wanna end up like John? You can't stay seventeen forever.
curt		I just want some time to think. What's the rush? I'll go next year.
steve		We'll talk later.
radio		 "Here comes the Wolfman--Wolfman Jack!"
girl		Hi John!
john		Not too good, huh?
curt		Why is it every girl that comes around here is ugly? Or has a boyfriend? Where is the dazzling beauty I've been searching for all my life?
john		I know what you mean. The pickin's are really gettin' slim. The whole strip is shrinking. Ah, you know, I remember about five years ago, take you a couple of hours and a tank full of gas just to make one circuit. It was really somethin.'
curt		Hey, John. Someone new in town.
john		Ahhh.
curt		You gonna go after him?
john		Hey, listen, Professor, if he can't find me, then he ain't worth racin', right?
curt		The big shot!
budda		A cherry-vanilla coke and a chocolate mountain. Anything else you want, Steve?  If there is you let me know now. Just honk and I'm yours.
budda		One fries--grab it before I drop it.
steve		Where was I?
laurie		Um, how you thought high school romances were goofy and we started going together just because you thought I was kinda cute and funny, but then you suddenly realized you were in love with me, it was serious... and ah... oh, you were leadin' up to somethin' kinda big.
steve		You make it sound like I'm giving dictation. Well, seriously, what I meant was, that ah... since we do care for each other so much, and since we should really consider ourselves as adults. Now, I, ah... could I have a couple of those fries?
steve		Ah, where was I?
laurie		..."consider ourselves adults"...
steve		Right... right... anyway, I thought maybe, before I leave, we could ah... agree that... that seeing other people while I'm away can't possibly hurt, you know?
laurie		You mean dating other people?
steve		I think it would strengthen our relationship. Then we'd know for sure that we're really in love. Not that there's any doubt.
laurie		I think you're right. I mean, we're not kids anymore, and it's silly to think that when we're three thousand miles apart we shouldn't be able to see other people and go out.
steve		Laurie, now, listen, I didn't ask for that back. I think that...
laurie		I know. I just sort of think it's juvenile now. I'll keep it at home. It's less conspicuous there.
steve		You don't want to wear it?
laurie		I didn't say that. I understand and I'm not upset. I mean, I can't expect you to be a monk or something while you're away.
terry		...and I have a really sharp record collection. I even have "Pledging My Love" by Johnny Ace. Anyway, how can you love Nelson when he's going out with Marilyn Gator. Since he dumped on you maybe we could--
budda		He didn't dump on me, you little dip. Hi, Steve!
terry		She's a little conceited--just playing hard to get.
steve		Listen, I came over here to talk to you about--
terry		Any time, buddy. I'm your man. Nothing I like better than chewing the rug with a pal. You talk, I'll listen. I'm all ears. Shoot.
steve		Shut up.
terry		Sure.
steve		Terry, I'm going to let you take care of my car while we're away--at least until Christmas. I'm afraid if I leave it with my--
steve		What's wrong?
curt		Hey, sis--what's wrong?
laurie		Nothing.
steve		Now listen, only 30 weight Castrol- R. I've written the tire pressure and stuff on a pad in the glove compartment. Are you listening?
curt		What's wrong, he's crying!
terry		I can't... believe... it.  This is a superfine machine. This may even be better than Daryl Starbird's superfleck moonbird. It is better than Daryl Starbird's.
terry		Budda, how would you like to go to the drive-in movies with me?
budda		You've got to be kidding!
terry		Would I kid you about a thing like that? I want you to know that something has happened to me tonight that is going to change everything. I've got a new...
terry		Car!! All right, who's the wise-- 
john		Hey, did she do that to you?
steve		Let's get going. It seems like we've spent most of our lives in this parking lot.
terry		Hey, Curt, let's bomb around, I wanna try out my new wheels!
curt		I'd like to, Toad, but I'm going with Steve and Laurie to the hop. I'd just slow you down anyway.
terry		Yeah, tonight things are going to be different.
john		Hey, wait a minute, you're goin' to the Hop? The Freshman Hop?
curt		Yeah.
john		Oh, come on, man. That place is for kids. You two just got your ass out of there. Don't go back now.
curt		You ain't got no emotions?
terry		We're gonna remember all of the good times, is what we're gonna do.
john		Yeah, well, go.
curt		Why don't you come with us?
john		Bullshit, man!
curt		Come on. For old time's sake.
john		Yeah, yeah... Well, listen. You go. Go ahead, Curtsy, baby. You go on over there and you remember all the good times you won't be having. I ain't goin' off to some goddamned fancy college. I'm stayin' right here. Havin' fun, as usual.
terry		Jesus, Milner, you're in a great mood tonight.
curt		What's the matter John? Did I say somethin' wrong? I'm sorry.
john		Ah, man, it's nothin'.
curt		Well, we'll see you later, okay?
john		Right.
curt		We'll all do somethin' together. You know, before Steve leaves.
john		Okay, wait a minute. Now, you're not going?
curt		I don't know.
man		This is Joe... in Little Rock, way down in the Valley.
wolfman		You callin' from Little Rock, California?
man		Long distance.
wolfman		My, my, my... listen, man, what kind of entertainment you got in that town?
man		All we got is you.
john		Hey, Zudo.
pazudo		Hey, Milner.
john		Hey, man, what happened to your flathead?
pazudo		Huh?
john		What happened to your flathead?
pazudo		Ah, your mother!
john		What?
pazudo		Your mother. Hey, we been talkin' about you.
john		Yeah?
pazudo		Yeah. There's a very wicked '55 Chevy lookin' for you.
john		Yeah, I know.
pazudo		Watch out for the cop that's in Jerry's Cherry.
john		Yeah. All right, thanks.
guy		Hey, Toad.
guy		 Geez, what a waste of machinery.
girl		Hey, kid.
wolfman		Ah, yeah, listen, you got any more of those secret agent spy-scopes?
man		Hit parade on the stethoscope?
wolfman		No. No, the secret agent spy-scope, man. That pulls in the moon, the sky and the planets... and the satellites and the little bitty space men.
man		You must have the wrong number, partner.
wolfman		'Bye.
curt		What?
curt		 What? What?!!!
steve		We didn't say anything.
curt		Quick! Hang a right!
steve		What? Why?
curt		Cut over to G Street, I've just seen a vision! She was a goddess. You've got to catch her!
steve		I didn't see anything.
laurie		We're not going to spend the night chasing girls for you.
curt		I'm telling you, this was the most perfect, dazzling creature I've ever seen.
steve		She's gone. Forget it.
curt		She spoke to me. She spoke to me, right through the window. I think she said, "I love you."
curt		That means nothing to you people? You have no romance, no soul? She-- someone wants me. Someone roaming the streets wants me! Will you turn the corner?
john		Oh, oh. Later.
guy		Alligator.
john		Hey, you're new around here. Where're you from?
first girl		Turlock.
john		Turlock? You know a guy named Frank Bartlett?
first girl		No. Does he go to Turlock High?
john		Well, he used to. He goes to J.C. now.
first girl		Do you go to J.C.?
john		Yeah, sure.
first girl		Oh, wow! Do you know Guy Phillips?
john		Yeah, sure. I got him in a class.
first girl		He's so boss.
john		How would you like to ride around with me for awhile?
first girl		I'm sorry, I can't. I'm going steady.
john		Ah, come on!
first girl		I just can't.
john		You're just ridin' around with a bunch of girls. Hey, how about somebody else in there? Anybody else want to go for a ride?
john		Aw, come on... I got plenty of room. It's dangerous to have that many people in a car. Cops see ya, you're had. You got nothing to fear, I'm as harmless as a baby kitten.
carol		I'll go. I'll go.
first girl		Judy's sister wants to ride with you. Is that all right?
john		 Yeah, sure, Judy--her sister--her mother--anybody. I'll take 'em all. Listen, we'll go up and stop at that light. It'll turn red by the time we get there. All right?
john		You ever get tired of going steady with somebody that ain't around--I'm up for grabs.
john		So, you're Judy's little sister.
john		Ah, shit,--how old are you?
carol		Old enough. How old are you?
john		I'm too old for you.
carol		You can't be that old.
john		Listen, listen. I think you better go back and sit with your sister. Hey, ah... where are they, anyway? They comin' back or somethin'? This is a joke, right? This better be a joke, 'cause I'm not drivin' you around.
carol		But you asked me. What's the matter? Am I too ugly?  Judy doesn't want me with her and now you don't want me with you. Nobody wants me... even my mother and father hate me. Everybody hates me.
john		No they don't. I mean, I don't know, maybe they do. But I don't. It's just that you're a little young for me.
carol		I am not! If you throw me out I'll scream.
john		OK, OK, just stay cool. There's no need to scream. We'll think of something.  It shouldn't take too long to find your sister again.
john		Oh, shit! Hey, get down!
john		Hey, cool...
carol		Hey, is this what they call copping a feel?
john		NO! Uh uh. N-O. Don't even say that. Jesus...
carol		What's your name?
john		Mud, if anybody sees you.
terry		What you got in there, kid?
kid		More than you can handle.
older man		Excuse me, but I think we've had an accident.
terry		Well, goddamnit, I won't report you this time, but next time just watch it, will ya?
salesman		I'll give you $525 for her on a practically new Corvette... and on top of this, I'm going to know 10% off the low price of this beautiful Vette. I'm talking about only $98 down and $98 a month. Now, how am I able to make you this incredible offer? I'll tell you! I'm forced to move all the sporty cars off the lot as quickly as I can. Boss's orders. He doesn't want 'em. I think it's a mistake, but what can I do?
peg		Hey, why are you so depressed? You'll forget him in a week. Listen, after you're elected senior queen you'll have so many boys after your bod--
laurie		I don't want to go out with anybody else.
peg		Laurie, I know it's a drag but you can't--remember what happened to Evelyn Chelnick? When Mike went to the Marines? She had a nervous breakdown and was acting so wacky she got run over by a bus.
laurie		I just wish I could go with him or something.
peg		Laurie, jeez... Come on.
steve		What's that?
eddie		What's what?
steve		Hey, zit make-up!  Wait till I tell--hey, everybody, Eddie--
eddie		Come on, Steve--don't. Just cool it.
steve		 Let me see some of that stuff.
eddie		You leave tomorrow?
eddie		You and Laurie engaged yet?
steve		No, but we got it worked out. We're still going together but we can date other people.
eddie		And screw around--I hear college girls really give out.
steve		Come on.
laurie		Come on what?
steve		Let's dance.
laurie		No thanks.
steve		Laurie, I want to dance.
laurie		Who's stopping you?
steve		 Laurie, I thought since this was our last night together for 3 months, you might want to dance with me.
laurie		How sentimental. You'll be back at Christmas.
steve		I want to dance now, not at Christmas.
laurie		Get your cooties off me--
laurie		Go ahead, slug me, scar my face. I wouldn't dance with you if you were the last guy left in this gym.
eddie		Uh, Peg, I think we should dance.
peg		No, this is getting good.
laurie		I'll dance with you, Eddie. You don't mind, do you, Peggy?
peg		Joe College strikes out.
girl		You won't dance? Come on.
girls		Aahhh.
curt		 Kids... Want one?
curt		No, not yet.  I have no matches.
curt		Blotto.
curt		 Cute. Very cute. Where'd you go again?
curt		And only stayed a semester.
curt		Why?
curt		Well, you know I might find I'm not the competitive type myself.
curt		Well, I'm not really sure that I'm going.
jane		I mean--Mr. Wolfe. Can I speak with you a minute.  Hi, Curt.
curt		Jane...
curt		Yeah... I'll see you. Thanks a lot.
carol		So the next night we found out where they parked and went out with ammunition.
john		Don't you have homework or something to do?
carol		No sweat--my mother does it. Anyway, he thought he was had. He started the car and couldn't see through the windshield--and zoomed straight into the canal--it was a riot.
carol		I still got some, so don't try anything.
john		Hey, watch it will ya! Jesus Christ, thanks a lot.  Hey, drivin' is a serious business. I ain't havin' no accidents because of you.
john		 Come on, don't give me any grief. I'm warning ya.
carol		Spare me, killer.
carol		Why'd you do that?
john		I don't like that surfing shit. Rock 'n Roll's been going downhill ever since Buddy Holly died.
carol		Don't you think the Beach Boys are boss!
john		You would, you grungy little twerp.
carol		Grungy? You big weenie, if I had a boyfriend he'd pound you.
john		 Sure--ah, shit, Holstein!
carol		Good, a cop--I'm going to tell him you tried to rape me.
john		Oh, no--No. Hey--
carol		It's past my curfew. I'm going to tell him how old I am, my parents don't know I'm out and you tried to rape me. Boy, are you up a creek.
john		Hey--ah, really--don't say anything.
carol		If you say "I was a dirty bird. Carol's not grungy, she's bitchin'."
carol		Say it--I'll tell him.
john		 I was a dirty bird, Carol's not grungy, she's bitchin.'
carol		Okay--I'll think about it.
holstein		Where you going, Milner?
john		I'm going home--sir.
holstein		Where you been, Milner?
john		Ah--at the movies--sir.
holstein		Milner, you weren't around the 12th and G streets at about 8:30, were you?
john		No, I wa at the movies--like I said-- sir.
holstein		Uh-huh. Milner, the reason I stopped you was because the light on your license plate is out.  I'm gonna have to cite you for that. And Milner, the front end of this... this... this thing you're driving looks a little low.
john		Oh, no sir. It's twelve and a half inches. Regulation size. Now, it's been checked several times. You can check it if you like, sir.
holstein		Look, Milner.
john		Yes, sir.
holstein		You can't fool with the law.
john		Yes, sir.
holstein		We know that was you tonight. We have an excellent description of this car. I could run you in right now and I could make it stick. But I'm not gonna do that, Milner, you know why?
holstein		Because I want to catch you in the act. And when I do, I'm gonna nail you, but good. Happy Birthday, Milner.
john		Thank you--asshole.
carol		 You're a regular J.D.
john		Here, file that under C.S. over there.
carol		C.S.? What's that stand for?
john		Chicken shit--that's what it is.
carol		Oh...
girlfriend		Ain't he neat?
falfa		Hey, you know a guy around here with a piss yellow deuce coupe--supposed to be hot stuff?
terry		You mean John Milner?
terry		Hey, nobody can beat him, man. He's got the fastest--
falfa		I ain't nobody, dork. Right?
terry		Right...
falfa		Hey, you see this Milner, you tell him I'm lookin' for him, huh? Tell him I aim to blow his ass right off the road.
girlfriend		 Ain't he neat?
terry		What a babe... what a bitchin' babe... And Wolfman Baby, she's all mine.
terry		Okay, honey, here I come--James Dean lives!
terry		Stay cool, honey--don't let those creeps bug you. Wolfman, please don't let those creeps bug her... please.
terry		Hi!  Hello... buenos noches? Need a lift? Nice night for a walk? Do you know John Milner? Curt Henderson? Sure you wouldn't like a ride somewhere? Did anyone ever tell you that you look just like Connie Stevens?
terry		You do! I mean it! Just like Connie Stevens. I met her once.
debbie		For real?
terry		Yeah. At a Dick Clark road show.
debbie		You really think I look like her?
terry		No shit--excuse me, I mean I'm not just feeding you a line. You look like Connie Stevens. What's your name?
debbie		Debbie. I always though I looked like Sandra Dee.
terry		Oh yeah--well, you look a lot like her too.
debbie		This your car?
terry		Yeah. I'm Terry the--they call me Terry the Tiger.
debbie		It's really tough looking.
terry		What school do you go to?
debbie		Dewey--can it lay rubber?
terry		Oh yeah, it's got a 327 Chevy mill with six Strombergs.
debbie		Wow--bitchin' tuck and roll. I just love the feel of tuck and roll upholstery.
terry		You do?
debbie		Yeah.
terry		Well, come on in--I'll let you feel it. I mean, you can touch it if you want--  I mean the upholstery, you know.
debbie		Okay.
debbie		Peel out.
terry		What?
debbie		Peel out. I love it when guys peel out.
girl		--a great band and they came all the way from Stockton. Let's hear it.
girl		And we want to thank Darby Langdon, who did all these neat decorations.
laurie		I don't care if you leave this second.
girl		 Now the next dance is gonna be a snowball and leading it off is last year's class president Steven Bolander-- and this year's head cheerleader, Laurie Henderson.
steve		What's wrong with you! You're acting like a snotty--
laurie		Oh God, come on.
steve		Come on what?
laurie		 Oh, Steven--please, everybody's watching. Smile or something.
laurie		You think I care if you go off. You think I'm going to crack up or something. Are you conceited!
steve		Quit--quit pinching--I don't know why I ever started taking you out in the first place.
laurie		You take me out? When we first met you didn't have enough sense to take the garbage out... I asked you out, remember?
steve		What do you mean, you asked me out!
laurie		Backwards Day--remember? If I had waited for you to ask me--even after that you didn't call me for two weeks.
steve		I was busy.
laurie		You were scared. Dave Oboler told me. Then when you did ask me out you didn't kiss me for three dates.
steve		Well--I was--
laurie		Scared--Jim Kaylor told me. I even asked my father why you hadn't kissed me.
steve		Your father--great!
laurie		He said he thought you were bright and you'd probably think of kissing me after a while.
laurie		You didn't, of course. I had to. Remember that picnic?
steve		Out at the canyon?
laurie		Oh boy! You can't remember anything-- the first one, up at the lake. That was the first time you kissed me--I practically had to throw myself at you.
steve		 I remember.
steve		What's wrong?
laurie		Go to hell.
wendy		What are you doin', stealing hub caps?
curt		Well--hey, Wendy.
wendy		How've you been?
curt		Fine. Great. How've you been?
wendy		I'm coming--wait a sec.  She's got her car. Hey, I thought you were going away to school.
curt		Ah, maybe... maybe.
wendy		Same old Curt. All the time we were going together you never knew what you were doing... well, anyway, I gotta go.
curt		Hey, Wendy--where are you going?
wendy		Nowhere.
curt		 Well, you mind if I come along?
wendy		 Okay.
curt		Okay.
steve		Hey, Kroot!
steve		Why don't you go kiss a duck.
kroot		What? What did you say?
steve		I said go kiss a duck, marblehead.
steve		 I graduated last semester.
steve		 Get your shoes. Let's go before we get thrown out.
man		This is Weird Willard.
wolfman		Hold on a minute, let me get my pants off... you understand?
steve		Why don't we go to the canal?
laurie		 What for?
steve		Listen, I can get tough with you too, you know.
laurie		Yeah, hard tough.
terry		I go to Dewey too, ya know.
debbie		I never seen ya.
terry		I bug out a lot. When I graduate, I'm going to join the Marines.
debbie		They got the best uniforms. But what if there's a war?
terry		With the bomb, who's going to start it? We'd all blow up together. Anyway, I'd rather be at the front. I'm like that--rather be where the action is, you know. Once I got in a fight with--
debbie		I love Eddie Burns.
terry		Eddie Burns--oh, yeah, Eddie Burns. I met him once, too.
debbie		You really think I look like Connie Stevens? I like her--Tuesday Weld is too much of a beatnik, don't you think?
terry		Yeah, beatniks are losers.
debbie		Who do you like? I mean, singers and stuff.
terry		Ah hell--I like most of the people you like.
debbie		 That's nice--we got a lot in common.
debbie		You know what I'd like more than anything in the world right now?
debbie		I'd love a double Chubby Chuck. Isn't that what you'd like more than anything right now?
terry		 Sure...
terry		A double Chubby Chuck, a Mexicali Chili Barb, two orders of French fries--
debbie		And cherry cokes.
intercom		Ark, wark, dork.
terry		 Now wait a minute. What? Huh?
intercom		Ark, wark, dork.
terry		Yeah, right. Cool.
vic		Hey, Deb. How's my soft baby?
debbie		Beat it, Vic. I'm not your baby.
vic		Oh, come on, honey. So I never called you back. I've been, you know, busy...
debbie		Three weeks... besides, it only took one night for me to realize that if brains were dynamite, you couldn't blow your nose.
vic		Look who's talking. Who's the wimp you're hanging out with now? Einstein?
debbie		Tiger happens to be very intelligent. Unlike you. I know every thing your dirty little mind is thinking...  ...it shows...
terry		Hey, now--  I mean, hey now, buddy, the lady obviously doesn't--
vic		Look, creep, you want a knuckle sandwich?
terry		Ah, no thanks, I'm waiting for a double Chubby--Chuck...
vic		Then shut your smart ass mouth! I'll call ya, Deb, some night when I'm hard up.
debbie		I won't be home.
terry		You seem to, ah--know a lot of weird guys.
debbie		That sex fiend is not a friend of mine; he's just horny. That's why I like you, you're different.
terry		I am? You really think I'm intelligent?
debbie		Yeah. And I'll bet you're smart enough to get us some brew.
terry		Brew?
debbie		Yeah.
terry		Brew... oh--yeah... oh, sure...  Yes! Liquor! This place is too crowded anyway.
car hop		What about your double Chubby Chuck, mexicali-chili-barb and  --two cherry cokes, sir?
curt		There--don't you see it? Speed up, you're losing her--
bobbie		Quit shouting in my ear!
curt		Cut around him, cut around him.
curt		There, hang a right--over there!
curt		You lost her!
wendy		What's wrong with you? You know Bobbie gets nose bleeds when she's upset.
bobbie		I do not! You shut up!
curt		Lost her again. Ah, Wendy, my old lover, come back here and console me.
wendy		Eat your heart out. Who was she anyway?
curt		I don't know, but I'm going to find out.
bobbie		I know her!
curt		Okay, come on, who is she?
bobbie		You know Mr. Beeman? He owns Hepcat Jewelers.
curt		Yeah.
bobbie		Well, she's his wife.
curt		But she was young and beautiful, and cruising 10th Street. You're thinking of someone else.
wendy		Mr. Beeman's not so old.
curt		What cruel fate keeps me from my true love? How am I ever going to meet her?
wendy		 Did you know that my ex is going to become a presidential aide? It's supposed to be a secret, but his big ambition in life is to shake hands with President Kennedy. How are you going to accomplish that at J.C.?
curt		Maybe I've grown up. Maybe I've changed my mind.
wendy		Maybe you don't think you can do it!
curt		Maybe you should shut up!
wendy		Maybe I will... and maybe I won't.
curt		Why don't you move your bod into aft chamber, where we might discuss this in private.
bobbie		 Thanks a lot.
curt		Come on, Wendy? She doesn't say anything. They pull up to a stoplight. Wendy looks at the red stoplight and then abruptly gets out of the car and jumps in the back.
wendy		Well, slide over, I'm not sitting on your lap.
curt		To the Opera, James.
bobbie		Drop dead.
curt		Unless you want to go to Gallo Dam and have an orgy.
wendy		You wish.
wendy		I've been silly. I'm glad you're going to stay. Maybe we'll have some classes together.
curt		Maybe.
bobbie		 Look, there's Kip Pullman! He's so neat.
bobbie		Do you know Kip?
curt		Huh? Yeah, I know him.
bobbie		Talk to him when we go by.
curt		What do you want me to say?
bobbie		Anything... I just want to meet him.
curt		Kip, baby, what's up?
kip		Henderson, long time no see. Whadaya been doing?
curt		Not much, just wanted to let you know that Bobbie here is hopelessly in love with you and trembles at the sight of your rippling biceps...
bobbie		You creep, fink, son-of-a-bitch--
curt		Help, wait! Joke--Joke--Bobbie, remember your nose bleeds!
bobbie		Get out--get out of my car--I hate you!
curt		Excuse me--ouch--Wendy--I got to go now.
wendy		Curt, I hope I see you at registration. Call me if you want. It was nice seeing you again.
curt		See ya.
curt		Oh shit--there!! Wait!
carol		I'm so thirsty, I could die. Just a little 10 cent coke to wet my whistle. It won't take a minute, I can drink it in the--
john		Why don't you just get out and get one then! So long, goodbye, hasta lumbago.
john		All right, one coke and then home.
carol		Isn't it great, the way I can cry whenever I want. A lot of people can't do that, but Vicki showed me how. I bet you can't cry.
john		Don't count on it. I may surprise you any minute now.
john		 One ten cent coke. Is ice extra? All right, ice.
carol		Thanks for nothing.
carol		Oh rats, I though some of my friends might be here.
john		Probably a couple of weeks past their bedtime.
carol		Wait, there's Dee Dee. I hope she sees me.
john		Oh Shit, Dee Dee!
al		Hiya, John. Say, do you think if I brought my Mopar by the shop Monday you could spot weld the bumper bracket?
john		Have to be before noon.
al		Sure. Hey, have you met Linda?
john		No. Hi--ahh, this is my, ahh, cousin, Carol. I'm kinda babysitting tonight.
carol		Babysitting!!
john		Jesus--watch it, will yuh?  Been hittin' me all night. Kids will be kids, you know.
john		Watch out--damn it! Look what--why don't you grow up!  We don't get along too well. It's been like this--
carol		You spastic creep!
john		We don't get along too well. You know what cousins are like.
al		Yeah... well, I'll see ya on Monday before noon.
carol		Hi cousin, how's your bod?
debbie		Do you have an ID?
terry		No... hey, but no sweat. What'll it be? Beer, little wine?
debbie		If you could get some Old Harper, I'd give you a French kiss.
terry		Old Harper, rrright! He gives her an OK sign with his fingers and goes over to the store. He starts to enter, then stops and thinks. He sees a man in a business suit approaching, and smiles.
terry		Excuse me, sir, while you're in there-- I mean, since you're going in anyway, I wonder if--
man		Yes, son?
terry		Could you--sir--could you give me the time?
man		 Why sure, it's a quarter to twelve.
terry		Great. Quarter to twelve. Thanks a lot.
terry		Pardon me, sir, but I lost my I.D. in--in a flood and I'd like to get some Old Harper, hard stuff. Would you mind buying a bottle for me?
bum		Why certainly, I lost my wife, too-- her name wasn't Idy, though, and it wasn't in a flood--but I know what ya--
terry		Thanks, here's enough for a pint.
terry		Hi. Still quarter to twelve.
man		Right-o. Night.
terry		Night.
terry		 Hey, no. Not wine. Ssss--hey!
terry		 Hi there--ah, say--was there an old man in here a minute ago?
owner		Yeah. He went out the back.
owner		You want something?
terry		Yeah--ah--let me have a Three Musketeers, ah, and a ball point pen ther, a comp, a pint of Old Harper, couple of flashlight batteries and some of this beef jerky.
owner		Okay, got an I.D. for the liquor?
terry		A what? Oh, sure--  Oh nuts, I left it--I left it in the car.
owner		Sorry, you'll have to get it before--
terry		Well, I can't. I also ah, forgot the car.
debbie		Hey, did ya get it? Ya get it, ya get it?
debbie		You got it. You got it!
debbie		You didn't get it. Why didn't you get it?
terry		Ah, well, I needed some things and I thought as long as I was in there-- look, Debbie, can you loan me a dollar?
debbie		What? Are you for real? Come on. Girls don't pay. Guys pay.
terry		Yeah, well, see--I've only got a fifty and he doesn't have change.
debbie		Well, I can't believe this... I really cannot believe this. Here.
terry		Hi--excuse me. I was wondering--could you, ah--
guy		Buy you a bottle of booze. Yeah, I know. You lost your I.D. What kind do you want?
terry		 Gee, that's terrific. Ah, just some ah--Old Harper.
john		That's Freddy Benson's Vette... he got his head on with some drunk. Never had a chance. Damn good driver, too. What a waste when somebody gets it and it ain't even their fault.
carol		Needs a paint job, that's for sure.
john		That Vette over there. Walt Hawkins, a real ding-a-ling. Wrapped it around a fig tree out on Mesa Vista with five kids in it. Draggin' with five kids in the car, how dumb can you get? All the ding-a-lings get it sooner or later. Maybe that's why they invented cars. To get rid of the ding-a-lings. Tough when they take someone with them.
carol		You never had a wreck though--you told me.
john		I come pretty close a couple of times. Almost rolled once. So far I've been quick enough to stay out of here. The quick and the dead.
carol		I bet you're the fastest.
john		I've never been beaten--lot of punks have tried. See that '41 Ford there? Used to be the fastest wheels in the valley. I never got a chance to race old Earl. He got his in '55 in the hairiest crash ever happened around here. He was racing a '54 Chevy, bored and loaded, out on the old Oakdale Highway and every damn kid in town was out there. The Chevy lost its front wheel doing about 85. The idiot had torched the spindles to lower the front end and it snapped right off. He slammed bam into the Ford and then they both of them crashed into a row of cars and all those kids watchin! Jesus, eight kids killed including both drivers, looked like a battlefield. Board of Education was so impressed they filmed it. Show it now in Drivers Education, maybe you'll see it. Anyway, since then street racing's gone underground. No spectators, I mean. Too bad.
carol		I'd love to see you race.
john		Come on! None of that.
carol		Whadaya mean? I'm the one who's supposed to say that. Whadaya afraid of? I'll keep it above the waist.
john		Funny...  Who knows, in a few years--but not now, bunny rabbit.
carol		Bunny rabbit! Oh brother, you are such a drip.
john		Come on, open the door.
carol		If you say "Carol's not a bunny, she's a foxy little tail."
john		 Carol's not a rabbit, she's a foxy little tail.
carol		You say the cutest things.
joe		Whadaya doin', creep?
curt		Me?
joe		No, I'm talking to the other fifty creeps here. You know Gil Gonzales?
curt		Gil Gonzales... no.
joe		Don't know Gil... you oughta. You really should.
curt		Yeah... why?
joe		No reason... he's a friend of ours... and that's his car you're sitting on.
joe		Hey, where ya goin?
curt		 No place. Not going any place.
joe		Ya must be going someplace--I mean ya left here. Bring him over here, Ants, I want to show him something.
joe		Here--bend down, look here. See that? Right across there--see?
curt		I guess so--yeah.
joe		You scratched it, man. Where do you get off sitting on Gil's car, huh, man?
curt		I'm sorry. It's not much of a scratch. I don't think he'll even--
joe		It ain't the size that's in question here. It's the principle. Jeez, this is tough... what should we do with ya?
ants		Tie him to the car and drag him.
curt		That's funny  Hey, you guys know Toby Juarez? He's a Pharoah, isn't he?
joe		Toby Juarez. Yeah, sure we know Toby.
curt		He's a friend of mine.
joe		Sure, good old Toby. He's a friend of yours. That's cool... we all hate his guts.
curt		Oh--well, I don't know him that much anyway.
joe		We killed him last night.
ants		Tied him to a car and dragged him.
joe		This is going to take some thinking. You better come with us maybe.  Go riding with the Pharoahs...
curt		Well, I don't think I can--I gotta--
joe		I know just how ya feel.
carlos		Shotgun!
ants		No, I called it!
carlos		When?
ants		Before we picked you up.
carlos		You can't call it for the whole night, man. I got it now. Get in the back.
wolfman		Pardon me. Your name is Colette?
operator		Yes. Collect Call.
wolfman		Your name is Colette Call?
operator		Sir, this is the Operator.
wolfman		Are you French, Operator?
operator		This is a collect call for Wolfman Jack.
wolfman		I... I love you, Operator.
operator		Is this Wolfman Jack?
wolfman		Is Floyd there?
operator		It's for a Wolfman... Jack...
carol		I just love listening to the Wolfman. My Mom won't let me at home. Because he's a Negro, I think... anyway, he's terrific. Do you know that he just broadcasts from a plane that flies around in circles all the time? Do you think that's true?
wolfman		You mean Floyd? Hello, is this Floyd?
wolfman		No, it ain't honey--bye!
carlos		You tell her, Wolfman. He's my man. When I graduate, I'm gonna be a Wolfman. Hey, you know he broadcasts out of Mexico someplace?
joe		No, he don't. I seen the station right outside of town.
carlos		That's just a clearing station, man. So he can fool the cops. He blasts that thing all the way around the world. It's against the law, man.
ants		Ah, man--they'll never catch the Wolfman.
ants		Hey, man, who cut the cheese?
joe		He who smelt it, dealt it.  Hey, creep, scoot down. Sitting up like that, it wrecks the lines of the car, you know what I mean?
joe		There's that badass Chevy again. Look at he snatch he's got with him.
ants		Hey, man, he looks like a whimp.
curt		Probably is. Whimps get all the snatch.
carlos		Milner ain't gonna beat that. His time has come. He's getting old. He ain't as fast as he used to be.
john		You got two seconds to get your ass over in the corner.
carol		Don't worry, I won't rape you.
girl		You got a bitchin' car.
girl		In fact, we're gonna give you our special prize for having the neatest car around. You want me to give it to you?
john		If the prize is you, honey, I'm a ready Teddy.
girl		Yeah, well get bent turkey.
carol		All right, very funny. What a chop. Ha ha. Quit laughing!!
carol		Let's catch 'em at the light. Then you jump out and flatten their tires.
john		Hey, wait a--
carol		Just do what I say!
john		Yezz, bozz....
terry		Tootie fruiti all ruti... It's Super Cola!
terry		It's a... a little... strong, I think.
debbie		 It's the living end.
terry		Yeaah, I guess it wasn't mixed.
debbie		Wow, it's pretty tonight. It's a perfect night to go horseback riding-- I was going with a guy once who had a horse.
terry		Oh yeah? I used to have a couple of horses myself.
debbie		Really?
terry		I used them for hunting. I do a lot of hunting. Deer mostly, although I got a couple of bear last year. Yep, they were good ponies--hunting ponies. I had to train 'em special, you know.
debbie		Do you still have 'em? We could go for a ride.
terry		No, I had to sell 'em. To get these wheels... and a jeep. I also have a jeep pick-up, with four-wheel drive. It's got a gun rack. And I use that for hunting mostly.
debbie		Why do you kill little animals? I think that's terrible.
terry		Oh, well, yeah, I figure with bears, though, it's either me or them... You know, I think you're really neat.
debbie		Wait a second.
terry		Oh, jeez, I'm sorry. I don't know what got into me--I didn't mean to-- maybe it's the booze or something.
debbie		There--now.
debbie		Ow--you pinched me.
terry		I'm sorry.
debbie		Let me get my head over here--okay, now you get up--
terry		Ow--my leg, my leg. Ow, watch it!
debbie		Ummm, I just love tuck 'n roll upholstery.
terry		Geez, it's like Grand Central Station around here. Why don't we go someplace else.
debbie		Nah, come on. They won't come back.
terry		Wait a minute. I got a blanket in the back. Why don't we go over into the field?
debbie		All right. Okay.
wolfman		How old are you?
girl		I'm thirteen, how old are you?
wolfman		I'm only fourteen.
girl		Oh, boy, I love you, Wolfman.
singers		 "Wolfman Jack."
wolfman		Oh, now we gonna do the weather for all the valleys and the mountain tops. Gonna be hot... about 200 degrees in Merced, 400 degrees out in Fresno, and I know we're gonna have about 500 degrees up around the valley somewhere. You got the Wolfman Jack Show.
curt		Hey, terrific, I love miniature golf.
joe		I hate it.
curt		Well, I don't play that often really. Ah--what're we doing here then?
joe		We're outta gas.
curt		They don't sell gas here.
joe		No... but we're outta money, too. Come on, Carl.
curt		Curt.
joe		All right, men.
curt		Hey, hi. Mr. Gordon, what's up?
curt		These are my friends. We were just...
curt		Oh ah--no--no, I'm not--
curt		I mean, I'm not leaving until tomorrow.
hank		We are all proud of you, Curt. The Moose Scholarship couldn't have gone to a better boy. And if there's anything we can do, let us know.
joe		Hey, we're all done out here.
curt		Ah, he means, we're all done having loads of fun out here.
hank		Wonderful. You can have all the fun you want. This place is for fun.
curt		Yes. Yes, it is. Thank you. Thank you both.
hank		Before I say goodbye, Curt, I want to tell you I hope you'll be taking along with you a little piece of this place.
curt		I think I have.
hank		Good. Don't forget us.
curt		No, I won't forget you and you won't forget me.
hank		Good-bye and good luck.
curt		'Bye.
joe		It was nice to meet yuh.
curt		Right. What he said goes for me, too.
joe		Yeah, you just might make it as a Pharoah yet, boy.
hank		Some day he'll make a fine Moose.
debbie		What's wrong?
terry		I thought I heard something.
terry		Wait a minute!
debbie		What?
terry		The radio is gone... That means--the car is gone!
terry		Oh no!!! OH NO!!!
terry		Oh God--I'm sorry. But, why the car? You could have struck us with lightning or something--anything--- but not the car!
laurie		You know, it doesn't make sense to leave home to look for a home, to give up a life to find a new life, to say goodbye to friends you love just to find new friends.
steve		What? Say that again, I didn't--
laurie		That's what Curt said.
steve		Oh, figures.  You must've talked his ear off trying to get him to stay.
laurie		That's not true. I didn't say anything. Curt just said at dinner tonight he realized there was no big hurry. He thought he should take it easy for a while, go to J.C. and try to figure out what he wants to do with his life.
steve		That sounds logical.
laurie		You think so?
steve		Sure. I think Curt's probably right for Curt. Not for me though. Laurie, look at me. Now you know what I want out of life. And it's just not in this town.
laurie		I'm not going to the airport tomorrow.
laurie		Steve! Don't.
steve		 It's our last night together for three months... come on.
laurie		We've been through this before.
steve		I'm going to miss you so much. I need something to remember you by. You don't want me to forget you.
laurie		 No...
steve		What's wrong? You're just lying there.
laurie		Well go ahead, you want to.
steve		Not like that.
laurie		If you're not going to remember me for anything else, why don't you go ahead?
steve		You want it and you know it. Don't be so damn self-righteous with me. After those things you told me about watching your brother--
laurie		You're disgusting! Get out of my car! I told you never--
steve		I'm sorry.
laurie		Get out! It's not worth it. I don't care if you're leaving--now get out!
debbie		Anyway, the Goat Killer--
terry		Let's talk about something else.
debbie		--Whenever he strikes, he leaves a bloody goat's head near the victim. Isn't that creepy?
debbie		They thought he went up to Stockton, but two nights ago they found Carlie Johnson and Don White right here by the canal all hacked to pieces and--
terry		Who do you think'll take the regionals this--
debbie		--not only were there bloody goats' heads, but he had switched all the parts of their bodies around. You know putting her arms on him and his legs on--
terry		Wait a second. Did you hear...?
debbie		You think it's the Goat Killer?
terry		 No! I mean, no. Listen, I'll go for help, you stay here.
debbie		Come on, we'll hide in the field.
debbie		Maybe if it's the Goat Killer he'll get somebody and we'll see the whole thing.
terry		I don't want to see the whole thing. Especially if it's us he--oh, why me? I'm going to look lousy with your legs and a goat's head and--
debbie		Shhh--he's stopped. I can't see him very--I think he's coming this way.
terry		Well, as long as he's not--Debbie! Debbie!
terry		Who, me? Why me?
steve		Terry.
terry		Steve!
terry		Where'd you go, anyway?
debbie		Over there.
terry		Well, don't go off again. Come on, let's get out of here.
steve		What're you doing out here? Hey, where's my rod?
terry		 Um, oh, did I introduce you? This is Debbie. Debbie, this is Steve.
debbie		Hello.
steve		Hi.
debbie		Hi.
steve		Well, what about my car?
terry		Um... I'ts in the garage. I put it in the garage for safe keeping. I mean... I don't want to take any chances with it.
steve		Oh, great.
debbie		Yeah. Yeah. It's a good thing too. 'Cause somebody stole our car.
steve		Really? That's terrible. What kind was it?
terry		Gee, ah, where's Laurie, anyway?
steve		I guess we broke up.
terry		You broke up? Bull!
carol		It doesn't look like a gear shift knob.
john		Come on, will ya? Give it back to me.
carol		Well, go ahead, cream me. What's wrong, you're a tough guy. Break my arm, see if I care.
john		Forget it.
carol		I was just going to keep it for a little while. You're an ogre, just like my father. He won't let me play records, or stay out late, or anything.
john		 He ah--doesn't like you to stay out late?
carol		No--he's terrible. Once I was at a party that didn't end till late and he called the cops. Can you imagine? It was only a little after midnight and he had the whole police force--
john		Say, where do you live anyway?
carol		Over on Ramona, why?  Oh no. Uh uh. You thought I'd tell you where--not me, not old Carol. The night is young and I'm not hitting the rack until I get a little action.
carol		What do you keep lookin' at?  Who's that? You know him? He's following awful close.
john		Grab onto something.
falfa		 Sorry if I scared ya, man.
john		 Takes more than that to scare me.
falfa		Where ya been hiding? Didn't anyone tell ya I been looking for ya?
john		Hey, I can't keep tracka all the punks lookin' for me.
falfa		They say you're the fastest thing in the Valley. But that can't be your car, man. That must be your mama's car. Hell, I feel embarrassed just getting near ya.
john		Ya should, man--you're driving a field car.
falfa		Field car? What's a Field Car?
john		Field Cars drive through the fields, dropping cow shit all over the place to make the lettuce grow.
falfa		 That's pretty good. Hey, I like that paint job you got. What they call that--sorta a cross between Piss Yellow and Puke Green, ain't it?
john		Yeah, well, you're car's so ugly you must have to sneak up on the pumps to get a tank of gas.
falfa		Well, at least I don't have to move over to let a funeral go by, man.
carol		 Your car's uglier than I am.
carol		That didn't come out right...
falfa		Come on, boy, prove it. Let's go.
john		Look kid, why don't you go out and win a few races, then come back and see me.
carol		Oh, race him, you can beat him.
falfa		Hey, that's a tough lookin' girl you got with you, man. What're you doin'? Trying to pick up a few extra bucks babysitting?  Hey, Doll. Why don't you come on and ride with me--in about ten years?
john		Leave her out of this. This is just between you and me.
carol		Wow! He's really fast, isn't he?
john		Yeah. But he's stupid.
curt		Hey--any of you guys know a blonde in a white T-Bird?
joe		Yeah, I seen her, what about it?
curt		I was just wondering who she is.
joe		She's outta your price range, man. My brother's been with her and he clued me in.
curt		Price range? You mean she's a--
joe		Yeah, Thirty Dollar Sheri. Can you believe that? Thirty dollars.
curt		We must be thinking of different blondes.
carlos		Hey man, don't tell Joe what he thinks.
ants		Thirty dollars ain't much. I saw ten thousand once. My old man had it in a suitcase. They caught him the next morning though.
carlos		Fuzz ahead, watch it.
joe		Where?
carlos		Fuzz ahead, watch it.
joe		Where?
carlos		At Jerrie's Cherries. You can just barely see the fender.
ants		That's rotten, man. Hiding like that.
carlos		That's shitty.
joe		It's dishonest.
joe		We oughta do something. I got an idea. I got a good idea.
steve		I think I'm gonna go over to Burger City.
terry		Yeah. Yeah. Laurie's probably over there.
steve		You really think she's got me worried about where she is, don't you?
terry		Well...
steve		Let me tell you something. I couldn't care less. Want to come along?
debbie		Yeah, I do. I do.
terry		No.
steve		Make up your minds.
terry		No, thanks. U'mm. You know we got to report the car missing.
steve		All right. See yuh.
terry		Yeah. See yuh.
debbie		Why can't we go to Burger City?
terry		Burger City? Burger City!!? How can you think of hamburgers when somebody stole my car.
joe		Listen, ah--Carl, I--
curt		Curt.
joe		Curt.
joe		Despite you scratching Gil's car, I like you. And I know what you'd like more than anything right now. Like every guy in town, you got the same secret dream, right?
joe		Ya want to join the Pharoahs. Huh? You can admit it--you'd like to--but you never dreamed it could be possible, did you?
joe		Well, tonight, I'm goin' to give you your chance.
joe		Get down!
joe		Okay. Now you got it? I'm stayin' here. You're on your own.
curt		Wait a minute, wait a minute, Joe. What if he hears me?
joe		Shhh. Listen. Look at it this way: Now you got three choices. One, you chicken out. In that case, I let Ants tie you to the car and drag you around a little bit. And you don't want that, right?
curt		No.
joe		Two, you foul up and Holstein hears you and well, ah... you don't want that, right?
curt		No, I don't.
joe		Three, you are successful and you join the Pharoahs with a carcoat, and the blood initiation and all that, huh?
curt		 Wait--wait a minute. Wait a minute! What blood initiation?
debbie		Hey, why don't we go get your jeep?
terry		What? What are you talking about?
debbie		You know, your jeep. The one you sold the hunting ponies for. The one with the four-wheel drive.
debbie		Come on, Terry--Terry?
joe		Hey, you sure you got enough slack?
curt		Yeah, yeah. No sweat. Let's get out of here.
curt		Stand by for Justice!
carol		Why are we stopping here?
john		 Carol...
carol		What?
john		I--I don't think that I can control myself any longer.
carol		You can't?
john		No... Carol, I've got to have you.
carol		Me?
john		All night you've been sitting there and you've been so sexy and it's been so hot--and I can't wait any more...
carol		Well--well, a lot of that's an act, you know. Like... like my crying. It was just an act.
john		Well, it's been building up inside of me like a volcano, all night. Maybe if I knew where you lived I could fight it--I could take you home--but since you won't tell me, and since here we are--I've got to have you. It's too late--
carol		It's not too late! It's never too late! 231 Ramona--two three one--
john		 Two three one--
carol		I'll show you! It's easy to find.
budda		Hi. You mind if I sit down?
steve		Hi Budda. No, have a seat.
budda		I got five minutes outa the rat race, and I saw you all alone. For a change.
budda		Where's Laurie?
steve		I don't know.
budda		I thought the two of you'd be going strong, this being your last night and everything--
steve		We broke up.
steve		No big deal.
budda		Wow... what happened?
steve		Nothing. We were out at the canal and... we had a fight.
steve		What's so funny?
budda		Nothing. Just thinking. A girl like Laurie--I mean, she goes to school and is cute and popular and all, but we're not so different. We know what we want. I've seen her after you for two years now.
steve		She's not like that.
budda		Maybe not. She does have a different approach. Hers is "Never surrender," me I lay down my arms at the drop of a hat--
budda		 All right, relax... old fart. Listen, I'm off in an hour. If you wanta come over, my girlfriend's away for the weekend.
steve		I don't know...
budda		Why don't you? I never got a chance to talk to you. You're leaving tomorrow. Listen, I gave up a long time ago, so it'd be just for fun. No problems.
budda		I'll see ya later then.
steve		Budda, Budda wait.
steve		I gotta get up early and--I just don't think it'd work out.
budda		She's got you so brainwashed--well, hell. Some day I'm gonna win. Don't ya think?
steve		Sure.
joe		Oh mother, it's been a glorious night.
carlos		That was the bitchinest thing I ever seen in my whole life.
ants		I seen a little kid attacked by pigs once, but this was even better.
joe		Oh boy, I'll tell you something, that car must've jumped five feet in the air!
joe		You sure you got to go? The night's young.
curt		Yeah, there's some things I got to do. I still want to find that blonde.
joe		I think she was an optical delusion, man. Psychology-wise it ain't good to dwell on it. You'll alter your ego or something. Anyway, catch ya tomorrow night?
curt		Yeah, I guess so.
joe		Guess so? Man, we don't admit a lot of guys to the Pharoahs. You understand we're going to have to swipe your jacket and all--you gotta make up your mind.
curt		Hey--I'll see you guys.
joe		Sure--listen, remember, Rome wasn't buried in a night.
wolfman		Yeah.
voice		Would you dedicate a record to keep me and my girlfriend together?
wolfman		Are you separated?
voice		Well, see, we're havin' a little problem.
wolfman		I'll bring you right together. Hold on a minute, man. Hi ya, hi ya, hi, hi, hi. Everything's gonna be all right now, man, you understand? Now, let me play the record for you.
falfa		Hey Hey Hey, baby, what do you say?
laurie		Just don't say anything and we'll get along fine.
john		This the first time you've been quiet all night.
carol		I had fun. Goodbye.
carol		Do you like me?
john		Yeah. I like you. You're all right.
carol		But I mean, do you like me?
john		I, ah... I like you. Okay?
carol		Couldn't I have something to remember you by?
john		'Bye, kid.
carol		Gee, thanks. It's just like a ring or something.
john		Yeah.
carol		It's like we were going steady. Wait'll I tell Marcia.
john		Wait a minute, now.
carol		Wait'll I tell everybody.
john		Don't go overboard with this thing.
carol		Well, I'll see you around.
curt		Hold that up.
steve		 I've been thinking--maybe you're right. Why should I leave home to find a new home. Why should I leave friends that I love to find new friends?
curt		Wait a minute, wait a minute. I've heard this already. Aren't you the one who for eight weeks has been telling me you have to leave the nest sometime?
steve		I realize that. I realize--
curt		No--no realizing. You've been telling me all summer that it's time to pull your head out of the sand and take a look at the big, beautiful world out there. Gimme this thing.
steve		 I don't know--I--
curt		 I feel like a mid-wife.
steve		I guess I was wrong. I may have been wrong.
curt		Wrong nothing. You've been talking about getting out of this town for eight weeks. And now--goddamnit!-- you're just--you're just mentally playing with yourself. If you can just relax, we'll talk about it at the airport.
steve		Where are you going? It's awfully early in the morning.
curt		I have a dental appointment.
steve		Come on, Curt...
curt		Just relax, wil ya? I'll see you at the airport.
guy		I never seen a guy lose so much. He mustn't have been used to drinking.
debbie		Oh no, he really likes to drink. He told me.
old man		Gettin' late... I knew a man once who got this sick. Billy Webber. That was ten years ago. What do you think that was there, that he had for dinner?
old woman		Staying on his hands and knees like that...  He looks like a dog, doesn't he? Looks like old Ginger.
old man		Sicker than a dog, that's for sure.
terry		Ohh rats, I feel like--  Wait a second... hey!
terry		It's--oh my god--it looks like Steve's car. Look, right here under our-- it's my car. My car. We found it. Look!
debbie		Maybe we oughta call the police.
terry		Never get here in time. I got a better idea. We'll just steal it back. See if you can find some wire around. We only need a foot to hot-wire it... okay?
attendant		Took the header plugs off. Expectin' some action?
john		Yeah. Think so. There's some punk lookin' for me.
attendant		Why the hell do they bother? You've been number one as long as I can remember.
john		Yeah... it's been a long time, ain't it? I'll see ya. Thanks.
terry		Ah, hi--this is my car. What I mean is, somebody stole my car--I mean I lost my car and I want to thank you two guys for--
terry		--for returning--I mean finding it. I mean, listen now, listen guys-- I've been sick recently, and this kind of activity can really be hard on a guy. Now, easy will you? Easy!
debbie		Stop it, stop it, stop it! Help! Police! You creeps!
terry		Go, John!
debbie		Hit him!
john		Hey, man, you all right?
terry		Yeah. I'll die soon and it'll all be over.
debbie		 Wow--you're just like the Lone Ranger.
john		 Yeah. Listen, are you with the Toad, or were you with them?
terry		You're talking to the woman I love...
john		What happened, man?
steve		Hi, Karen, Judy.
judy		Hi, Steve. Have you seen Laurie lately?
judy		Well, we have.
steve		 Oh yeah. So what?
judy		So nothing. She was just with a really cute guy in a boss car. We wondered who he was.
steve		I wouldn't know.
judy		We do. His name's Bob Falfa.
terry		Help... I mean, I want two cherry cokes with lots of ice. Never mind, forget the cokes, just bring the ice, pronto.
steve		Out! OUT!
terry		What??
steve		I need the car--now.
terry		What's going on?
steve		I'm about to find out.
debbie		I don't believe it! You practically get killed trying to get your car back, then you let him have it.
terry		It's not my car.
debbie		What?
terry		What?
terry		IT IS NOT MY CAR!
debbie		Well, where is your car?
terry		I DON'T HAVE A CAR!
debbie		You don't--no car at all. What about your jeep?
debbie		No car... well, how am I going to get home?
car hop		Where's your car? I gotta hook 'em to your car.
john		What's wrong, Toad? You lose the car again?
terry		 No... Steve took it.
debbie		You know, I had a pretty good time tonight.
terry		Oh come on, you're just--
debbie		No, no, really. I really had a good time. I mean, you picked me up and we got some hard stuff and saw a hold-up, and then we went to the Canal, you got your car stolen, and then I got to watch you gettin' sick, and then you got in this really bitchin' fight... I really had a good time.
terry		You think so? Yeah--well I guess I have pretty much fun every night.
debbie		Anyway if you're not doing anything tomorrow night, why don't you come over?
terry		Yeah--well, I might be busy, you know. But we could--well, I got a little Vespa I just play around with.
debbie		Really? Why that's almost a motorcycle. And I just love motorcycles.
debbie		I got to go.
terry		Ow.
debbie		Goodnight.
terry		See ya.
curt		It's--I want to talk to the Wolfman.
voice		The Wolfman ain't here.
curt		I know, but I got to get in touch with him. I got something to give him before--
voice		We don't take no deliveries after eight. Come back tomorrow.
curt		No, I can't. I want to ask him something that--
voice		Dedications by phone is Diamond 75044. Wolfman Top 40 is Box 13, Chula Vista. Wolfman Sweatshirts is Wolf Enterprises, Bakersfield. 'Bye.
curt		Listen, I got a right to talk to him. I listened to him every night for as long--for twelve years almost. I know him and it's personal and it'll only take a minute and I bet Wolfman would be upset if he knew a friend couldn't get in touch with--
manager		What do you want?
manager		Pull the red switch.
curt		I'm looking for a girl.
manager		Aren't we all. She ain't here. Come on back to the booth.
manager		Hey, have a popsicle. The ice box just broke down and they're meltin' all over the place. You want one?
curt		No. Thanks. Listen, ah...
manager		Have a popsicle.
curt		Are you the Wolfman?
manager		No, man. I'm not the Wolfman.
wolfman		How're you doin', Diane?
diane		All right.
manager		That's the Wolfman.
curt		He's on tape. The man is on tape.
curt		Well, ah--where does he work? I mean, where is the Wolfman now?
manager		The Wolfman is everywhere.
curt		But I got to give him this note.
manager		 Hell, that's just a dedication. All I gotta do is relay it. And it'll be on the air tomorrow, or Tuesday at the latest.
curt		No, no. See, this is very important. I may be leaving town tomorrow, and it's very important that I--damn it, that I reach this girl right now.
manager		You don't know whether you're gonna leave town or not?
curt		Well, I'm supposed to go to college back East tomorrow. And I don't know if I'm gonna go.
manager		Wait a minute. Have a popsicle.
curt		No, thank you.
manager		Sit down a minute.
manager		Listen, it's early in the morning. Now, I can't really talk for the Wolfman. But I think if he was here he'd tell you to get your ass in gear. Now, no offense to your home town here, but this place ain't exactly the hub of the universe, if you know what I mean. And well--I'll tell you this much--the Wolfman does come in here now and then, with tapes, to check up on me, you know, and when I hear the stories he got about the places he goes. Hell, here I sit while there's a big beautiful world out there, don't ya know. Wolfman comes in last time talking about some exotic jungle country, handing me cigars he says was rolled on the naked thighs of brown beauties. The Wolfman been everywhere and he seen everything. He got so many stories, so many memories. And here I sit sucking on popsicles.
curt		Why don't you leave?
manager		Well, I'm no kid anymore. I been here a long time. And the Wolfman-- well, the Wolfman gave me my start and he's sorta become my life. I can't leave him now. Gotta be loyal to the Wolfman, you understand.
manager		I tell you what. If I can possibly do it tonight, I'll try to relay this dedication and get it on the air for you later on.
curt		That'd be great. Thanks. Really.
manager		Sorry, sticky little mothers ain't they? Bye.
curt		'Bye.
curt		Wolfman...
terry		Hey, John, let me go with you. Come on.
john		Naw, man. I can't take you when I'm racin' somebody.
terry		Ah, come on. Just let me go. So I can watch. Or, I'll flag you, okay?
john		All right. Go ahead.
john		Paradise Road.
falfa		All right now, where's this Paradise Road?
laurie		You just follow this street straight out of town... Listen, if you're gonna race John Milner, you can let me out right when we get there.
falfa		Why don't you shut up, baby? You ain't said one word all night long. What a weird broad. But you're gonna appreciate me soon. You're gonna be hangin' on for mercy, when I get this sucker rollin'.
dale		You heading out to Paradise Road?
steve		Paradise Road, I'm not--
dale		Some guy named Falfa going up against Milner.
steve		John's racing Falfa?
dale		Yeah. Figured something was up, saw them going out of town real cautious and then--
john		Hey--Laurie, what in the hell are you doing in there? Is she gonna ride with you?
laurie		Mind your own business, John.
falfa		Yeah, she's with me. You worry about yourself, man.
terry		Everybody ready?
steve		You stupid sonofabitch, she was in that car! Why did you have--
laurie		I said I didn't--you lousy greasy jerk! You coulda killed me--what's wrong with you. You clubfoot...
laurie		No, no, no. Please, don't come near me. No, please. I think I'm gonna be sick. Oh, Steven.
steve		Laurie, please.
laurie		Oh, Steven! Oh, Steven, please, don't leave me. Don't leave me, Steven.
steve		I won't.
laurie		I couldn't bear it.
steve		I won't.
laurie		Please.
steve		Believe me.
john		Come on, before she blows.
terry		Jeez, did you show him! He'll probably never even get in a car again.
john		He was faster.
terry		It was beautiful, John. Just beauti-- what?
john		I was losin', man.
terry		What?
john		He had me, man. He was pullin' away from me just before he crashed.
terry		You're crazy.
john		You saw it.
terry		No, you creamed him, from right off the line. The guy never had a chance.
john		Shit, Toad. The man had me. He was beating me.
terry		John, I don't know what you're talking about. It was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen. That guy, he might as well get a wheelchair and roll himself home. Man, you got... you got the bitchinist car in the Valley. You'll always be number one, John. You're the greatest.
john		Look at your glasses, man.  Okay, Toad. We'll take 'em all.
terry		 Right.
john		We'll take em... let's get out of here.
terry		Jesus, what a night.
curt		Hello, hello, hello!
curt		Yeah... this is Curt, who is this?
voice		Who were you expecting?
curt		Do you drive a white T-Bird?
voice		A white '56. I saw you on Third Street.
curt		You know me.
voice		Of course!
curt		Who are you? How do you know me?
voice		It's not important.
curt		 It's important to me. You're the most perfect, beautiful creature I've ever seen and I don't know anything about you. Could we meet someplace?
voice		I cruise Third Street every night. Maybe I'll see you again tonight.
curt		No... I don't think so.
voice		Why?
curt		I'm leaving... in a couple of hours. Where are you from?
voice		Curt...
curt		What's your name? At least tell me your name?
voice		Goodbye, Curt.
curt		Wait a second! Wait a second!
steve		Good luck.
curt		Yeah, same to you. And I better see you there next year.
steve		Oh yeah, I'll be there.
curt		Sure.
curt		See ya later.
laurie		'Bye 'bye, Curt.
curt		So long, guys.
terry		Well, stay cool, man.
curt		Yeah.
terry		Ah--don't do anything I wouldn't do.
curt		I'll see ya, buddy.
john		I know, you probably think you're a big shot, goin' off like this--but you're still a punk.
curt		Okay, John. So long.
****Dialogues from script :American_History_X.txt****

danny		Holy shit.
stacey		Fucking pervert, Dan!
danny		There's a black guy outside Der... breaking into your car.
derek		How long has he been out there?
danny		Not long.
derek		Nobody. Relax.
stacey		Who's out there, Derek?
derek		Not right now, honey.  How many?
danny		One...I think.
derek		Is he strapped?
danny		Hunh?
derek		Does he have a fucking gun, Dan?
danny		I'm not sure.
derek		Is there a driver?
derek		Okay.  Stay the luck here.
stacey		Derek? Be careful.
derek		Fuck you!
doris		STAY DOWN, HONEY!  DANNY?!
sweeney		Captain Rasmussen?
desk sergeant		Briefing room. Down that hall...third door on the left.
rasmussen		All right. Moving on--  Good Morning, Doctor.
sweeney		Good morning.
rasmussen		Gentlemen, this is Dr. Bob Sweeney. He's Principal over at Venice High and for some time now he's done a load of outreach work with gangs...in and out of the can.
rasmussen		Three years ago a local kid named Derek Vinyard gets sent up for murdering a couple of Crips who were trying to jack his car. Bob taught Vinyard back in high school and has followed the case closely.
young cop		He was a skinhead, right?
sweeney		Derek was more like...the skinhead. He and Cameron Alexander.
rasmussen		Cammeron Alexander is probably the biggest writer and distributor of white power literature in LA County. He promotes white power bands, writes reviews, columns, all at the ripe age of forty.
young cop		 He's forty? Jesus.
rasmussen		Pretty clean record...runs everything out of his house down by the beach.
sweeney		There weren't any organized white gangs around Venice before those two hooked up. Very few, if any. It was mostly just black and Mexican. But it was tiny. They hit it off though... and Alexander hit the jackpot with Derek.
rasmussen		We got some uncut footage here. Courtesy of NBC.
reporter		Earlier this evening...LA County Firefighter Dennis Vinyard was shot and killed while putting out a fire in a suspected Compton drug den.
reporter		To my right I have Lieutenant Vinyard's oldest son Derek.  How do you feel about all this, son?
derek		How do I feel? How do you think I feel? It's typical.
reporter		Typical how, Derek?
derek		Well...look at our country. It's a haven for criminals. Black...brown... yellow...whatever.
reporter		So you're saying the murder of your father is "race" related?
derek		Every problem in this country is "race" related. Every problem, not just crime. These problems are rooted in the black community, the Hispanic community, the Asian...every non- Protestant group in our society.  Look at the shit. Immigration... welfare...AIDS...they're all the problems of the non-white. Look at the statistics.
reporter		Most of these issues you're referring to though son are related to--
derek		 No no no! Don't say poverty right now cause that's not it. They're not a product of our fucking environment either! Minorities don't give two shits about this country! They're here to exploit...not embrace.
derek		Millions of white Europeans came to this country and flourished within a generation! A generation! So what the fuck is wrong with these people?!
reporter		What does any of this have to do with your father?
derek		Because my father was doing his fucking job! Saving a nigger neighborhood he didn't give two shits about! And he got killed by some drug dealer who still collects a fucking welfare check.
rasmussen		Vinyard was quietly released from Chino on Saturday after three and some odd years. And I think it's something we might want to keep an eye on for a few days.
sweeney		I don't wanna be an alarmist. But payback is out there. I know it is. And in this particular case...if Vinyard gets popped...more people will get popped.
rasmussen		It's not exactly LAPD policy but I want 24-hour surveillance on Vinyard for a few days.
rasmussen		Just for a few days.
another cop		He doesn't sound like Mr. Lovely here, Captain. You want us to bust him or protect him?
sweeney		I don't think Vinyard's gonna be the one to start anything. It's his following.
rasmussen		Either way...let's keep it low.
lizzy		Hi Danny.
danny		Hey Lizzy.
little henry		 Tellin' Baker I'm fuckin' cheatin'? I've never cheated in my life.
little henry		Why you trippin' on me?
daryl		I didn't say anything, Henry. I swear.
little henry		Next time, man.
offscreen voice		Vinyard!?
older teacher		You're late.
old teacher		But it looks like you got bigger problems.
danny		 Oh, man! Come on. Get a job.
murray		This paper is a travesty, Bob! Arguing for Hitler as a civil rights hero?! You've gotta draw a line.
sweeney		Murray...it says in your syllabus that they could do their report on any book related to the struggle for Civil Rights.
murray		Oh come on, Bob!
sweeney		Let me finish! He needs help...I'm not disputing that. But I read it and I'm not going to throw him out.
murray		His brother probably put him up to it.
sweeney		I can guarantee you his brother didn't have anything to do with it, Murray.
murray		Don't let him walk scot-free here. For his sake...not mine. You might be all he has left.
murray		Thanks, Bob.
danny		I knew it was you.
sweeney		What's it gonna be, Dan?
danny		What's what going to be?
sweeney		This petty shit you're pullin'.
danny		Well...I don't know.
sweeney		You said it, all right. Sit down.
sweeney		Are you okay?
danny		Yeah.
sweeney		Any time you wanna talk, Dan--
danny		Okay.
sweeney		How's Derek?
danny		Fine.
sweeney		Adjusting okay?
danny		Yeah.
sweeney		He was a student of mine. Honors English. He was a great student... like you...but he hung out with scumbags. Also like you. That's why he ended up in the pen, hunh?
sweeney		Great writing. I can't correct it though. It wreaks too much of shit.
danny		Come on, man! I followed directions and wrote an "A" paper. It's got nothing to do with Derek.
sweeney		Everything you do now has something to do with Derek. Who told you to do this?
danny		Let us get on with our lives, man!
sweeney		Hey, I'm not worried about Derek--he can take care of himself.  I'm worried about his little brother.  Mein Kampf, Dan? I should expel you!
danny		Do it. What?  You don't think I could handle it?
sweeney		 So here's the drill. Take it or leave it cause I'm sick of babysitting. I'm your history teacher from here on out. We're gonna deal with shit happening right now. Call it American History...X. I see your ass once a day. Any more, any less, and you're a memory at Venice High. Clear?
danny		It took me a week to read Mein Kampf. Come on, Sweeney.
sweeney		My name is Dr. Sweeney. And I want a another paper on my desk tomorrow.
danny		What am I doing it on then?
sweeney		It'S not a "what", it's a "who."  Derek.
lawrence		Seven-six. Let's go!  Set some picks!
seth		Bring it on, boy.
lawrence		Boy?
seth		Lucky piece of shit! I'm through "monkeying" around with your ass!
lawrence		Fat, pasty, pale, pastrami eating, cracker, motherfucker. A hundred bucks says I make you my bitch.
seth		 Here we go! Trying to make ends meet for that cut in welfare.
danny		It's eight-six, Seth.
seth		When I want your fucking opinion I'll ask for it, fuckhead.  Help me cover here, guys.
cammeron		You got a big fucking mouth, fat kid.
seth		I'll take this negro down.
derek		You can't take a shit, Seth.  Shut up.
derek		I got a bet.
derek		I come in, same score now, first one to eleven. Black boys against the white boys.
lawrence		Name your price, Cracker.
derek		No money...for the court. We win, you grab your shit and find a different place to run. Not just today... forever. You win, and we don't come back. No hitching, no fighting, here in front of everyone. Six-eight, our ball.
lawrence		You got a lot of fucking balls, man. Bring it. Right now.
seth		Yes! Ten a piece! Nice fucking dish.
cammeron		It's all you, Der!
lawrence		Fuckin' BYU, man!  All right!  All we need is one now!
cammeron		Use that fat ass and keep him out, Seth!
lawrence		I ain't losin' in my house!  Clear it out!
curtis		That's fuckin' offense!
lawrence		Get the fuck outta here!  He was movin' his feet!
derek		 I'll go if you want to.
lawrence		You wanna piece! Bring it!
derek		If you wanna go...I'm ready.  Don't be throwin' fuckin' elbows.
lawrence		Fuck you!
cammeron		Hey.  Are you copacetic?
cammeron		He's gonna do that 180 spin move.
derek		I know what he's gonna do.
danny		You gotta call offense on that shit.
derek		Not on point game you don't.
stacey		Fuck that, D. That chucker can't pull that shit. It's fucking-
derek		Not on point, honey.
danny		 Holy shit!
seth		 Get off my  fucking court!  This is my house!
danny		Yeah! Fuck...yeah!
kammi		Hey! Danny!
danny		 Hey. LIZZY You're going tonight, right?
danny		Where?
lizzy		That party. Go there.
chris		I don't care. I just wanna get wet.
danny		I've been trying to buy this.  You can't find it anywhere.
jason		Cammeron dropped us off a copy. Dope fucking shit, man. It's all about reclaiming the country. I'll let you read it when I'm done.
danny		Fuck that. I just read Mein Kampf.
jason		There you go.
chris		Hey? What was this Daryl shit you were talking about?
danny		Henry Hastings almost kicked Daryl Dawson's ass. He would're too if--
chris		Little Henry the negroid?
danny		Everyday there's something over there, man.
chris		Why do you think we fuckin' quit?
danny		I hear you.
jason		Daryl Dawson's a pussy faggot.
chris		What's ZOG again?
jason		Zionist somethin'.
danny		Zionist-Occupational-Government.
derek		It's gonna be fine.
danny		Oh man--! Come on!  What are you crying about now?
derek		I got it.
danny		Are you feeling better at all?
doris		I need a kiss.
derek		Unhuh. Unhuh. Did you expel him?
davina		What do you want!?
seth		Open up, bitch!
davina		 Jesus! Are you sure you can fit through the door?
seth		Fuck off.  Where is he?
davina		Back in his bedroom.
seth		 Where are you, you free motherfucker?
seth		Vinyard!
davina		He's on the phone, asshole!
seth		Fuck off.
seth		What are you lookin' at?
danny		I'm still trying to figure it out.
seth		Come in here and I'll show you, maggot.
danny		Fuck off. When'd you start carryin'?
seth		I'm dropping the kids off at the pool, junior. Shut the fuckin' door!
danny		Jesus!  Chew your food, dude!
derek		All right. Thanks.  I'll take care of it. Yeah.
derek		 Okay.  Okay. I'm what?  What channel?
derek		 What is it, Danny?
danny		You got pigs outside.
seth		Drop the t.v., nigger.
black woman		Maybe now whites will understand the motives behind people like Malcolm X and the Black Panthers.  Just put the shoe on the other foot.
danny		{to the tv) What about OJ, bitch!?
black woman		 They've done it to us again.
seth		Nigger lovin' Jew media calling the shots. Watch cartoons. It's the only t.v. that's safe nowadays.
doris		No one's safe--until we all are.
seth		Come in here, Dan.
seth		Where the fuck you find that?
danny		Goin' to Cam's party tonight?
seth		Is Davina's ass water tight?
davina		Hurry up and leave, Goodyear.  You've taken your dump now go.
seth		Listen to you. You callin' me a blimp, you fuckin' Democrat?!
davina		Yes! I am!
danny		I'm there tonight.
seth		Oh yeah? You ask Derek?
danny		Noo...but he's got two kegs.
seth		Well...you can think of me drinkin' 'em then when you're studying with fuckin'... White Trash in there.
seth		Where is the fucker, by the way!? He's hiding from us.
davina		You're not even human.
danny		Is Cam playing sticks?
seth		Of course, man.
seth		Sit down. I wanna ask you some questions.
danny		I got homework, Seth.
seth		Two fucking seconds, dude!
seth		Tell me your convictions.
danny		Fuck off.
seth		Tell me some of the shit you've learned luckbrain or I'll pistol-whip you.
danny		About Adolf?
seth		About anything.  What do you believe in?
danny		I believe in filth and destruction and chaos and death and greed.
seth		What else?
danny		I believe in my family.
seth		Why? DANNY "Respect your father and your mother. Whoever curses your mother and father... is to be put to death."
seth		Good. What else?  Tell me what I want to hear, asshole.
danny		You mean that stuff about your mother?
seth		You wanna get beaten?
danny		No.
seth		Then tell me about Adolf and Mein.
davina		Hey Seth? Cut the shit.
seth		I'm not fuckin' talkin' to you, Davina, shut up! Do you believe in Adolf?
danny		Yeah, man. I believe in Adolf.
seth		What do you hate, Danny?
danny		I hate everyone that isn't white Protestant.
seth		Why? And say it with some fucking conviction!
danny		Because they're a burden to the advancement of the white race.  Some of them are all right--
seth		None of them are all right, Danny. They're all a bunch of fucking freeloaders.  Remermber Canuneron. "We don't know them, we don't want to know them, they're the fucking enemy." What don't you like about them?
danny		I don't know.  I feel threatened by them.
davina		They feel threatened by you!
seth		 What else, Danny? And speak intelligently you little queer faggot.
danny		I hate the fact that it's cool to be black these days.
seth		Good. DANNY I hate this hip hop influence on white fuckin' suburbia.
danny		I hate Hilary Clinton and all of her Zionist MTV pigs telling us we should get along. Save the rhetorical bullshit honey, it ain't gonna happen.
seth		That's the best shit I've ever heard come out of that mouth.
davina		I feel.sorry for you, Danny.
seth		Shut up, Davina.
davina		You shut up, you poison to fuckin' society! Get out of our house!
seth		 Is this any way to treat a guest?
davina		Derek hates you, Seth.
seth		Hey! How are you, man? Fuckin' A. Long time no see. Look at that hair.
derek		Gimme just one second, okay?
derek		Did you do a book report on Mein Kampf?
danny		What's it to you?
derek		 What's it to me?
danny		 I mean...how'd you find out?
derek		None of your fucking business how I found out.
seth		I thought it was a great idea.
derek		That figures.  You're more stupid than he is.
seth		It's nice to see you too, man.
derek		Why'd you do it, Dan?  Because of Seth.
danny		No.
derek		Cammeron?
danny		I did it cause I felt like it.
derek		Oh, you do everything you feel like? I feel like smacking you in the fucking head. Would you mind if I did a report on that?
danny		Uhhh...yeah.
derek		Get a clue, you dumbshit. Hey! Look at me! Don't be a dickhead. Sweeney cares about you.
seth		 Sweeney does?  Since when?
danny		Was that him on the phone?
derek		Yep. So wise up.  You hear me?
seth		Sweeney's a fuckin' nigger on a power trip, Vinyard. That's what he was like when we were there and that's how he is now. It'll never change either. A nigger is a nigger.
doris		Just put me out of my mercy.
derek		You'll be okay. You want me to pick you up any more medicine?
derek		Jesus. I can't believe I ever let it get this bad.
doris		It's not that uncomfortable.
danny		Are you gonna to live or what, Mom?
doris		I need a cigarette.
derek		My ass. You smoke two packs a day. That's why you're spittin' phlegm.
seth		 Jesus, Mrs. Vinyard.  I think a lung just came up.
doris		I'm high as a kite.
danny		You got any more?
doris		Daniel?  I know you got homework.
danny		I'm goin' in a second.  Relax.
seth		 Hey. I'm gonna re-wipe and we're out of here.
davina		You're a pig.
doris		I don't like him in this house.
derek		I knew.
davina		He ' s a fuckin ' loser, Nazi scumbag.
danny		No he's not.
derek		Yes he is. Open your eyes.
danny		Whatever, dude. I'm gonna go power that shit and I'll see you later.
derek		Not at Cammeron's you won't see me.
danny		 Come on, Der! It's gonna be fuckin'--
derek		Forget it, Danny! It ain't gonna happen for you tonight.
seth		Hurry up. I'm starving.
davina		What else is new?
derek		I'll see ya.
doris		Okay. Be careful.
danny		This sucks.
danny		Hey.
davina		Hey what?
danny		Come here.
danny		Come here for a second!
davina		I got shit to do, Dan.
danny		Just read it.
davina		"American History X? Take home paper as assigned by Principal Robert Sweeney?"  Why is he giving you homework? What happened to Murray?
danny		Asshole turned me in.
davina		Why?
danny		Just read.
davina		"Describe in detail your opinion of -the historical event that took place in the early morning of October 4th,
danny		The night Derek wasted those guys.
davina		Sweeney gave you this?
davina		 "Before and after...how has this event helped or hurt your present perspective concerning life in contemporary America. Use the standard five paragraph format, blab blab blah--this'll be good for you..
danny		Nooo...it'll be good for you.
davina		Eat me, Dan.
danny		Come on! Dick Nixon's playin' at Cammeron's tonight. You owe me.
davina		I'm not doing your homework for you! I gotta spreadsheet due!
danny		Goddammit!
davina		What's the matter with you? You wanna be a fuckin' loser your whole life?
danny		Asshole Sweeney.
stacey		I hope you kill that fucker.
cammeron		He might have a gun.
derek		Are you going in or not?
cammeron		You know I got the cops on me. If I come up on one of those cameras I'm a dead man.
cammeron		Somebody needs to drive, Derek.
derek		 You're right on his tail, right?
stacey		 I hate that fucking Korean.  I hope you smash his face in.
derek		Just be ready, okay?
derek		Come on. Let's pull it together. Hey! We're not playing fuckin' games here. Let's go.
derek		What the fuck, Curtis? You a fuckin' nigger now? Want some crack?
curtis		No.
derek		 Pull your fucking stupid head out of your ass then.
curtis		Okay. Jesus.
derek		 We're here tonight cause we got immigration problems spiralling out of control. We got Asians up the ass... taking over our land with their fucking Yen. Mexicans...flocking into this place like some giant fucking Pinata was shattered.
derek		Don't laugh. It's tragic. On the Statue of Liberty it says "Give me your tired, your hungry, your poor, your huddled masses...yearning to be free." It does not say give me your shiftless, your greedy, your indolent, your criminals, looking for a free ticket.
derek		We're here tonight to show the government how we feel about minorities taking over our country. The treat us like criminals while they reward them with jobs and fucking welfare checks. And it's only getting worse.
et al		 Fuck yeah it is.
derek		Are you ready to do something about it?
et al		Yeah.
derek		Okay then.
derek		 Remember. No names. Danny?  Stay right on my fucking ass, man.
seth		Wheto's your fucking green card, asshole?
derek		 Can't hide from me, motherfucker!
derek		Let's go! We're outta here!  Move !
derek		Fuck you, Murray. White men don't cruise the streets of LA killing each other.
murray		No.  You guys make bombs.
derek		You're so fucking lame. A couple of cranks in cabins in Montana is not statistically significant.  White Americans don't take PCP and drink and drive a hundred and twenty fuckin' miles an hour! We pull over and trust the law.
murray		You're kidding, right?
davina		 Don't you know, Murray? White people never break the law. We're perfect little angels.
derek		That's not what I said, Davina.  Briseno kickin' him in the back of the fuckin' skull with his boot. Still, the dumbfuck's tryin' to get up and kick their asses! That's how stupid that motherfucker is. Those cops used textbook-solid tactics and if Dad were still here he'd say the same damn thing.
doris		That doesn't make it right.
derek		Yes it does. Yes it does. They're cops! They are taught to use that stick and they did.
murray		Excessively.
derek		No. Appropriately. Appropriately! Cops have been granted a certain amount of authority by society and white people, unfortunately, are the only ones who acknowledge it. I acknowledge a cop's authority.
davina		Look who's talking about respecting the law? Mr. K.K.K. here.
derek		That's two errors in one sentence, Davina, so take a fucking course in semantics. First error--I didn't say I respect the law. I said I respect a cop's authority. Second error...I'm not a member of the fuckin' low rent, disorganized, redneck Ku Klux Klan.. Pull your head outta your ass and look at who you're dealing with.
murray		Don't speak to her that way, Derek.
derek		Murray, stay out of it. You're not a member of this family and you never will be.
murray		What the hell does that have to do with anything?
doris		 You know...sometimes it's hard to believe I gave birth to you.
derek		Give thanks to the food on the table and then believe it, Doris.
doris		We both put food on this table, fella.
derek		True enough. The point is...if Dan was walking across the street that night and Rodney King plowed into him--
doris		Can we forget about Rodney King for chrissake?!
derek		 --while hopped up on Chivas and P.C.P...you'd consider the force those cops used to be justified!
doris		He didn't hit anybody!
derek		If he did though! If that shithead killed Dan...you would have believed the beating to be justified and so would everybody else. But since he didn't hit anyone...it's "Hands Across America" for the son of a bitch.
derek		We are still so hung up in this notion that we have an obligation to help the struggling black man and all you contribute to it! Lincoln freed the slaves a hundred and thirty years ago! Get off your fucking asses!
stacey		I'm with you, honey. All the way. It's one...giant...ploy.
davina		Here we go.
stacey		I mean...nobody likes Chief whatever his name is, right?
davina		Gates.
stacey		Yeah. So here comes this filthy piece of garbage in his Hyundai. He pulls over in front of a perfectly lighted area where a video camera is sitting there...fucking waiting for him, man. What happens next? Chief Gates is dust. It's total--
davina		 May I be excused please?
derek		Don't interrupt, Davina.
davina		I didn't interrupt shit.
derek		The hell you didn't. I was listening to Stacey and then I heard you. That's called interrupting. Wait 'til she's finished and you can be excused.
davina		Who the hell do you think you are?
derek		You don't know when to shut up.
doris		Dammit Derek!
murray		What are you trying to prove, man?!
derek		I'm trying to teach my sister some respect, Murray.
davi na		Let go of my fucking hair!
derek		 See! See the way she speaks! Tell me you're gonna shut up and I'll let go.
doris		Derek!  Let go of her hair and sit down!
derek		I will when I hear an answer, Doris. Are you going to shut up, Davina?
derek		 What are  you thinkin'?
doris		Danny?!  Are you okay?!
derek		It's a real easy question, Davina. A simple yes or no will suffice. Tell me what I want to hear and I'll let go.
davina		Fuck...you.
murray		She can't breathe, Derek!
derek		Stay back, both of you!  It's her bed, she's gotta lie in it.  You can cry all you want, Davina. I'm not gonna let go until you tell me what I wanna hear! Are you going to shut that fat fucking mouth of your's and let my girlfriend tell her opinion? Are you?!
doris		Let go of her hair and get out.
derek		You okay?
murray		 Psycho.
derek		Would you care to repeat that, Murray? I'm not sure I got all of it.
stacey		 He called you a "psycho", honey.
derek		 Was that it?    Thanks Murray.
murray		See. Here we go again with this, Derek. Making me out to be the bad guy again.
stacey		You callin' me a liar, RosenKike?
murray		 Hey goddammit! You talk to me with respect or--!
derek		Or what, Murray!? What're you gonna do? Give her fucking detention?
doris		 Do you think you're the only one who's affected around here?
derek		Out of respect for my mother...I'm gonna let that comment go, Murray. I won't bash your face in. But let me tell you somethin'...man to fuckin' mouse here. Normally in a situation like this I'd take my steel-tips to your fucking Jewish temple. That goes for anyone making comments about me, my family, Stacey, whomever. You know and I know that I could crush that puny fuckin' skull of yours in a second. So it's beyond me why you would say something like that without being able to back it up? What's worse, you sack of shit, is you calling the woman I love a liar.
murray		I never said she was a liar.
derek		Weasel like that again Murray...you fuckin' ponytail, pussy, bagel eating, teacher, faggot...and I'll cut your shylock nose off. Make no mistake.
stacey		Murray Rosenberg...International Jew.
doris		He's a stupid kid, Murray!  I'm sorry!
murray		He's not a kid, Doris. We were kids. We didn't call people kikes.
doris		It's just gonna take some time with him. What can I do?
murray		You don't know your children, Doris! You have no clue about the world they live in. Your son is a terrorist.
doris		He's not a terrorist, Murray.  Jesus!
murray		He's a member of the Disciples of Christ. You remember that grocery store incident?!
murray		My sister and her two kids got evacuated from her Temple in Woodland Hills!
doris		Murray! Please! Derek would never have anything to do with bombs, okay?! You don't know him like I do.
murray		And I wouldn't want to. Goodbye.
davina		Take this, you fucking dick!
davina		Fuck you! Let go!
derek		 I'm sorry, Davina. Come on.
davina		Let go of me!
derek		Come on, Davina.  I'm sorry. I lost control. Please.  I screwed up.
derek		 You guys are my life and I'd do anything for you. You do know that?
davina		 I don't believe you anymore.
derek		I swear to God I would, Davina. Please.
danny		I believe you, Der.
derek		Davina? Please forgive me.  Please. I'm sorry.
davina		 That fuckin' sucked, Derek.
derek		I know it did. And I'm sorry. I just really hate that guy.
davina		You couldn't tell.
doris		Find an apartment because I want you out of here.
derek		Morn, I'm sorry but that guy's--
doris		I don't wanna hear it anymore!  I want you out!
stacey		He can move in with me.
doris		When?
stacey		Tomorrow.
doris		Good.
danny		Here.
doris		Thank you, honey.
doris		Hey. Come here.  Sit with me.
danny		I've got this thing to do.
doris		You can sit down for two seconds.
danny		Don't breathe on me.
doris		I won't.
danny		It's cold in here, no wonder your sick.
danny		What?
doris		What? I'm not allowed to look at you anymore?
danny		No. You're not.
doris		 Daniel Patrick! Stop it! Are you ever gonna let that beautiful hair grow back?
danny		Nope. Never.
doris		I bet you will.
danny		Get some sleep.
doris		If you need me to proof anything for you I will.
danny		I'll be all right.
doris		Wake up early if you get tired.
derek		You fucked with the wrong bull.
lawrence		Goddamn, man!
danny		Let the cops handle it, Der!
derek		Fuck that. The cops will let him walk.
derek		Ever shoot at firemen, you fuck?  Open your mouth and put it on the corner of the curb. I'm gonna teach you a little lesson.
danny		Derek!?
derek		Get in the fucking house, Dan!
lawrence		Come on, man. Call an ambulance.
derek		My dad gave me that truck, motherfucker. Couldn't leave well enough alone. Put your mouth on the corner of the fucking curb!
danny		The cops are comin' Der'
derek		What the fuck did you say?  You just threaten me? Hunh? Hunh? Hunh?
danny		 Holy fucking shit!  Derek!    What the hell was that for?!  Jesus!
jason		We're here, dude.
chris		Drop your dick and grab your stick.
danny		I told you I can't tonight.
danny		It's okay, Mom.
danny		If I don't finish this thing I'm dead.
chris		Just tell 'em you'll do it tomorrow. You can't miss the party.
jason		Fire pie Lizzy called and told us to grab your ass.
danny		She did?
chris		 You gotta hit that shit.  It's the only fun thing that's legal anymore.
danny		Hello?
sweeney		Dan?
sweeney		Dr.  Sweeney.
danny		 What's going on?
sweeney		Nothing here. Is everything all right over there?
danny		Everything's fine.
sweeney		How's it comin'?
danny		I'm doing it right now.
cmris		Who is it, dude?
danny		 It's Sweeney.
chris		Who?! Why is he calling here!?  Fuck you, Sweeney! Asshole!
jason		 Get a fucking job, you reggie!
danny		You fuckers are going to get me booted!  Dr. Sweeney? I'm sorry, man.
sweeney		Just make sure it's on my desk tomorrow, Danny.
danny		It'll be there, alright!?
sweeney		It better be.
danny		Let's go.
seth		You're an idiot if you ask me.
derek		I'm not asking you.
seth		What if he writes something stupid and that nigger turns you in? Jesus. He didn't testify, Der. They can use that shit and re-try you.
derek		Sweeney's not gonna do anything, Seth. He helped get me released.
derek		I'm out, Seth.
derek		I'm only going to tell you this once so pay attention. I'm done, Seth. I don't want you to come near me...near Dan...I want you to leave my family alone.
seth		You're serious.
derek		I'm dead fucking serious. No more phone calls, no more visits, no more nothing.
derek		We don't exist as far as you're concerned, Seth.
seth		I can't believe I'm hearing this shit come out of your mouth.
derek		Believe it, Seth. Believe it. I spent over three years away from my family. My family, Seth. For what?
seth		For your country, fuckhole, that's what. I'd do a hundred years before I felt like that.
seth		You're a motherfucking traitor!
derek		What the--? Shit.
cassandra		You're full of shit!
jason		If he ain't here, he's comin'.
chris		Yo!  What's up, Fat Seth!?
seth		I'm not fat, cockwart!  I'm husky!
cmris		Okay! I'm sorry, bro!
danny		Take it easy, dude!
danny		What're you doin'?!
derek		Your brother's a piece of shit!
chris		Holy shit.  Father Vinyard!?
jason		Son of a bitch.
jason		I'm Jason and that's Chris! We're friends with your brother!
chris		You're a fuckin' god, man!
derek		Do me a favor.  Grab Danny and get outta here!
chris		We just got here, man!
derek		You what!?
derek		You don't have any homework?!
jason		School doesn't exist anymore, Father.
chris		I wrote you. Two letters while you were in there! Did you get them?!
cassandra		Excuse fuckin' me!
derek		Cassandra.
cassandra		Oh my God! They said you might be here but I didn't fucking believe 'em!
curtis		I hope what I heard ain't true, man. You better hightail it the fuck outta here if it is.
cassandra		You gotta chop that mop, Der!
cassandra		 Stacey's meandering around here somewhere! Have you seen the bitch?!
derek		The only person I've seen is Seth.
cassandra		Oh God.  I'm sorry.
lizzy		Can you tell Danny that Lizzy's looking for him?
cammeron		He won't do anything'drastic I hope.
danny		I gotta do that paper though.
cammeron		I thought you already turned that fucker in?
danny		My teacher cried to Sweeney, man. have to do another one.
cammeron		Oh man.  Fucking Sweeney.
stacey		 Meanwhile, niggers and spics do their reports on Malcolm X and fucking Fidel Castro.
cammeron		Sweeney's got an agenda, Danny. And it's all a load of crap. You hear me? He's all about brainwashing. Don't get fucking fooled by it.
cammeron		 Hey. I was wondering when he was going to show his face.
derek		What did I tell you, Dan?
danny		I had to check it out, Der.  Come on.
cammeron		He'll be all right, Derek.
derek		There's a redhead out there looking for you. Go talk to her.
cammeron		You go with.
stacey		Welcome back.
cammeron		You made it, man. When I heard they threw you in General Population I thought it was curtains.
derek		It wasn't too bad.
cammeron		So what's all this self-righteous, born-again shit I'm hearing then?
cammeron		Have a seat, Derek.  Relax.
cammeron		How was it in there with all those fuckin' monkeys, man?  You're lucky they didn't kill you.
derek		I agree.
cammeron		Who runs the place?  The monkeys or the wetbacks?
derek		The Mexicans. CAMMERON It's a fuckin' vacation for them in there, hunh?
derek		They were really organized. I'll tell ya...it was impressive. They--
lizzy		I like you.
danny		I like you, too.
cammeron		They're fuckin' peasants, Derek.  All of them.  So what's up, man? I'm hearing a lot of shit about you.
derek		Be careful with me, Cam. You don't know what's going on with me.
cammeron		Fuckin' talk to me then. We're family here. Let's work it out whatever it is.
derek		I'm family, Cam? Is that why you came to see me all the time up there?
cammeron		I had to distance myself from you after that.
derek		Fuck you, Cameron. You're a fucking chicken hawk...praying on kids.
cammeron		I don't pray on fucking anyone.
derek		No. You fucking use them.  To filter your insanity.
cammeron		You and Danny are like brothers to me, Derek. Come on, man.
derek		He's not your brother, Cameron.  All right? He's my brother.  You hear me, Cam?
cammeron		 Fuck you, Derek! Fuck you! Don't think you can threaten me with this shit for a fuckin' second! I'm more important to him now then you ever were.
derek		You gonna listen?!
cammeron		I'm gonna fuckin' kill you.
derek		Shut the fuck up! You're gonna stay away! That's what you're gonna do!
derek		It's over.
random skin		Hey Derek!?
derek		What?!
cassandra		 Jesus, Der.  What happened?
curtis		 Where's Cammeron, man?!
derek		I haven't seen him.
derek		 Stay away from me.
stacey		Don't point your fucking finger at me.
derek		I'm serious, Stacey!  Stay away!
stacey		What are you gonna do?! Hunh?! Hit me?! Kick me as I roll on the fuckin' ground screaming?!  That bullshit with Cammeron is nothing, Derek!
derek		I don't care.
stacey		Goddamn you, Derek! Those two niggers deserved what they got. They deserved to die! And just like Cameron and Seth and a million others out there...I'll believe that 'til the day I fucking die. I will. Nothing will ever change that either.
et al		Forty-five! Forty-six!  Forty- seven...!
seth		 Why the fuck did you pump it?! I coulda gone for a minute at least!
derek		Let him go, Seth.
seth		Where's Cameron?
danny		 Seth, man!? Come on!
seth		I'd be doing America a great fucking favor, let me tell you.
stacey		Do it, Seth.
cassandra		You got fuckin' guests out there, Cam.
derek		Come with me right now.
danny		Fucking asshole!
derek		What the luck are you thinking!?
danny		What are you thinking!? Friends don't fight friends, Der! They stick together!
derek		They're not friends, Dan!
danny		What the hell are they then?!
derek		Just sit there and relax for a second.
danny		I don't wanna relax!  You looked like an idiot back there!
danny		What's happened to you, Derek?
young man		You got lucky, man. I was in the kitchen for a year before making it in here. Pots and motherfucking pans... disgusting beef stroganoff shit... boiling hot water...fuck that!  My name's Lamont, man.
lamont		I got your back. Righteous white Cracker with attitude. Just like the Judge who sentenced me, man.
lamont		If your smart though you'll remember one thing. You're the nigger in here. Not me.
stevie		I was just talking about you.  You're Cammeron's boy?
derek		His boy? No, I don't think so, man. I'm not anybody's boy.
stevie		Well...you know what I mean.
derek		Nooo, I don't know what you mean.
stevie		Here, man. Relax and have a hit.
derek		Nooo...how about you getting that fucking shit awax from me?
stevie		You got a problem, man?
derek		Excuse me? Do I have a problem? No, I don't have a problem. Do you have a problem?
stevie		No. I don't.
derek		Who the fuck are you?
lamont		But I won't go down on that shit.  No way, no how.   You ever been with a soul sister?
lamont		Oh shit! Sorry, man! Forgot who the luck I was talking to there for a second.  Let me ask you this one though cause I don't know the white man's take. You like eating pussy?
lamont		Oh man! You sick fucking bastard! You sick pig!
derek		And you don't!?  Shut up.
lamont		Man...you don't know shit about the brothers. We won't go down on that shit if the bitch was holding a gun to our fucking head.
stevie		How's your face, man?
stevie		That'll teach you.  Don't be a prick to your superiors.
stevie		What do you want?
derek		I'm right here, man. You wanna have it out with me, let's go. Just me and you though.
stevie		Man...you are a stupid motherfucker. You know that? When are you--?
derek		Stupid?! You have anything else to say, you little pussy! Hunh?!
stevie		Fuck you!
huge aryan		Well well well. A virgin.
huge aryan		You ain't so tough now, are you?
lamont		Motherfucker. What now, man?
lamont		Shit, holmes.  Hang on to me, man. You're heavy.
doctor		Well, you do have some tearing down here. Christ. Okay. I'm gonna have to stitch you up so I'll be back.
sweeney		Honor and loyalty run thick, Derek. Not skin color. Skin is thin. I don't get you, man.  I don't.  There's nothin' more beautiful Derek, nothin' more pure, nothin' more innocent...than a baby.
derek		They killed my father, Sweeney.
sweeney		Jesus Derek. Use that brain God gave you for chrissake. What are you gonna do? Seek revenge your whole life and become a lifer in here. That's what these guys are like, you wanna be like them? Fucking little boys in prison? Think, man. None of your guys back home give a shit about you.  They only care about your brother. The new blood. And he sure as hell can't take care of himself like you could.
derek		Get me outta here, Sweeney.
voice		How you doin', man?
derek		All right.  How are you?
lamont		I'm fucking incarcerated, man. With a bunch of faggots. How you think I'm doin'?
lamont		What are you gonna do, man?
derek		I'm not going to do anything.
doris		Dr. Sweeney called me. He spoke with a guy on the parole board here.  He thinks you might be getting out soon.
derek		How are the others?
doris		Davina's good. UCLA Math major.  All three of you have always been so great in school. I wonder why all this--
derek		What about Dan, Mom?  How's he?
doris		He's doing the same stuff you were doing, Derek. Hanging out with Cammeron, getting into trouble. It brings back a lot of sad memories. And I can't do anything...he won't listen to me. He needs you.
derek		 You're my best friend, Danny. You're my only friend. And I just want what's best for you.
derek		Pretty shitty assignment you got.
derek		Oh yeah? What the hell do you know- about my father?
derek		Hey. Wake up.
derek		Time for bed.
doris		Goodnight.
derek		Goodnight, Mom.
doris		Breakfast!
dennis		Okay! Let's go, Davina! Derek!
doris		So what's this all about, Dennis?
dennis		Good morning.
derek		Good morning.
doris		What about this gang stuff?
dennis		Jesus Doris...it's not that big of a deal. All departments have to take a precaution class on gang patrol today.
derek		What for?
dennis		A guy was shot yesterday in Inglewood...changin' a valve on a hydrant. LAPD is worried that more firefighters will become targets. That's what this bullshit is about.  A good father this guy was though and now he's in intensive care because of some goddamn--! They've pretty much declared war on LAPD and us.
doris		Why you guys though? I can see them but the fire department?
dennis		They think we would rather let a building burn down over there than fight it. So now we got two fights goin' on at one goddamn time.
dennis		 Dayins! Get in here!
dennis		I'll tell you one more thing. This "affirmative blaction" shit is driving me up the fucking wall. Firefighters gettin' 99's on their tests while rappers who score a goddamn 62 walk away with the job.
danny		Don't we have to have "affirmative action?"
dennis		Not when a job requires ability.  No.
doris		A lot of people say otherwise, Danny. Including me.
dennis		A lot of people don't know shit, either.
dennis		If I'm fightin' a brush fire... surrounded by thousand degree flames...who would I want watchin' my back? A guy who scores a 99 or a guy who scores a sixty?  You don't see half the NBA with whites, gooks and spics.
doris		Nooo...what you don't see are minorities on the boards of Fortune 500 companies cause whites won't stand for it.
dennis		Doris! I'm tired of your damn argument! You sound like an idiot!
derek		Sweeney actually had a pretty good take on affirmative action the other day.
dennis		 Really? I didn't know you spoke "African", Derek? Where'd you learn that shit? Johannesberg?
doris		Honey? Please don't speak that way. They don't--
dennis		How am I speaking, Doris!? Hunh?! I'm speakin' fineP  Hey. Don't let that him confuse you over there, Derek. Look at me. This shit he's pulling is a load of crap. Hey. Look at me, Derek. I mean it. If we keep givin' niggers everything, there'll be nothing left for us.
doris		You can be a stupid son of a bitch sometimes.
dennis		And then we have naive fools like her.
doris		I really hate you with a passion some times.
dennis		You know what I mean though, right?
davina		 Good morning.
dennis		Well...good morning, Miss Monroe!  Look at you. You look like a star.
derek		I like that color, Davina.
davina		Thanks DENNIS You did like it.
davina		 Come on, Dad.
dennis		Yeah. Well you're lucky I'm letting you wear that crap on your eyes. I love you but you're too young.
davina		That sucks, man.
dennis		It totally sucks. And we all sympathize with you, too.
dennis		 You got practice today?
danny		Coach's sick.
dennis		You wanna go to Der's game with me?
dennis		(quickly to Derek} Santa Monica High tonight, right?
dennis		Perfect.  Ben'll whip us up a couple of double deckers and we'll head over.
homeless man		Spare change for a cheeseburger?
seth		Get a job and buy one why don't you.
homeless man		God bless you.
seth		Fuck you.
homeless man		Fifty cents is all I ask. Vietnam, man.
cammeron		Really? So you've had what? Thirty years to get your shit together?
homeless man		All I want is something to eat.
cammeron		There are plenty of fuckin' dishwashing jobs out there, Vietnam boy. Go get yourself one.
homeless man		Did I do something?
cammeron		You're a disgrace to the white race. If Adolf Hitler was alive...God bless his soul...he would have you shot.
homeless man		Fuck you then. Now and forever.  Fuck you.
cammeron		Noooo. Fuck you.
cammeron		I think I need to go to the hospital.
seth		Seriously?
cammeron		I don't know. I think so.
seth		Where's Stacey?
cammeron		Who gives a fuck?
seth		Derek's a fuckin' traitor pussy.
cammeron		Well...we might be pussies too if we got treated the way he did.
seth		What do you mean?
cammeron		Stevie McCormick called...old school Venice bro. He's at Chino...doin' life. He hated Derek.  Said he was a fucking blow-up doll in there.
seth		 Fucking A.
cammeron		Oh Christ. You gotta be kidding me?
cammeron		 Is there anything sacred in this country anymore? Jesus Christ. Hey. Stop feeding your face for a second and look behind you.
cammeron		Can we help you with something? Do you have any questions about the menu?
black man		No questions.
cammeron		I recommend either the "Big Ben Burger" or the "Chicken Taco Special." Ben'll replace the dark meat with the white meat if you ask nicely.
black man		 What's your problem, pal?
cammeron		I ain't your fucking pal first of all. Secondly...I don't have problems. People who luck with me have problems.
white girl		Come on. Let's get out of here.
cammeron		Hey! What a great idea! You got a clever little whatever it is there. I'd listen to it if I were you.
black man		You're not me.
camheron		 And I thank God Almighty every day for that, believe me.
seth		Excuse me? Tyrone?
black man		My name's not Tyrone either.
seth		Whatever.  Why can't you stick to your own race?
white girl		 Jesus Christ! Where do you assholes come from?!
cammeron		What the luck difference does it make where we come from, bitch? I'm from a place called America. A place that used to be a nice place to live before it became fuckin' Africa-America.
black man		You ignorant mother--
seth		You got a fuckin' death wish, asshole? Do you? Make your move now if you do. If you don't...get the luck out of my sight. Cause I'm real close to shoving my piece up your girlfriend's stinky pussy.
cammeron		 Everything's hunky dory, Ben!  No problemo. Only us white folk.
derek		 Did you "save" it?
cammeron		It wouldn't irritate me so much if the ratio was a little more even.
seth		What's that?
cammeron		 Ebony and Ivory back there! Almost all of those orange kid relationships are black man and white women and I'm fucking sick of seein' it! I wouldn't mind so much if it were more even.
seth		Huge dicks, Cam.  That's all it is.
cammeron		I used to think that too but...it's gotta be more, man. It has to be more than the fact they they carry a big load. Chicks aren't that shallow, are they? It's politically correct... that's what it is. White women...bein' seen with the coloreds...it's great for their image. Bitches today want to be known as bein' fuckin' color blind.
seth		They get off on it.
cammeron		And you can't really blame Tyrone.
seth		Why the fuck not?
cammeron		Well...how'd you like to drag around some fat fly girl? I wouldn't.
seth		No shit.  Oh go girlfriend! Don't be puttin' up wid dat, girl! Oh stop girl!
little henry		You gonna waste 'em?
jerome		Only if we have to.
danny		I'm printing it up and we're out of here.
derek		Hurry up.
doris		Wow. What happened?
derek		I gotta see my parole officer.
davina		Hey Der? Do you have Excel on disk?
derek		I've got everything on disk.
doris		You look good.
derek		We're getting out of here soon.  Is that okay with you?
doris		I'd love it.  Do you think I should color my hair?
doris		I'm glad you made it back. I wasn't too sure I was going to see you again. You know how I get.
derek		You think you'll be able to forgive me? Someday maybe?
doris		You're my son. Of course I will.
derek		Look at me. I'm such a pussy.
doris		No you're not.
derek		What do you want?
danny		Maple bar and a...large milk.
derek		 You look pretty.
tisha		Thank you.
derek		How do I look?
black girl		 Fine.
derek		What's your name?
derek		How old are you, Tisha?
black mother		 Come here, Tisha.
derek		What's goin' on?
sweeney		We need to talk, Derek.
derek		How'd you find out I was here?
sweeney		We were just at your apartment.
rasmussen		Cammeron and Seth are in the ICU at St. Johns, Derek. They were jumped in front of Ben's Burgets early this morning.
derek		How bad?
rasmussen		They'll live.  They must have been looking for somebody else.
sweeney		Are they coming after you?
derek		Fuckin' A.
sweeney		I don't know.  You might have to talk to your old crew though.
derek		I can't, Sweeney.
sweeney		Try, Derek. Okay?
sweeney		Okay?  Before it explodes.
sweeney		And watch your back.
sweeney		 You showing up today?
derek		Hey. Keep your head up, alright?  I'm going to take care of this.
danny		How?
derek		I don't know. I'll figure it out though. You gonna be okay?
danny		Yeah.
danny		I gotta turn that paper in.
derek		Hey.
danny		What?
derek		Come here.
derek		I'll see you at home.
derek		Nope.
danny		Jesus Christ.  What are you doing, Henry?
little henry		 What does it look like I'm doin'?
danny		Come on, man, no.  You don't want to do this. Come on.  Henry?
little henry		 Danny?
little henry		Vinyard? Danny?
rasmussen		He won't let go. Will you talk to him?
sweeney		Derek? You gotta let him go, man. They gotta get him outta here.
sweeney		Derek! I know what you're thinkin' right now and I want you to forget about it!
derek		How the luck do you know what I'm thinkin', Sweeney!?
sweeney		Cause I'm thinkin' the same damn thing!
derek		They shot him in a fucking...pisshole!
sweeney		And goin' after them won't bring him back. Don't do it, Derek. Please, man. You've come too far. The war is over.
derek		It stops now, Sweeney.
****Dialogues from script :American_Hustle.txt****

richie dimaso		What are you doing, going behind my back? Telling people I'm screwing up this operation? I got you a suite at the fuckin' Plaza Hotel!
irving rosenfeld		The shittiest suite at the Plaza Hotel.
irv rosenfeld		The shittiest fuckin' suite.
richie dimaso		Based on what--?
edith greensly		No
irving rosenfeld		Are you dressing him like you're dressing me now?
edith greensly		 No, what are you thinking? This isn't all about you, you know that.
richie dimaso		What, did you try to dress me so I would look like him?
edith greensly		No, you're not dressed like him, all right?
richie dimaso		But I do, I look like him.
edith greensly		No, he's in like, velvet. Come on.
irving rosenfeld		You asked me to show you how this was done, you wanna fuck it up be my guest.
edith greensly		What is your problem?
richie dimaso		Hey, look, I never laid a hand on her, all right? Is that what this is about?
edith greensly		 Well technically, that's not true.
richie dimaso		Look, we never had sex ok? I just --
irving rosenfeld		Don't you fucking touch me. That bothers me --
richie dimaso		Oh it does?
irving rosenfeld		Oh yeah.
richie dimaso		That bothers you?
irving rosenfeld		Yes.
richie dimaso		You know, a lot of shit bothers me too, but I was trying to help you. If I wanted to bother you, if I really wanted to fucking bother you, this is what I'd do.
irving rosenfeld		You shouldn't have done that.
richie dimaso		How's that? You bothered now?  Alright, don't make a thing of it.
edith greensly		You shouldn't touch him. He doesn't like that.
richie dimaso		Oh my god, fix his hair. Don't make a thing of it.
edith greensly		It takes some time, ok.
richie dimaso		Big fucking deal. We got to get in the other room, come on. The mayor's in there.
edith greensly		Yes I know that.
richie dimaso		Should we go to the beauty parlor? Is that what we should do?
irving rosenfeld		How's it look.
edith greensly		You look fine.
richie dimaso		Let's go.
carmine polito		I thought he was going to be here. I do business face to face, person to person. That's just who I am.
carl elway		Whoa, excuse me, excuse me. I'll handle that for the Mayor.
richie dimaso		No, it's for the Mayor. It would be a sign of disrespect to the sheik if the mayor didn't take it himself. It's for you Mayor.
carmine polito		What are you doing? What--  Carl, what the fuck? What is this?
carl elway		No, I'll handle it. I'm gonna take care of-- Everything's good. I got everything under control.  That's for me. I handle all that for mayor.
carmine polito		What is this?
edith greensly		 Just stop it, ok
richie dimaso		 He's gotta take it himself, okay?
carmine polito		I don't know what the fuck that is but it's weird you understand?
carl elway		Misunderstanding. Misunderstanding.
carmine polito		I came here to meet a sheik, that's all I know. I'm very interested in that but he's not here apparently. Carl?!
carl elway		 Irving! You better come get him.
richie dimaso		 Go out there and get him right now.
carl elway		Help me get him back!
richie dimaso		Go get him. He needs to take the fuckin' briefcase, Irving.
irving rosenfeld		I didn't wanna do it in the first place. This is your show, YOU go get him.
richie dimaso		No, you have no choice. You have to go get him. Now, go get him, so he takes the briefcase by himself! That's the whole plan, Irving!
irving rosenfeld		What were you doing pushing the fucking briefcase, dummy? Huh?
richie dimaso		The whole fuckin' thing was falling apart. You know how much I paid for this goddamn hotel that you fucking asked for?!
irving rosenfeld		Now I gotta go mop up your mess. I'm gonna go fucking mop up your mess!
richie dimaso		You understand what I'm saying, right? It wasn't working.
irving rosenfeld		I learned how to survive when I was a kid.
irving rosenfeld		I was gonna survive no matter what. I still had the glass business and a few dry cleaning stores on the side.
irving rosenfeld		Is that Duke Ellington on your bracelet?
sydney prosser		As a matter of fact, it is. He died this year, you know.
irving rosenfeld		I know. I doubt anyone else here knows or cares about it.
sydney prosser		Well I care. He saved my life many times.
irving rosenfeld		 Mine too. Which one?
sydney prosser		Jeep's Blues.
irving rosenfeld		 Jeep's Blues. Oh yeah.
sydney prosser		Right now?
irving rosenfeld		Yeah.
sydney prosser		Sure.
irving rosenfeld		Who starts a song like that?!
sydney prosser		It's magic.
irving rosenfeld		Magic.
sydney prosser		Alright.
sydney prosser		I like it.
sydney prosser		Yes.
irving rosenfeld		-- I got two in the Bronx and three in Manhattan.  Hey, Byron.
irving rosenfeld		I mean you wouldn't believe the shit that people leave behind here. Unbelievable.
sydney prosser		People leave stuff here?
irving rosenfeld		Oh yeah. They go out for the night, they drink, come here in the morning, put their clothes in and then they forget. They got no idea where they left it.
sydney prosser		It's beautiful.
irving rosenfeld		I mean, some of it's been here for years. They're not picking it up. Nobody's picking it up.
sydney prosser		I love it.
irving rosenfeld		It's yours. You want it? It's yours.
sydney prosser		Oh my god. I can only dream about these dresses. They're beautiful.
sydney prosser		What is this place? Do you sell art here?
irving rosenfeld		Yeah, sometimes. This is my office.
sydney prosser		I know it's your office, but, you have these other places. What's this for? Why did you bring me here?
irving rosenfeld		This getting to be my main business, my growing business. I help get loans for guys that can't get loans. I'm their last resort.
sydney prosser		You're their last resort? Because interest rates are north of 12% and heading to 18%.
irving rosenfeld		That's right, smarty pants.
sydney prosser		Fucking Jimmy Carter. Fucking Nixon really. And the war and the deficit and all of that shit.
irving rosenfeld		I love you, you're so smart. You are.
sydney prosser		Thanks kid but how do you get them the money?
irving rosenfeld		Well --
sydney prosser		You don't do you? You don't.
irving rosenfeld		These guys are lousy risks, you know? I can't get them a loan but I get my fee. Five thousand.
sydney prosser		Five thousand? You take five thousand and you don't give them anything?
irving rosenfeld		These are bad guys, you know? They got bad divorces, gambling habits, embezzling, all that shit, you know what I mean?
sydney prosser		Everybody at the bottom crosses paths eventually in a pool of desperation and you're waiting for them.
irving rosenfeld		How about `we'?
sydney prosser		We?
irving rosenfeld		How bout it?
sydney prosser		You said it was nice knowing me. You said it was nice to meet me.
irving rosenfeld		Yeah.
sydney prosser		 Would you like to meet Lady Edith Greensly?
irving rosenfeld		That was fucking fantastic.
sydney prosser		Thank you. Did you like it?
irving rosenfeld		I liked it. I didn't think you were coming back. Thank god you came back.
sydney prosser		I wasn't going anywhere.
irving rosenfeld		I fucking love you.
sydney prosser		You have me.
businessman		Rebecca, hold on. You're Edith right?
businessman		I'm Jim. I'm her employer. Listen - - she told me you can get me a line of credit. I know you have banking connections in London, England.
businessman		Becky tell her! I've never missed a check!
edith greensly		 NO!
edith greensly		Lady Edith Greensly, it's so good to see you again.
sydney prosser		We're very selective.
irving rosenfeld		You got a strong application. We'll talk about it.
irving rosenfeld		I don't take a deal that I can't close.
sydney prosser		You're not being aggressive enough in putting up your assets --  The man looks nervous --  NERVOUS LOAN APPLICANT Have you ever been to Queens? Have you ever been to Great Neck? Everybody knows my dealerships.
desperate man		Five thousand gets me fifty right?
another businessman		Five will get me thirty five. Is that right?
edith greensly		It's really a fabulous example of a genre painting, which is really rare for the time. It's a boy and his dog. Non-religious painting.
irving rosenfeld		Paul Klee. Bauhaus Movement. 1920s.
irving rosenfeld		Let's just say it's missing from Spain and leave it at that.
edith greensly		Don't show any Spanish friends.
danny		DADDY!
irving rosenfeld		Danny. This is a fantastic picture. What did you do today?
danny		That kid Donovan is being mean to me.
irving rosenfeld		The big kid? I thought Mommy picked you up so he couldn't bother you.
danny		She was late, and then after we put out the fire, mommy said stay in my room with my baseball cards.
irving rosenfeld		What fire?
danny		Did you know they make a lamp that has the sun in it? [Irv looks at him] Mommy got the lamp. She made her special drink and the lamp made a fire.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I put out the fire. The fire is out.
irving rosenfeld		For the first time in my life I do the right thing.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Oh shut up --
irving rosenfeld		I save a young single mother, and her kid. I marry her. I adopt him - -
rosalyn rosenfeld		You fell in love! Don't forget we fell madly in love!
irving rosenfeld		Yes, I fell in love. My God, I fell in love. Yes. But you know what? I thought you were mysterious like my mother until it turned out that mysterious just meant depressed, hard to reach. I mean, I'm dying here! And you need somebody who's gonna be quiet like you. You're young, you're beautiful. You gotta find somebody else. You gotta go out and get some friends all right? Don't sit inside --
rosalyn rosenfeld		I don't like going out. You know that I get anxiety when I have to meet people. You know how hard that is.
irving rosenfeld		Yeah but you can't just stay in the house with the fucking sun lamp. Alright? And I can't-- I mean, look, I can't trust you with it anyway. That fire and everything. I can't trust to leave you with Danny.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I put the fire out Irving! There is no fire! Maybe if you were here more, then there wouldn't have been a fire in the first place.
irving rosenfeld		Oh, what, there wouldn't have been a fire if I was here?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Just stop with the whole fire thing. God it was a mistake. I'm sure a million people do that all the time. Those sun lamps are dangerous. Shouldn't even have them in the house, really. I bet that happens all the time. This was nothing.
irving rosenfeld		We're not happy. Alright?
rosalyn rosenfeld		You know that I could take Danny. You know that most of your work is illegal. And you know that if you tried to divorce me, you know that-- I'm not saying that I would, but I'm saying that I could. And I'm saying that that is why I don't like divorce, Irving. Women do that in divorces. Women get the children, and then the fathers never see them. My mother never got divorced. My grandmother never got divorced. There are NO divorces in my family. I am not getting a divorce.
irving rosenfeld		Come on. What are we doing here?
rosalyn rosenfeld		We fight and we fuck and that's what we do. That's our thing.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Irving, come to mama. Come on.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Irving, come here. Come on. Get into bed.
irving rosenfeld		Alright.
rosalyn rosenfeld		63             Baby, there's such good stuff here.                    63
irving rosenfeld		-- and every deal I take, I close. However, my fee is non refundable, just like my time.
irving rosenfeld		That's correct.
edith greensly		No, you didn't mention that. Two lunches and you never mentioned that.
edith greensly		The hat.
edith greensly		You couldn't see his eyes. He had no eyes. It was like, did he make it?
edith greensly		You were going to get me one?
irving rosenfeld		Two lunches?
edith greensly		Yes. It's two lunches. What's the big deal?
irving rosenfeld		That's unusual.
edith greensly		I was trying to get him to be more aggressive. On his loan that is.
edith greensly		Oh, good. You're welcome.
irving rosenfeld		Yeah, right. You liked it? Should I take you there?
edith greensly		Yes.
irving rosenfeld		Should I take you there twice?
edith greensly		Stop.
irving rosenfeld		 What's going on, you like this guy?
edith greensly		Yes I like this guy.
irving rosenfeld		Is that messing up your judgement? Don't be stupid.
sydney prosser		No, he's not messing with my judgment.
irving rosenfeld		Hey, play your part.
edith greensly		Fine. You play your part.
irving rosenfeld		If you could excuse me for one second?
irving rosenfeld		You got the wrong office, you're gonna be embarrassed.
irving rosenfeld		Fraud?! Fraud? What is that? Identity fraud?
edith greensly		 Hey! Not so tight!
irving rosenfeld		Oh really? That's interesting. I don't even know your real name.
richie dimaso		Richie Dimaso, FBI. Nice to meet you.
richie dimaso		 It's herbal. My favorite.
richie dimaso		Been in there three days. Hasn't been so good for her.
irving rosenfeld		Who made you god and judge?
richie dimaso		My grandmother lived to be ninety- three years old. Never lied in her life.
irving rosenfeld		Congratulations.
richie dimaso		Thank you. I'm proud of that, too. Does that make her not a good person? Is that not something to strive for?
irving rosenfeld		Why you breaking my balls? Get to the point.
richie dimaso		I see something in you, Irving. I get very excited. I think that we have a lot of potential here. Now, look. I came up with the idea. It's all from me. I want to change things. I want to go after white collar crime. Irving, you're very skilled. And I want you to teach me and we can do this. I want four people that do what you do. Fraudulent investments. Fake certificates of deposit. Stolen art, fake art. You get me four people and you're off the hook.
irving rosenfeld		Four busts and you'll leave us alone? We don't have to testify?
richie dimaso		You're good, you're done. Anything you want. But if you run, then your life is over. You'll be hunted, and it's gonna be very difficult for Rosalyn and your kid to live in this country.
sydney prosser		We need to leave. We need to run and we need to do it now. We can go to Estonia or Romania, I don't care, we'll take the cash from the bed and get out of here, alright? We talked about it a hundred times.
irving rosenfeld		What about Danny?
sydney prosser		What about Danny?
irving rosenfeld		I adopted him! I gave him my name! I'm not leaving him with Rosalyn, she's unstable!
sydney prosser		That's a manipulation! Rosalyn's will never let you go. She'll use Danny against you because she's too messed up to let you leave.
irving rosenfeld		I can't leave him. I love him. Alright? He's my son.
sydney prosser		Richie said you would say that.
irving rosenfeld		Richie? What, the cop? Your on a first name basis with him?
sydney prosser		Yes I am. I'm not even on your list am I?
irving rosenfeld		What list?
sydney prosser		Your list. Your short list. Your long list. I'm not even on anyone of your fucking lists. I thought you loved me. I thought we had something.
irving rosenfeld		We do have something. I love you, it's perfect! What are you saying? We're gonna go to Romania? We're gonna take Danny?
sydney prosser		Yes. Yes, that's what I'm saying. You, me, Danny.
irving rosenfeld		Well you never said that before.
sydney prosser		I'm saying it now. We're us, and we can make it an adventure like we did. We can make it an adventure like we make everything, alright? But we have to go now. We have to leave right now.
irving rosenfeld		I can't leave Danny. I'll lose custody.
sydney prosser		You have to take me away! We have to leave!
irving rosenfeld		What are you doing?! Please!
sydney prosser		I can't believe this is happening.
irving rosenfeld		Don't say I don't love you because that's bullshit!
sydney prosser		 This is bullshit. You are bullshit. We are bullshit.
irving rosenfeld		Please don't do this.
sydney prosser		I just never thought you were conning me.
irving rosenfeld		I could never con you. I love you. Please don't say this.
sydney prosser		No, I'm done.
irving rosenfeld		Don't say that.
sydney prosser		 I'm gonna do these four busts, these four cons, to get us out of this. Not just me, but us. And I'm gonna get really close with Richie, the cop, in case we need to use him, if we need another move.
irving rosenfeld		We don't need another move. We need four busts, and we're done.
sydney prosser		We are going to need another move, trust me. And you're going to be thanking me.  The key to people is what they believe and what they want to believe and I want to believe that we were real, and I want to believe that a man could want me. And I'm gonna take all of that heartbreak, and all of that sorrow, and I am going to use it. And I'm going to make Richie think that I want him, and that I like him, and I'm going to be very convincing -- And I'm pissed at you.
irving rosenfeld		How do you think this works, stupid?
sydney prosser		If you could not call him `stupid' which he's isn't, he's smarter than you. Last I checked he's in control here and we work for him now so be nice.
irving rosenfeld		 OK, to set this up and bust a con artist we have to make the honey pot to attract the bees. In order to attract the bees, we need to offer them a wealthy individual who can be taken advantage of, someone special, someone new, someone amazing. Then those guys will want to sell fake bank CDS to THAT guy, take the sheik's money, see?
sydney prosser		Only they can't get into his money unless you they know someone, and that someone is us.
richie dimaso		Oh that's good.
irving rosenfeld		Keep your voice down.
richie dimaso		-- or sell fake art or stolen art or fake certificates of deposit, he needs -- who does he need? -- he needs a rich sheik guy, and there you go -- we can pinch him!
irving rosenfeld		Right, but I don't tell Elway shit. I wait for him to call me. The art world is a small world -- and one of Elway's acquaintances is clocking us right now.
richie dimaso		Where?
irving rosenfeld		Don't look.
richie dimaso		How do you know the Sheik?
irving rosenfeld		This is my friend Al from Queens.
irving rosenfeld		I want to show you something. This Rembrandt here? People come from all over the world to see this.
richie dimaso		Yeah, he's good.
irving rosenfeld		It's a fake.
richie dimaso		Wait, what're you talking about? That's impossible.
irving rosenfeld		People believe what they want to believe. Cause the guy who made this was so good that it's real to everybody. Now whose the master -- the painter or the forger?
richie dimaso		That's a fake?
irving rosenfeld		That's the way the world works. Not black and white as you say. Extremely grey.
elway's acquaintance		Irving can I --
irving rosenfeld		How many times I gotta tell you. You can't meet the sheik, alright?
edith greensly		Arthur? Hi. Edith. We've met before.
richie dimaso		 Yeah, I'm Robert Spencer, advisor to the sheik.
carl elway		What's this I hear about a god damn Sheik?! Why you leaving me out of this? I gotta hear about it from my friends?
irving rosenfeld		It ain't for you Carl.
carl elway		What do you mean it ain't for me? We gotta do certificates of deposit. I can print as many as you need.
irving rosenfeld		This is not a one man operation.
carl elway		Look, I can get other guys. What are you talking about Irving?
irving rosenfeld		You're telling me that you can get four guys to sell fake certificates of deposit to my investor within a week?
carl elway		Yes I can make that happen. Carl Elway can do what he says he's going to do.
irving rosenfeld		That's interesting but you know I've got other guys lined up. I've got a meeting with my associates.
carl elway		No wait. Don't go anywhere.
irving rosenfeld		I've got to go.
irving rosenfeld		I'll tell them, don't worry. Hey you know what Carl just told me? He said he could do this whole thing with four guys within a week.
carl elway		Or we could do somethin' much bigger!
richie dimaso		Something bigger? My guy deals with hundreds of millions of dollars. How much bigger?
carl elway		Hundreds of million -- I knew you were holdin' out on me Irving! Hundreds of millions of dollars? Like much bigger. Like I'm talking about we say never the fuck mind the CD's and we could have some complete access to something huge.
richie dimaso		Huge? Like what?  Robert Spencer, advisor to the Sheik.
carl elway		Carl Elway.
irving rosenfeld		Hey, quit while you're ahead Carl.
carl elway		I know the guy. I know the right people who are going to help you out.
richie dimaso		Whose the guy?
carl elway		The guy is Carmine Polito.
richie dimaso		Whose Carmine Polito?
stoddard thorsen		 Carmine Polito? Carmine Polito, no.
carmine polito		 The W.P.A. employed craftsmen to paint this during the Depression. Why can't we employ people today to do work like this in rebuilding Atlantic City?
stoddard thorsen		You said grifters and con artists. We're not going after some politician. This is a bad idea, Richard.
richie dimaso		Shhhh. Look, it's really simple. All you need is to put two million in a Chase account --
stoddard thorsen		What?!
stoddard thorsen		Whose two million?!
richie dimaso		Shh, just listen. Two million dollars under the Sheik's name, in a Chase account that we control. Carmine calls up on the telephone -- calls the bank -- and he sees that the Sheik is real and he has a real account. Five days.
stoddard thorsen		I'm not taking two million dollars of the taxpayers' money and putting it anywhere for five days, I don't care if we control it the whole time.
richie dimaso		Stoddard, let us do what we need to do to rule out corruption and to get rid of the payoff guys that are ruining this country. That's my dream. Don't smother it, please.
stoddard thorsen		You know Richard, I understand your eagerness. I really do. You know I'm from Michigan, right? Let me tell you a story about me, and my dad, and my brother. We used to go ice fishing every November. Ice Fishing. That's what we lived for.
richie dimaso		Holy shit --
stoddard thorsen		Just listen to me. It's beautiful. You have a little stove. You huddle around, you keep each other warm. You drop a line and you just wait. One year my brother says, "let's go in October." He wants to go ice fishing in October. My dad says, "No, the ice is too thin." My brother says -- I love my brother he says --
richie dimaso		I understand what's happening. You're saying your brother went out on the ice, the ice was too thin, he fell through the ice, he went in the water because he was too eager, and you're saying I'm too eager -- that's what you're saying?
stoddard thorsen		No, that's not what I'm saying.
richie dimaso		What are you saying?
stoddard thorsen		We'll finish the ice fishing story another time, young man. For now, no Carmine Polito. Go do your job.
richie dimaso		Boring.
smash to:		 85   Edith and Richie enter to find BRENDA, FBI, MATRONLY, OLDER;   85 EDITH carries a basket of exotic teas;
edith greensly		Brenda, hi!
brenda mcpherson		Hi!
edith greensly		You said you liked exotic food, so that's from England.
brenda mcpherson		That's from England?
edith greensly		That's right. And I brought you some tea as well.
brenda mcpherson		Thank you so much! Nobody ever tells me about these operations, they just say, "Brenda, do the clerical wiring work and don't ask questions."
edith greensly		You need to tell Richie about your cats. He loves them.
brenda mcpherson		Oh my cats?!
richie dimaso		That's impressive.
anthony amado		I'm very impressed. That was very smart. The Sheik with the money in the bank is a fantastic...don't be modest.
stoddard thorsen		Thank you, sir, wait, the sheik --
stoddard thorsen		You made me accept praise from my boss who's thanking me for something that never shoulda happened! Something that I didn't approve!
richie dimaso		You should be happy. There's imaginative things happening in this office, alright? We're not just working in a box.
stoddard thorsen		Punk.
irving rosenfeld		We succeeded because we stayed small. I got you Carl Elway. He bought stolen art, sold fake bank C.D.'s, that's enough. That's one. I get you three more -- no politicians.
richie dimaso		You're gonna do this because you got no choice. You work for me.
irving rosenfeld		Now you keep changing the rules. You're gettin' a little power drunk, Richard. 
edith greensly		Oh no, I said we shouldn't do any of it, Irving. You know I said that. So now I support Richie. He's got vision. Do it heavy or don't do it.
irving rosenfeld		I mean, he's the one ruining America, not me.
richie dimaso		How the hell am I ruining America?
irving rosenfeld		Because people just got over Watergate and Vietnam, alright? And you're gonna shit all over politicians again? And just because you want to be a big shot and get a promotion.
richie dimaso		No I'm thinking big. This is gonna be fantastic. We're doing video surveillance. I'm doing this from the feet up.
irving rosenfeld		You will never do it properly because you got too much government attitude to be small and sleek. I'm like the fuckin' Vietcong, man. I'm in and I'm out. I was there the whole time -- you don't know it. That's the fucking art of becoming somebody who people can pin their beliefs and their dreams on. And you can't do it.
richie dimaso		How about a suite at the Sheraton Hotel?
irving rosenfeld		For Carmine Polito and rebuilding Atlantic City?
richie dimaso		Why not?
irving rosenfeld		You need a luxury hotel for the Sheik. Come on!
richie dimaso		Carmine does back door dealings all the time. We don't have a budget for that Irving!
irving rosenfeld		You gotta knock the Mayor, the Speaker of the State Assembly -- you gotta knock him off of his fucking feet. He's gotta feel like he's out of his league. What you're offering, this deal, I mean, this is unheard of in the state of New Jersey, maybe even the whole fucking country. A sheik with hundreds of millions of dollars to rebuild Atlantic City -- are you fuckin' kidding me? That's gigantic. And the Mayor, he's going to want to see cash, he's going to want to see it in an account, he's going to want to see it right now, and he will check. And that's why this meeting isn't happening, because to get millions, you need millions.
edith greensly		 We already did it.
irving rosenfeld		 What?
edith greensly		We got the bureau to park 2 million for three days -- we got the account numbers.
irving rosenfeld		`We' meaning you and him?
richie dimaso		Yeah we did it.
irving rosenfeld		Really?
edith greensly		Yeah, me and that guy.
richie dimaso		She showed me.
irving rosenfeld		You showed him our thing? You did that without me? Are you kidding me?
edith greensly		What are you going to do?
richie dimaso		You playing me? Are we doing this? Or you playing him? It'd be very bad for you if you're playing me.
edith greensly		You're going to have to decide for yourself, kid, I just laid everything out on the table.
richie dimaso		This is all very exciting, I never knew life could be like this. You're wild. You know we're taking down a very important politician.
irving rosenfeld		Mr. Mayor -- Please stop. Listen, I apologize if that prick offended you. I really apologize.
carmine polito		Really, I'm all right, thank you. I'm okay.
irving rosenfeld		No. I'm fucking embarrassed to be associated with that guy at all. Can I just say somethin' to you, please? Don't lose this opportunity to fuckin' Florida -- all right? -- because of some bullshit from that punk advisor with his diploma who could never get into the school that we come from. Don't lose that opportunity.
carmine polito		Where you from?
irving rosenfeld		I'm from the Bronx. Grand Concourse, Hundred and Sixty-fourth Street.
carmine polito		I got a lot of friends that live up there. I go to Tomaso's on Arthur Avenue. You know Tomasos's?
irving rosenfeld		Yeah, Tomaso's.
carmine polito		The spicy clams.
irving rosenfeld		Yes. They're always good.
carmine polito		Oh, they're to fucking die for, those clams. I haven't been there in a while. I like that place.
irving rosenfeld		Carmine -- can I call you Carmine? You know, Carmine --  My fuckin' heart's going from running down the stairs -- I'm not used to running. There's a lotta green grass in that hotel room up there, alright? And all the deals would float through you. You get a serious piece on both ends. You do with that what you will. I live in the real world, I am a family man, I got mouths to feed and everything. But, you know, we just...we gotta grease you directly. No middlemen, no bullshit. It's the Arab way.
carmine polito		Yeah, look, I understand. It's a great opportunity. It's just I got a little thrown by going to have a meeting with somebody who ended up not being there, so --
irving rosenfeld		Hey, listen, I was thrown as well.
carmine polito		I understand. I'll deal with you directly. I don't want any middleman or any of that bullshit.
irving rosenfeld		Done.
carmine polito		I like you. Eye to eye. We can do business together.
irving rosenfeld		I gotta work with him. He's the Sheik's man.
carmine polito		But I still need to meet the Sheik, okay?
irving rosenfeld		Done.
irving rosenfeld		I'm going out to dinner with Carmine and the wives in Camden.
richie dimaso		Who?
irving rosenfeld		Carmine and myself and the wives.
richie dimaso		What?! Without me?!
irving rosenfeld		He doesn't like you, what do you want from me, I got him to come back and take the money and you got him on tape alright? I can't make him like you. I did my job.
richie dimaso		Did you tell him you were working with me? That I'm the Sheik's associate?!
irving rosenfeld		I just fucking told you he doesn't like you. I mean, let him have a night out with a human being for fuck's sake, he's going to jail soon. You're done with him. You got him on tape taking a bribe.
richie dimaso		Carmine has got to deal with me, Irving.
irving rosenfeld		What?! Like who?!
richie dimaso		Carmine's gonna use the Sheik to pay off people.
irving rosenfeld		Are you fuckin' nuts? What are you say--
richie dimaso		We're gonna let Carmine show the Sheik Atlantic City, how he's gonna renovate hotels, and see who shows up. Whoever the Sheik pays off for licenses and casinos, that's who we're gonna go after. We're gonna go after all of 'em!
irving rosenfeld		More politicians? You realize how fuckin' dangerous that is? There's no fucking reasoning with you. 
richie dimaso		If your that successful, how come you wound up in this room with me? Taking orders from me.
edith greensly		You're taking your wife out to dinner? Your fucking wife? Did I just hear you correctly?
irving rosenfeld		That's the one thing you heard me say?
edith greensly		I just find it rather shocking that's all.
irving rosenfeld		I get to handle two wives with one dinner, alright? I take Rosalyn out, she keeps her mouth shut, she sees that my work is legitimate, I get to keep my kid, and I get to keep  that fucking wife happy. Both wives happy.
richie dimaso		Oh my god, what did you do?
richie's mother		Richard, the filter is broken in the fish tank. It's a problem.
richie dimaso		See, your job is to do the filter, Mom, mine is to do the gravel. When you don't do the filter right all the fish die. See?
richie's mother		I can't get the top on that filter.
richie dimaso		I've gone over this a hundred times mom --
richie's mother		-- and please help Richard to marry Diane so that I may have grandchildren and the Pope may have more followers. And please bless this food that we are about to eat - -
richie dimaso		Yeah, hello?
edith greensly		Hi.
richie dimaso		Who's this?
edith greensly		It's Edith.  RICHIE'S MOTHER  Sit down and pray properly!
richie dimaso		Are you alright?
edith greensly		Yeah, I'm fine, I'm just alone, you know? Irving's out with Carmine.
richie dimaso		That's right, he went out with Carmine and his wife. You must not feel so good about that.
edith greensly		Wait who's there? Who are you with?
richie dimaso		Oh, no, it's just people.
edith greensly		Oh, you've got a fiance. You're engaged.
richie dimaso		Well, I don't know, no fiance.    I don't know.
edith greensly		You don't know if you have a fiance?
richie dimaso		I don't know --
edith greensly		You don't know? You don't know if you have a fiance?
richie dimaso		I don't. No.
edith greensly		Hmm -- intersting.
richie dimaso		Hey, you want to get together?
edith greensly		Fifty-fourth Street?
richie dimaso		OK, fifty-fourth street.
edith greensly		OK.
richie dimaso		That's what that phone call's about. Everybody thought, "Oh, Richie DiMaso's gonna stay in the office, pushing papers." That's not gonna happen, Mom. I'm outside in the field. I got people working for me. My ideas. I'm running the show. I'm the quarterback. And I'm not gonna settle for no one, Mom.
carmine polito		Rocco, you know like we do. The chicken very thin. You should see the way he does this chicken with the red sauce
dolly polito		It's beautiful.
carmine polito		Right? With the red sauce, the lemon--
dolly polito		It's the Piccata of the gods!
irving rosenfeld		I believe that you should treat people the way that you want to be treated.
carmine polito		Right.
irving rosenfeld		Didn't Jesus say that or something?
carmine polito		He may have.
irving rosenfeld		Also, always take a favor over money. I think Jesus said that as well.
carmine polito		 I don't know if he said the second one but he may have said the first one.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 I chip them moving furniture, it's my obsession -- Moving, re- decorating, it makes me feel better like exercise. There's this top coat that you can only get from Switzerland and I don't know what I'm going to do because I'm running out of it but I LOVE the smell of it.
dolly polito		I can get that for you, of course.
rosalyn rosenfeld		There's something, the topcoat,  it's like perfumey but there's also something rotten? I know that sounds crazy, but I can't get enough of it.
irving rosenfeld		I can't get enough.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 Carmine, sweet and sour. Rotten and delicious.
carmine polito		Smells like flowers.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Flowers, but with garbage.
carmine polito		You know what that is for me? It's coriander for me.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Irving loves it. He can't get enough. That's what hooks you. He always comes back for it.
irving rosenfeld		I can't stop.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 He's gonna say we have to talk business in five, four, three, two, one --
irving rosenfeld		 Dolly, can me and the mayor talk business here?
rosalyn rosenfeld		 AHH-HA-HAHAAAAAAAAHHHHH!
edith greensly		Didn't your fiance want to come out tonight?
richie dimaso		Yeah, no, I don't know.
edith greensly		I'm sorry, we don't have to talk about it. I was just teasing you.
richie dimaso		Do you ever think, how did I end up here? How did my life become this? You ever think that? And you wonder, am I ever gonna get to a better place or is this it? You ever feel like that?
edith greensly		I do. I definitely know that.
richie dimaso		No, I need this. Please, I need to go dancing with you.
edith greensly		OK baby, let's go dancing.
richie dimaso		I really fucking like you.
edith greensly		I like you too. I want to live, alright. For real. No more fake shit. Alright?
richie dimaso		OK.
edith greensly		No more fake shit.
richie dimaso		No more fake shit.
edith greensly		No more fake shit!
edith greensly		Get out!
richie dimaso		 I want to be fucking real!
edith greensly		AHHHHHHH!
carmine polito		 This guy right here, Irving Rosenfeld? You know what he's gonna do? He's gonna bring the Sheik to Atlantic City, where we can rebuild all those resorts there, put everybody back to work.
julius		To Irving.
girls		To Irving!
carmine polito		This guy right here. He's got a big heart.
irving rosenfeld		 I'd just hate it if it didn't work out.
carmine polito		What do you mean? Of course it's going to work out. Guys like you and me? We dream and we build. We never give up. We never quit.
carmine polito		Can I ask you a question.
irving rosenfeld		Sure.
carmine polito		Is the sheik black?
irving rosenfeld		He's an Arab.
carmine polito		That's black, isn't it?
irving rosenfeld		Why you asking?
carmine polito		Maybe it's a dumb question, but I was just wondering -- I would like to arrange for the Sheik to see Camden. To see the people of Camden. The people I serve. The people I love. Who are mostly black and Puerto Rican. I really want him to see how good this is going to be for the community, how ready we are for this opportunity, and he can see how far his dollar will go. You know what I mean? What do you think?
irving rosenfeld		Yeah we can do that. He can see Camden.
carmine polito		 Hey, I got something I wanna give to you.
irving rosenfeld		For me?
carmine polito		I got you a gift. Let's get out of here. The girls are going to kill us I'm sure.
irving rosenfeld		What is it?
carmine polito		It's a microwave. It heats up everything. Pasta, lasagna, meatballs, whatever.
irving rosenfeld		Really?
carmine polito		It's science, yeah. That's how it heats up the food. It's scientific.
irving rosenfeld		And you specifically bought this science oven for me.
carmine polito		 Yes. A new friend.
irving rosenfeld		Thank you.
carmine polito		Don't put metal in it. Come on, let's get out of here.
richie dimaso		I need a jet at Teeterboro for the sheik.
stoddard thorsen		You don't need a jet. Let him walk to the curb at JFK.
richie dimaso		Stoddard, that's not how it works. You got to do it from the feet up.
stoddard thorsen		That doesn't mean anything. What's that mean?
richie dimaso		It means you gotta be committed! It means you gotta be committed to something in your life, for Christ's sake. I want a jet at Teterboro for the Sheik. It can be a small jet. It doesn't even have to take off, cause I know you're so worried about how much money the Bureau's gonna fucking spend. It can take off and land on the tarmac, okay?
stoddard thorsen		Alright, you can have a jet for an hour, but it takes off and lands at Teterboro.
richie dimaso		I got the jet?
stoddard thorsen		You got the jet.
richie dimaso		110             Thank you.                                            110
stoddard thorsen		Where was I?
richie dimaso		Your father woke you up, it was a blizzard, it was Lake Canoga. Come on!
stoddard thorsen		Okay, well, my brother and I were on the ice and my father came out of the house and I could see him coming. He was holding a lantern, and it was in the blizzard and I knew he was gonna be angry. So I went to intercept my father because I knew if he saw what my brother was doing he was going to kill him.
richie dimaso		So you tried to protect your brother, but you couldn't and that's why you feel bad, because you're trying to protect me and you're worried about me. Is that what the story's about? About protection?
stoddard thorsen		No, it's not about protection.
richie dimaso		It's not about protection?
stoddard thorsen		No.
richie dimaso		Alright, fine.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 "Don't put metal in the science oven, don't put metal in the science oven, Rosalyn"...always treats me like a fucking child. I'll do whatever I want.
danny		 Another fire!
rosalyn rosenfeld		 No, Danny, not that one! That one's empty! We gotta use the big one!
irving rosenfeld		I told you not to put metal in the science oven. Why did you do that for?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Don't make such a big deal. Just get another one.
irving rosenfeld		I don't want another one. I want the one that Carmine gave me.
rosalyn rosenfeld		"I want the one Carmine gave me!" Carmine, Carmine, why don't you just marry Carmine, get a little gold microwave and put it on a chain around your neck. You want to be more like Carmine? Why don't you build something like he does, instead of all your empty deals that are just like your fucking science oven. You know I read that it takes all of the nutrition out of our food. It's empty, just like your deals. Empty, empty!
irving rosenfeld		That's bullshit.
rosalyn rosenfeld		It's not bullshit. I read it in an article. Look, by Paul Brodeur.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Bring something into this house that's gonna take all the nutrition out of our food and then light our house on fire? Thank God for me.
irving rosenfeld		I don't think you should come to Carmine's party tonight. You look beautiful by the way.
edith greensly		Don't look at me. Don't look at my legs, don't look at my hair, don't smell my hair, don't ask me how I am, don't talk to me outside of these roles, 'cause we're done.
irving rosenfeld		What are you doing? Get under the umbrella. It's just that Carmine wants Rosalyn to come.
edith greensly		I don't care. You weren't listening. I don't care if Rosalyn comes. Just do your job, okay? You're nothing to me until you're everything. I'm not Rosalyn. I'm not gonna put up with that shit.
richie dimaso		Now that's a fucking jet right?
irving rosenfeld		It's good.
richie dimaso		That's the kinda moves you need to make.
richie dimaso		Paco, Richie Dimaso, good to meet you in person [shakes Paco's hand] - this is Irving Rosenfeld.
paco hernandez		Paco Hernandez. Nice to meet you.
irving rosenfeld		Paco? He's--wait, he's not a real Arab.
paco hernandez		No. I'm Mexican. From Tuscon.
irving rosenfeld		Wait, where's my guy? Where's Al from Queens?
richie dimaso		Who?
irving rosenfeld		My friend from Queens. Where is he? What are you doing?
richie dimaso		I gotta hire an F.B.I. guy.
irving rosenfeld		What are you--  You speak any Arabic?
paco hernandez		Yeah.   Abdullah Ahmed.
irving rosenfeld		That's it? That's all you got?
paco hernandez		No, I have a couple phrases.
irving rosenfeld		 Act normal. That's it. Like you can barely understand English. You can't speak it. You say as little as possible. You follow my lead. Alright?
paco hernandez		 Who's running this?    I thought you were running it.
richie dimaso		I am running this but you've gotta listen to him. He's the guy with the vision.
irving rosenfeld		I've got the vision? You know what vision I had? You just kissing my girl outside. That's what vision I had.
richie dimaso		 I thought you guys broke up. I'm giving you a compliment.
paco hernandez		What's going on?
richie dimaso		Don't worry about it.
irving rosenfeld		You got a knife. This is for the Mayor. You've got to present it to him. Look me in the eye. This means a lot to you. Right? That knife.
paco hernandez		OK.
irving rosenfeld		Play it. You present it. "Friendship for life," alright? You gotta feel it. Sacred. Can you do it?
paco hernandez		Right. Sacred.
irving rosenfeld		You gotta sell it.
richie dimaso		Sell it.
irving rosenfeld		If you believe it's sacred, it's sacred.
richie dimaso		Listen to what he's saying.
irving rosenfeld		Can you do it?
richie dimaso		It's the details. That's what makes this guy a genius.
irving rosenfeld		Again? You compliment me again. What is this, rubbing salt in the wound?
richie dimaso		I'm complimenting you.  Any other questions?
paco hernandez		Yeah, I think the name of this operation is offensive.
richie dimaso		What?
paco hernandez		Abscam. "Arab Scam?" It's racist.
irving rosenfeld		Are you fucking kidding? What do you care? You're Mexican.
carmine polito		Hello Sheik, my friend. Welcome. On behalf of the great state of New Jersey I want to welcome you to New Jersey. I know that was redundant. I'm sorry. I'm just very nervous.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 But what are you talking about, I can't go? I just did my hair and makeup and everything!
irving rosenfeld		The Sheik's very particular. It's international cultural protocol.
rosalyn rosenfeld		International protocol? What the fuck are you talking about?
irving rosenfeld		Do not answer that!
rosalyn rosenfeld		 Hello -- Robert Spencer? I don't know a Robert Spencer. What do you want?
irving rosenfeld		 Give it to me.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Who is that?
irving rosenfeld		 Look, I told you, for God's sake, I told you not to call here.
rosalyn rosenfeld		What is that about?
richie dimaso		 Two more federal agents tonight, OK?
irving rosenfeld		No way.
richie dimaso		Yes. They're bodyguards for the Sheik.
irving rosenfeld		That's too many people for me to control, no.
richie dimaso		Look. I'm in charge here, alright? Just do it.
irving rosenfeld		Rosalyn, get off the extension!
rosalyn rosenfeld		 I'm not on it!
irving rosenfeld		Look, don't call here again, alright? Don't call at home.
richie dimaso		Alright?
irving rosenfeld		OK.
richie dimaso		Good night.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Federal agents?
irving rosenfeld		It's bodyguards for the visiting dignitary, that's all.
rosalyn rosenfeld		What is it, an I.R.S. thing?     Like a tax investigation?
irving rosenfeld		Why you gotta say that? I mean, that's why I can't invite you. It's too complicated. Listen, come on.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Are you in trouble?
irving rosenfeld		Look, stop being so nosy.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I'm only nosy cause you never tell me anything.
irving rosenfeld		Can we clean up this fridge? I mean, what are you causing trouble for all the time?
carmine polito		Tell him he's crazy!
rosalyn rosenfeld		Well, I agree. Want to tell him yourself?
irving rosenfeld		Gimme the phone, come on.
carmine polito		It wouldn't be a party without you!
rosalyn rosenfeld		Can you imagine? Tell him yourself.
irving rosenfeld		 Hey, Carmie.
carmine polito		Irving, you're crazy! Your wife is coming, you kidding me? She's the life of the party! Everybody loves her.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I'm the life of the party!
irving rosenfeld		 Look, you know what she's like. She's unpredictable. She's just always --
rosalyn rosenfeld		Hey, don't talk about me like that! What's Carmine saying?
irving rosenfeld		I can't hear what he's saying.
carmine polito		Listen, Irving, it's very important that she come, you understand?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Carmine loves me.
carmine polito		 This is a really big night for us, you understand? Come on, you gotta bring your wife. And Dolly's got somethin' special for her.
dolly polito		Tell her I got the nail polish for her.
carmine polito		See? Listen!
dolly polito		 I got your nail polish for you, sweetie!
carmine polito		You see? Somethin' special for you. What is it? Tell me. I mean,  What is it, you got a girlfriend coming? Come on, I thought we were friends. You're not gonna tell me you got a girlfriend? This is ridiculous.
irving rosenfeld		No, it's just Rosalyn's unpredictable.
carmine polito		Look, we're gonna handle this like men, you understand? You're bringing your wife. We're gonna have a good time. That's an order from the Mayor. Good-bye.
irving rosenfeld		 Alright, you happy? Go get ready.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Yes, I am happy.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 I know who you are.
carmine polito		So this is the lobby. Now mind you, a week ago this place was a mess, but what existed was this plasterwork. Look at the detail. This is beautiful. My sons are craftsmen.  Please, tell them what you did.
dolly polito		Tell them everything you know. The trompe l'oeil.
dominic polito		Birds, sky, clouds, wood. Trompe l'oeil -- "Trick of the eye."
carmine polito		We can restore all of this, you see? You save 50 million -- look at me -- fifty million right off the bat -- I waive the law I helped write. It said casino construction must be ground up new, we don't do new. We renovate.
dolly polito		We don't do new. We renovate.
carmine polito		We put in some temporary fun -- some gaming tables, some play money for people to have a good time. For charity -- the Boys and Girls Club and some arts programs.
carmine polito		This is the Ocean Room --
carmine polito		There are some gentlemen over there at the bar. That's a hundred and thirty years sitting there -- that's how much time's between them. They run the biggest casinos in the United States. We have to work with them.
irving rosenfeld		Right.
carmine polito		The good news is they know how it's done. They get it done. You don't have to worry. Everyone makes their money.
irving rosenfeld		You mean the Mob?
carmine polito		Yes, but they're businessmen, okay? Now, spend as much or as little time with them as you like, but we do have to deal with them. All we've got to do is go say hello. We just gotta say hi, that's all.
irving rosenfeld		Carmine, maybe -- I'm not sure that's such a good idea. We gotta confer before we talk to these guys.
richie dimaso		 Confer? What is there to confer about? They're casino guys.
carmine polito		They are businessmen.
richie dimaso		We came all this way, Irving. We should be here. What's everybody scared of? There's nothing to be scared of.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 Those are the guys you're all scared of? Those guys over there? They don't scare me.
irving rosenfeld		Rosalyn!
richie dimaso		I love this!
rosalyn rosenfeld		Hi.   Can I sit here?
carmine polito		Irving, this is not a good idea.
rosalyn rosenfeld		How you guys doing? Everybody over there is really scared of you guys, you know that?
dolly polito		Kids, I want you to go up and get some pizza and soda, please.
edith greensly		It's a disaster.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I think they have this room all wrong.
pete musane		Yeah? What would you do?
rosalyn rosenfeld		I would do it in all black and gold and I would do this bar like a big, warm golden mirror.
dick helsing		Sounds beautiful.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Thank you.
pete musane		But you expect that from her because she's so beautiful --
rosalyn rosenfeld		Oh stop.
dick helsing		Gorgeous.
pete musane		I love her hair, so I know I'm gonna love how she'd do the room --
richie dimaso		How do you do?
pete musane		 I'm sorry is she your wife?
irving rosenfeld		No, she's my wife. She's my wife.
carmine polito		Look at these fine gentleman.
pete musane		Carmine, there you are.
carmine polito		How you doing?
rosalyn		It's because he's a party pooper. He's so boring.
pete musane		You have a very beautiful wife.
richie dimaso		May I present Sheik Abdullah, gentlemen, from Abu Dhabi. Sheik, these men are professionals, they run the best casinos in the United States.
pete musane		Mr. Sheik, as a sign of our seriousness, Mr. Tallegio came from Miami to meet you tonight.
carmine polito		Mr. Tallegio? Why didn't you tell me Mr. Tallegio was here?
pete musane		He's in the back room.
irving rosenfeld		It's a sign of disrespect to do business on the first meeting.
richie dimaso		That's not true. I don't know what your talking about.  He's got it all wrong.
dick helsing		Well, don't leave him back there in the back room waiting. Come on, let's go.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Hey Irving, I'm going to be having fun. Maybe it will be contagious.
victor tellegio		Carmine!
carmine polito		You sure you don't want to go into the Ocean Bar? It's really, it's beautiful in there.
carmine polito		So, Mister Tellegio, how do you think we should approach this? What do you want to do?
victor tellegio		If you want to get the gaming license and keep it we have to make our principal investor here, the Sheik, an American citizen.
carmine polito		To expedite citizenship -- well, that requires very special treatment.
victor tellegio		You would know the right people to do that, Carmine.
richie dimaso		Carmine knows everybody.
irving rosenfeld		What are we talking about?
carmine polito		U.S. Senators. Congressmen.
richie dimaso		Wow, that's fantastic.
irving rosenfeld		I say stay away from that. That's bad. That's trouble. No, that's not good.
richie dimaso		Irving please.
irving rosenfeld		That's trouble.
victor tellegio		Who is this guy?  What are you, a farmer?
carmine polito		Mr. Tellegio, I'm sorry, this is Irving. New York businessman. Irving Rosenfeld.
victor tellegio		Irving, Irving. What's the matter, Irving? What's the problem?
irving rosenfeld		Nothing. No problem.
victor tellegio		Don't get your balls in an uproar. Everything's fine, everything's good. It's all good. It's all good. I just hope the other part of this is all good. And real. Because we're real. You know that. You deal with us. We're a real organization. We deal with you, we don't know what we're dealing with.
victor tallegio		Where's he from?
richie dimaso		 Abu Dhabi.
victor tellegio		Oh, he's from the Emirates.
richie dimaso		Yeah.
richie dimaso		Uh, I think, I think what he's --
victor tellegio		No, let him speak for himself.
carmine polito		No, I know him.
al kowalski		You guys are way too serious for a party! Hey, what are you drinking? You got a drink?
carmine		 I apologize.
al kalowski		I understand, you're in conference. You gotta come with me now. You got a speech to give. Everyone's waiting for you.
carmine polito		Al, I'll be right behind you, okay? Trust me.
sheik abdullah		 It is great doing business with you. The investment is real. It was a pleasure to meet you.
victor tellegio		Listen to me carefully. If you're real, you put ten million in the bank of our choice in the next two weeks.
edith greensly		Rosalyn, you need to come with me alright?
rosalyn rosenfeld		I don't need to come with you.
edith greensly		You need to come with me. This needs to stop. Come on.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Oh, you think I should come with you?
edith greensly		Yeah, you need to come with me right now.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Why don't you get your fucking hands off me, you fucking whore!
pete musane		Hey!
rosalyn rosenfeld		You're a whore.  This is my husband's whore!
edith greensly		That's real nice.
dolly polito		We're not going to do this in the Ocean Room tonight. Not tonight. Please.
rosalyn rosenfeld		This is my husbands whore!
dolly polito		You stay over here with me. Everybody just calm down. I don't know what's going on.
pete musane		You alright? Take it easy. These things happen. Whatever's meant to be will be.
rosalyn rosenfeld		That's what I always say.
pete musane		You say that?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Yeah.
pete musane		See? Kindred spirits.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Whatever's meant to be will be.
pete musane		Whatever's meant to be will be.
edith greensly		What the hell do you think you're doing?
rosalyn rosenfeld		What the hell do I think I'm doing?! What the fuck do you think you're doing? You really gonna come in here and judge me for flirting with somebody after you've been fucking my husband for how many years?!
edith greensly		You don't have any fucking clue what's going on!
rosalyn rosenfeld		I got a ring on my finger. We have a child together.
edith greensly		He doesn't love you Rosalyn he loves me. And you know it and I know it and he knows it. And it might be done now, but it was beautiful and it was real.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Stop.
edith greensly		And we loved each other.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Shut up.
edith greensly		You scare him, and you manipulate him, and you use your son!
rosalyn rosenfeld		Well, he must like it on some level. He must want it because he keeps coming back for it. It's like that perfume that you love that you can't stop smelling, even when there's something sour in it. You can't get enough of it. But guess what, he's never gonna leave me. He's always going to want me, and I will make you so sorry, Edith. I will make you so sorry for what you've done to my family, mark my words.
edith greensly		That is fucked up! I would never say anything that fucked up to anybody, but you do because you're gross inside, you're so fucked up and gross.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Oh, I'm gross inside?
edith greensly		Yeah.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Maybe you're gross inside, with robbing people and all that shit that you do? Maybe we're both gross inside, that's what Irving loves about us. At least he's consistent with his women. You know, sometimes in life all you have are fucked up, poisonous choices.
edith greensly		We need to talk! This is serious.
al kalowski		Ladies and gentlemen, your friend, the working man's friend, my friend, Mayor Carmine Polito!
carmine polito		 Please, raise a glass with me to a new era that begins tonight. From me and my family, we thank you. For all the hard work that you've given us in the community. Look what you've done. This is beautiful! Thank you!  Crowd ROARS WILDLY. Irv watches, MOVED AND DESTROYED.  DISSOLVE TO: SHOTS OF EMPTY BALL ROOM, TRASHED HALLWAYS, ATLANTIC CITY STREET TO OCEAN -- OCEAN SOUNDS  SMASH TO:
richie dimaso		Can I use your phone?
stoddard thorsen		 Stoddard Thorsen.
richie dimaso		 Listen, I need the Sherman Suite at the Plaza Hotel, okay?
stoddard thorsen		 That's a whole floor of the hotel.
richie dimaso		I need a whole floor. I need it for my operation
stoddard thorsen		 Stop calling it your operation, Richard. It's not your operation. And I'm not giving you a whole floor of the Plaza Hotel.
richie dimaso		I have members of Congress that are gonna come in right now to try to give the Sheik citizenship. They're taking bribes. This is happening right now. That's what's happening right now.
stoddard thorsen		 Bribing members of Congress are you out of your fucking mind?
richie dimaso		Stoddard. Stoddard! Shut up! Listen! Do you know who Victor Tellegio is? Victor. Tellegio. Works for Meyer Lansky. You know who that is?
stoddard thorsen		I know who Victor Tellegio is.
richie dimaso		Resorts International! He wants ten million dollars. I have two weeks!
stoddard thorsen		You're not getting ten million dollars.
richie dimaso		 Just listen to me! You're not listening to me! I have two weeks! I have two weeks to put this thing together and I need you to get me the Sherman Suite at the Plaza Hotel. And your going to fucking do it!
stoddard thorsen		Lower your voice. You don't get to yell at me.
richie dimaso		Calm me down baby. You gotta calm me down.
edith greensly		No, no.
richie dimaso		I want to do this. You're fucking skin is glowing baby. Your skin is glowing.
edith greensly		I'm not doing this with you. We're not going to do this unless we do it for real, alright?
richie dimaso		I want to do this now!
edith greensly		That's what we agreed on so we're not going to do that alright? Alright? Where are you? You're acting all scary.
richie dimaso		 I'm in love with you. It is real now. I just said it so now's the time.
edith greensly		 You want the truth? You want real?
richie dimaso		I'm ready for real.
sydney prosser		 OK, this is real. Do you hear my voice? This is real. This is real. What you hear is real.
richie dimaso		What?
sydney prosser		This is me.
richie dimaso		What do you mean? What are you doing an accent? An American accent?
edith greensly		No. There is no English. There's only American. There is no English.
richie dimaso		What are you talking about? Stop it. You're Edith. You're Edith Greensly. I checked your records.
sydney prosser		I falsified my records back to birth. I falsified them.
richie dimaso		You're -- freaking -- me -- out. No, you said in the stall that we were going to be real and that we weren't going to fake it.
sydney prosser		I'm being real now. This is who I am. I'm Sydney Prosser. Ok?
richie dimaso		So -- why -- did you do an English accent after that?
sydney prosser		I'm sorry I didn't tell you in the stall. 
richie dimaso		 Please don't talk about that. I'm confused. I'm confused and --
sydney prosser		I'm fucking confused too, alright?
richie dimaso		-- I think we should fuck, and then we'll feel it and we won't be confused anymore.
sydney prosser		No -- I want to talk. I don't want to fuck.
richie dimaso		 Yes! Come on.
sydney prosser		NO! I'm not fucking you. I'm not fucking fucking you!
richie dimaso		AHHH!
irving rosenfeld		Will you please step away from Edith. I'm asking you nicely please step away from Edith right now.
richie dimaso		What the fuck --
irving rosenfeld		Step away from her. Please.
richie dimaso		You mean Sydney?
sydney prosser		I told him. I'm sorry. I just don't give a fuck anymore, I don't give a fuck. I don't fucking care.
richie dimaso		Irving has a gun.
irving rosenfeld		What Richie's gotten us into is worse then jail. I told you last night, don't sit down with those goons. And what? Now what? No one's getting ten million for Tellegio. It's over.
richie dimaso		I don't think so.
stoddard thorsen		 Stoddard Thorsen.
richie dimaso		 You're going to give me the Sherman Suite. The whole floor.
stoddard thorsen		That's a NO. I said no wacko.
richie dimaso		And you're going to tell me the point of that FUCKING fishing story.
stoddard thorsen		Not the way you're behaving.
richie dimaso		 What's the matter with you? Where are you right now?
stoddard thorsen		What does that make a difference?
richie dimaso		Just tell me where the fuck you are.
stoddard thorsen		The field office on 61st street.
richie dimaso		I'm coming to 61st Street. Right now.
stoddard thorsen		You're going to do what?
richie dimaso		To beat -- your ass.
stoddard thorsen		You're going to what?  Richie SLAMS the phone down, storms out the apartment.
irving rosenfeld		You were right. We should have gone away.
sydney prosser		We were supposed to do it from the feet up like you always said. That's how we were meant to do it but you didn't do it like that. You didn't do it like that. You played it safe so there was always a danger you were going to end up with Rosalyn in the dead space, floating on some dead spaceship with the furniture and the curtains. And I was your life line out and you were mine and that was ok.
irving rosenfeld		 I wish I could get you back.
sydney prosser		Like I said. You never said that. I said that. We gotta get over on all these guys. That's what we need to be thinking about right now.
irving rosenfeld		That's big. That's crazy. Whatever it is, it's got to be the best we've ever done.  Sydney nods her head yes, stares intensely at Irving as the camera tilts down to reveal: their hands clasped together.
stoddard thorsen		 Agent Dimaso called me late at night on the 21st. I believe that he was intoxicated. He threatened me and I told him this was inappropriate. I told him procedures exist for reasons we must respect. This is the third such call I received from Agent Dimaso. He called me again the night of the 5th and he threatened to kill me. Subsequently he demanded that I allow him to use the Sherman Suite at the Plaza hotel for purposes of bribing members of congress.
richie dimaso		I am so sorry.
stoddard thorsen		I'm not finished. There's a lot more.
richie dimaso		I have nothing but the utmost respect for you as my mentor.  and as my --
stoddard thorsen		 What are you doing?
richie dimaso		I just want to talk from my heart. I don't want it on record. I want to get vulnerable.
stoddard thorsen		Can I finish? Can I finish my statement?
richie dimaso		Of course. I respect you.
stoddard thorsen		I think you do other things besides respect me.
richie dimaso		It's just hard for me to control my passion. I'm a very passionate person.  You're from New York. You understand this. He goes ice fishing in the midwest.
stoddard thorsen		That was told to you in confidence.
richie dimaso		He's an ice fishing guy. Look at him.
richie dimaso		What are you doing pulling out your gun? Stop it. That's not you.
stoddard thorsen		No, it's me. This is me. It's me.
richie dimaso		Don't do something that you don't know anything about. Alright?
stoddard thorsen		DO NOT LOAD THAT GUN. YOU DROP THAT GUN.
richie dimaso		I'll show you how it's done. I'm not even going to hit you.
anthony amado		So, you want to use the Sherman Suite? The entire floor?
stoddard thorsen		OH GOD.
richie dimaso		Yes! At the Plaza Hotel.
anthony amado		What happened to the Mafia? I thought you were --
richie dimaso		This is where they intersect! This is where the two things intersect. The Politicians and the Mafia. Victor Tellegio's people who run resorts international --
anthony amado		Victor Tellegio showed his face?
richie dimaso		Yes. I sat with him. I sat with Victor Tellegio. I hung out with him. We can get him. We can get his whole organization as well as getting any number of congressmen. I mean, that's just peeling the first layer of the onion.
anthony amado		Wow. How you going to do that?
richie dimaso		We would get ten million dollars and put it into an account --
stoddard thorsen		TEN MILLION DOLLARS?! Ten Million dollars?
richie dimaso		And that's how we just let them know we're for real.
anthony amado		What does he say he's gonna do for the ten million dollars? How are we trapping him?
richie dimaso		He promises to build casinos, handle the skims, do the licencing - -
stoddard thorsen		And you have him on tape saying this. You have that right? No.
anthony amado		 I want you to find a safer way to get Victor Tellegio on a wire. No ten million dollars -- that's crazy.
stoddard thorsen		Thank you.
anthony amado		Even to entrap Tellegio it's crazy. But you can have the Sherman Suite - -
stoddard thorsen		NO.
anthony amado		--Stoddard, please -- To go and get me some congressmen. Go get some congressmen taking bribes. I want to pinch us some congressmen, ok? You come back to me. I'm proud of you.
richie dimaso		Thank you.  And Stoddard.
stoddard thorsen		 Good luck keeping your job, by the way, and staying out of jail -- and not being killed by the Mob. But other than that you're doing a great job.
richie dimaso		 What's the end of the ice fishing story?
stoddard thorsen		I'm not telling you the end of the ice fishing story.
richie dimaso		I'm going to call your fucking brother and find out from him.
stoddard thorsen		My brother's dead.
richie dimaso		That's how it ends. He fell through the fucking ice.
stoddard thorsen		 No it's not. He died a different way, many years later.
richie dimaso		Listen I know it's awkward and I just want to say I'm sorry, alright? I think we can stick together and still fulfill our goal. I mean, we got the Sherman Suite.
irving rosenfeld		You got the whole floor?
richie dimaso		We got the whole floor, yeah.
edith greensly		That's good.
richie dimaso		Yeah, you ok?
sydney prosser		Yeah. You?
richie dimaso		It's alright. I got hit a little bit. My eye. It's a little blurry but I got drops at the pharmacy.
irving rosenfeld		Yeah, I'm good --
richie dimaso		Listen, I'm sorry.
sydney prosser		I'm sorry.
richie dimaso		 I'm sorry Irving.
richie dimaso		You can put a camera here. And we get it all on film. You like it?
edith greensly		I do.
irving rosenfeld		That's right. That's the idea.
melora		Congressman O'Connell is on the phone --
carmine polito		I got to take this you guys everyone out please.
dolly polito		This is sad. It's just sad.
carmine polito		Dolly please, I gotta take this.
dolly polito		Ok, sorry. Everyone out. Go out.
carmine polito		 Congressman, how you doing? It's Carmine. Tell me you're gonna be in Trenton this week. We have an amazing investment opportunity I'd like to discuss with you.
richie dimaso		I'm federal agent Richard Dimaso. I've placed seventy-five thousand dollars into this briefcase for Representative John O'Connell of the Ninth District.
carmine polito		Congressman, thank you for coming by, John --
carmine polito		You wanna talk jobs, investment, construction, if we can expedite a very wealthy man's citizenship --
richie dimaso		How you doing congressmen?
carmine polito		This brings the state back. I mean, how long we known each other? 
irving rosenfeld		Hotels. Restaurants. It's waiting to happen. Carmine sees it, this fucking thing is waiting to happen.
carmine polito		The goddamn bankers. Keeping their money on the sidelines. How we supposed to get anything done?
richie dimaso		The only problem is this citizenship situation. I mean, we got to expedite it as soon as possible.
carmine polito		Hey, this is going to happen.
richie dimaso		 I'm federal agent Richard Dimaso. I am placing 75 thousand dollars in this brief case for one Representative Gerald Sanders of the 3rd district.
carmine polito		Please Gerry. Use it as a campaign donation. Whatever you want to do.
richie dimaso		 I'm placing g $60,000 into an this brief case for one Congressman Eric Keshoygan of the 4th district --
eric keshoygan		I'm going to do what I can to help Carmine.
richie dimaso		A $100,000 into this briefcase for two term United States Senator Horton Mitchell of New Jersey.
horton mitchell		Atlantic City. All the way down the shore. A mecca by the sea.
carmine polito		One small thing we do for this man is a huge thing we do for the people of New Jersey. This is what we can leave behind.
richie dimaso		Where you going?
irving rosenfeld		 I just gotta go see a man about a dog.
carmine polito		 I appreciate this. On my family. On my kids. This needs to happen. It's gotta happen. You've got my word
irving rosenfeld		 I want to save us. I want to save Carmine. It's fucking killing me.
sydney prosser		You know the only way to help Carmine is through the Tellegio thing.
irving rosenfeld		It's dangerous. We gotta get a wire in there. We gotta make him feel safe.
sydney prosser		There's only one thing that can really fuck this up and that's your wife.
irving rosenfeld		 Yep.
pete musane		I don't like your husband. You're no good together. He doesn't appreciate you. Hey, it happens. It happened in my marriage. That's why I went to Miami. Sometimes you just gotta be tough. You gotta stand up and you gotta leave, you know?
rosalyn rosenfeld		I know. I mean, I don't want to badmouth my husband, but let me badmouth my husband for a second. He just thinks that he knows everything and he's so full of shit. He's such a liar. He thinks that I'm stupid, but I'm not stupid. I hear him on the phone arguing. He loves Carmine, but he hates that other guy, that curly- headed I.R.S. guy, or whatever who's carting around my husband's ex-lover, that redheaded whore.
pete musane		IRS?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Anyway. You can see that it drives him crazy.
pete musane		You said IRS. What IRS guy? What are you talking bout?
rosalyn rosenfeld		I hear them on the phone. I think that he's got Irv in some sort of bind or something and he's making him do all of this stuff and so Irv and Carmine right now are at the Plaza Hotel throwing away all this money at like Congress or whatever. They're giving money to congress or something. I don't really know but I overheard it on the phone.
pete musane		You know I hate to do this to you but I have to go talk to your husband. My boss is already angry. You stay here I'm going to give you some money for a taxi home.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 I don't like change. It's really hard for me. Sometimes I think that I'll die before I change.
pete musane		It's gonna be okay. You're gonna come live with me in Miami.
rosalyn rosenfeld		164             Don't hurt him too bad. He's still                    164 Danny's father.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Life is ridiculous and I would never say anything bad about your father in front of you but your father is a sick son of a bitch.
danny		Daddy's a sick son of a bitch?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Don't repeat that. But yes.
pete musane		What's this I hear about your curly haired friend working for the Government?
carmine polito		What?! Who said that?
irving rosenfeld		That's bullshit!
pete musane		Your wife.
irving rosenfeld		That's bullshit.
carmine polito		Rosalyn?
irving rosenfeld		 HE PUT A CANVAS BAG OVER MY HEAD!
carmine polito		Hey, what the fuck?! --
pete musane		Shut up. Shut the fuck up.
irving rosenfeld		ARE YOU HAPPY NOW? BECAUSE HE IS TRYING TO KILL ME!
rosalyn		What are you talking about?!
irving rosenfeld		WHAT ARE YOU DOING? WHAT DO YOU THINK YOU'RE DOING?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Get out of here! I'm not doing anything!
irving rosenfeld		WHY ARE YOU TALKING SO MUCH? YOU'RE GOING TO GET US ALL KILLED!
rosalyn rosenfeld		You're a real sick son of a bitch for screaming at me like that in front of Danny.
irving rosenfeld		I'M A SICK SON OF A BITCH? YOU'RE TRYING TO GET ME FUCKING KILLED. OH MY GOD!! YOU DRIVE ME SO FUCKING CRAZY. WHAT ARE YOU DOING?! YOU'RE BOYFRIEND -- YOUR FUCKING BOYFRIEND WILL KILL ME, HE'LL KILL DANNY, AND HE'LL KILL YOU.
rosalyn rosenfeld		STOP TALKING LIKE THAT!
irving rosenfeld		He's a mobster alright? That's who you're dealing with.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Alright fine! Yes, I wanted to hurt you but how do you think that I feel all day when you leave me alone all day? And all I've ever wanted is for you to love me. That's all I ever wanted. And stay married and for you to love me. And that's why I'm going to Miami!
irving rosenfeld		You're NOT going to Miami.
rosalyn rosenfeld		That's why I'm going to Miami with Pete!
irving rosenfeld		You are NOT going to Miami.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I finally found somebody who loves me just like YOU always wanted.
irving rosenfeld		Too dangerous. Miami? Not now. Too dangerous.
rosalyn rosenfeld		He likes me just the way I am.
irving rosenfeld		Not now. Everything has to stay normal right now. And you're going to shut your mouth!
rosalyn rosenfeld		You told me that you wanted me to find a nice quiet man!
irving rosenfeld		Oh and what a DOOZY you picked!
rosalyn rosenfeld		He's the one.
irving rosenfeld		He's the most dangerous guy ever.
rosalyn rosenfeld		WELL WHAT DO YOU EXPECT IRVING?! I KNOW EVERYBODY THROUGH YOU! WHY CAN'T YOU JUST BE HAPPY FOR ME?!
irving rosenfeld		 I've got a plan.
rosalyn rosenfeld		What's happening?
irving rosenfeld		I've got a plan.
rosalyn rosenfeld		You've got a plan? When did you get it?
irving rosenfeld		It really fucking came to me when I was inside of that canvas bag with your boyfriend's hands around my throat. That's when it really came to me.
carmine polito		Take it off! Take the bag off his head!
irving rosenfeld		We've got two million coming this week!
pete musane		What do you think this is? You think this is a fucking down payment plan? Like were Sears of Chevrolet?
irving rosenfeld		You ask Victor if he wants two million this week. That's real money. Two million.
pete musane		Two million? How?
irving rosenfeld		Wired in.
carmine polito		Is it true? Is it true what he said about your wife?
irving rosenfeld		It's not fucking true. That's not true.
irving rosenfeld		I can save all of us, and we can save money. I can take care of you and Danny. OK? But you gotta close your mouth.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I knew it. I have always said, Irving, that you are very, very hard to motivate properly. And I knew that Pete was gonna go over there and knock some sense into you. I've been reading this book, Irving. It's by Wayne Dyer, about the power of intention.
irving rosenfeld		OK. Thank you, Rosalyn. Thank you for the plan.
rosalyn rosenfeld		You're welcome.
irving rosenfeld		I appreciate that. So, I think that we should be partners on this.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I'm a good partner. Almost better than Edith. You ever think about that? You ever think about how you might have underestimated me?
irving rosenfeld		So what is our plan? Tell me the plan. What are you gonna do?
rosalyn rosenfeld		I'm going to keep my mouth shut and I'm not going to say anything but what do I do if Pete calls me? What am I supposed to say?
irving rosenfeld		You gotta stop talking about your government agencies and your I.R.S. and your tax and your conspiracies and all of that. You're gonna say how you were wrong, you were wrong about that.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I'll tell Pete that I was wrong but you know that in real life, I was right for saying all that stuff because then that spurred on the actions that made you come up with this plan. So I will tell Pete.
irving rosenfeld		 OK.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 The power of intention Irving. The power of intention.
irving rosenfeld		OK. You were right.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Irving, I've been doing a lot of thinking and -- you need to grow up. And you need to face the facts. And I think that both of us will be a lot happier if we get a divorce.
irving rosenfeld		OK.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Just think about it.  These things are never easy.
irving rosenfeld		Alright.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Irving. Good luck with your plan.
alfonse simone		Alfonse Simone.
edith greensly		Edith Greensly.
irving rosenfeld		Irving Rosenfeld.
richie dimaso		Good afternoon.
alfonse simone		Please, be seated.
richie dimaso		Where is Mr. Tellegio?
alfonse simone		Mr. Tellegio unfortunately was called out of town on business.
richie dimaso		That's not good. We were willing to come here today, in person, to see Mr. Tellegio, as a sign of respect to give two million dollars --
alfonse simone		I can assure you that I have the power of attorney --
richie dimaso		Excuse me. If you'll let me finish, we are willing to give two million dollars today of the ten. But without Mr. Tellegio here --
irving rosenfeld		 We can't, we can't make that decision. It's not the right thing. It's not the right time. It's just not good.
edith greensly		 You don't have the authorization to make this kind of choice so don't be hasty, alright?
irving rosenfeld		I'm not being hasty. It's just, let's be smart about it. This is not how we do business.  I'm sorry. I apologize.
richie dimaso		He's right, we can't.
edith greensly		I think you should hang in there.
richie dimaso		For what? The guy's not here.
irving rosenfeld		He isn't.
richie dimaso		That's it.
irving rosenfeld		This is a surprise. The Sheik doesn't like surprises.
edith greensly		Don't leave.
irving rosenfeld		 Edith, this is not your decision to make.
edith greensly		I understand but maybe we can call the Sheik. Let's call the Sheik.
irving rosenfeld		That's not the plan. That's not the --
richie dimaso		No, let's -- I'll call the Sheik.  Can I use your phone?
alfonse simone		Please do.
richie dimaso		 I don't know if he's in, I'll call the Sheik. But before I do, I'd like to go over specifically what this money will be used for.
alfonse simone		What we will do is we guarantee all proper licenses and construction permits for any hotel casino that plans to open before the end of the year.
richie dimaso		What if there are obstacles, what will you do?
alfonse simone		Obstacles? We are prepared to overcome any obstacles.
richie dimaso		This is a big enterprise.
alfonse simone		If we have to pay somebody off, we'll pay somebody off. If we have to lean on somebody, intimidate somebody, we'll intimidate somebody. We're experienced. This is our business.
richie dimaso		That's powerful stuff. Thank you.
alfonse simone		And I'll tell you something else. At the end of this we'll teach you how to skim and how to cut it up and make some money on the side. Because we invented skimming. We've been doing it for thirty years.
richie dimaso		Thank you. Thank you for clarifying that.
anthony amado		This is the Sheik.
richie dimaso		 Mr. Tellegio is not here. It's just Mr. Alfonse Simone, his lawyer. Are we still ok to wire the money?
alfonse simone		Simone can take the money. What's the number?
richie dimaso		5317AP
brenda		The funds have been transferred.
anthony amado		 The funds have been transferred.
richie dimaso		The money's been wired.
alfonse simone		I think we have a deal.
richie dimaso		Yes we do sir.
alfonse simone		Pleasure doing business with you.
richie dimaso		Okay, well, thank you very much, Mr. Simone.
alfonse simone		I'm sure that we'll be seeing each other.
richie dimaso		 Oh I'm sure we'll be seeing each other very soon. You may even get sick of me, like these two.
alfonse simone		I don't think I'll get sick of you. Nice meeting you.
richie dimaso		FINALLY! FINALLY WE GET SOME RESPECT!
anthony amado		 We're ambitious, that's why!
richie dimaso		Shh, shh, shh!
richie dimaso		 -- If we have to lean on somebody, intimate somebody, we'll intimidate somebody!!
irving rosenfeld		I gotta do it.
carmine polito		What do you mean, there's no sheik? What does that mean, "there's no sheik"? What does that mean?
irving rosenfeld		I want to face you like a man because I want to be real now.
carmine polito		Who is "they"?
irving rosenfeld		It's the Feds.
carmine polito		The Feds?
irving rosenfeld		Yeah.
carmine polito		Irving -- I'm a good person
irving rosenfeld		You are!
carmine polito		I've been doing this for a long time, for twenty years. Do you think I woulda taken that money if it wasn't the right thing to do?
irving rosenfeld		Hey look, you're a good person I know that but in all honesty --
carmine polito		 You said that was the only way, Irv. You chased me, remember?
irving rosenfeld		They fuckin' made me do it. What was I supposed to do? They had Syd in jail.
carmine polito		You made me go back to the Plaza to take that money, you piece of shit! I was gone! You fucking prick!
dolly polito		Is everything alright? Can I have a word with you?
carmine polito		 No, please, Dolly, just go upstairs. Take the kids and go upstairs!
dolly polito		Alright, alright.
irving rosenfeld		I want to make this right. I came here because I want to make it right.
carmine polito		Look at my face. You tell me that I'm lying to you when I say that everything I do is for the good of the people of New Jersey. Everything I do is for them. Am I lying to you?
irving rosenfeld		I never had a friend like you before.
carmine polito		I used that money for the goddamn casino.
irving rosenfeld		I got some leverage, alright? I can help you out.
carmine polito		This is all shit. It's all bullshit.
irving rosenfeld		Carmine, Syd and I got a plan for you. We can help you out.
carmine polito		Please get out of my house, Irving. Will you please leave? I'm asking you nicely, please leave.
dolly polito		Get out of our house!
irving rosenfeld		I don't want to --  I'm sorry. I didn't mean for this to happen.
carmine polito		 This is not our friend!
irving rosenfeld		Truly, I didn't mean for this to happen.
carmine polito		This is what matters to me most and you're crushing it! You're going to take me away from them you fucking son of a bitch? Get the fuck out!
irving rosenfeld		 I just want to make it right.
carmine polito		Get out of my house. Look what you made me do!
irving rosenfeld		 I'm sorry Carmine, I'm sorry.
sydney prosser		Irving!
irving rosenfeld		I've got to lay down.
sydney prosser		Just rest.  She gets in and closes the door.
sydney prosser		 Are you ready?
irving rosenfeld		Yes.
anthony amado		Please. Come in. Sit down.
irving rosenfeld		Two million?  It's with Victor Tellegio and Alfonse Simone.
anthony amado		No, actually it's not with Victor Tellegio or Alfonse Simone.
richie dimaso		He fucking knows about it.
anthony amado		It's gone missing. Did you know that?
irving rosenfeld		Where's it gone?
anthony amado		That's interesting that you said that because while you were on your way over here, we got an anonymous phone call from someone who said that in exchange for immunity for the two of you and a reduced sentence for Carmine Polito we get our two million dollars back.
irving rosenfeld		That's interesting. That's very interesting. I have no idea.
anthony amado		No idea?
irving rosenfeld		No idea what you're talking about.
anthony amado		I got it. I understand how these deals are made. See, someone has leverage.
richie dimaso		Anthony, fuck them. It's over. We got them for wire fraud, it's over.  You're done. You're both done.
irving rosenfeld		I don't think so.
richie dimaso		Oh, you don't think so?
irving rosenfeld		Richard, think about it, YOU requested the two million. And you gave Brenda the account number. We didn't do any of that. None of it.  How do we know that YOU don't have the money?
richie dimaso		 Am I living in a fucking nightmare right now?
irving rosenfeld		I find this a little offensive. Really, I find this a little offensive and I don't see that you got any sort of solid case against--
richie dimaso		 Don't let him get in your heads. Listen to me, we're dealing with a very clever individual.
irving rosenfeld		Richard, think about it. You got some big arrests. You got U.S. Congressmen. You look good. You're gonna be all over the news. You know what doesn't look good? A story about gross incompetence
richie dimaso		I have a warrant for --
sydney prosser		You lost two million dollars of taxpayer money because you were confused about the location and the identity of Victor Tellegio's attorney?
ed malone		Alfonse Simone.
edith greensly		People believe what they want to believe Richie.
richie dimaso		That's because you conned me! You both fucking conned me. You both got under me. You did!
irving rosenfeld		Well that doesn't sound so good, either. I mean -- and I don't know what you're talking about, but -- let's just assume you want to go with that story. Really? That's the story you want to go with? That's what you want the New York Times to hear? That you got conned by the very con men who you forced to entrap the members of Congress in the first place. That's what you want to go with? That doesn't sound so good for your whole thing.
richie dimaso		That's what I was trying to go after.
irving rosenfeld		I'm sorry to tell you, you got none of 'em.
stoddard thorsen		You know, Richard, I think we may call you as a witness, but otherwise you're done. I think you better go home.
richie dimaso		Stoddard --
stoddard thorsen		Go on home, Richard.
rosalyn rosenfeld		The car is a little dinged up and I'm a little stiff but I don't want to talk about it.
pete musane		 You know my boss knows you did him a solid.
irving rosenfeld		Yes I did. He never took a nickle so they can't get him for nothing. I was never going to let that happen.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Irv.
****Dialogues from script :American_Madness.txt****

****Dialogues from script :American_Milkshake.txt****

jolie		 All my life, my parents have told me I'm smart and talented. That I can be anything I wanna be when I grow up. Getting into the West Branch Magnet Program was supposed to be some kinda honor. They probly thought I'd grow up to be a doctor, or a lawyer, or scientist that cures cancer and junk. I mean for me school has always been a breeze.
jolie		 But when I look around, I just feel surrounded by dorks.
jolie		 All I want, is to be like the kids on varisty, who live in the Maple Ave towers.
jolie		 The maple ave kids are coming up from nothing. I mean, their only shot at college is balling. And they've got girls blowing up their pagers twenty-four seven.
jolie		 I pray to God I make varsity. I'd do anything to be like the Maple Ave. kids.
coach		That was terrible.
henrietta		Do you think you're gonna make varsity?
henrietta		School is so wack.
jolie		I support you no matter what. But I can't be changin' no diapers.
jolie		 I've been fucking Henrietta for a while. She's the best. She's pregnant with someone else's baby but I'm cool with that. In fact, I think that's why I like her so much. She's kinda thugged out.
jolie		Your stomach's smooth.
henrietta		Not now Jolie.
jolie		I think you look more beautiful like this than anything. I wish you could be this way forever. We'd be so happy like this.
jolie		I love you.
jolie		Hey, Mr. Aaronson.
jolie		You got my check?
jolie		I guess.
jolie		 Henrietta's adopted. She lives in a big house like me. Her parents pay me to tutor her in geometry. She's kind of an outcast. I think that's why we click. Plus, our moms both work for the same law firm. They fly all over the country doing somethin'.
jolie		 Uh, I don't know. Maybe.
jolie		 ...you know... Geometry's a hard thing. Algebra leads to it and if you dont get that then-
jolie		Yea.
jolie		Thanks.
jolie		 My great great grandfather was a famous black face performer.
jolie		They used to call him the greatest performer of all time. But now. Kids at school have never even heard of him. I mean not even magnet kids in AP history have heard of him.
haroon		Hey, can I be excused for the Million Man March?
jolie		Hey, can I use the bathroom?
haroon		Dude, don't they post who made the team today?
jolie		Naw, not till Monday they said.
haroon		Alright man, have a good day at school.
jolie		Yeah right.
haroon		See ya.
jolie		Lucky bastards.
jolie		 This sucks. All the minorities get an excused absence for the Million Man March.
jolie		 But me, I'm stuck in school like a bama.
jolie		 I wish I was one of them. I wish I was one of them. I wish I was one of them. Fuck.
jolie		 I'm supposed to tutor Henrietta every Sunday. She's getting an F in math. She knows how to do it though. She's flunking on purpose.
jolie		 She's so gangster.
haroon		Hey you heard Fransisco got arrested?
fransisco		I'm innocent, this is bull shit!
haroon		Over some pictures on the Internet.
haroon		 Yea.
haroon		Yo dont forget I need my computer homework back by Monday.
jolie		I got you. Dont forget to get me my bio homework back.
haroon		Yea duh.
jolie		 My great great grandfather had a song, Hallelujah I'm a Bum. Tupac had a song, I'd Rather Be an N.I.G.G.A., so we can get drunk and smoke weed all day. I always thought they were really similar.
haroon		Yo. I gotta take a massive dump, will you guard the door while I'm in there.
jolie		Yea.
haroon		I'm taking the most epic shit. Oh! Dude! Don't they post who made the team today?
haroon		Don't forget I need my computer homework back? Jolie!?
jolie		 As a white boy at West Branch I'm just not cool.
jolie		 But making the team would change my life forever.
jolie		 It's my one shot to fit in with the Maple Ave kids. To actually be somebody!
jolie		 Making the team, felt like the most important thing in my life.
jolie		 As a white boy I just didn't fit in, not in Takoma Park. But now...
jolie		 I was practically black.
jolie		 I even ditched class to work on my hops.
haroon		Man, I can't believe you made the team.
jolie		I was the last bama on the list! If Francisco hadn't been arrested I'd still be a loser! I'd be just another Joe Shmoe Lame-oh geek in the Blair High School Magnet.
jolie		Oh hey, can your mom give you a ride home later. There's something I gotta do.
haroon		Oh... Yeah. Yeah. That's cool.
haroon		Yeah.
jolie		 Tupac. Biggie. Snoop Dog. Easy-E. Dr. Dre. Suge Knight. Mr. T.
jolie's dad		Alright bye. No injuries.
jolie		Alright, bye Dad.
jolie's dad		Hey, you back from the hill? What happened?
henrietta		It smells like dog shit in these woods, Jolie. Why'd you want to meet out here anyway?
jolie		Wow. That is pretty bad. It smells like a dead mouse or something.
henrietta		You dont want to be seen with me do you? Cus I'm pregnant.
jolie		...what? No.
henrietta		You wanna make out with me?
jolie		Yea but, I can't. Not no more. We can't be hanging out any more. You understand though right?
henrietta		...Why?
jolie		Henrietta, I told you. I made the basketball team. I'm a Blazer now.
jolie		L...
jolie		Do you need a token for the bus or some junk?
jolie		 I felt bad but,
jolie		 I guess.
arius		Now it comes with two free controllers and the game.
jolie		 Oh yeah.
arius		Yeah. We were playing that joint at my place and one of the cheerleaders was all confessing how cute she thinks you are.
jolie		 Which one?
arius		 Christine Ortanyez.
coach dale		Jolie!
haroon		Come on man, we've gotta nail the Marion Barry skit tomorrow or I'm gonna get a B in English.
jolie		I don't feel like it. I told you.
haroon		Dude, it's was just a preseason game, come on.
jolie		Man, if I can't get in when we're up thirty in the preseason then I'm never gonna play.
haroon		He tried to put you in the game.
jolie		Yeah, for thirty seconds.
elliott		Three. Two.  One.
elliott		Come on, Haroon. Let's get you home.
jolie		Already?
haroon		Elliott, will you go over this skit with me. I think you'll really like it and I need to practice or I'm gonna get a B in...
henrietta		I knew you'd be back.
jolie		Because you know I love you.
henrietta		Whatever.
jolie		What?
jolie		You're the best. I love you forever Henrietta.
henrietta		You promise.
jolie		I promise to God.
henrietta		Are you gonna help take care of my baby?
jolie		I'd do anything for you.
henrietta		Wait. I want you to know... There's some stuff. I feel like you're the only one I can trust, the only one I can talk too. Like about when I ran away, and let those kids take photos of me. I couldn't tell anyone but you. You know that right?
jolie		I know. They were just photos. Everyone makes mistakes.
henrietta		 Jolie's stupid. He'll believe anything. But I like him. I've been failing algebra just so he can tutoring me.
christine		Hey Jolie. Have you seen this article?
jolie		What? No. Lemme see.
jolie		Wow. I heard Francisco got arrested but I didn't know he made the paper.
christine		I heard he got arrested because him and a bunch of other kids banged that pregnant girl Henrietta for a dollar or something.
christine		Each, I hope.
jolie		 That's a rumor, duh. They just took photos.
christine		How do you know? Were you there?
jolie		I heard.
arius		Jolie. I heard your old girl is a straight chicken-head.
jolie		Who?
arius		You haven't heard?
arius		Heard what?
arius		That Maple Ave shit. You haven't seen the porn video with your girl Henrietta?
jolie		I'm not with that girl man. I just tutor her in Algebra.
arius		Chill brother. I'm just saying...
arius		You can take the niggas out the ghetto but you can't take the ghetto out the niggas.
christine		Jolie, aren't you headed to computer class?
jolie		What? Yeah.
christine		Is everything alright? You look kind of stunned or something.
jolie		What? No. I just. The sun was in my eyes.
christine		Oh.
jolie		What's up?
christine		I am totally struggling with my program this month, do you think I could look at your code?
jolie		My programming skills aren't that good. But we can copy Haroon's code and just change the variable names.
christine		Really?
jolie		Yea.
christine		Cool. Thanks.
henrietta		Hey, can I bum a cigarette?
henrietta		Whatever.
henrietta		Thanks.
henrietta		Yea. I guess so.
haroon		Dude, Christine's been jocking your nuts lately. What's up with that?
jolie		I don't know man. I think she's into me.
anya		She's probably just using you for my code.
haroon		It happens to me all the time.
anya		You wish.
haroon		Even if she does like you dude, you'd have to be loco to get with her.
haroon		 Has been having sex since junior high.
vlad		That's nothing. Ray's been suspended three times. They found a gun in his locker. And he has no blood parents. You don't want that kind of sloppy seconds. It's big trouble.
jolie		Hmmm.
vlad		You would be the man, though. I'd give you that.
haroon		Yea, that's true. You would be the man.
anya		Why? What does that have to do with anything?
christine		You guys have the late practice today, huh?
jolie		Yeah.
christine		Well Coach Dale asked me to tape the next game - you wanna see the camera we're using? It's in the small gym.
jolie		Oh yeah. All the way past C hall.
christine		Come on. I know a short cut through parenting class.
jolie		Through parenting class? Let's just go the long way.
christine		Come on. Don't be such a goody goody. The teacher doesn't care. Trust me. She's like a hundred years old, she gets it. It's just an excuse to have free baby sitters for all the teen moms. And that's a good thing.
christine		Are you friends with her? That's the girl I was telling you about.
jolie		I just tutor her in Algebra. You know how we need community service hours to graduate, well...
jolie		It's hot as a mug in here.
christine		Stand in front of this. God that feels good.
christine		The camera's under here. Come on.
jolie		 The season hadn't even started and my life had changed forever.
jolie		 I swear, exactly when we kissed someone yelled score.
ray		Shut your hole!
jolie		 It felt like a million bucks.
jolie		 I felt guilty cuz of Henrietta, but as Tu Pac says, "Only God can judge me."
jolie		 I did wonder if Henrietta's Dad, Mr. Aaronson, even knew she was pregnant.
jolie		 But for some reason it just never came up.
haroon		 Would someone please stop messing around and put the lights on. This league is for serious players only.
ray		Boom! Step aside, nigga.
haroon		 Oww, man. I think you broke my wrist.
ray		Tell your boy Jolie to lay off my girl Christine. Every time he makes a move on her I'm gonna eat your ass for lunch.
haroon		 What? Why me?
zeke		Hey, are there anymore Handi-Snacks or did you take the last one?
haroon		Dude, before I show you this internet stuff at my Mom's place we gotta talk about this Raymond situation. Ray said he's gonna eat my ass for lunch every time you mess with Christine.
jolie		Yea he's just afraid to step to me directly because he knows varsity has my back. Don't stress though. He's just a bully.
haroon		Don't stress? He broke my arm man. How is anything under control?
jolie		Ray is just a bully. All you have to do is hold your ground a little probably.
jolie		He'll back off.
haroon		What? Are you serious? He blind sided me. How am I supposed to hold my ground?
jolie		Come on dude, isn't that why you always carry that Batman figure around?
haroon		What?
jolie		Because Batman's the only superhero that is just a regular guy.
haroon		Batman is a cartoon. This TOY is for inspiration. We're talking about real life. Are you loco?
jolie		Fine, then just stay close to me and the team will get your back, I swear.
haroon		Pinky swear. No leaving me behind at lunch now that you're all tight with the team or nothing.
jolie		Done.
haroon		Cool. Now let's conquor titen again. I think we can break the high score.
zeke		Seriously.
wendel		What's up?
jolie		Hey.
arius		What's up Jolie.
jolie		What's up?
merly		What's up? What's up with you?
jolie		What's up?
codroy		What's up?
jolie		What's up?
surgio		Chillen.
wendel		Peace, nigger.
jolie		See man. Ray can't mess with us now. We're rolling too deep.
haroon		 Yea. I guess your right. Junior year's actually gonna be cool. And I love spirit week. Merly, did you bring a hat for hat day?
merly		Yea.
merly		Hey, Jolie. Want to give us a lift to Taco Bell for lunch?
jolie		Yea. No prob.
haroon		Cool man.
merly		You want my spot?
haroon		Ummm. Naw. Naw. I'm cool.
merly		You sure?
jolie		Jump in the trunk dude. It's not far.
haroon		You think so?
merly		That's rediculous. Let's just bring you back something? What do you want?
haroon		Uh. Just like a couple burritos. Here's a ten?
merly		No worries. I got you.
haroon		Oh thanks man.
merly		No prob.
jolie		I'll bring you some cinnamon twists too!
merly		The cops just followed us from the left turn only lane.
arius		I knew it. Did you see his face?
merly		That dude is always messing with us.
wendel		He's still dealing nickel bags I bet.
arius		Naw man. It's because of that video. The Maple Ave thing...the one with Jolie's girl Henrietta.
jolie		She's not my girl.
arius		That's not what she said before she started sucking everyone's dicks... Don't believe me. Y'all can see the VHS.
principal ganus		Arius. This is your fifth detention this semester. That means in-school suspension for the week. Starting now.
arius		What!? Did you hear what happened to us? We got harrassed by the cops man!
jolie		Come on man. Coast is clear.
security guard		Wendel! Get your ass over hear.
wendel		What? What about Jolie?
security guard		He's in the magnet program. His teacher will handle it.
jolie		 And just like that, with Marley arrested and Arius doing in-school, I might just get some playing time?
haroon		I thought you said Ray wasn't gonna mess with me man?
jolie		Woah. Dude. Are you alright?
haroon		Do I look alright?
jolie		I'm sorry man.
haroon		That's all you got?
jolie		No. Come on man.
haroon		YOu said I just had to hold my ground.
jolie		Well at least you've still got your teeth.
haroon		You're an asshole.
jolie		Let me get you back. Come to the movies with me tonight dude. The new Ice Tea flick is out. The tickets on me. Coke, popcorn, the whole nine.
haroon		The whole nine? It's a movie.
jolie		It's an Ice Tea flick and it's gonna be tight as a mug.
jolie		We had an early game today against Paint Branch. And I scored 3 points.
henrietta		You know I saw you with that Cheerleader.
jolie		Come on. Enough with that. I washed my hands already. So I can please you.
henrietta		Just tell me yall are hooking up. It's OK if you are. I just want the truth.
jolie		You want the truth. How is this?
henrietta		 Yeah. Francisco got arrested. What about it?
jolie		I thought you said you didn't fuck any of them.
henrietta		I didn't.
jolie		Did you suck their dicks?
henrietta		Jolie. It's none of your fucking business.
jolie		Well everyone at school says you did. And now they're saying there's a video and that's why Francisco and Merly got arrested.
henrietta		They're not arrested. They got questioned and shit and then they got suspended.
jolie		How do you know?
henrietta		Because I hear all the Maple Ave stuff.
haroon		Shhh. It's getting good you know.
henrietta		Look, that's all beside the point. Whatever you heard about me at school, they don't know shit. It's a lie. I already told you. I ran away from home. That's it. Now leave me alone.
jolie		Why did you let them take pictures?
henrietta		I told you. I needed money.
jolie		For what?
henrietta		Duh, an abortion. Does that make you feel better. But I decided I want this baby Jolie. I want a real family. So I went to Pizza Hut for dinner instead. The one on University Boulevard, do you want a receipt or something?
jolie		Where did you sleep that night?
henrietta		I told you. I slept at the ATM machine. Now stop it.
jolie		Dang. I know. I'm sorry. I'm such an idiot.
henrietta		But I love you. I just want to be with you now. And put all that in the past.
jolie		Why didn't you come to me then?
henrietta		We had just met.
jolie		I know. Damn it. You could have slept on my couch, easy. My parents wouldn't have even cared.
henrietta		Jolie. No.
jolie		You lied to me.
henrietta		I didn't. I would never.
jolie		How do I know?
henrietta		Don't you trust me?
anonomous man		 Don't mess with his boy? You're gonna get it now! Un-hun!
jolie		Haroon and I better get going. We gotta finish our Magnet project for R&E.
henrietta		Jolie, my Dad is picking us up. I thought you were gonna help me study?
jolie		I would but I can't. This is like the biggest project of the year.
henrietta		I have a huge test tomorrow and if I don't pass this class I have to go to summer school.
jolie		I know but Mr. Donaldson just assigned a huge thing-
henrietta		Haroon. Would you mind letting me talk to Jolie in private?
henrietta		The only time we go out is to the movies, and you're always late, and it's always the late show.
jolie		What are you talking about?
henrietta		Jolie. I saw Christine was all over you at school.
jolie		She's just like that. She's a cheerleader.
henrietta		Tell me something. What do you really want to do with your life?
jolie		What do I want to do?
henrietta		Why do you repeat everything I say?
jolie		What do I wanna do? I mean, you know that, right?
henrietta		You're five-eight.
jolie		Spud Web was five seven.
henrietta		Jolie.
jolie		What?
henrietta		Dad, we're fucking studying here! Do you mind?
henrietta		Dad, have you seen how fucking fat I am!?
henrietta		Dad, we all know the story of you saving kids in the ghetto, ok?
jolie		UH-
henrietta		Jolie's bailing, Dad. Come on.
jolie		I'm really sorry, Mr. Aaronson, but-
henrietta		Dad. Just drive please.
haroon		So you've been tutoring her in Algebra and that's it?
jolie		Yea.
haroon		Whatever man.
jolie		What?
haroon		I was sitting right there.
jolie		So?
haroon		So man. I saw what was going on. I'm not an idiot.
jolie		What? I thought we were gonna play street fighter?
haroon		I can play dune at home on my PC.
jolie		What are you scared I'm gonna smoke you like a blunt again?
haroon		You wish. You can't touch my skills.
jolie		I'd turn you into a straight dikfor.
haroon		What the hell is a dikfor?
jolie		You don't know what a dick's for!? You fucking homo-thug!
haroon		Oww! Dude, you're pealing off my scab. Get off me! You know you've been a real jerk lately.
jolie		Damn, Ray really smashed your face didn't he?
haroon		I think you're an asshole for lying to Henrietta and Christine.
jolie		I never lied to them.
jolie		 I love them both.
coach dale		Kiss! Can anyone tell me what KISS stands for?
jolie		Uh, Keep it simple stupid.
coach dale		Why are you mumbling? Speak up.
jolie		Keep it simple stupid.
coach dale		That's right. Keep it simple stupid.
coach dale		Ya'll screw up and say, "But I thought..."  And everyone, no more bringing your stuff in a plastic bag. Get a real bag. Something canvas. Use an old backpack if you have to.
jolie		Arius, man. When can I see the VHS tape you mentioned?
arius		What? Oh, it got erased. Didn't you hear the cops are on to the whole thing?
jolie		Yeah, but-
arius		Man, Francisco is in the papers. You haven't seen?  Come here, girl. Sit on my lap.
jolie		Henrietta didn't really fuck any of them, did she? I mean she was just posing nude for some photos, right?
wendel		Well, they just paid her to do a little strip tease or whatever but things escalated.
jolie		How can it just escalate?
wendel		How did World War 2 escalate? It just did. Someone pulled out his junk teasing her, and then she started messing around with her tongue on his balls, just laughing and stuff. And it just went from there.
jolie		Dude? If this is a psych, you got me. OK? Just tell me the truth.
wendel		I'm not lying. I'm dead serious. You can see for yourself.
jolie		It got erased I thought.
wendel		The original did. But Arius has a copy.
arius		 Booooom.
wendel		Arius!
wendel		What happened to your head man?
arius		The doctors said I was crazy so they took a little piece of my brain out.
wendel		No they didn't.
arius		Yes they did. Look.
jolie		Damn.
arius		See how soft it is?
jolie		Yeah.
arius		Come by Coach Dales office tomorrow at 3 o'clock. 
arius		Arright y'all.
haroon		B minus!? Are you serious?
haroon		Did you even read this shit?
haroon		Come on Mr. Applebaum? The whole undercover hooker bust opening in this thing is genius.
haroon		Duh. Everybody knows that. It's not an Encyclopedia. It's a story.
haroon		I think you missed the point of the story! The events were mixed up because the character is mixed up. You think I don't know -
haroon		 ...fucking idiot...
haroon		Fucking dick-face man, it's not fair!
jolie		Shit man. I'm sorry dude. You deserved an A. It was tight as a mug.
haroon		Don't placate me asshole. You didn't even read it like you said you would.
haroon		It's just a broken arm and a couple black eye. Nothing to worry about right? Go hang with your stupid team.
arius		Look, look, look. Look. Right here, I told you.
christine		 Damn.
jolie		Aw, man.
arius		Hold up, I gotta rewind to the funny part.
christine		What a slut! That's that girl you tutor right?
jolie		 Yea. ...Henrietta Aaronson.
arius		I told you! I told you! I told you!
arius		Shhhhhh. Shhhhh. This is it.
arius		When he grabs her tits it looks like he's assessing a race horse. He's like - lemme check out this specimen.
henrietta		 He'd knock me out for the rest of my life.
arius		Pause it. Pause it. Pause it. Look. Right there. That's Francisco in the back.
christine		Coach Dale is coming. I'm serious. He's coming now.
coach dale		No weightroom today guys, we got some studying to do. This is a copy of last years Springbrook game. Get comfortable, this could be a while.
coach dale		 Girls, you are welcome to watch but please keep it down, we have our work cut out for us.
coach dale		Now what was wrong with that shot?  Jolie?
arius		He shot on the first pass of a half court set.
coach dale		Are you Jolie?
arius		 Do I look like white to you?
coach dale		How does it feel?
arius		Owwww. My arm.
coach dale		How does it feel?
arius		Ah. Ah. Ah.
coach dale		Look in my eyes. How does it feel?
arius		Ahhhhhh!
coach dale		If I ever see you back away from a rebound again I'm gonna bench you for the season. You wont play one second the whole year. You got that boy?
arius		Ahhhhh!
henrietta		Jolie, you are soaking wet. What's going on? Why did you want to meet here in the middle of the night?
jolie		This. This tape is going on. I saw it. The whole team saw it.
jolie		You lied to me. Why?
jolie		Don't you have anything to say?! Don't you?!
henrietta		What the fuck?
jolie		How could you lie to me like this? How could you make a fool of me like this?
henrietta		How could I tell you when you never listen?
jolie		Why? Why not? I love you.
henrietta		Sometimes love is not enough.
henrietta		I just couldn't tell you about Maple Ave., Jolie. I just couldn't let you down. Your a Magnet kid. Your smart. Your excellent at computer, math and science. You don't understand where I'm coming from. What's important to me.
jolie		I think we shouldn't see each other anymore.
henrietta		I think you're right.
jolie		You do?
henrietta		 Yeah. This time I think you're actually right.
jolie		Kiss me one last time.
henrietta		I never meant any of that to happen. Things just got out of control.
jolie		I'll tell your Dad I'm not your tutor anymore.
henrietta		Thanks. Oh, and here. I want you to have this back.
jolie		What's this?
henrietta		It's Milkshake. The 95 R&B mix you gave me at our second tutoring session.
jolie		Oh. One of those tracks isn't even out yet though.
henrietta		Yea, I know. And some are older. It's kind of fucked up.
jolie		Just like us I guess.
henrietta		Just like everyone.
jolie		Dude, I was thinking about getting some Tims.
haroon		So what?
jolie		So you haven't noticed all the kids on the team wear them?
christine		Duh.
haroon		Man, with sandals you never have to tie your shoes. That's all I'm saying.
jolie		Do you have these in a size ten. And bring a what -  Size 7? Yeah size seven for Haroon.
haroon		I told you, man, I don't want Tims. I'm a sandals guy. Like Jesus. And Muhammad.
christine		You'd look good in them, Haroon. You should try them on. Come on. Be cool.
cashier		Anything else with that?
jolie		Mr. Aaronson.
henrietta		Dad.
jolie		We just ate. But thanks.
jolie		Oh. Uh, Henrietta didn't tell you? I, uh, can't tutor anymore.
jolie		No, it's just, the team. Basketball is taking up so much time now is all. Getting ready for the playoffs and everything. Honestly, I'd be so tired I wouldn't even be any good.
jolie		I could probably recommend someone. My buddy Haroon's older brother maybe.
jolie		No. I'm good. It's-.
henrietta		Dad!
christine		Wow. She really hates you or something.
jolie		What do you mean?
christine		Don't pretend like you didn't see that evil eye she gave you.
jolie		What evil eye?
christine		You know their's a rumor going around that you were hooking up with her?
jolie		Who? Henrietta?
christine		Some people even say you're still hooking up.
jolie		Henrietta Aaronson?
jolie		I tutored her in algebra. Her dad is a long time friend of the family.
christine		I was gonna say. Because she's kinda pregnant.
jolie		I know, right. You'd have to be twisted to get down with that.
christine		Do you have a jimmy?
jolie		 I never had to use a condom with Henrietta.
christine		Hurry up.
jolie		Dang. I don't see one here.
christine		What?
jolie		Well maybe we can just do it a little bit.
christine		No way.
jolie		 I won't even do it. I'll just feel it.
christine		 Oh.
jolie		 In my head I kept thinking about dribbling a basketball down an endless basketball court, playing point guard in the biggest game of the year. The Springbrook game.
jolie		 That kept me focused so I wouldn't bust in about two seconds.
jolie		 I was gonna pull out but...
jolie		Uh, I better not keep going.
christine		 Oh. Fuck.
christine		Have any music we can listen to?
jolie		Yea.
christine		Do you ever wish you were Tu Pac?
jolie		No. Do you?
christine		Actually yeah. Sometimes.
jolie		Really? Shit, so do I. All the time.
christine		I can't believe he shot those drunk cops and then the cops' guns turned out to be-
christine		Yeah. So cool right.
jolie		So SO cool.
jolie		 As the season rolled on, the Taco Hut became the spot to be. Some days I would just look around and soak it in. I couldn't believe I was even here.
arius		That looks like one of them locks you can just bust with your hands.
wendel		I don't think so. The rack thing's not, like, stuck down.
arius		Arright ch'all.
christine		 Jolie. I have to tell you something. Wanna go outside for a sec?
jolie		 Sure.
ray		Dead man.
arius		You're not gonna do shit.
ray		This aint about you.
arius		Man just chill out.
ray		Fuck you.
arius		You're just rude. That's why your Mom beat your ass growing up.
ray		Keep talking about my Mom nigga. I'll smash your fucking nigga lips in.
arius		Say it again.
arius		My fucking gut. I'm bleeding all over my fucking Guess. My Guess shit man!
ray		Ah fuck man. I'm OK. I think I'm OK.
arius		Ah shit, man! Ahhh! My fucking gut is burning!
jolie		Holly shit. You need help. Someone call an ambulance.
haroon		Whoa dude. That is a lot of blood. Where is he going?
jolie		I dunno.
principal ganus		An ambulance is on the way.
wendel		Who's house?
whole team		OUR HOUSE!
wendel		Who's house?
whole team		OUR HOUSE!
wendel		Who's house?
whole team		OUR HOUSE!
coach dale		OK, starting five. Let's go.
coach dale		OK, we're gonna come out in a twenty-two going black on made buckets. Wendel and Jolie up front.
coach dale		Defense on three.
wendel		Defense on three. One! Two! Three!
announcer		Starting at point guard. Number twenty two. Joel "Jolie" Jolson.
coach dale		Jolie! Get back in the game! Take Pistol.
jolie		Who you got?
elliott		That was a great move you made. You would have been on the line for two if that guy didn't injure you.
jolie		Owwwww! My thumb. Sharp pain just shot all the way threw my neck.
elliott		Are you alright?
jolie		Yeah.
elliott		More ravioli or anything. I could microwave some more.
jolie		No, I'm good.
henrietta		I don't care if I go to Summer School!
henrietta		This shit is meaningless! Who gives a crap!?
step-mom		 Did Henrietta just break my grandmother's China?
elliott		The Aaronsons? At this hour? Should I get it?
jolie		I don't know?
elliott		 Hello.
elliott		They think only you can talk her off the ledge.
jolie		Why me?
elliott		That's what she said.
jolie		Really? Dang.
elliott		Well she's not literally on a ledge. Figuratively. Do you know what figuratively means?
jolie		Duh. Come on, Dad. Just drive.
jolie		Don't worry, I know how to help Henrietta get her shit together.
elliott		Jolie.
jolie		Dad. Come on. You know what I mean.
jolie		Henrietta, your Dad showed me the test. It was bad, but if you get an A on your last exam you'll still pass.
henrietta		You really think I don't know how to do that shit?
jolie		What?
henrietta		That test isn't why I was so mad.
jolie		What is it then? You can talk to me. You can tell me anything.
henrietta		I wasn't invited with you guys to the Tyson fight tomorrow. The one on pay TV. I heard everyone was going and I just flipped out. I mean what's the deal?
jolie		What? You mean the Bowe fight?
henrietta		Yeah. Bowe, Tyson, whatever. The point is the whole team's going.
jolie		Yeah. It's pretty much just a team thing though.
henrietta		No it's not. Wendel, Arius, and Codroy are all bringing girls.
jolie		Oh. I didn't know that. Well, why don't I just call you when I figure out what time we're going.
henrietta		Well the fight is at eight, right?
jolie		Is it?
henrietta		Yeah. And everyone's going to Muhammad Ali's Rotiserie Chicken at City Place.
jolie		Oh.
henrietta		Yeah.
jolie		Well, I don't know. You have a lot of studying.
jolie		Cliff Livingston. I forgot about that guy.
jolie		Henrietta. Come on? We're not together anymore.
henrietta		 You know Spud Web only gets a roster spot because he's a circus freak. He shouldn't be there, and that's why he sells tickets. Don't you get it. He's not good, he's just a draw. Is that what you want to be, a circus freak?
jolie		He won the dunk contest. The guy's a beast. You're way out of your league.
henrietta		The league is about making money. Jolie, the only reason you even got on varsity is because your Dad paid for the new uniforms. You never would have made it even with Francisco getting arrested. Don't you realize that?
jolie		No he didn't.
henrietta		Yes he did. They cost over two thousand dollars. How could you not know that? I mean you made Varsity at Blair after being cut from JV last year. When have you ever seen that happen?
jolie		That's not true. Where did you hear that?
henrietta		My Dad talking to your dad on the phone in the kitchen.
henrietta		I still love you, though. None of that matters to me.
henrietta		Dad, we're studying here! Do you mind?
jolie		 It must have been good for Henrietta too, because afterwords, she didn't mention joining the team to the Bowe fight, she didn't mention Christine, she didnt mention nothing.
jolie		 Still though, I was worried she'd show anyway. If she did, I didn't know what I was gonna do.
haroon		So she was just pissed because you didn't invite her to this?
jolie		Yeah.
haroon		But it sounds like she was really freaking out. I mean you said she smashed their PC.
jolie		Yeah, when I first got there she didn't even have any clothes on. 
haroon		I don't know. I mean maybe something more is going on?
jolie		Yeah - the need for something.
haroon		You wear a condom right?
jolie		I don't have to. She's pregnant.
haroon		Ah man. Ah man. That is crazy.
haroon		 Have you ever been here?
jolie		 Not for a fight?
christine		Hey.
jolie		Hey.
christine		Did you see those guys who killed Jordan's Dad got life?
jolie		Yeah. I did.
christine		They said, if only they had seen the license plate, Airness. They --
haroon		Dude, my dad just 911-ed me.
jolie		When did you get a pager?! That is tight, dude.
haroon		Last week. You just haven't been around that much.
wendel		A sucker move.
fight kid 1		You ripped my Polo shit, motherfucker! You ripped my Polo shit!
fight kid 2		You scratched my face, nigger!
jolie		 Strangely Henrietta never showed. I should have been relieved, but instead I felt awful. It was like yesterday we were in love and today she didn't even care I was with Christine.
coach dale		 This is what it all comes down to.
coach dale		 This is where we find out what we're made of.
coach dale		 What we have trained for, not just this season, but for you seniors, the last four years.
coach dale		 Is it unfair that we drew Springbrook in the first round? Yes. Random seeding is only because the sorry white schools complained to the school board about always losing in the first round. When I was younger the regular season meant something around here.
assistant coach		He's such a goof ball, man. This is the playoffs. Where is he at?! Who's seen Jolie?!
jolie		Ms. Bart. I know you're the cheerleading coach and all, but this really better be important. I'm supposed to be in the weight- room by now.
cheerleading coach		You're injured. And like I said, this is more important than any basketball game. This is life or death Jolie.
jolie		Christine?
christine		Jolie. I haven't had my period in three months.
jolie		Well, maybe you should get one of those things and check it out.
christine		A pregnancy test?
jolie		Yeah.
christine		I did.  I'm pregnant with your baby.
jolie		No worries. My Dad will let me put it on his credit card. Trust me.
christine		Oh God. I'm sorry.
jolie		No. It's not your fault. I gotta run though. Let's talk about this after the game, OK? The team needs me.
christine		What for? You're injured anyway.
jolie		I'm ok though. I can play through it. do you understand. I just gotta do this?
christine		What? I just told you I'm pregnant with your baby. Doesn't that mean anything.
jolie		Tonight I'm gonna play for you and our baby.
assistant coach		Jolie! Where the hell have you been!?
jolie		I got stuck with no toilet paper, coach.
assistant coach		Damn man. This is the biggest game of the year.
jolie		I know. It wasn't my fault. I gotta be light on my feet.
assistant coach		You make me sick.
coach dale		Bring it in.
jolie		My hand is all better. Look.
wendel		Let's go baby! Bring it in.
teammates		Hail Mary Full of Grace, the lord is with you, blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb, Jesus. Holy Mary Mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. Amen.
arius		Domination baby! Domination!
jolie		 That night. I never played. None of us did. Because there never was a game. Before the opening tip even kicked it off a fight between schools broke out in the crowd. Some fired a gun twice, and all hell broke loose.
elliott		Jolie, are you OK?
jolie		Yeah. Was that gun shots?
elliott		I don't know. Stay down just in case.
black girl		We won! We won! We won!
principal ganus		What the hell is going on out there?
jolie		OJ Simpson....not guilt.
ray		You're dead.
principal ganus		Look who you're stepping to, Ray. A little white boy?
principal ganus		 Jolie. Come with me.
principal ganus		Look. I'm not proud of what happened in that gym.
principal ganus		Everyone who was caught fighting is being suspended for a minimum of three days. And that includes most of the team. But a suspension for you would only tarnish the reputation of the Magnet program. So...
principal ganus		You're going to do this school a favor,  at the international math meet.
principal ganus		You were great your freshman year. Your calculus teacher tells me your still great, but for some reason you quit.
jolie		I made JV that year.
principal ganus		Well, there's going to be no rematch of the Springbrook playoff game. Both teams are forfeiting. So now you've got plenty of time, that's for damn sure.
jolie		They're not rescheduling our game? That's insane.
principal ganus		The math team needs you Jolie. We're on the verge of nationals. 
principal ganus		You can go now.
principal ganus		Oh, one more thing. You will also join the team for an additional 40 hours of community service, as part of the new "Adopt a Highway" Program. It's part of the team punishment.
jolie		It's not fair man. I mean everyone got suspended on the team but me. Just because I'm in the Magnet.
haroon		Wake up dude. Life's not fair. Who ever said it was.
jolie		Are you sure you wanna do that? We're in the middle of C hall.
haroon		I told you. I don't give a fuck.
jolie		Really? On Mr. Applebaum's door? Yall have been warring. He's gonna know it was you.
haroon		So what?
haroon		I know. Duh.
jolie		You could get suspended for that.
haroon		Who cares? What does school even matter?
jolie		What's gotten into you?
haroon		I don't know.  Maybe my parents are getting divorced and you don't even know about it.
jolie		Are you serious?
haroon		Gimmie my spray-paint! Owww. Fuck you.
jolie		It's for your own good. This car belongs to Principal Ganus.
haroon		I swear, of all the things you have to worry about.
jolie		What's that supposed to mean.
haroon		Come on dude.
jolie		Come on what?
haroon		Are you numb? The whole school knows Christine is pregnant with your baby.
jolie		Dude. It's not like that. She's gonna get an abortion. She comes from a wealthy family.
haroon		So what if she does. Doesn't it mean anything to you?
jolie		I don't know. I don't know what it means. It just happened.
haroon		Magic marker? That is so lame. Don't get me started.
jolie		 I told them all it was Haroon who spray-painted `Free Mike Tyson,' and even he was cool too.
jolie		 We even smoked a blunt. It was our first time gettng blazed and drunk.
johnny carson		 What's he saying now? What's he signing?
guest		 He wants to say he loves you all, and he wishes he could hang onto these people a little longer, connect with them a little deeper, before it's all over.
christine		 Jolie! No way. Not until you know what.
jolie		 Don't worry.
christine		 When? You've been saying you're gonna get your Dad's credit card for like a month. Time is of the essence here, duh.
jolie		 I told you I'm on it. First thing when my parents get back. But this is the best time to do it because we dont have to wear a condom. Come on, let's go upstairs. Trust me.
christine		 No means no, Jolie.
haroon		 Dude. I am blazed out of my mind right now, but I think someone's hiding in your shower?
jolie		 Forreal?
haroon		 Yeah, dude. Check it.
jolie		Who's there?
henrietta		Jolie.
jolie		Damn Henrietta. You scared the shit out of me.
henrietta		How could you?
jolie		What? What are you doing in my basement bathroom?
henrietta		I'm catching you cheating with Christine! You asshole!
jolie		Shhh. People are sleeping.
henrietta		Don't lie to me. You think I dont know shit. She's pregnant with your baby.
jolie		Whao.
henrietta		You think the Maple Ave. kids don't hear mad junk about the Magnet kids.
jolie		Henrietta, relax.
henrietta		I know about all that stuff, how y'all hooked up during floor hockey intramurals under the trampoline. Everything. You think I don't have friends? I have friends!
jolie		Come on, I know you have friends Henrietta.
henrietta		You think I'm a fool? I watched you make out with her on the Power-pad two second ago!
christine		All this time you've been hooking up with some pregnant girl failing out of school. I am so fucking humiliated right now. Don't you ever, ever, ever so much as speak to me again. Come on girls.
wendel		Damn Jolie, all the girls just bounced.
arius		Yea, let's get out of here.
haroon		Damn man. I better go too. This shit is too fucked up right now.
jolie		 The next day I found out Christine had the abortion on her own. She said she asked the doctor to see the fetus.
jolie		 The doctor said she wasn't supposed to showed it, but did anyway.
jolie		 Christine said the dead fetus looked like a baby squirrel. Like the ones that fall out of the nest and are on the sidewalk dead with no fur yet. I guess it went well though.
jolie		 After that Arius said not to worry about anything. That Christine would be cool, and Henrietta was just fucked up anyway.
jolie		 He even invited me back to his place. It was the first time I had ever been to Maple ave.
jolie		 Everybody played this ghetto version of Jin Rummy called `Tunk.'
wendel		Jolie, you want in?
jolie		Naw. I gotta see this.
arius		Ok. Here it goes.
jolie		Wow.
arius		Yeah. This is the future right here.
jolie		Why wont it go play or whatever?
arius		Bandwidth.
jolie		 Oh yea.
cute girl		Arius. Who was the first president of the United States?
arius		Uh, George Washington.
arius		So. That's what it's all about. I'm a capital venturist man. Internet porn is the future of sexual healing. Henrietta was just the first of many. It's big business. Dollar bills man.
jolie		 I wasn't sure what to make of it all. Why Henrietta's parents never know she was pregant until too late? Or why I never said something myself? It was like none of it really mattered, or was even real at all, until it was too late.
jolie		 After that I used the internet to find a bunch of places that would take Henrietta's baby up for adoption. It wasn't easy, but I found all the information right from Haroon's basement, using Netscape.
haroon		This couple looks good.
jolie		Yeah, yeah, yeah. They're perfect. All I have to do is convince Henrietta.
haroon		Are you guys still on good terms?
jolie		I don't know. Our sessions are in the kitchen now.
adreseis		We got the trampoline set-up. Come on.
jolie		 It's weird, I don't really care if I make the NBA anymore.
haroon		Really? What do you care about then?
jolie		I don't know.
haroon's dad		Good one, Adreseis!!
haroon's dad		I've made some grill cheeses! Come and get it!
haroon		Sweet! Now that Mom moved out we always eat American. You wanna eat with us?
jolie		I do but there's something I gotta do.
haroon		Oh yeah. That's right.   Well, good luck with it all.
henrietta		Oh yeah. Let him in.
jolie		Hey. What's up? Uh. I brought over my Super Nintendo. I thought the baby might want it.
henrietta		Did Jaguar 64 finally come out?
jolie		No. Come on. I'm just trying to show you I actually care.
jolie		And I brought this too.
henrietta		Your practice Jersey!
jolie		Yeah. I'm not gonna need it anymore so.
henrietta		Really? Why not?
jolie		I'm not playing next year. I want to focus on my studies.
henrietta		Jolie. Thank you.  It smells like you. Someday little Benny will wear it. That's what I've decided to name him, Benny.
jolie		Oh. Wow. Well. Uh, before you name him, I was kinda thinking maybe we could discuss, uh,
henrietta		What?
jolie		Well, 
henrietta		Jolie. How could you even say that? I've wanted a family of my own, a real family, since as long as I can remember. There is no way I could ever give little Benny away. Ever. In a million years. Do you understand that?
jolie		Well. Yeah. I guess so. But at the same time, it just doesn't seem like the smartest thing. I've already found a really wealthy, well educated, good meaning couple who'd like to meet up with you about it.
henrietta		Never. No way Jolie. End of discussion.
jolie		Don't you even want to think it over for a few days? I mean, look how lucky your parents are to have you. You'd be making some couple just as happy. And your child would have more opportunities. I mean you're still in High School, know what I mean?
henrietta		Jolie, I can't even believe you're suggesting that? Dont you see how racist that is?
jolie		What?
henrietta		Now do something to cheer me up. I am totally offended you wanted to give away my baby.
****Dialogues from script :American_Outlaws.txt****

****Dialogues from script :American_Pie.txt****

jim		Oh yeah, baby, I'll give it to you.
jim		I do, baby, I do.
jim		Yeah, that's right.
jim		Man, shut up!
jim's mom		Hey, Jimmy.  I just wanted to say sweet dreams.
jim		Yep, okay Mom, 'night.
jim's mom		 Kiss goodnight.
jim		Yeah.  Damn cable.  There's this nature show that I'm trying to watch.
jim		Uh...
jim		 Must...be...broken...
jim's dad		What the heck is this?
jim		Nothing!
jim's mom		I think he's trying to watch one of the illegal channels.
jim		Jesus, Mom!  They're not illegal! They're pay channels.  How could a television channel be illegal?!  God, get a clue!
jim's dad		James, don't speak that way to your mother!
jim's dad		Turn that garbage off!  Give me that!
jim's mom		Oh my God!
jim's dad		Honey, why don't you let me handle this one.
kevin		It's a big, thick envelope, Vicky. You got in.
vicky		You think so?
kevin		"Dear Ms. Hughes.  We're sorry, but after keeping you on the wait list for the past couple months, we've decided you are now rejected.  Enclosed is a 100-page, full-color brochure on how rejected you are."
vicky		Kevin, this is serious!
kevin		You got in.
vicky		I love you!
oz		Illegal channels?  Shit, if there's any channel that should be illegal, it's whatever that women's channel is. Lifetime Supply of Pantyhose, or some shit.
jim		Yeah -- hey, did you see The Little Mermaid on TV the other night?  That Ariel, whew.
oz		She's a mermaid, dude.
jim		 Yeah, Oz, but not when she's on land.
oz		She's a cartoon, dude.
jim		A hot cartoon.
oz		Is there anything you don't jerk off to?
jim		C-Span?
kevin		Then she said -- she loves me.
oz		Oh shit dude, the L-word!
jim		And you said...
kevin		Nothing, I just hugged her back.
jim		You think she was serious?
kevin		I couldn't tell -- She could've meant like, "I love you grandma" or "I love you Vanderbilt."
oz		Just don't bring it up, hang low, maybe she won't mention it again.
michelle		And what we should do today, in band? Instead of playing our instruments regularly?  We should play them backwards!  That'll be so funny!
oz		 You guys got the Latin homework?
jim		No -- Kevin, you?
kevin		 We're all golden, we're college bound. I figured it out -- I can get a c- minus in every class, and it's not gonna make a difference.  U of M, here I come.
vicky		Vanderbilt's not that far from U of M.
jessica		Yeah right.
vicky		What?  We both have cars.
jessica		Yeah but, no offense, you're talking about a post-high school, long- distance relationship, and you and Kevin haven't even done it yet.
vicky		That's not why we're going out.
jessica		What the hell are you expecting him to drive to Vanderbilt for?  Milk and cookies?
vicky		Jessica!  He'll drive there for me, and I'll drive to Ann Arbor for him. We're going to have sex when he's ready and I'm ready.  It's got to be completely perfect.  I want the right place, the right time, the right moment.
jessica		Vicky, it's not a space shuttle launch, it's sex.  So did you do the physics write-up?
vicky		 Please.
jim		There's our man.
kevin		Finch, you got the Latin homework?
finch		Non habeo.  Canis meus id comedit.
kevin		Whatever.
stifler		 NOVA!!
oz		Stifler!!
stifler		You coming to party tonight, Ostreicher, ya fuckface?
oz		Depends if my date wants to stop by.
stifler		That junior chick?
oz		Nah, gave her the Heisman.  I'm working on something new.
stifler		Yeah right.  I got an idea for something new.  How 'bout you guys actually locate your dicks, remove the shrink wrap, and fuckin' use 'em.
oz		Dude, it's gotta happen -- she's a college chick!
stifler		Bullshit.  From where?
oz		She works part-time at my dad's store.
stifler		Hah!  Yeah, Oz, I bet it's more like your dad works at her store.
oz		Dude, he does not.
kevin		Really, Stifler.  He's the manager.
stifler		Hey, man, I'm not making fun.  I'm fuckin' impressed.  I mean, "Footlong or six-inch, white or wheat," that's some serious shit to master.
kevin		 Stifler, you're such an asshole.
stifler		Meyers, what's the deal with you and Vicky, anyway?  You've been going out since Homecoming and all she'll do is blow you?  Shit, I'd drop her like a steaming turd.
finch		Do you commonly grasp warm pieces of stool?
stifler		 Alright then, see you guys tonight. I'll look for you in the No Fucking section.
kevin's brother		You called me to ask me how to get laid?
kevin		What was I gonna do, call dad?  I don't even know his number.
kevin's brother		Just dial 976-Asshole.
kevin		Yeah, well anyway...I thought you might have some advice, brother to brother.  I mean, I think tonight she might, we might really, there's a chance that -- you know.
kevin's brother		Have you ever heard of the bible?
kevin		What?  Not the Bible?
kevin's brother		Well, that's not really the name, but we always called it that.
kevin		Does it tell me how to get laid?
kevin's brother		You know what, nevermind.  You're not ready.
kevin		Ready for what?
kevin's brother		Whoop, you're fading out.  Good luck at that party.
kevin		You ever hear of something called The Bible?
oz		Once, in church, dude.
jim		Ooh, here's an easy one:  "Attractive SWF, fun loving and a youthful mind seeks outgoing companion." Okay..."Attractive"...ugly.
oz		"Fun loving" -- insane.
kevin		Unlisted age, plus "youthful mind," equals old.
jim		No, "Charming" is old.  "Older" is really old.  "Youthful mind" is dead.
finch		Perhaps you should consider actually answering an ad.
jim		Finch, you can be the one to date a nearly-dead insane chick.  Eat your damn imitation hot dog.
finch		 This is no imitation.  Removing the hot dog from the Ultradog yields a better dog.  Behold -- Ultradog, no dog.
kevin		 Alright...I'm shooting for a nine o'clock ETA.  Beer in hand by five after.
jim		You can crash at Stifler's?
kevin		It's all good.  Breath check.
oz		 Dude, I wish you wouldn't do that.
kevin		You got something up your sleeve for tonight, Finch?
finch		A foolproof plan, my friend.  You shall see.
oz		 And little hurly-burly came by in her curly-wurly, and asked me if I needed I ri-hide --
kevin		How the hell do you know all these random songs?
oz		It's early Springsteen, dude, this is classic.  This was before the cheesy remake.
jim		This was remade?  Into what?
oz		 Bli-hinded by the light -- cut loose like a deuce, another runner in the night, blinded...
kevin		At least now I know what the hell they're saying.
jim		So, does my hair look better --  like this?
oz		Who cares?
jim		Nadia does, that Czechoslovakian chick, she might be there tonight. Now, do you think she'd prefer --  or Laid Back Jim?
kevin		The difference is so phenomenal, I can't decide.
jim		What about you?  You're the one with the girlfriend and you're still stranded on third base.
kevin		You know, I've never got that shit. What exactly constitutes third base?
oz		 Contact, dude.
kevin		Then where does a blowjob figure in?
oz		Shortstop.  'Course, you don't make it to third, and you're out.
jim		So let's say you get there...what's uh, third base feel like?
kevin		Oh, man, that's kind of sad.
oz		Feels like warm apple pie, dude.
jim		Apple pie...  McDonald's or homemade?
finch		Gentlemen, see you at the Bacchanalia.
sherman		What's up, fellas?
jim		Hey Sherman.  Scopin' the babes.
sherman		Indeed.  Some fine ladies here, boys. Confidence is high, repeat, confidence is high. Sherman is moving to DefCon Two, full strategic arsenal ready for deployment.
jim		You've got something going?
sherman		Did you see that Central chick? Brunette?
sherman		She's around.  Seems that she's taken a liking to me.  Fellas, it's time that she experienced -- The Sherminator.
kevin		Yeah, okay Sherman, whatever.
sherman		I'm a sophisticated sex robot, sent back through time...to change the future for one lucky lady.
kevin		Yeah man, right on!
jim		Oh, shit!  There she is.  Nadia.
vicky		You like her?  Her sponsor family lives on my block.  Why don't you talk to her?
jim		What would I say?
vicky		Just tell her what's on your mind. And smile, you've got a good smile.  Come on.
kevin		 Gotta go.
jim		But --
nadia		 You are in my English class, no?
jim		 Yes.
nadia		I thought so.
jim		No...you...go...ahead.
nadia		Okay.
jim		Oh, shit.  No!  Shit!
michelle		We're here for the party?
stifler		What party?  There's no party.
stifler		Try the house down the street.
band dork		Ring the bell again.
michelle		Ringing the bell is dorky -- let's just go in.
vicky		Oh, Kev.
kevin		Vicky -- do you think, maybe...it's time for us to take the next step in our relationship?
vicky		Tonight?
kevin		Yeah, it's such a perfect evening. Isn't this how you've always pictured it?
kevin		Or not.
vicky		Just relax.
oz		Great evening, isn't it?
college chick		Sure.
oz		There's something about the spring that's just cool.  Like the smell of fresh rain or something.
college chick		What did you just say?
oz		 Suck me...beautiful?
college chick		What?!
oz		Uh...you know, my friends call me Nova -- as in Casanova.
college chick		You need some work, buddy!
oz		Well...jeez, don't laugh at me.
college chick		Look, Chris.  There are just some things you need to learn, that's all.
oz		Like what?
college chick		Alright, well...you've got to tone it down.  You don't need to go to Lookout Point and spout cheeseball lines to be romantic.
oz		...okay...
college chick		You have to pay attention to a girl. Be sensitive to her feelings. Relationships are reciprocal.
oz		I'm not good in math.
college chick		Come on, I'll drop you off at your friends'.
stifler		 You actually said that?!  Haaaah!!
oz		Shut the fuck up.
jim		Hey, you did better than I did, Nova.
oz		Oh that's really reassuring.  And don't call me Nova anymore.  I'm a fraud.
stifler		This is pathetic.  I'm gonna find me a little hottie.
vicky		 Let me know.
kevin		Okay, don't stop.
stifler		SUCK ME, BEAUTIFUL!
kevin		God dammit, Stifler!
stifler		Check-out time!  Please vacate the room.
vicky		Stifler, you're such a jerk.
kevin		Vicky, wait!
sophomore chick		God, I can't believe there are so many cool people at this party.
stifler		Yep.
sophomore		And you got a keg, too, wow.  Oh, wait, I left my beer downstairs.
stifler		Here, babe.
sophomore chick		Thanks.
stifler		 You're really beautiful.
sophomore chick		Really?
stifler		Uh huh.
sophomore chick		I don't know if I want to be doing this.
stifler		 Doing what?
sophomore chick		You know.  If we hook up, tomorrow I'll just be some girl you go telling all your friends about.
stifler		 No way.
sophomore chick		 Steve!  You could at least look at me when you say that.
stifler		Look...  ...Sarah.  I wouldn't go telling stories or whatever about you.  I promise.
jim		What the hell?  I should be able to talk to chicks.  I'm articulate.  I got a 720 on my SAT verbal.  Copious.  Verisimilitude.
jim		Jesus, what did you eat?
kevin		Stifler, how's the man chowder?!
vicky		He likes it.
jessica		Of course he does.  What about you? Have you just never had one with Kevin -- or have you never had one, period?
vicky		I think I've had one.
jessica		Well that's a no.  No wonder you're not psyched about sex.  You've never even had one manually?
vicky		...I've never tried it.
jessica		Are you kidding?  You've never double- clicked your mouse?
nadia		 You are right.  The hands are not always necessary.
jessica		 See?
nadia		In fact -- I should teach you my own special method.  I developed it myself at the ballet institute in Prague. You use nothing but the muscles of the inner thigh.
jessica		No wonder she never pays attention in class.
jim		Shit, I can't believe a fine woman like this produced a guy like Stifler.
freshman guy		Dude!  That chick -- is a MILF!
freshman guy		M-I-L-F!  Mom I'd Like to Fuck!
sherman		 Don't you think you fellas could try a little tact?  I've got company.  Know what I mean?
kevin		 Dammit!  If Sherman has sex before I do, I'm gonna be really fucking pissed.
kevin		Man, I just gotta get laid already! This blowjob thing is bullshit!
vicky		Jessica, can you drive me home?
jessica		Sure.
kevin		Vicky, wait.
vicky		Not for you.
kevin		Ow, what the hell?
jim		Sorry, I thought you were dead.
finch		Good morning gentleman.
jim		Finch!  Where were you last night? What happened to the foolproof plan?
finch		I thought a fashionably late entrance would enhance my appearance.  When I got here, the Bacchanalia was over and the nymphs had left.
kevin		Feeling better, Oz?
oz		I'm such a loser.
kevin		That's the spirit.
sherman		 ...I'll never forget...thank you.
central girl		Bye.
jim		You did it.
sherman		Fellas, say goodbye to Chuck Sherman, the boy.  I am now a man.
kevin		I -- I don't get it, how the hell did you do that?
sherman		It was just my time, fellas, it was just my time.  Best of luck to you, boys.
kevin		I put in months of quality time with Vicky.  Sherman meets a chick for one night and scores?  This is just wrong.
oz		No shit, I'm never gonna get laid. How the hell am I gonna become this Mr. Sensitive Man?
jim		Jesus, we're all gonna go to college as virgins.  They've probably got special dorms for people like us.
kevin		Alright, I got an idea.  But it stays between us.  Agreed?
jim		Like a bet?
kevin		No, a pact.  No money involved.  This is more important than any bet.  Now here's the deal: We all get laid before we graduate.
oz		Dude, it's not like I haven't been trying to get laid.
kevin		This is different.  This is better. Think of when you're working out, Oz. You need a partner, someone to spot you.  Someone to keep you motivated.
jim		Pontificated.
kevin		 Separately, we are flawed and vulnerable.  But together, we are the masters of our sexual destiny!
jim		 Their tiger-style kung-fu is strong; but our dragon style will defeat it!
oz		 The Sha-lin masters from east and west must unite!
kevin		Guys, guys -- you're ruining my fucking moment here.  Now think about it --
stifler		 What the hell are you losers doing?
finch		If I might ask, when you brush your teeth, do you spit or swallow?
kevin		Now, the sex -- it's got to be valid, consensual sex.  No funny stuff.  And no prostitutes, if you were thinking about that, Finch.
oz		Dude, prom sucks.
kevin		I know, but think about it -- At the parties that night.  Chicks are gonna want to do it.
jim		Yeah, it's like tradition or something.
kevin		Right.  That gives us...
jim		Exactly three weeks to the day.
kevin		Alright then.  It's official.  Any questions?
all		To the next step.
jim		 Just a minute!
jim's dad		 Can I come in?
jim		Yeah, sure.
jim's dad		You're not...busy?
jim		Dad, come in.
jim's dad		 Sit down, Jim.  Let's talk.
jim		Okay.
jim's dad		These are for you.  From father to son.
jim		Uh...dad...
jim's dad		Go ahead son, there's more.
jim		I know, Dad.
jim's dad		Oh, okay.  Here's let me show you.
jim		Dad!  I know!
jim's dad		Do you know about the clitoris?
jim		 Yes dad.
jim's dad		Sometimes it can be pretty hard to locate.
jim		 Thank you, dad, I got it.
jim's dad		Okay, well that about covers it.
jim		Wait!
jim's dad		 I'll have to save this speech for another day.  I'm too worn out.
kevin		Did you get the flowers?  What about the poem?
vicky		I'll think about it.
jessica		Ah, you'll get her back soon enough. That's easy, she likes you.  What you need to do is learn to press a girl's buttons.  You gotta give her what she's never had.
kevin		What?
jessica		I'll give you a hint.  Comprende?
kevin		You mean...and orgasm?
jessica		You got it, stud.
kevin		Well...I'm pretty sure I've --
jessica		 No you haven't.
kevin		But that one time --
jessica		 No.
kevin		Well of course I'd want to give her that.  I mean, what do you think, I don't care about her?
jessica		Do you?
kevin		Of course.
jessica		Do you love her?
kevin		I -- I don't know, you can't ask me that.
jessica		Well, if you want to get her in the sack, tell her you love her.  That's how I was duped.
kevin		I don't want to dupe her, Jessica.  If I say it, I have to be sure I mean it.
jessica		Well it's up to you.  The Big L, or the Big O.
stifler		Dickhead!  You gotta see this.
jim		This is unexpected.
stifler		What did you cocks do to him?  Shit, if Coach Marshall sees this, he'll kick Oz off the team on principle alone.
oz		Hey guys, you came to watch me in action?
jim		Yeah, I think you sounded pretty good.
stifler		I think you need your balls reattached.
oz		Keep it down, dude.
stifler		What the fuck are you doing here?
oz		This place is an untapped resource. Check it out, dude, these vocal jazz girls are hot.
heather		I think he's got a nice voice.
stifler		You dipshit, you're expecting to score with some goody-goody choir-girl priss?
oz		Dude, watch me work.  They go for sensitive studs like me.
kevin		This is your plan, Finch?
finch		Yep.
kevin		This.  Right now.
finch		Uh-huh.
jim		You're just gonna sit there and drink your coffee?
finch		Mochaccino.  Actually, in the spirit of the pact, I do need to ask for your cooperation in one small matter.
kevin		Of course, Finch.  What?
finch		Whatever you hear about me, you agree.
kevin		What are we gonna hear?
finch		You'll see.  Gotta go.  Sixteen minute round trip.
jim		Finch, don't you think it's about time you learned to take a dump at school?
finch		When was the last time you looked at the facilities here?
kevin		Fifteen minutes ago.
enthralled girl		Uh, guys?  Was that Paul Finch?
kevin		Yeah.
enthralled girl		You guys have like, seen him in the locker room, right?
kevin		Yeah.
enthralled girl		Is it true that he's really...huge?
jim		I have no idea.  Finch showers in a bathing suit.
kevin		 No -- it's true.  He is...really... big.
jim		 Yeah, enormous.
enthralled girl		Woah.  Does he have a date for prom yet.
jim		Definitely not.
enthralled girl		No way!
kevin		 Finch hasn't done a damn thing, and he's got girls lining up already.
kevin		Uh...I thought you might know a trick or something.  To make her, you know...
kevin's brother		Orgasm?
kevin		Yeah.
sushi customer		 What's good here?
kevin's brother		Try the spicy tuna hand roll.
kevin		What?!  How do I do that?
kevin's brother		Uh -- forget that.  Look, is that all you're interested in?  Ways to get your girlfriend into bed?
kevin		Well, no.  I think...I guess it would be good to be able to return the favor.  I mean, it would be nice to know she enjoys things as much as I do.
kevin's brother		That's good, that's what I needed to hear.  Now you qualify.
kevin		Qualify for what?
kevin's brother		You've just inherited The Bible.
jim		 Mom?!  I'm home!
jim's dad		Jim?
jim		It's not what it looks like!
jim's dad		 I guess...we'll just tell your mother...that we ate it all.
choir teacher		What the hell was that?
oz		Sorry.
choir teacher		No, it was good.
oz		Oh, well...  It came from the heart.
choir teacher		Well then keep it coming.  Alright, people, good work!  Keep it up and we'll do great at the state competition.
heather		Not bad, Chris.
oz		 Really?  Hey, thanks -- Heather, right?
heather		Yeah...so...you've got this sort of... Bobby McFerrin thing going there.
oz		 I feel like I've discovered this whole new side of me.  Music is so expressive.
heather		 I mean, I agree, but...aren't you supposed to be out, like, trying to decapitate someone with your lacrosse stick or something?
oz		Oh sure.  I know what people think. It's like, Oz, he's just this kickass lacrosse player -- I also play football, by the way -- But that's like...not all that I am.
heather		Of course, I didn't --
oz		 I mean it really bothers me when people try to pigeonhole me like that.
heather		 You?  You think I don't get that? God, it's like just because I don't get drunk and barf every weekend, people say "Oh, here's this goody-two- shoes choir-girl priss."
oz		Yeah...so like, what else do you do?
heather		 What do you think I do?
oz		 I just -- realized that I didn't know anything about you.  I was interested.
heather		Oh...well that's okay.  Cool.
kevin		I was being selfish.  And majorly insensitive.  And I'm a total idiot.
vicky		I think "shithead" really says it.
kevin		Yes!  I'm a shithead!  I'm a complete and total shithead!
vicky		How?
vicky		Oh Kevin -- don't stop!
kevin		Just a second!
vicky's mom		 Hon?  Can you tell Vick to come on down for supper?
kevin		Vicky, shhh, you know there's no lock on your door.
jim		Hey, dad.  Did you knock?
jim's dad		Oh, Jim!  I'm looking at the ol' family portrait, here.  Yep.  It's a good one.
jim		Dad, please stop.  Please.  I'm sure I know what you're talking about.
jim's dad		Sure you know, son, but I think you've been having a little problem with it. It's okay, though.  What you're doing is perfectly normal.  It's like practice.  Like when you play tennis against a wall.  Some day, there'll be a partner returning the ball.  You do want a partner, don't you son?
jim		 Yes.
jim's dad		That's great.  Now remember, it's okay to play with yourself.  Or, as I always called it --  Ho-ho, Jim.  There's nothing to be ashamed of.  Hell, I'm fifty-two, and I still enjoy masturbating.  Uncle Mort masturbates.  We all masturbate.
coach marshall		Good work, Ostreicher.
oz		Thanks coach.
coach marshall		You're a killer, Ozzy!
oz		 -- Thanks, coach --
oz		Hey, what're you doing here?
heather		Just enjoying my exhilarating first lacrosse experience.  You like, "kicked butt."
oz		 Whoops, excuse me...
heather		Um...Chris --
oz		You can call me Oz.
heather		Do I have to?
oz		You can call me Ostreicher.
heather		What's your middle name?
oz		Forget it.
heather		Come on!  I won't tell.
oz		Neither will I.
heather		Okay.  So I had this...thought, and...this may seem like it's out of left field, and I don't know if you can, but since I'm not going with anyone --
stifler		Hah!  Central sucks!  Choir Chick?  What the hell are you doing here?
heather		Well, I uh, I was --  So do you wanna go?
oz		Yeah!
stifler		Well, just don't expect Oz to pay for the limo.
oz		Stifler, fuck --  ...man, you don't have to be so insensitive.
stifler		What??  Whatever -- look uh, don't forget -- my cottage after prom.  On Lake Michigan.
oz		Alright, cool.  I gotta hit the showers, but...I think this'll be really good.
heather		Yeah, me too, okay, cool.
stifler		My man Oz, working it with the choir babes?
lacrosse buddies		 Yeah, go Oz! etc.
oz		 Hey, you know, what can I say, I dig those cute little sweaters she wears.
stifler		I'll bet you do, you little horndog, she's givin' you fuckin' stiffies, right?
teacher		So once Hal becomes king, he has to take on the responsibilities of leadership, and turn his back on his old, drunken friend, Falstaff.  You see, Hal was going through a rite of passage, much like you all are.  Make the most of the time you've got left together.  You'll miss it later.
oz		So does your tongue cramp up?
kevin		Nah, you get kind of dizzy though.
jim		Wow, that's amazing, she's probably gonna want to do it soon.
sherman		Still questing after the holy grail, eh guys?
jim		Hey, where's Finch?
kevin		Went home to shit.
jim		I don't get it.  How does a guy like that get this sudden reputation?
oz		What reputation?
kevin		Observe.
kevin		...Yes?
jim		 Actually, it's an eagle and this big python.
jim		Yeah, see it's on his stomach, here, and the eagle -- the eagle is actually grasping the python in its talons, so the snake is like his --
kevin		 That's good, Jim.
oz		Okay, explain.
kevin		I can't, I have no idea how he's doing it.  And that leaves you trailing, Jim.  You gotta get your act together.
jim		 Yeah, I know.  I'm working on it.
nadia		You are very good in the world history class, yes?
jim		 Me?
nadia		Perhaps you can help me with my studies?
jim		Okay...that would be cool sometime.  How 'bout tomorrow?
nadia		Well, I do have ballet practice. Perhaps I can come by your house afterwards.  I can change clothes at your place?
jim		 I suppose that would be okay.
oz		Nice car.
heather		I'm glad you think so.
oz		You don't like it?
heather		No, I like the car.  By the way, though, about prom?  That was like a bad idea.  Sorry I invited you.
oz		What?!
heather		Oh, please.  I asked you because I thought you might actually be worth going with.  But you are just a jock. No wait.  You're a jerk.
oz		What?  No I'm not.
heather		I saw you making fun of me with your lacrosse buddies.
oz		I wasn't making fun of you.
heather		Give me a break, you're so full of it.
choir teacher		Okay, Heather, that was good, but I want to thicken up that solo. Michigan State is this Saturday, and I want that part to smoke.
heather		I know, my timing's off.
choir teacher		A little, but I think it'll work better as a duet.  With a tenor part.
oz		 I'll do it.
choir teacher		Okay then.  The rest of you okay with that?
heather		 Why are you doing this?
oz		Because I want to.
heather		Yeah?  Well you can't fake your way through this.  You better practice.
stifler		Fuck me!  You're gonna have a naked Eastern-European chick in your house, and you're telling me you're not gonna take advantage of that?
jim		What am I gonna do, broadcast her over the internet?
oz		You can do that?
jim		 Oh -- no way.  I can't do that to her.
stifler		Dammit, Jim, get some fucking balls. If you don't have the guts to photograph a naked chick in your room, how are you ever gonna sleep with one? Now all you gotta do is set up some sort of private link or whatever on the net, and tell me the address.
kevin		You can send me the address too.
jim		Well...dammit, if I'm doing this, how the hell am I gonna watch?
kevin		I'll save you a seat.
computer voice		"You have established an internet connection."
kevin		There we go.
jim's dad		Son.  This lady's here for you.
jim		 I know.  Hey Nadia.
nadia		Hello James.  Ready to study.
jim's dad		Oh, you bet he is.  Jim's quite the bookworm.
jim		Dad.
jim's dad		Oh, no, not too much of a bookworm. He's a good little kid.  Er, guy. Man.
jim		Dad!!
jim's dad		Okay, okay.  I'll let you hit those books.
stifler's brother		Steve!  Steve!  It's my computer and I wanna use it!
stifler		Shut up and watch this, you might learn something.
jim		So you need to change, right?
nadia		Do you mind?  This fabric is so uncomfortable.
jim		No, go right ahead and get dressed. I'll just be downstairs, studying up. Get me when you're ready.
kevin		Here we go.
jim		Be back in a sec!
jim's mom		Jim?  Honey, where are you going?
kevin		Want a beer?
jim		Did I miss anything?!
kevin		Just in time.
jim		Woah!
kevin		Oh, man!  This is incredible.
stifler's brother		This is like the coolest thing I've ever seen.
jim		Oh, thank you Lord, for this wonderful day.
kevin		Nice collection there, Jim.
jim		Dear God -- she's -- she's -- she's --
kevin		You know, Jim...you could go back there...and...
finch		 Seduce her.
jim		But, but -- what would I do?
kevin		Anything!  Just tell her it looks like she needs an extra hand or something.
jim		That's stupid.
kevin		No, you're stupid.  Get going!  Right now!  She's primed!
jim		Oh...oh...oh, shit!
jim		Hey mom hey dad!
jim		Oh boy oh God oh crap oh no.
kevin		Come on, Jim.  Where are you?
sherman		 Jim must've addressed that E-mail wrong.  It went out to every mailbox in the East High directory.  God, how juvenile.
jim		Please, God.  Let this be it.
kevin		He's going in!
jim		Looks like you could use an extra hand.
nadia		 James!  You have come in here on purpose?!
jim		Well...uh...
nadia		Shame on you!
jim		Uh...yeah...sorry.
nadia		Well.  You have seen me.  Now it is my turn to see you.  Strip.
jim		Strip?
nadia		Yes, slowly.
jim		You mean like, strip strip?
nadia		 For me?
finch		What do you suppose they're saying?
kevin		No idea.
nadia		Perfect.
jim		Uh...
nadia		Move with the music.
jim		Um...okay...
nadia		No, no, you must put your whole body into it.
jim		Nadia, I can't --
nadia		Can't what?  Do you not want to be with me?  I wish to be entertained, James.
stifler		What the fuck is this?
sherman		The horror, the horror.
nadia		 More sexy, Jim, more sexy.
disinterested girl		He's no Paul Finch.
finch		This is truly revolting.
nadia		 More, more, you bad boy!
nadia		Now!  Hames, come to me.
jim		Oh yeah!
nadia		Be gentle.
kevin		Ho-lee shit.
stifler		This just got a hell of a lot better.
nadia		Jim...
jim		Oh no.
kevin		Oh no.
stifler's brother		What happened?!  What happened?!
stifler		He blew it.  Literally.
nadia		You are done, James.  Perhaps I should be going now.
jim		No, no, I'm not done!  I've got reserves!  Nadia, please please please.  I'm begging you.
nadia		I do like your dirty magazines.
jim		Did you see this?  This is your more exotic dirty magazine.
nadia		Yes...James, it is knowing that these beautiful women arouse you that arouses me...
jim		Oh yes.  Very arousing women.  They arouse me very much.  But not as arousing as you.
nadia		Oh Jim...
nadia		So, "shaved" is the expression?
jim		 Holy shit.
kevin		Holy shit!
nadia		Touch me Jim...here.
girls		Again?
kevin		Not again.
jim		No, not again.
nadia		 I am sorry, Jim.  I suppose we will not be doing any studying now.
jim		No!  I've got...reserve reserves!
nadia		It is too bad.  I was at first hoping you would ask me to the prom.  But...
jim		...okay.
computer voice		"You have lost your internet connection.  Click 'okay' to reconnect."
kevin		Hey, minuteman.
jim		Shut up.  You're supposed to be supportive.
oz		You've still got a chance with Nadia, right?
jim		No.  Her sponsors here saw the thing on the net.  I don't think they liked it.
kevin		How do you know that?
jim		She's already on a plane back home.
kevin		Yeah?  Well come prom night, those excuses aren't going to do you much good.
jim		Jesus, Kevin, rub it in.
michelle		And so, one time?  I was at band camp? And we weren't supposed to have pillow fights?  But we had a pillow fight! And it was so much fun!
jim		Hold on.  You have no idea why I'm angry?
michelle		Is it because we have a test tomorrow? Sometimes I get cranky when I know I have a big test to study for.
jim		Yeah, that's pretty much it.
michelle		I thought so.  Because, one time?  I was at this --
jim		 What was your name again?
michelle		Michelle.
jim		Okay.  Michelle, do you want to be my date for the prom?
michelle		Really?  You seriously want to go with me?
jim		 Yes.  Seriously.
michelle		Are we going to Steve Stifler's party afterwards?  That would be so cool.
jim		Whatever you want.
michelle		Cool!  We're gonna have so much fun! It's like this one time, at band camp...
oz		Dammit!
kevin		You're not doing the extra credit problems.
vicky		No, I'm not.  I'm writing a sequence of random numbers that look like I'm doing the extra credit problems.  Mr. Bender doesn't bother to check homework past April.
kevin		That's my trick!
vicky		It's everyone's trick, Kevin.  But I did pick it up from you.
kevin		We've come a long way since Homecoming.
vicky		 Yeah, we have.  You corrupted my four- point into a three-nine-five.
kevin		Indeed I did.  But, our relationship. It's progressed a lot.  It's time for us to...express ourselves in new ways.
vicky		Like how?
kevin		Well, I feel that...things are getting to that point in a relationship. When two people share...a special moment between them.
vicky		I think you're so right, Kevin.
kevin		 You want to do it?
vicky		Yes --
kevin		No, I don't not love you.  I like, I know that we've definitely got something between us.  Something good. Something special.
vicky		But you don't love me.
kevin		I didn't say that.  I mean, love, it's like a term that gets thrown around. People say things, they get married, have kids, and then what?  It's like they call it off, going "I was wrong."
vicky		Kevin...you're not your dad.  The two of us, we're not your parents.
kevin		I know, Vick.  I'm just not ready yet, okay?
vicky		Okay.
heather		Hi...
oz		How did you know I was here?
heather		Stifler told me.
oz		You talked to Stifler?
heather		Well...I needed to find you.  We are gonna have to practice that song.
oz		...okay.  Cool then.  I'm um, I'm glad you came by.  I mean, really.
heather		So you like, work nights?
oz		Uh...my dad's the manager.
heather		Really?  Cool.  Tell him his subs are great.
oz		Ah, he's always too heavy on the vinegar.  If you really want a good one, you gotta let me make it.
oz		My dad's always here running the store, busy and stuff...and I fill in once a week so he can get a night off.
heather		 That's nice.
oz		 So you're going to Michigan?
heather		Yeah, well my parents wanted me to go to Northwestern.  I didn't want to write all those extra essays they make you do -- I mean, how am I supposed to know what my "most emotionally significant moment" was?  So when my U of M acceptance came in December, I said the hell with it.
oz		Onions?
heather		What?
oz		You want onions?
heather		Oh, yeah.  So what're you gonna major in?
oz		Well, State's got a good business school.  And I can probably walk onto the lacrosse team.  Green peppers?
heather		Yeah.  So wow, you've got it figured out.
oz		 Well, I mean, business is okay, and lacrosse is awesome, but what am I gonna be, a pro lacrosse player?  I really have no idea.
heather		Oh thank God, I thought I was the only one.
oz		Well, you're not.  Oil and vinegar?
heather		Yeah.  You know, people are always like, "What're you gonna major in?" And I don't know.  And they're like, "You'll figure it out."  Yeah?  When?
oz		I know.  Salt and pepper?
heather		Sure.
oz		You -- oh, you mean -- yeah, East Lansing and Ann Arbor.
heather		 ...yeah.
oz		Wanna swap your chips for cookies?
stifler		You gotta be fucking kidding.
stifler		FINCH?  SHITBREAK?!!
kevin		Hey...what was that all about?
kevin		Right, and who told you that?
jessica		No comment.
kevin		No comment?!  Are you kidding me?! I've never seen someone's image change so...so drastically!
jessica		Thanks.  It was my idea.
kevin		Did you guys hook up or something?
jessica		Are you kidding?  No.
kevin		Then what the hell are you talking about?
jessica		Well...I guess it's okay for me to tell you now.  That reputation of his isn't going anywhere.  Finch comes to me and says, "Jessica, I need help with this, blah blah, etcetera."  So I told him, pay me two- hundred bucks, and I'll tell a couple girls that you're dynamite in bed.  So he did, and I did.
kevin		I don't get it, that really works?
jessica		Duh.  Of course.  Naturally, I embellished a little bit.  Hey, did you hear that Finch had sex with an older woman?
oz		 ...I needed the shelter of someone's arms...there you were -- woo-hoo- hoo...
stifler		Oh my fucking God.  You're gay.
oz		 Come on, you know the words, sing along.
stifler		No thanks, you've been singing that shit all week.  If you try that at MSU this Saturday, I'm pretending I don't know you.
oz		Our last game is this Saturday.
stifler		No shit.
oz		...I've got this lacrosse game.  It's really important, it's our last game. And you know, Central almost beat us last time, so I really want to kick their ass, and it's like cool because we're gonna get to play at State, which means that after the game I might be able to stop by...
heather		 You can't sing at the competition.
oz		I'm sorry, I totally spaced.  I just...I didn't realize it...
heather		 ...it's okay, you should do whatever makes you happy.
oz		Alright...yeah...thanks for understanding.  So I guess...I'll see you later.
stifler		Kevin!  You seen Shitbreak lately?
kevin		 Oh no, Stifler, what did you do?
stifler		Me?  Nothing.  I'm the one whose ass he kicked.  I'll tell you one thing, though.  I don't think he's gonna have a problem shitting in school anymore.
kevin		Finch!  Get to the bathroom!  Now!
finch		Easy, tiger.  What's in there?
kevin		Just go!
finch		Why is this?
kevin		You're gonna shit your pants!
finch		Charming.
kevin		Finch, listen -- Stifler slipped some sort of laxative in your Mocash-chino or whatever.  It's fast acting.  I mean really fast.
finch		First of all, it's Mochaccino, and secondly...Oohhhh!
stifler		This way, sit.
finch		Come on come on come on...
finch		Aaaaaaarrrgghhhh!
albert		No problemo.
coach marshall		Alright!  Good hustle, guys, but we can still lose.  You all saw what happened to Oz out there.  I don't ever want to see you guys thinking you're gonna score.  You don't score until you score, period.
albert		Focus on the music.  Think melody. Let the music be my guide.
heather		That would be a start.
coach marshall		It all boils down to today.  For you seniors, this marks the culmination of your past four years.  Think of what that means to you.  Are you guys gonna look back on your days at East and know that you made the most of the time you had?
oz		Good luck, guys.
coach marshall		Christ!  I didn't say you were out of the game!
oz		Sorry, coach.
coach marshall		What the fuck is this?  You got someplace more important to be?
oz		Yeah.
albert		-- Oh, great.
heather		What about the game?!
oz		I'm not playing.
heather		You're missing the game for us?!
oz		No.  I'm missing the game for you.
jim		Yeeeeeeeaaaawwwwww!
kevin		 You fuckin' rule!
kevin		Hey...
vicky		Did you know that it's...450 miles from Ann Arbor to Nashville?
kevin		It's like a six or seven hour drive. That's easy, I don't mind driving.
vicky		So have I.  And I know you want to make things perfect for me.  And I understand that you really wouldn't tell me that until you were 100% comfortable with it.
kevin		Yeah, we have something great, Vick.
vicky		Kevin...  I want to have sex with you.
kevin		 Now?!
vicky		No...I know the perfect time...
michelle		You know, at band camp?  We have dances like this.  Only they're way funner.  Don't you think prom is just highly overrated?
jim		Highly, highly overrated.
finch		Okay.  I'm here for your dumb...dumb meeting.
sherman		I'm on the offensive, boys.  The Sherman Tank is going back in.
kevin		Alright, how do you guys stand?  Well, Finch, I know where you are, but you can't use that as an excuse.  Jim?
jim		My date's a flute-toting band dork. That answer your question?
kevin		Oz, how about you and Heather?  Now you guys are a couple or something?
oz		 Dammit, Kevin, what's with the attitude?
kevin		Attitude?  Me?  I think that you guys should be more enthusiastic.  Shit, we've been trying to get laid forever, and tonight's the night we've been waiting for.  We're in this together. Don't back out on me now!
jim		Back out?  You don't need us to get laid.  You afraid or something?
kevin		No, but come on guys, we made a pact!
oz		Kevin, it was just a --
kevin		It was a pact.  You break it and there are no excuses.  You guys have to --
jim		 I don't have to do shit!  Forget it already!
finch		At least I learned how to shit in school.
jessica		Hey, Finch.  Wanna dance?
finch		How come you have no date?
jessica		I like to keep my options open.  And let me just clarify that you have no chance of scoring with me, Finch.
finch		No, of course not, don't be ridiculous.
vicky		So, I guess you and Sherman are pretty close.  You met at that party a while back?
central girl		Yeah, we were up the whole night together.  We had one of those amazingly deep conversations, where you really feel like you get to know someone.
vicky		 "Deep conversation," huh?  Is that what you guys call it?
central girl		What else would I call it?
central girl		Excuse me, everyone, sorry to interrupt.
oz		...Guess what?
kevin		I don't care.
jim		Kevin, come on, the bus to Stifler's is gonna be here soon.
kevin		I'm not going.
oz		I still think you're okay.
jim		So do I, Kev.
finch		Me too.  For the most part.
kevin		Nah.  Fuck, you guys are right, I don't know what I'm doing.  I mean I'm acting like I've got it all together tonight.  But I know Vicky is gonna ask me if I love her.  And I don't know what I'm gonna say.  So now it's like, maybe I'll just wimp out on the whole thing.
jim		Come on man.  Tonight is the night. We're finally going to a post-prom party on the lake.  We've been waiting to do this for the last four years. Why else are we still friends with Stifler?  You gotta go.
oz		And by the way, Sherman didn't even get laid.
kevin		He didn't?
finch		Nope.  He pissed himself.
jim		There it is.  I want to grab my bag. Oh, and my date.
oz		Come on, Kevin.  Vicky's looking for you.
jim		Stifler's mom got it in the divorce.
michelle		It reminds me of this one time --  Hey, can I ask you a question?  How come you don't have any stories?  I've got lots of stories, and you don't have any.
jim		Oh, I've got stories, believe me. They're a little more risque than tales of Band Camp.
michelle		Are they gross or something, like guy stuff?  Tell me.
jim		Okay.  You want a story?  Here's a story.  Stifler finds this beer, right?  And...
kevin		See -- this is the nicest room.
vicky		Wow, Kev...it's perfect.
stifler's brother		You guys are gonna fuck, aren't you!?
kevin		No!  Get out of here!
stifler's brother		 Fuckers fuckers fuckers fuckers!
oz		There's something I've been meaning to tell you, Heather.
heather		What's that?
oz		It's gonna sound really bad, but I want you to know.
heather		This isn't the best way to proposition me.
oz		No, that's not what I mean.  I mean -- look.  You know what made me leave that game?  Coach was giving this speech, about not slacking off when you see the opportunity to score.
heather		This isn't any better, Chris.
oz		No, see Heather, what I realized is that...with you, it's not like I'm running towards the goal, trying to figure out the best way to score.  And this may sound corny, but --
heather		Oz, it's okay, I know.
oz		You called me Oz.
heather		Well, that's what your friends call you.  I mean...I feel like I'm one of your friends now...and also...your girlfriend.
oz		Dieter.  My middle name is Dieter.
heather		Hmm.  You know that's  really a shitty middle name!
oz		 I know, it sucks!
finch		Ah, Stifler's mom!  Thank you for letting us have a great party.
stifler's mom		 As if there were any alternative in the matter.  Are you enjoying yourself?
finch		I'm three sheets to the wind, ma'am!
stifler's mom		 I'm so happy for you.  Takes the edge off, doesn't it?  And where might your date be?
finch		Oh no, no date.  Bathroom incident.
stifler's mom		Pardon me?
finch		...Nevermind.  You have anything to drink?
stifler's mom		I believe the kegs are upstairs.
finch		No, no, that's what the cretins drink. I mean alcohol, liquor -- good stuff.
stifler's mom		All right, I got some scotch.
finch		Single malt?
stifler's mom		Aged eighteen years.  Why don't you get the glasses.  Behind the bar.
michelle		That is a nasty story!
jim		I told you.
michelle		You wanna hear a nasty story of mine? It's kind of sexual.
jim		Yeah, bring it on!
michelle		Well, this one time?  At band camp? We were playing this game, I don't know if you know it?  But it's called spin the bottle?  And I had to kiss this guy named Marc Wander on the lips?  And...
kevin		You comfortable?
vicky		Yeah, are you?
kevin		Yeah.
vicky		You sure you're comfortable?
kevin		Yeah.  Are you sure?
vicky		Yeah.
kevin		Me too.
vicky		Okay.  Did you bring a condom?
kevin		Yeah, right here.
vicky		I don't know.  How do you?
kevin		Like, normal style.  The...missionary position.
vicky		Okay.
kevin		Yeah Vick?
vicky		I want to hear you say it.
kevin		Okay.
vicky		I love you.
oz		I can't think of anything to say that's not cheesy.
heather		Then don't.
vicky		Here.
jim		So, the end of the story is...you had to kiss the guy for twenty seconds?
michelle		Yes!  And he was such a dork!  And everyone laughed at me, but I didn't care?  Because it was so funny!
jim		 Okay, I get it.
michelle		Oh!  And then this one time?  At band camp?  I stuck a flute in my pussy.
jim		...excuse me?!
michelle		What, you think I don't know how to get myself off?  Hell, that's what half of band camp is!  Sex ed!
jim		This'll do.
michelle		Now, I have two rubbers.  Wear them both, it'll desensitize you.  I don't want you coming so damn early.
jim		Why, uh, what makes you think that I --
michelle		Come on.  I saw you on the net.  Why do you think I accepted this date? You're a sure thing!
finch		So...would you object if I said you're quite striking?
stifler's mom		Mister Finch -- are you trying to seduce me?
finch		Yes ma'am, I am.
jim		Hail, hail, to Michigan, the leaders and best!
stifler's brother		That was awesome!
stifler		Ugh...oh no...
jim		She's gone.
kevin		That was a great night.
vicky		Yeah.
kevin		I can't believe we just had our senior prom.
vicky		Yeah, the time went by so fast.
kevin		It did.
vicky		Kevin, next year...with you in Ann Arbor, and me in Nashville...it's not gonna work, is it.
kevin		Don't say that, we can do it somehow. It might not be perfect, but --
vicky		 That's the whole thing, that's what I've been realizing.  That nothing's perfect, that you can't plan everything.
kevin		It is far away...and we'll be on our own...meeting new people...
vicky		I know.  Let's go.  Don't you have something to tell your friends?
kevin		What?
vicky		Your little pact.  Jessica told me all about it.  Way to go, Kev!
kevin		 I guess we'll call you two-ply.
oz		Yeah.  So you want double condiments on that?
jim		No, no that's fine.  So you doing okay?
kevin		 Yeah.
finch		I'll tell you, I've learned one thing: women, like wine, get better with age.  Of course, I have no frame of reference for this comparison.
kevin		So Oz, you almost made it, huh?
oz		 I'll just say that we had a great night together.
jim		Hang in there, buddy, you'll get there.
oz		I know.
kevin		Wow.  You two really have something going, don't you?
oz		I think we're falling in love.
kevin		You know what the coolest thing is? This, right now.
oz		It's true.  I mean, after this, everything'll be different.
jim		After getting laid?
oz		After high school.
kevin		Yeah, but we'll still see each other.
oz		Fuck yeah we will.
kevin		To the next step.
all		To the next step.
kevin		 Hey.  I got another question for you.
jim's dad		 Son.  That's the best damn story I ever heard.
bellboy		 Another bottle?
waiter		 He knows how to treat a woman.
jim		Thanks guys.
nadia		Come back to bed, James.
waiter		 That is one lucky man.
bellboy		 Funny -- I swear I have seen those two somewhere before.  The boy is some sort of dancer.
****Dialogues from script :American_President.txt****

agent cooper		Liberty's moving.
janie		The 10:15 event's been moved inside to the Indian Treaty Room.
shepherd		 The 10:15 is American Fisheries?
janie		Yes, sir. They're giving you a 200-pound halibut.
shepherd		Janie, make a note. We need to schedule more events where somebody gives me a really big fish.
janie		Yes, sir.
shepherd		Janie, I was kidding.
janie		Of course, sir.
shepherd		 Hey, Cooper.
agent cooper		'Morning, Mr. President.
janie		Mr. Rothschild asked to have a moment with you this morning.
shepherd		Is he upset about the speech last night?
janie		He seemed concerned.
shepherd		Well, it wouldn't be a Monday morning unless Lewis was concerned about something I did Sunday night.
lewis		You skipped the whole paragraph.
shepherd		 And Monday morning it is.
lewis		"American can no longer afford to pretend that they live in a great society"...and then nothing. You dumped the whole handguns paragraph.
shepherd		This is a time for prudence, Lewis.
lewis		That was the kick-ass section.
shepherd		I thought what with being the President and all...
lewis		Sir, of course I didn't mean to imply--
shepherd		I thought you'd be turning cartwheels this morning, Lewis -- 63 percent job approval.
lewis		That's great news, sir, but...
groundkeeper		'Morning, Mr. President.
janie		Charlie.
shepherd		'Morning, Charlie.
lewis		Sir, the press is gonna need an explanation.
shepherd		For what?
lewis		Because you dropped the whole kick-ass section, now we've got this thing hanging out there.
shepherd		There's a thing hanging out there?
lewis		"Americans can no longer afford to pretend that they live in a great society." Then ...nothing. No explanation. No context. So now it's just this thing.
shepherd		And it's hanging out there?
lewis		Yes, sir.
shepherd		Maria--
shepherd		Did they tell you I'm gonna need--
shepherd		Thanks.
lewis		Mr. President, I really feel we need to focus on...
shepherd		Lewis, however much coffee you drink in the morning, I want you to reduce it by half.
lewis		I don't drink coffee.
shepherd		Then hit yourself over the head with a baseball bat, would you please?
janie		Happy birthday, Laura.
shepherd		Hey, Laura, happy birthday.
shepherd		 I should send her some flowers.
janie		You already did, sir.
shepherd		How're you, Mrs. Chapil?
shepherd		Sixty-three percent of it, at any rate.
janie		--the museum trip. I'll go get it.
shepherd		 What time does she get home today?
janie		Three-twenty.
shepherd		How's my afternoon look?
janie		Very crowded.
shepherd		Too-tall McCall, how was Mexico?
robin		I didn't truly appreciate it until I came back and discovered that America isn't a great society.
lewis		 He dumped a whole section.
shepherd		Now there's a thing hanging out there.
robin		Not a great society, sir?
shepherd		Well, with you out of the country, it wasn't, Robin. Now that you're back, we're great again.
robin		There's a press room full of people saying "What did he mean by that?"
lewis		See?
shepherd		 A.J., did you get one of these?
shepherd		It would appear to be a letter from the entire environmental community. These people are outta control.
robin		Are they blaming the President for global warming?
lewis		What they want is a 20 percent reduction in fossil fuel emissions.
lewis		We haven't really tried.
shepherd		Talk to the GDC again, A.J. Tell them the President resents the implication that he's turned his back on the environment. Tell them I'll send 455 to the floor. But we're gonna ask for a 10 percent reduction. If they want to pull their support, fine. At 63 percent job approval rating. I don't need their help getting a bill passed. We gotta get going-- where's Leon?
kodak		Excuse me. Good morning, Mr. President.
shepherd		You all right?
kodak		They keep moving that big ficus plant.
shepherd		Okay. First, I wanted to say congratulations. Three years ago, we were elected to the White House by one of the narrowest margins in history, and today Kodak tells us 63 percent of registered voters think we're doing a good job.
kodak		Wait a second. You wanted me to poll registered voters?
shepherd		But the poll also tells us what we already knew: We don't get this crime bill of ours through Congress and these numbers are gonna be a memory. So, starting today, we're shifting it into gear.
robin		Can I tell my morning press gaggle that gun control--
lewis		Hang on, are we not--
lewis		Are we not putting back the handgun restrictions?!
lewis		Sir, we campaigned on this issue. Now, I understand we took it out when we were in the low forties, but we can push it through now.
shepherd		After the elections.
lewis		Sir, we may never have an opportunity like this again. Let's take this 63 percent out for a spin and see what it can do.
shepherd		We can't take it out for a spin, Lewis. We need it to get re-elected. For reasons passing understanding, people do not relate guns to gun-related crime.
robin		Got it.
kodak		Scare the shit out of 'em?
kodak		I can do that.
lewis		Can I just say, to return to the subject for one moment, that it might be easier to fight a war on drugs if we weren't arming drug dealers.
shepherd		Lewis, we've gotta fight the fights we can win.
lewis		Yes, sir.
shepherd		Eighteen votes in 72 days. Thank you, everyone. Janie, what's next?
janie		Security briefing, sir.
susan		Did the President read the letter?
leo		The President's pissed as hell, Susan. That letter was a stupid move.
susan		It was aggressive, and we should stand by every--
leo		This isn't the guy who needed us four years ago, Susan. He's incredibly popular. He's gonna win re-election in a walk, and he could give a shit what we stand by! If the President passes the most important piece of environmental legislation in history, and does it despite our negative endorsement, our political weight in the future will rank somewhere below the Save the Spotted Owl Society.  I'm bringing in some help.
susan		We don't need another environmental expert to confirm what every other environmental expert--
leo		Not an environmental expert, a professional political strategist. We're playing hardball with Andrew Shepherd, and we need a heavy bat.
susan		Who?
leo		Sydney Ellen Wade.
susan		Oh Christ. That woman doesn't know the first thing about the environmental lobby.
leo		She's a closer, Susan. She gets the job done.
shepherd		Try it like this and lose that.
robin		 David Sasser from the Times called and wanted to know what the White House felt was a great society.
lewis		What did you tell him?
robin		I told him I couldn't speak for the President, but for my money: Bermuda.
shepherd		Perfect.
janie		Mr. President, your cousin Judith's come down with the flu and won't be able to join you Thursday night.
shepherd		That's too bad. Remind me to give her a call later.
janie		Yes, sir.
robin		You gonna go stag?
shepherd		That's not a problem.
robin		No. We've never gone wrong parading you around as the lonely widower.
robin		 Mr. President, that was an incredibly thoughtless remark. I would never dream of insulting you or the memory of your wife.
shepherd		That's okay, forget it.  What time is it?
janie		It's 3:45, sir.
shepherd		I'm gonna go over and say hi to Lucy.
janie		You have the Attorney General at 4:00 and the trade representative at 4:30. Somewhere in there you promised NPR five minutes.
robin		Mr. President--
shepherd		Robin, don't worry about it.
shepherd		No, keep going. I liked what you were playing? What's it called?
lucy		Scales.
shepherd		Well... you play it with gusto!
lucy		Are my lips swollen?
shepherd		Are they supposed to be?
lucy		Yeah.
shepherd		Then you're doing fine.
lucy		Whatcha got behind your back?
shepherd		A little gift.
lucy		Is it a dirt bike?
shepherd		Nope.
lucy		Is it a really old seventh-grade textbook of yours that you're gonna make me read cover to cover and discuss at dinner and drive me crazy with?
shepherd		I'm not comfortable with the "really old" part, but everything else you said was true.
lucy		 "Understanding the Constitution."
shepherd		Your social studies teacher said your class would be starting on the Constitution this week.
lucy		You talked to Mr. Linder?
shepherd		Yes. It's called a Parent-Teacher Conference. Mr. Linder and I were the key player in that discussion. Why don't you like social studies, Luce?
lucy		I like it fine, Dad.
shepherd		All your other teachers say you're happy, you're enthusiastic, you've always got your hand up...Mr. Linder says you don't participate unless he calls on you, and even then it's a one-word answer.
lucy		I don't know what to say, Dad. I guess I'm just not...I don't know.
shepherd		Luce, take a look at this book. This is exciting stuff. It's about who we are and what we want. Read what it says on the first page.
lucy		 "Property of Gilmore Junior High School."
shepherd		The next page.
lucy		 "We, the People, of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union..."
shepherd		See? Grabs you right off the bat. It's a page-turner.
lucy		I can't wait.
shepherd		Good, 'cause it's possible the subject might come up at dinner tonight.
lucy		Do you see it as part of your job to torture me?
shepherd		No, it's just one of the perks. See you tonight.
defense secretary		The C-STAD hardware's been in place for a month. We've got 22 instructors from the Army Air Defense School waiting to go down and train the Israelis.
chairman		We can airlift 'em in the morning. They'll have C-STAD operational in 20 days.
security advisor		If anybody wanted to hit it, they'd have hit it by now.
shepherd		Okay. Let's move on it. Thank you, gentlemen.
shepherd		 Have a good evening, Mrs. Chapil.
shepherd		I'll see you in the morning, Janie.
janie		You will, Mr. President.
shepherd		It's about time.
shepherd		Maybe we should try to steal her. Ten percent, A.J. Don't let them leave the room till they're clear about that.
shepherd		Mention it to Janie.
shepherd		Then let's clear this off the table and get everybody focused on the crime bill. I don't want to win this. I want to win it by a couple of touchdowns.
shepherd		Good.
shepherd		 A.J.?
shepherd		Listen, Robin said something to me today that I'm sure she wouldn't have said it if...I mean, she wasn't saying it to me, I realize...  Ah, never mind. Have a good night.
shepherd		A.J., when we're out of the office and we're alone, you can call me Andy.
shepherd		I mean you were the best man at my wedding, for crying out loud. Call me Andy.
shepherd		Good night, A.J.
sydney		 Hi, my name's Sydney Ellen Wade.
susan		He just needs your driver's license.
sydney		 I'm from Virginia.
susan		He doesn't care.
sydney		 I'm here for a meeting with Mr. MacInerney.
susan		He doesn't need to know that.
sydney		 Forgive me, this is my first time at the White House. I'm trying to savor the Capra-esque quality.
susan		He doesn't know what Capra-esque means.
guard		 Sydney Ellen Wade of Virginia. Knock 'em dead.
sydney		Thanks.
shepherd		The day the government starts subsidizing private schools is the day we give up on public education.
education secretary		I know the proposal only scratches the surface, but it's the least we can do.
shepherd		We're already doing the least we can do, but I can't think of anything better, so we'll go with this for now.  Jerry, say hello to Linda for me. And if I don't see you again, have a good Thanksgiving.
hud secretary		Thank you, Mr. President.
shepherd		How're we doing?
janie		You're running four minutes ahead of schedule.
shepherd		Ahead?
janie		Yes, sir.
shepherd		 Janie, this is unprecedented. I don't know what to do with myself.
janie		Mr. MacInerney asked me to remind you to pop your head in on--
shepherd		The GDC meeting. Right.
sydney		Hardly an impressive distinction, A.J.
susan		Sydney, we should leave Mr. MacInerney alone now. He's already given us more time than--
sydney		Susan, Mr. MacInerney doesn't want us to leave, because Mr. MacInerney's not yet done what he needs to do today.
susan		Sir, Ms. Wade's been thrown into the deep end of the pool on her first day. She hasn't even had a chance to read the report of the Quebec Conference.
sydney		You're right. I haven't read it. If someone had asked me yesterday, I'd have told them the Quebec Conference was made up of six professional hockey teams. But what I do know is that it's time for the President to run for president again. Leon Kodak is as good as it gets when it comes to electoral strategy, and I'm certain he's told the President exactly what I'd tell him: Nail down Michigan and California, where they make cars and airplanes -- and burn plenty of fossil fuel. But if I had read these eight hundred pages, I would have discovered that it's the burning of fossil fuels that's been mostly responsible for global warming and that the 20 percent reduction recommended by the GDC is a necessary first step toward arresting the catastrophic greenhouse effect that has gone unchecked by this administration...
susan		 It's really time to--
sydney		Susan, I promise you, the White House Chief of Staff will not let us leave here until he's broken the bad news.
sydney		The President's expecting our full support?
sydney		The President's dreamin', A.J.
susan		Sydney!
sydney		--the President has critically misjudged reality. If he honestly thinks that the environmental community is going to whistle a happy tune while rallying support around this pitifully lame mockery of environmental leadership just because he's a nice guy and he's done better than his predecessors, then your boss is the Chief Executive of Fantasyland.
shepherd		Couldn't be better.  I apologize for the interruption, but A.J. asked me to stop and say hello. You wouldn't be Sydney Ellen Wade, by any chance, would you?
sydney		Mr. President, I'm...don't know what to say. I'm speechless.
shepherd		All evidence to the contrary.
susan		Mr. President, we haven't met. My name is Susan Sloan. I used to work with Congressman Myers. I hope this episode in no way--
shepherd		Sydney?
sydney		Yes, sir?
shepherd		You got a second?
sydney		 Of course.
shepherd		I thought maybe we might have a word in private. Someplace a little less intimidating.  Janie?
janie		Yes, sir.
shepherd		 This is my personal assistant, Janie Basdin. Janie, would you show Ms. Wade into the rec room. I'll be there in a second.
janie		 This way...
shepherd		Sorry to keep you waiting.
sydney		Mr. President--
shepherd		Is it okay if I call you Sydney?
sydney		Of course. Mr. President--
shepherd		Have you ever been in the Oval Office?
sydney		I've just been on the regular tour. It didn't include...
shepherd		I hear it's pretty good.
sydney		Mr. President, what you saw in there was nothing more than vanity run amok. I was showing off for a colleague who doesn't think very much of me. It'd be a real injustice for you to hold the GDC accountable for my behavior today. On top of which, I'm monumentally sorry for having insulted you like that.
shepherd		Are you under the impression that I'm mad at you?
sydney		 Well...
shepherd		Sydney, seldom does a day go by that I'm not burned in effigy.
sydney		Not by a professional political operative standing 30 feet from the Oval Office.
shepherd		No, I'll give you that.
sydney		Mr. President--
shepherd		Did you know that when the City Planners sat down to design Washington, D.C., their intention was to build a city that would intimidate and humble foreign heads of state? It's true.
sydney		I didn't know that.
shepherd		The White House has the single greatest home court advantage in the modern world.
sydney		Learned that one the hard way.
shepherd		Sydney, this bill is important to me.
sydney		Yes, sir, I'll convey your message.
shepherd		But you don't believe me?
sydney		The GDC is asking for 20 percent, sir.
shepherd		It's not gonna pass at 20 percent.
sydney		How do you know that until you put the full weight of the White House behind--
shepherd		Sydney, at 20 percent, we are 34 votes shy in the House. It can't be done. But I tell you what. I'll make you a deal with you. If you can get 24
sydney		Twenty-four votes?
shepherd		If you can swing 24 votes by the State of the Union, I'll promise you full White House support.
sydney		Do I have your word on that, sir?
shepherd		Absolutely. Listen, are you hungry? I skipped breakfast. You wanna have some coffee? A donut or something?
sydney		Sir, I'm a little intimidated by my surroundings, and yes, I've gotten off to a rocky and somewhat stilted beginning, but don't let that diminish the weight of my message: The GDC has been at every president for the last decade and a half that global warming is a calamity, the effects of which will be second only to nuclear war. The best scientists in the world have given you every reason to take the GDC seriously. But I'm gonna give you one more. If you don't live up to the deal you just made, come New Hampshire, we're gonna go shopping for a new candidate.
shepherd		You can't do that, Sydney.
sydney		With all due respect, Mr. President, who's gonna stop me?
shepherd		Well, if you go through that door, the United States Secret Service. That's my private office.  You need to go out that way.
sydney		 Ah.
shepherd		Should I meet with them?
shepherd		Fine. 2 in the side.
shepherd		Nice shot, Mr. President? You won't call me by my name when we're playing pool.
shepherd		At ease, A.J., and get away from the pocket. 9 in the corner.
shepherd		I forgot to tell you.
shepherd		Not our time. GDC makes a big push for the votes, and when they come up short, we move in with the softer bill, to get passed, we're everybody's hero. 3 in the side.
shepherd		Sydney Wade?
shepherd		Did she say anything about me?
shepherd		When she called.
shepherd		No, it's just that we had a nice couple of minutes together. She threatened me and I patronized her and we didn't have anything to eat, but I thought there was a connection.
shepherd		She didn't say anything about me?
shepherd		Tell me this: Hypothetically, what would happen--
shepherd		--if I called Sydney and asked her to be my date at the State Dinner Thursday night?
shepherd		Don't I sound serious?
shepherd		Why not? Jefferson did. Wilson did.
shepherd		Wilson was widowed during his first term. He meets a woman named Edith Gault. He dated her, courted her, married her, and somewhere in there managed to form the League of Nations.
shepherd		I don't want you to get me a girl, A.J. What is this, Vegas?
shepherd		And I'm talking about something that in no way is at conflict with my oath of office. I'm a single adult, and I met a woman that I'd like to see again socially. How's that different from what Wilson did?
shepherd		What are you saying?
shepherd		How big?
shepherd		Five points we're standing here talking about?!
shepherd		I drop five points when Wisconsin doesn't make it to the Rose Bowl. 5 in the corner.
shepherd		Yeah.  No. No. I don't want to check a polling sample to see if this is okay, like I'm asking permission to stay out an hour past curfew. This isn't the business of the American people.
shepherd		I like her, A.J.  Stop being my chief of staff for one minute.
shepherd		 She didn't say anything about me?
shepherd		That's something.
janie		Yes, sir?
shepherd		I need you to track down a phone number.
sydney		 Richard...Richard, it wasn't funny. I acted like a college freshman at a protest rally.
beth		Tell him the part about walking out the wrong door.
sydney		Oh God, I forgot about that.  No, Richard...Richard, I don't want to hear your Andrew Shepherd imitation...
beth		I wanna hear it.
sydney		I'm hanging up now, Richard... Tonight? I was gonna go to bed early and wake up when there's a new president.
sydney		 The President must think I'm a third- rate jerk.
beth		If he thinks you're a jerk, I'm sure he thinks you're a first-rate jerk.
sydney		I'll tell you one thing, boy. I regrouped, you gotta gimme that. I pulled it together at the end. I stood in the middle of the Oval Office and I made it very clear that from now on, he who doesn't take the GDC seriously does so at his peril!
beth		And then you walked out the wrong door.
sydney		Are you gonna be throwing that back at me the rest of my life?
beth		That's my current plan, yes.
sydney		That's gonna be Leo Solomon. He said he'd call at nine.
sydney		 Hello?
shepherd		Uh, hi, is this Sydney?
sydney		 Leo?
phone voice		No, this is Andrew Shepherd.
sydney		Andrew Shepherd.  You're hilarious, Richard. You're a regular riot.
shepherd		Uhh...this isn't Richard, it's Andrew Shepherd.
sydney		Oh, really. Well, I'm so glad you called, because I forgot to tell you today what a nice ass you have. I'm also impressed that you were able to get my phone number, considering I don't have a phone. Good night, Richard.
shepherd		 This used to be easier.
sydney		I don't believe this.
beth		You want me to deal with him?
sydney		No way. I may choke in front of Shepherd, but Richard Reynolds I can handle.
sydney		 Hello?
shepherd		Sydney?
sydney		Are you learning-impaired?!
shepherd		Listen, do me a favor. Hang up the phone.
sydney		 What?
shepherd		Hang up the phone. Then dial 456-1414. When you get the White House operator, give her your name and tell her you want to speak to the President.
sydney		 This isn't happening to me.
beth		What's going on?
sydney		 It's not possible I did this twice in one day.
operator		 Good evening, the White House.
operator		 Hello?
sydney		 My name's Sydney Ellen Wade. I'd like to--
shepherd		Hello.
sydney		Mr. President, I'm sure there's an appropriate thing to say at this moment. Probably some formal apology for the nice-ass remark would be in order. I just don't quite know how to word it.
shepherd		It's my fault. I shouldn't have called you at home. Should I call you at the office tomorrow?
sydney		No, sir, of course not. I mean -- yes, you can call me anytime you want -- this is fine. Right now is fine. When I said "of course not," I meat that...You know what? The hell with it -- I'm moving to another country.
shepherd		 What did you mean when you said you don't have a phone.
sydney		I just moved to Washington over the weekend, and my apartment isn't ready yet. This is my sister's apartment. Come to think of it, how did you get this number?
shepherd		 How did I get the number. That's a reasonable question. I don't know. Probably the FBI.
sydney		 The FBI. Sure. 'Cause i-if you want to find someone and you're the president, that's who you would call.
shepherd		You know who else is good at that?
sydney		The C.I.A.?
shepherd		Well, yeah, but I was thinking of the Internal Revenue Service. They have computer files that...Well...I should stop stalling. As I'm sure you know, the French have elected themselves a new president, and we're having a formal state dinner at the White House, and I was wondering -- and you're under no obligation at all -- but I thought it might be fun... I was wondering if you maybe wanted to go...with me, and uh... there it is. That's why I was calling.
shepherd		 Sydney? Sydney, Congress doesn't take this long to--
sydney		The President has asked me to join him in representing our country. I'm honored. I'm equal to the task. And I won't let you down, sir.
shepherd		 Sydney, this is just a dinner. We're not gonna be doing espionage or anything.
sydney		No. Of course. I'm a little...uh...what do I do? I, I mean, where do I go? Should I meet you? Will you...
shepherd		I'm gonna have a very nice woman named Marsha Bridgeport call you. She's the White House Social Director, and she'll help you with anything you want. Now when she calls you and tells you her name is Marsha Bridgeport, it'll help if you give her the benefit of the doubt.
sydney		Of course.
shepherd		I'll see you Thursday night.
sydney		Mr. President, thank you for asking me. Really. This is a first for me.
shepherd		Me too.
kodak		Who's on Indiana?  Excuse me. New people, I can't remember your names. Raise your hand if you're on Indiana.
kodak		 Put your hands down -- you're on Illinois.
lewis		We've got Jarrett.
kodak		What?
lewis		George Jarrett. He's ours. Solid "yes."
kodak		I don't believe it.  We just had his name laminated under "Undecided." How'd you get the fence pole out of his butt?
lewis		I wish I could take credit. He just said, "Lewis, I support the President a hundred percent ." Not the bill, the President.
lewis		We're gonna win this in a walk. It's like a kissing booth at a carnival. Give us a vote, get a photo-op with
lewis		We should have gone after the handguns.
kodak		We gotta do one thing at a time.
lewis		We don't have time to do one thing at a time.
david		 Carol, it's David in Sydney Wade's office. I want to confirm her lunch with the Congressman.
sydney		 We could do with a little party leadership, Mike. Is the Majority Whip takin' a break? Congress is in session, right, I'm not wrong about that?
lisa		I just got off with Luther Simons. Brock's on board.
sydney		Terrific!
david		You're awfully jumpy today. What do you have -- a big date tonight?
rumson		Lloyd, it's a long time till next November. Right now, I'm just looking forward to a pleasant evening.
shepherd		That's a little tight, Luce.
lucy		It's supposed to be tight. It's supposed to make you look regal.
shepherd		Is it supposed to cut off the blood flow to my face?
lucy		All done.
shepherd		Not bad. Where did you learn how to do this?
lucy		Social studies.
shepherd		Very funny.  Really, where did you learn?
lucy		I don't know...I just guess...
shepherd		Sweetie, did Mom teach you how to do this?
lucy		Yeah.
shepherd		 Lucy, is this okay with you? My having dinner with a woman?
lucy		It's totally okay.
shepherd		Are you sure? Because if you want to talk about it...
lucy		Dad, it's cool. Go for it.
shepherd		You know, I'm a little nervous.
lucy		You'll be fine. Just be yourself.
shepherd		Be myself.
lucy		And compliment her shoes.
shepherd		Her shoes?
lucy		Girls like that.
janie		Miss Wade? The President wants you to join him upstairs in the residence. May I show you the way?
sydney		Thank you. I have no idea what I'm doing here.
shepherd		Sydney. Andrew Shepherd. We spoke on the phone.
sydney		Yes, sir. I remember.
sydney		Sure. It's nice to see you again.
esther		 Sydney, the President told me about how you two met. I think it's priceless.
sydney		I don't know what happened. One minute I was calling him a mockery of an environmental leader. The next minute I had a date.
esther		Men like being insulted by women. It makes them feel loved. Don't ask me why.
sydney		Got it.
shepherd		 Mr. President, would allow me to introduce Sydney Ellen Wade of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Sydney, this is President Rene-Jean D'Astier and his wife Monique Danielle D'Astier of France.
sydney		An honor to meet you both.
janie		Mr. President, I'm sorry to interrupt. The receiving line is in place.
shepherd		Sydney, it sounds like our table's ready.
shepherd		Once we hit the bottom of the stairs, I gotta do a thing. You'll be escorted...
sydney		They took me through it.
sydney		 Do you do this often, sir?
shepherd		 This is, actually, only our second State Dinner. The first was for the Emperor of Japan, who died shortly after that, so we stopped having them for a while, just in case.
sydney		I meant do you go out on...do you-- often--do you--
shepherd		Do I date a lot?
sydney		Well, yeah.
shepherd		No. How 'bout you?
sydney		Me? Lately, I seem to be going out on a lot of first dates.
shepherd		Then you're experienced at this.
sydney		Oh yeah, you can ask me anything.
shepherd		How are we doing so far?
sydney		It's hard to say at this point. So far it's just your typical first date stuff.
shepherd		Damn. And I wanted to find a way to be different from the other guys.
shepherd		By the way, nice shoes.
sydney		Mr. President, the President and Mrs. D'Astier look bored. They're not talking to anybody.
shepherd		They're hammered. Esther, do you speak French?
esther		Latin.
shepherd		I thought you spoke French.
esther		No, Latin.
shepherd		Great, next time Julius Caesar comes to town, you're our gal. Sydney, I don't suppose that you speak any--
sydney		 Monsieur le President, nous sommes tous habilles, nous avons ce merveilleux orchestre, une piece magnifique...comment se fait-il que les invites ne dansent pas?
shepherd		 That's my date.
sydney		Really?
shepherd		Sydney, you didn't dissolve the NATO treaty, did you?
sydney		I just said that we're sitting in this beautiful room, listening to the music of this wonderful orchestra, and I wondered why nobody was dancing.
sydney		There's a lesson there, Mr. President.
shepherd		More beheadings at the White House?
shepherd		I'm sure he would, but I have a better idea.
shepherd		 Would you like to dance?
sydney		Uh, yeah, I guess. I mean, yes, sir, I'd love to.
sydney		I don't know how you do it.
shepherd		Arthur Murray. Six lessons.
sydney		That's not what I mean. Two hundred pairs of eyes are focused on you right now, with two questions: "Who's this girl, and why's our president dancing with her?"
shepherd		First of all, the 200 pairs of eyes aren't focused on me. They're focused on you. And the answers are "Sydney Ellen Wade" and "Because she said 'yes.'"
lewis		They make a nice couple.
robin		Lovely.
lewis		We've got troubles.
robin		Huge.
shepherd		Good morning, Mrs. Chapil.
shepherd		Fine. Janie, can you get me the number of a local florist?
janie		I'll take care of it, sir. Where do you want them sent?
shepherd		I want to do it myself. I just need the phone number.
janie		I don't understand.
shepherd		I want the phone number of a florist.
janie		You just want the phone number?
shepherd		Yeah.
janie		 I don't understand, sir, is there--
shepherd		I want to send some flowers, Janie. I want to do it myself. I don't want to staff it out, and I don't want to issue an Executive Order. I just want a phone number.
janie		I'll get it for you right away, sir.
shepherd		Thank you.
robin		Mr. President, we need five minutes before scheduling if you can spare it.
shepherd		 I just need two minutes to make a call and I'll be right with you.
shepherd		 Thank you, Janie.
lewis		Who are we calling, sir?
shepherd		I'm calling the Organization of the United Brotherhood of It's-None-of- Your-Damn-Business, Lewis. I'll be with you in a minute.
lewis		Yes, sir.
shepherd		 Yeah, good morning. How do I get an outside line? Really? That's simple. Thank you.
lewis		Janie?
janie		Yes?
lewis		What's the President doing?
janie		I'm sorry, I'm really not at liberty to say.
shepherd		 Tell me something. What is the state flower of Virginia?
robin		Does this have something to do with Sydney Wade?
janie		I'm really not at liberty to say.
shepherd		 No, I'm not trying to five you a hard time, I was--hold on please.
janie		 Mrs. Chapil. State flower of Virginia.
shepherd		 Janie, the dogwood is a tree, not a flower.
kodak		It's a tree and a flower.
janie		Are you sure?
kodak		Yes. What's going on?
shepherd		 The dogwood is both a tree and a flower. I'd like a dozen, please. Really? No dogwoods? How 'bout roses? Simple. Classic. Two dozen roses.
lewis		Janie, I'm the President senior domestic policy advisor. It's important that I have a full understanding of--
janie		They're in storage in Wisconsin with the rest of your personal items.
shepherd		Ah.  Hello, hello...
sydney		Leo, you wanted to see me?
leo		So there I was, thinking maybe I should give Sydney a call. She's new in town, doesn't know many people...
sydney		Leo--
leo		Then I picked up the Times--
sydney		It was crazy. He called me at home.
leo		What's going on?
sydney		Nothing. It was innocent. His cousin got the flu at the last minute.
leo		Did you sleep with him?
sydney		What?
leo		Did you sleep--
sydney		That's none of your business, Leo.
leo		Yeah, it is, Sydney.
sydney		You wanna tell me how my personal life in any way--
leo		Because when it's the President, it's not personal. Sydney, I hired your reputation. I hired a pit bull, not a prom queen.
sydney		That's unfair.
leo		It's incredibly unfair. But you've spent a lot of time over the year telling me the trouble with the environmental lobby is that we don't understand the fundamental truth that politics is perception. This is a bad time to develop ignorance.
sydney		You're making way too much of this.
leo		Am I? This is your time, Sydney. You're sitting at the grown-ups' table. You have a chance to get everything you want -- run a national campaign, be a major player inside the party. But this relationship had better go all the way, because with the leader of the free world there is no halfway. Politics is perception, and if thing don't work out, the amount of time it'll take you to go from being a hired gun to a cocktail party joke can be clocked with an egg timer.
sydney		Leo, there is no relationship. It was one night. It's done.
leo's secretary		Mr. Solomon, this was just delivered by White House messenger. It's marked "Perishable."
leo		The White House has sent me something perishable?
leo's secretary		It's for Ms. Wade.
leo		Here we go...
sydney		Relax, Leo. I'm sure it's just a formality.
leo's secretary		 It's from him.
leo		Of course it's from him.
sydney		So he had some staff flunky send me a fruit basket.
leo's secretary		He wrote the note himself.
sydney		I'm sure he didn't take the time to--
leo's secretary		The messenger said he was waiting in the Oval Office for ten minutes while the President wrote the card.
sydney		Okay, listen, so he--  --it took him ten minutes to write a card?!
leo's secretary		Apparently he went through several drafts.
leo		What is it...what is it?
sydney		A ham.
leo		 A ham?
sydney		He sent me a Virginia ham.
leo's secretary		Dig it, Ms. Wade. You're the President's girlfriend.
leo		There's never an egg timer around when you need one.
robin		Sir, they're gonna be pressing today about whether the White House is prepared to soften the assault weapons section of the crime bill.
lewis		There is no need to entertain that at this point.
robin		How do you want me to handle the Sydney issue?
shepherd		The Sydney issue?
lewis		We should have a consensus on how the White House is going to handle it.
shepherd		I sure hope the Sydney issue refers in some way to a problem we're having with Australia, because if it's anything else...
janie		Mr. President, Ms. Wade is here to see you.
shepherd		Tell her she can come right in. I'm finished here.
janie		Yes, sir.
shepherd		 There is no Sydney issue.
sydney		 Thanks for seeing me on such short notice.
shepherd		No problem. Did you get the ham?
sydney		I got the ham, yes. Thank you very much.
shepherd		I wanted to send you flowers, but there seem to be some kinks in the system. I'm really glad you stopped by. I had such a good time last night.
sydney		So did I. It's just that...
janie		They're 45 seconds away, sir.
shepherd		I'm delivering a luncheon speech at the Governor's Conference this morning. I'm sorry to--
sydney		No, no, that's fine. I just stopped by to...
shepherd		Are you free for dinner tomorrow night?
sydney		Dinner?
shepherd		Casual. In the Residence. Without the United Nations. My daughter'll be with us, so it may seem like the United--
sydney		I'd love to meet Lucy, but...
shepherd		 Excuse me -- Jeff!
sydney		Actually, I have some concerns that--
jeff		Yes, sir.
shepherd		 I can't do this.
jeff		Which? Robbins or Stackhouse?
shepherd		Either one. I have to be in and out.
jeff		Sir, Governor Stackhouse said he just needed 10 minutes. I think he wants to talk about the assault weapons.
shepherd		Stackhouse wants to talk about grazing rights. Trust me.
jeff		Got it.
shepherd		 Sorry. You have concerns.
sydney		Yes. Not many. A few. One. I have one concern.
shepherd		Does it having anything to do with one of us being the President?
sydney		You like to make jokes about this, but--
shepherd		I am not mocking you, honest. I'm just a guy asking a girl over for a meal.
sydney		What's that?
shepherd		My ride's here.
sydney		Leo Solomon has serious concerns about my exploring a social, you know, scenario, with the President of the United States.
shepherd		Yeah, well, when you put it that way, it doesn't sound that great to me either.
sydney		It's just not--
shepherd		Have dinner with Lucy and me. It's meat loaf night -- how presidential can it be?
shepherd		 Seven-thirty.
lucy		Are you Ms. Wade?
sydney		 Sydney.
lucy		Lucy Shepherd.
sydney		Nice to meet you.
lucy		My dad told me to tell you he's on the phone with his dentist and that I should behave myself and entertain you till he gets here.
sydney		Your father's on the phone with his dentist?
lucy		No. He told me to tell you he's on the phone with his dentist. He wants you to think he's a regular guy.
sydney		Who is he on the phone with?
lucy		The Prime Minister of Israel.
sydney		They're probably not discussing his teeth.
lucy		No. They're talking about that abbreviation I can never remember.
sydney		C-STAD?
lucy		Yeah.
sydney		Capricorn Surface To Air Defense.
lucy		Right.
shepherd		Let meat loaf night begin.
sydney		Everything all right with your teeth?
shepherd		My teeth?
sydney		The dentist.
shepherd		Oh, right. I've got a cavity in my upper bicuspid region.
sydney		You've got a short-range weapons system outside Tel Aviv.
shepherd		 You turned on me.
lucy		Can we eat?
rumson		 Voters aren't interested in how to achieve economic growth, and they don't want to hear our plans to strengthen foreign policy.
rumson		Reporters like him. Networks and newspapers like ratings and circulation. For all the bitching we do about liberal bias in the press when it comes down to a character debate...
carl		Bob, the character debate didn't work out for us.
rumson		Because it couldn't. Our polling told us that attacking his character less than a year after he'd lost his wife was gonna be a turn-off and was gonna make people feel sorry for him. We couldn't run the campaign we wanted because the opponent was a widower.
carl		He's still a widower. Time's passed, but--
rumson		 You'll have to forgive my friend. He's been on a hunting trip and cut off from the world.
carl		What's going on?
rumson		The President's got a girlfriend.
sydney		 Your dad says you're studying the Constitutional Convention.
shepherd		She's not having any fun, though.
lucy		Dad--
sydney		You're not having fun?
lucy		 This is a nightmare. This is a social studies nightmare.
shepherd		They're doing a mock Congress. Each kid is playing one of the original delegates, and they debate the Amendments. Now what's not fun about that?
lucy		G'night, Dad.
shepherd		G'night, sweetheart.
lucy		It was nice meeting you, Mrs.--
sydney		Sydney.
lucy		It was nice meeting you, Sydney.
sydney		Thank you. It was nice meeting you.
shepherd		Sleep well, honey. I love you.
lucy		I love you, too.
sydney		She's wonderful.
shepherd		She's her mother.
sydney		She's you.
shepherd		Would you like the 25-cent tour?
sydney		I thought C-STAD wasn't gonna be operational until January.
shepherd		It was ready ahead of schedule. We've just been waiting for the personnel.
sydney		The Israelis?
shepherd		No, our guys. We've sent a team of Army instructors to train the Israelis.
sydney		It's not the dish--
shepherd		Yeah, it is. It's the room with all the dishes.
sydney		It's the China Room.
shepherd		I'm more of a West Wing President. If you're curious about the mansion, there's probably a book you can get--
sydney		There're about seven-thousand books. I'll get one for you.
shepherd		Sydney.
sydney		Mr. President -- have you ever noticed how similar the Van Buren flatware is to the Buchanan flatware?
shepherd		Do you think there will ever come a time when you can stand in a room with me and not think of me as the President?
sydney		This isn't a state of mind. You are the President. And when I'm in a room with you, oval or any other shape, I'm always gonna be a lobbyist, and you'll always be the President.
shepherd		I got news for you, Sydney. As a lobbyist, you would never be alone in a room with the President.
sydney		You think this is a good idea?
shepherd		Probably not.
shepherd		Excuse me.
sydney		 No...of course.
shepherd		Listen--
sydney		Is anything wrong?
shepherd		I'm sorry, we're going to have to cut our evening short. The Libyans have just bombed C-STAD. I'll try to call you tomorrow.  Can you show Ms. Wade out.
chairman		 ...The F-18's are fired up on the Kimitz and the Kitty Hawk. They're just waiting for your attack order, Mr. President.
shepherd		And we're gonna hit Libyan Intelligence Headquarters?
man		The N.S.A. confirmed they're the ones who planned the bombing.
general		We'll level the building.
shepherd		Libyan I.H.Q's in the middle of downtown Tripoli -- are we gonna hit anything else?
general		Only if we miss.
shepherd		Are we gonna miss?
general		No, sir.
shepherd		How many people work in that building?
chairman		We've been all through--
shepherd		How many people work in the damn building?
deputy		I've got those number here. There are three shifts, so it--
shepherd		The fewest. What shift puts the fewest people in the building? The night shift, right?
deputy		By far. Mostly custodial staff and a few--
shepherd		What time does the night crew go on?
deputy		They're on now, sir.
shepherd		A.J.?
shepherd		Someday somebody's going to have to explain to me the virtue of a proportional response.
chairman		Mr. President?
shepherd		Attack. CUT TO:
lewis		General Rork says around O-Eight Hundred.
robin		Sir, what do you think about a national address?
shepherd		The last thing I want to do is put the Lybians center stage.
kodak		I think it's a great idea, sir. You know Rumson's gonna be talking about your lack of military service.
shepherd		This isn't about Rumson. What I did tonight was not about political gain.
kodak		But it can be, sir. What you did tonight was very presidential.
shepherd		Leon, somewhere in Libyan right now there's a janitor working the night shift at the Libyan Intelligence Headquarters. He's going about his job 'cause he has no idea that in about an hour he's gonna die in a massive explosion. He's just going about his job 'cause he has no idea that an hour ago I gave an order to have him killed. You just saw me do the least presidential thing I do.
kodak		yes, sir.
sally		Is there anything at all about the C-STAD weapons system that could have been mistaken by Libyan Intelligence as offensive rather than defensive?
shepherd		No. We did everything but show them the blueprints. The hardware was sitting in a airplane hangar for a month. They didn't hit it until the
leslie		Sir, there's an unconfirmed report that you were with Sydney Wade when you learned of the attack. Can you comment?
shepherd		Yes, we'd just finished dinner.
robin		Last question.
mark		Sir, would you care to comment on the status of your relationship?
shepherd		We don't have a relationship. We just had dinner.
carol		Can you tell us if she spent the night at the White House or did--
shepherd		Folks, a lot of people got killed last night. Let's try to keep our eyes on the ball, okay?
robin		That was my fault, sir. We should have prepped you for that.
shepherd		There's nothing that needs prepping. A.J., let's meet with the leadership after we meet with the Security Council.
robin		"Newsweek" is begging for ten minutes today. Any ten minutes you got.
shepherd		Nobody gets ten minutes today.
shepherd		Lewis, tell the speaker to wait. I want to talk to him. No, I'll be right down.
rumson		...Last night, the price of his liberal programs was raised to include the blood of 22 American soldiers.
rumson		...Mr. Shepherd's read a lot of books, but you didn't need a Harvard degree to see this comin' a mile down the road.
shepherd		I went to Stanford, you blowhole.
rumson		The fat that our Commander-in-Chief has not served one day in uniform--
beth		Sydney?
sydney		Why did I have to kiss him?
beth		You kissed him?
sydney		Yeah.
beth		You didn't' tell me that.
sydney		I kissed him.
beth		Where?
sydney		On the mouth.
beth		 Where in the White House?!
sydney		In the dish room.
beth		The dish room?
sydney		The China Room.
beth		Then what happened?
sydney		He had to go and attack Libya.
beth		It's always something.
sydney		I've gotta nip this in the bud. This has catastrophe written all over it.
beth		In what language?! Sydney, this man is the leader of the free world. He's brilliant, he's funny, he's handsome, and he's an above-average dancer. Isn't it possible our standards are just a tad high?
beth		 Answer the phone.
sydney		It's him.
beth		Answer the phone.
sydney		He's gonna ask me to come over there.
beth		Answer the phone.
sydney		I don't want to go over there.
beth		Answer the phone.
sydney		I just came over here to tell you why I can't see you anymore.
shepherd		 Thanks, Coop.
sydney		Look, I know you've had a tough day.
shepherd		Not as tough as some. You want a drink? Lemme take your coat.
sydney		Mr. President, this isn't gonna work.
shepherd		Sure it will. You button the top button, and it doesn't fall off the hanger.
sydney		That's not what I...
shepherd		I didn't think so. Listen...
sydney		I've really enjoyed the time we've spent together, but this has catastrophe written all over it. Please, Mr. President, don't pursue me outside the political arena.
shepherd		Well, I have no intention of pursuing you inside the political arena, so that leaves everything out, and that's unacceptable to me.
sydney		If I were on your staff, I would tell you that the absolute worst thing you can do coming into an election year is to open yourself up to character attacks, and the fastest way to do that is to prance around like the playboy of the Western world.
shepherd		Let's clear up a couple of things. Number 1: I seldom prance. Number 2: I have no intention of engaging in a character debate, and Number 3: You're not on my staff.
sydney		Yes, of course, but if you'll follow the immutable--
shepherd		Why is that, by the way?
sydney		Why's that?
shepherd		Why aren't you on my staff?
sydney		You can't afford me.
shepherd		How much do you make?
sydney		More than you do, Mr. President.
shepherd		The name's Andy. How much money do you make?
sydney		What the hell does it matter how much money I--
shepherd		You would raise your voice to the President?
sydney		I'm only thinking about the health of your Presidency. You think this morning's press conference was the end of it? Bob Rumson's gotta be drooling over this.
shepherd		Are you attracted to me?
sydney		I beg your pardon?
shepherd		I asked if--
sydney		 That's not the issue--
shepherd		Well, I tell you what. Let's make it the issue. Let's try something new, 'cause I know that most couples, when they're first getting together, are inclined to slam on the brakes because they're concerned about Bob Rumson's drool.
sydney		You're not most people.
shepherd		You know what your problem is?
sydney		What's my problem?
shepherd		Sex and nervousness.
sydney		Sex and nervousness is my problem.
shepherd		Yes. Last night when we were looking at the different place settings in the dish room, I realized that those place settings were provided by the First Ladies. And I'll bet none of those First Ladies were nervous about having sex with their President husbands. And you know why?
sydney		No, but I'm sure you'll explain it to me.
shepherd		I will. Because they weren't presidents when they met them. Not the case here.
sydney		Ahhhhhh.
shepherd		You see what I'm getting at?
sydney		Yes. May I use your bathroom for a moment?
shepherd		Sure. It's right through there.
sydney		I want to freshen up.
shepherd		As you pass through, you'll see a large closet on your left. And if you feel comfortable, hang up your coat, and when you come back I'll have fixed up a drink, we'll sit on the couch, and I will explain to you my plan.
sydney		You have a plan? Don't make me wait. You're on a roll.
shepherd		 Okay. You're attracted to me, but the idea of physical intimacy is uncomfortable because you only know me as the President. It's not always gonna be that way, and the reason I know that is because there was a moment last night when you were with me and not the President, and I know what a big step that was for you. So, Sydney, I'm in no rush. Here's my plan: We're gonna slow down. When you're comfortable, that's when it'll happen.
shepherd		 Perhaps I didn't properly explain the fundamentals of the "Slow Down" plan.
sydney		You explained it great.
shepherd		 Are you nervous?
sydney		No.
shepherd		Good. My nervousness exists on several levels. Number 1 -- and this is in no particular order -- I haven't done this in a pretty long time. Number 2: Any expectations you might have, due to the fact that I'm, you know...
sydney		The most powerful man in the world?
shepherd		Exactly, thank you. Just so you remember that's a political distinction that comes with the office. I mean, if Eisenhower were here instead of me he'd be dead by now. And number three...
sydney		 Andy...
crowd		Yes!!
rumson		Does New Hampshire want the pride back?
crowd		Yeah!!!!!!!
rumson		My name is Bob Rumson. And I'm running for President.
shepherd		 Yeah...all right.
shepherd		 Sydney?
sydney		Hi.
shepherd		What are you doing?
sydney		I wanted to leave the building before the press corps got here.
shepherd		I have those same thoughts every day of my life. Say, you know Lewis Rothschild, don't you? Well, he's...
sydney		Sure. Boy, Lewis'd go nuts if he knew I'd spent the night.
shepherd		...on his way up.
sydney		What?
shepherd		Come on in, Lewis.
lewis		'Morning, Mr. President. Hi, Sydney.
sydney		Hi, Lewis. Well, Mr. President, thank you for taking the time to go over those fossil fuel numbers. I'll just get my coat, and be on my way.
shepherd		 What's the situation?
lewis		They're camped out at every exit.
sydney		Who? Who's camped out?
lewis		The press.
sydney		The press is camped out?
lewis		You shoulda taken a cab, Sydney.
sydney		They know my car?!
robin		Good morning, Mr. President. Hi, Sydney. I came over as soon as Lewis called.
shepherd		Thank God.
robin		I think the important thing is not to make it look like we're panicking.
shepherd		See, and I think the important thing is actually not to be panicking.
lewis		How do we exit Sydney from the building and what do we say to the press at that point?
robin		We need a diversion.
sydney		A diversion.
robin		You understand that by diversion I'm not saying we set the White House on fire.
shepherd		No, please, let's do.
lewis		Can I state very clearly that I can't be party to anything illegal.
lewis		Say what you want, but it's always the guy in my job that ends up doing eighteen months in Danbury Minimum Security Prison.
shepherd		Rest easy, Lewis. We're not creating a diversion.
robin		No diversion.
shepherd		 We'll have somebody take you home.
lewis		Okay. Good. Now, the press statement.
shepherd		 Sydney, when you leave here, you're gonna run into reporters and photographers. Your picture's gonna be taken every day, and you're gonna be asked questions every day. Answer them, don't answer them -- it's entirely up to you. The White House has no official position except to say "no comment."
robin		No comment?
shepherd		The White House doesn't comment on the President's personal life.
lewis		We can't just leave it at that, sir.
shepherd		I tell you what, Lewis, we just did.
lewis		But, sir...
sydney		Thanks, A.J.
shepherd		I'm sorry about all this. We'll do it better next time.
sydney		I'm no expert, but I thought we did it pretty good this time.
shepherd		No, I mean...
sydney		I know. I had a good time.
shepherd		Me, too. I'll call you. I'll be in Panama, but I'll call you.
sydney		I'd like that.
sydney		 Bye.
shepherd		All right...okay...this is good.
rumson		 I agree a hundred and ten percent, Mrs. Harper. That's why I'm up here in the dead of winter talkin' about it with you folks.
rumson		 That's very generous of you, ma'am, and I'm gonna take that money off your hands right now.
rumson		 What do you got for me, Stu?
stu		Call me Santa Claus, Senator.
stu		 She's got an FBI file.
rumson		Shit, Stu, my mother's got an FBI file.
stu		I've got art.
stu		It's a demonstration outside the Department of Commerce. The picture's old, and a lot of the faces are obscured by the smoke, but this is Sydney right there in front.
rumson		 Oh man...tell me the smoke is coming from what it looks like it's coming from.
stu		Yes, sir -- it's burning flag.
rumson		 "It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas..."
sydney		 I understand, Congressman...Of course you need to deliberate. I know the fact that there isn't any heavy industry in your district doesn't make this decision any easier. But we met three weeks ago, and at the end of that meeting you said that you were leaning our way but that you wanted to sleep on it. Since I haven't heard from you since then, the only conclusion I can reach is that you haven't slept in 21 days.
david		 Ask him about his position on stateboard for Hawaii.
sydney		 Harry, think like a father for a second. Wouldn't you like your kids to be able to take a deep breath when they're 30? Thank you. You're doing the right thing.
sydney		 Tote board's heavy.
david		How's this?
sydney		That's better!
david		Hey, Syd, I saw on your schedule you're gonna meet with McSorley, McCluskey and Shane.
sydney		Yeah, the Motown Three said they'd give me 30 minutes next week.
david		Sydney, these are people who represent people who make cars for a living.
sydney		Yeah.
david		Cars, you understand, run on gasoline.
sydney		Hey, I know it's a long shot, but if I can get one of them, it'll be a huge payoff in visibility.
david		Well, if we're gonna try, we should do some prep work. You wanna order in?
sydney		I can't work tonight. I'm having dinner at the White House. We can start early tomorrow.
david		Okay. I'm having lunch at the Kremlin, so we'll have to, you know, start real early...
sydney		 Good night, David.
david		...in order for me to catch the morning plane to Moscow.
shepherd		 Douglas, does the N.R.A. have videotapes of you playing golf with Satan? We've already softened the assault weapons. We're leaving the SKS, the mini 14, and about 250 other types on the street. I mean, how much pull can one lobby--
shepherd		 Okay.
janie		You're incredibly late.
shepherd		I studied under a Nobel-Prize-Winning economist. You know what he taught me?
shepherd		Yeah. I'm going to St. Louis.
robin		 Sir...
janie		He's incredibly late.
shepherd		 Hop in. We'll talk in the car.
lewis		We've got a small problem.
robin		 It could've been a small problem. It's now at the very least a medium- sized--
lewis		Robin sees it as a problem. I see it as a opportunity.
robin		It could've been an opportunity if we'd caught it...
lewis		We caught it.
robin		At 5:45. Five-forty-five doesn't do me any good, Lewis. Five-forty-five, network news is in makeup.
lewis		You've got 14 people working for you. Did any of them--
shepherd		Guys, do I have to be here for this meeting?
lewis		I'm sorry, sir. It's the evening news. It was buried as the third story--
robin		--It's got a bullet.
lewis		Sydney was at a protest rally where they burned a flag.
shepherd		 Today?
lewis		About 13 years ago.
robin		Outside the Department of Commerce. Anti-apartheid.
shepherd		Let me see if I've got this: The third story on the news tonight was that someone I didn't know 13 years ago, when I wasn't President, participated in a demonstration where no laws were being broken in protest of something that so many people were against it doesn't exist anymore?  Just out of curiosity, what was the fourth story?
lewis		See, I think it's important, when we deal with it, that we--
shepherd		Don't deal with it.
lewis		Excuse me?
shepherd		They're trying to get us to swing at a pitch in the dirt. No one ever wins these fights. It'll go away.
lewis		I'm not sure that's the wisest--
shepherd		Aw...hell!
robin		See, it's already distracting you. Why don't you let A.J. and Lewis--
shepherd		No, you reminded me, I'm supposed to have dinner with Sydney tonight.
sydney		It's terrific, Beth. I love it.
beth		I can't believe I'm loaning you clothes. I thought you owned every piece of clothing there was.
sydney		Work clothes. I always have dinner at the White House wearing a suit. I thought a dress would be nice.
beth		Go ahead, try it on. I brought earrings, too.
sydney		 I'm just trying on dresses. How do you feel about leather?
shepherd		 I feel terrible, but I have to cancel our date tonight.
sydney		Another woman?
shepherd		No, I've gotta go to St. Louis and avert a massive airline strike.
sydney		Boys, if I had a nickel for every time I heard that one.
shepherd		Thanks for understanding. I'll call you tonight
shepherd		Boy, I hate doing that. She was trying on dresses.
lewis		I tell any girl I'm going out with to assume that all plans are soft until she receives confirmation 30 minutes beforehand.
robin		And they find this romantic?
lewis		Well, I say it with a great deal of charm.
shepherd		Look! Look! There it is! Carmen's House of Flowers! We gotta stop.
lewis		What?
shepherd		I gotta get her flowers.
lewis		Here?!
robin		Now?!
shepherd		I broke our date. This is what men do.
robin		It's not what men do. I know no men who do that.
shepherd		Coop, I'm gonna hop out at that flower shop.
agent cooper		You're gonna hop out, sir?
lewis		No, he's not hopping. Sir, no hopping. Stay in the car. I'll get the flowers.
shepherd		Then it's not personal.
lewis		Let the agents do a security sweep. We don't know who's in there.
shepherd		You think there's a florist who's planning an assassination on the off-chance that I'd be stopping by?
lewis		It's possible.
girl		 At the basketball game...
shepherd		Excuse me--
girl		No, at the game. I'm telling you, Kiki wasn't even there.
shepherd		Excuse me--
girl		 I will be right with you.
shepherd		 Hey, I don't know if you're the one I talked to on the phone... Virginia, dogwood, the President ...any of it ring a--
shepherd		Same girl. She remembers me.
agent cooper		She'll be fine.
rumson		 Never mind she's the hired gun of an ultra-liberal political action committee.
rumson		 Never mind that the President takes the Fifth anytime a reporter has the temerity to ask a question about a woman in a position to exert enormous influence over a huge range of issues.
rumson		 Never mind that this woman's idea of how to unwind at the end of a tough day is by getting together with her ACLU pals and setting American flags on fire...
robin		 No reaction from the White House.
sydney		 What do Lewis and Robin think?
shepherd		 Brutus and Cassius? They want me to get into the character debate and mix it up.
sydney		 Lewis and Robin are very smart.
shepherd		 Sydney says you guys are really stupid.
sydney		 I didn't say that!
shepherd		 She's questioning your loyalty.
lewis		Hell, I question it all the time.
shepherd		 Wait a second, here comes my favorite part.
shepherd		 It's a good thing he cleared that up, 'cause the crowd was gettin' ready to buy some AMWAY products.
sydney		 His number are climbing.
shepherd		 Sydney, his number have nowhere to go but up.
sydney		 What about yours?
shepherd		 Say, what're you doing this weekend?
sydney		 I've got some work I was gonna bring home. Why?
shepherd		 The negotiations are going pretty well here. It looks like the nation's going to keep on flying. Lucy's sleeping over at a friend's house Saturday night.
sydney		 What'd you have in mind?
shepherd		 Have you ever been to Camp David?
sydney		 Camp David? Sure. I used to go there all the time, but then they changed chefs and...
shepherd		 It's sass, right? You're sassing me.
sydney		 Yes.
shepherd		 I'll have a car pick you up Saturday morning.
sydney		Do you ever get used to helicopters dropping you off at your front door?
shepherd		How many "e"s in "kaleidoscope"?
sydney		I guess you do.
sydney		Oh good God.
shepherd		What?
sydney		I'm looking at your college transcripts. This isn't human. Nobody gets this many "A's." You were like a Stepford student.
shepherd		Are you still reading that ridiculous biography?
sydney		Actually I finished Andrew Shepherd: Road to the White House. Now I'm onto Shepherd: The Early Years.
shepherd		Seven-trillion-dollar communications system at my disposal, you'd think I'd be able to find out if the Packers won.
sydney		 Oh, Andy...C-minus in Women's Studies?
shepherd		Yeah...that course wasn't about what I thought it was gonna be about.
shepherd		Who cares? Let's see some scores.
michaels		 Wait a minute, Senator--
rumson		 I'm not saying--
michaels		 --'cause that's a heck of an accusation to make, and--
rumson		 I'm not making an acc-- let me be very clear. I'm not making an accusation. I am saying when we hear one thing, we dismiss it. We hear two, we dismiss it. But when several, several well- respected members and former members of the Virginia State House--
michaels		 Can you give us names?
rumson		 --each of their own accord, comes to me and expresses concern over the woman standing next to -- I don't even know, do we call her the First Mistress? When several--
sydney		My God. He's making this up as he goes along.
shepherd		I'm so sorry about this, Sydney.
sydney		Oh, man. My father heard that.
shepherd		You gotta tell him to turn a deaf ear.
sydney		My father doesn't have a deaf ear. He hears fine out of both. So do I. So does my sister, so do my friends. You're the only one who seems to--
shepherd		Sydney, I can't challenge the school bully to a fight just because he picked on my girlfriend.
sydney		I'm not asking you to. I can take care of myself. This isn't about me. How can you keep quiet? How do you have patience for people who claim they love America but clearly can't stand Americans?
shepherd		I have one more election left, Sydney. I don't have the luxury of losing my patience.
sydney		I want to say something, but I'm gonna fumble it a little bit, so I'd just like you to wait till I'm done before you respond. I'm in love with you. I'm certain of it. And I want to be with you more than anything. But maybe things would be better for you if I disappeared for a while.
shepherd		Things will be better when I pass a crime bill. And Sydney, if you disappeared, I'd find you.
shepherd		Is that a fact?
shepherd		If I'm not mistaken, Gill, I think the courts ruled on Title 9 about 20 years ago.
shepherd		Well, it's a world gone mad, Gill.
kodak		The country has mood swings.
lewis		Mood swings? Nineteen post-graduate degrees in mathematics and you explain going from a 63 to a 46 percent approval rating in 5 weeks on mood swings?
kodak		Well, I could explain it better, but I'd need charts and graphs and an easel.
robin		Fellas, we haven't slept in three years. Can't we forget work for one night and take this moment to enjoy each other as friends? It's Christmas.
lewis		 It's Christmas?
kodak		Yeah, you didn't get the memo?
lucy		I honestly don't know.
sydney		Merry Christmas, A.J.
sydney		I got stuck on DePont Circle. I can never remember which lane I'm supposed to take. Then I got cut off by this idiot cab driver who starts screaming at me like it's my fault.
shepherd		Hi, Syd. Get stuck on DuPont Circle again?
sydney		It's not funny. I hate that place. Can't you declare it a Federal Disaster Area or something?
shepherd		I'll look into it.
sydney		Ahhh...I had a terrible meeting today. Totally lost my cool with McSorley, McCluskey and Shane.
shepherd		You went to see the Motown Three?
sydney		I pitched 'em the hill.
shepherd		The woman knows no fear. She'd lobby the Carolinas to the American Lung Association.
sydney		It was a disaster.
sydney		Well, congratulations, fellas, you're outta the cellar. McSorley told me the only thing on the President's domestic agenda they were more committed to defeating than the crime bill was the fossil fuel package.
sydney		No, I'm not kidding. It's funny that he used the same words.
shepherd		I don't think the Pep Boys know too many words.
sydney		I'm gonna get a drink and shake this off. When I come back, I'll have Christmas spirit.
shepherd		 Okay.
sydney		Is something wrong?
shepherd		No, I was...I was thinking about-- nothing.
sydney		I'll be back in a minute.
shepherd		No, the GDC's political director didn't tell us anything. Sydney Wade told her boyfriend and her boyfriend's best friend that she had a lousy day.
shepherd		I made a promise, A.J.
shepherd		I made it with Sydney.
shepherd		Yeah, well, this is all academic anyway. We're not going to need those votes.
lewis		I'm hearing rumors that your boss is wavering on the crime bill.
aide		You can't believe rumors, Lewis, you know this town.
lewis		That's what I wanted to hear.
aide		I'll tell you, though. My boss is starting to waver on the crime bill.
sydney		Congressman Pennybaker, on election day, people give a damn about what I tell them to give a damn about. And that's why I have a job.  Did you want another roll?
david		 She got Pennybaker.
voice		All right! Good job!
lewis		Congressman, it was our understanding that we had your support.
millman		Hey, look, I like your boy. Always have. But for God's sake, kid, does the woman have to spend the night?
sydney		 Katie, 10 years from now any cars with an internal combustion engine is gonna be considered a collector's item. Come on board, we'll make your Volvo a classic.
lewis		Congressman, the assault weapons are gone.
kodak		The bill is priced to move, see.
congressman		The bill isn't the issue, fellas. I'm facing a serious challenge in November, and the President's coattails aren't what they used to be.
kodak		The President's coattail's are gonna have room for you, Congressman, you leave that to us.
aide		We left that to you people, Leon, and the President's in a free-fall.
kodak		I wouldn't say he's in a free--
congressman		I just can't give you my vote.
lewis		The well is drying up. The President's gotta make a move or we're gonna die fast and quiet.
kodak		What if I do a new poll? We give him detailed public opinion.
lewis		And we put Sydney in the new model?
lewis		 A.J., it's meaningless unless we ask him about Sydney.
shepherd		This was delicious. Thank you. Is there any left?
sydney		 Tons. I didn't think you liked it.
shepherd		Are you kidding me, of course I did. But actually it's not for me. The agent who checked the food thought it was delicious, and I sort of told him I'd bring him some if there was any left.
sydney		So you didn't like it.
shepherd		No, I loved it.
sydney		You're lying.
shepherd		No, I'm not.
sydney		You are. I can tell when you're holding something back. You do a thing with your face.
shepherd		When have you seen me do a thing with my face?
sydney		Two days before I met you. You gave a speech for the Daughters of the American Revolution. I was there.
shepherd		You were?
sydney		You remember the speech?
shepherd		Vaguely.
sydney		"American can no longer afford to pretend that they live in a great society."
shepherd		Ah.
sydney		There was supposed to be something else after that, wasn't there?
shepherd		How did you know?
sydney		I told you. The face.
shepherd		Wow...what's the occasion?
sydney		You're looking at a lady who's two votes shy of the promised land.
shepherd		Two votes?
sydney		I got Pennybaker. That got me Cass and Zimmer.
shepherd		 That's great, Sydney. I mean it. That's great work.
sydney		Well, I'm not there yet.
shepherd		Look, no matter what happens, you have every right to be proud of yourself.
sydney		I'll be proud when I see you sign the bill.
shepherd		Yeah, well...
sydney		Andy.
shepherd		Yeah?
sydney		You're doing that thing with your face.
robin		 How're the numbers?
kodak		Bad.
robin		How bad?
kodak		Forty-one. Character across the board.
robin		Who is Lewis on with?
kodak		Jarrett. He's trying to keep his finger in the dam.
lewis		 You're supposed to be a United States Congressman, for the love of Christ.
lewis		 George, it's crunch time. It's personal. This is one of those moments. It's just you and the President. Now that's it gonna be?
lewis		 Hey, George? Can I tell you something? We're gonna win this thing. We're gonna get the votes and we're gonna win. And after we do, I mean that very night, I'm gonna go to Sam & Harry's, I'm gonna order a big steak, and I'm gonna make a list of everybody who tried to fuck us this week.
robin		 Lewis!
lewis		 Vote your conscience, you chicken- shit, lame-ass--
lewis		 We lost Jarrett.
kodak		 I hope so. 'Cause, you know, if that was an "undecided," then we need to work on our people skills.
lewis		 Karen, it's Lewis. Could you hunt down Congressman Quincy for me. I need to talk to him right way.
shepherd		Did he give a reason?
lewis		He thinks your numbers aren't likely to rebound.
kodak		We're three votes down again, sir.
kodak		 Mr. President, as of this morning, Sydney only needed one more vote. The Motown Three have gotta be scared blind. I don't think there'll be a better opportunity.
robin		The press is expecting an announcement on the crime bill by the Sate of the Union.
kodak		If you agree to stick 455 in a drawer until after the elections, they'll give you the three votes.
robin		 And we declare victory, sir.
shepherd		We said as a last resort.
kodak		We're there, sir. The State of the Union is 48 hours away.
shepherd		No. Come on. There's gotta be three votes someplace else.
kodak		There isn't.
shepherd		Bullshit, Leon. There's gotta be somebody we haven't--
kodak		There isn't, sir.
shepherd		Storch.
kodak		I beg your pardon?
shepherd		What about Storch?
kodak		Storch is a "no."
shepherd		Wagner.
kodak		No.
shepherd		Sobel.
kodak		No.
shepherd		Clark.
kodak		No.
shepherd		Not that Clark, the one from Indiana.
kodak		 That one too, sir.
shepherd		She is one vote away, A.J. It's important legislation that for the first time has a legitimate chance. I think she deserves every possible opportunity to--
lewis		She? You meant "it," didn't you, sir? You meant the "important legislation" deserves every opportunity.
shepherd		You got something to say to me?
lewis		Respectfully, sir. I think we should examine the new poll for more than its value as a box score.
shepherd		Examine what? They don't like that I'm going out with Sydney.
lewis		It's not that simple, sir. I think this poll helps bribg a murky problem into specific relief.
shepherd		Whose problem we talking about, Lewis? Yours? You worried about your job? This poll isn't talking about my Presidency. This poll is talking about my life. Two hundred and sixty-four million people have decided--
lewis		Mr. President, two hundred and sixty- four million people don't give a damn about your life. They give a damn about their own.
lewis		Mr. President, you've raised a daughter almost entirely on your own, and she's terrific. What does it say to you that in the last seven weeks, 59 percent of this country has begun to question your family values?
lewis		Oh yes, he does, A.J.  I'm a citizen, this is my president, and in this country it is not only permissible to question our leaders, it is our responsibility. But you already know that, Mr. President, because you have a deeper love of this country than any man I've ever known, and I want to know what it says to you that in the past seven weeks 59 percent of Americans have begun to question your patriotism?
shepherd		Look, if people want to listen to Bob Rumson--
lewis		They don't have a choice! Rob Rumson's the only one doing the talking. People want leadership. And in the absence of genuine leadership, they will listen to anyone who steps up to the microphone. They want leadership, Mr. President. They're so thirsty for it, they'll crawl through the desert toward a mirage, and when they discover there's no water, they'll drink the sand.
shepherd		 Lewis, we've had Presidents who were beloved, who couldn't find a coherent sentence with two hands and a flashlight. People don't drink the sand, 'cause they're thirsty, Lewis. They drink it 'cause they don't know the difference.
shepherd		 Make the deal.
susan		I want to go on the record and apologize for my attitude toward you since your arrival.
sydney		I didn't notice. Was there an attitude?
susan		I think I have a lot of pent-up hostility.
sydney		Well--
susan		I wonder who I can blame it on.
sydney		I'm not really qualified to--
susan		'Cause I've been blaming it on my mother and my ex-husband, and that hasn't been working.
david		 Leo needs to see you.
sydney		Tell him to get over here. It's a party.
david		He needs to see you in his office.
sydney		It can't wait?
david		He just got off the phone with MacInerney. There's been a development.
shepherd		Sounds good.
lucy		It's progressive.
shepherd		I'll say.
lucy		Hey, Dad, what's wrong with Sydney? You guys have a fight?
shepherd		 What do you mean?
lucy		She seemed pretty--
shepherd		You saw her?
lucy		She's here.
shepherd		Where?
lucy		In your room. Why is she mad?
shepherd		Don't worry about it.
lucy		Were you a dork?
shepherd		Practice your music.
lucy		If you were a dork, you should say you're sorry. Girls like that.
shepherd		 Syd?
sydney		Have you seen a gray cableknit sweater?
shepherd		A grey...sweater? No. I called you at the office, but...
sydney		It's Beth's. I wore it here one time, and I didn't want to leave it.
shepherd		Where were you going?
sydney		I'm going home, and then I'm going to Hartford.
shepherd		Connecticut?
sydney		Yes. Do you know if it was sent with your dry cleaning by any--
shepherd		What's in Connecticut?
sydney		Richard Reynolds' campaign. He may be able to get me a job.
shepherd		When did you decide to get a new job?
sydney		Not long after Leo Solomon fired me from my old one. Beth's gonna kill me. She loves that--
shepherd		Why did he fire you?
sydney		Total failure to achieve any of the objectives for which I was hired. I told him he was being unreasonable. After all, I did get to dance with the President and ride in Air Force One a couple of times. But you know those prickly environmentalists. It's always gonna be something with them. If it's not clean air, then it's clean water. Like it isn't good enough that I'm on the cover of People Magazine.
shepherd		I'll call him.
sydney		You'll call him? You mean you'll call him yourself? Personally? It'll come from the President? That's a great idea. I think you should call Leo and make a deal. He hires me back for, say, 72 days. I go around scaring the hell out of Congress, making them think that the President's about to drive through a very damaging and costly bill. They'll believe me, right, 'cause I'm the President's Friday Night Girl. Now I don't know if you can dip into this well twice, especially since I've lost all credibility in politics, but you never know, I might just be able to pull it off again. I might be able to give you just the leverage you need to pass some ground-breaking piece of crime legislation -- like a mandatory three-day waiting period before a five-year-old can buy an Uzi. Fuck the sweater -- she'll have to learn to live with disappointment.
shepherd		What do you think went on here today?
sydney		I know exactly what went on here today. I got screwed. You saw the poll, you needed the crime bill, you couldn't get it on your own, so I got screwed.
sydney		Well then, congratulations. It's only taken you three years to put together crime prevention legislation that has no hope of preventing crime.
shepherd		 Sydney. Please. I don't want to lose you over this.
sydney		Mr. President, you got bigger problems than losing me. You just lost my vote.
shepherd		Richard Reynolds' district office. She's thinking of running his campaign. Four in the corner.
shepherd		 Hartford. The insurance capital of the world. Have a good time, Syd.
shepherd		You handling me, A.J.?
shepherd		Good. 14 in the side.
shepherd		Excuse me.
shepherd		Has he lied?!
shepherd		Has Rumson lied in the last seven weeks?
shepherd		Other than not knowing the difference between Harvard and Stanford, has he said something that isn't true? Am I not a Commander-in-Chief who's never served in the military? Am I not opposed to a Constitutional amendment banning flag burning? Am I not an unmarried father who was sharing a bed with a liberal lobbyist down the hall from my twelve-year-old daughter?
shepherd		I don't think you win elections by telling 59 percent of the people that they are.
shepherd		Don't--
shepherd		Is the view pretty good from the cheap seats, A.J.?
shepherd		It occurs to me that in 25 years I've never seen your name on a ballot. Why have you always been standing a pace behind me?
shepherd		Fuck you.
shepherd		 Have Lewis put the final drafts of the State of the Union and the Crime Bill announcement on my desk in the morning.
shepherd		If Mary hadn't died...would we have won three years ago?
shepherd		If we'd had to go through a character debate three years ago, would we have won?
shepherd		 Yeah.
shepherd		You're not hungry?
lucy		This is oatmeal.
shepherd		Yeah.
lucy		We never have oatmeal.
shepherd		It's good for you.
lucy		I'm from Wisconsin. I need food.
shepherd		You're not from Wisconsin. I'm from Wisconsin. You've lived in Washington your whole life.
shepherd		 How are you doing in your Constitutional debates?
lucy		We're done.
shepherd		You're done?
lucy		We ratified it last week.
shepherd		Oh...well...that's good. Why didn't you tell me?
lucy		It's not a big deal, Dad.
shepherd		Okay, I give up. I don't care why you're not happy in social studies. I care about why you're not talking to me about why you're not happy in social studies.
lucy		Dad, I'm perfectly--
shepherd		You're not perfectly happy. You don't think I know when something's bothering you?
lucy		Damnit, Dad!
shepherd		Hey!
lucy		You know--
shepherd		Talk to me.
lucy		Look--
lucy		 --sometimes when you talk, you say things I disagree with.
shepherd		Almost every time I talk, I say things you disagree with.
lucy		I mean politically.
shepherd		 Politically?
lucy		Yes.
shepherd		 What do you mean?
lucy		Yes. Okay. Yes. Sometimes, I mean, I'm not sure. You know a lot more than I do -- but still, I have these feelings, and I don't think they're wrong. Like, okay, for instance, I'm not so sure it's all right to burn a flag. I mean, it really bothers a lot of people, and I don't know why you think it's okay. I hear Senator Rumson talk, and some of the things he says sounds right to me, and I think, "God, am I like Bob Rumson?! I mean, Dad thinks he's a jerk. Dad hates this guy! Why am I agreeing with him" And then I think, "Well, maybe I'm not really like Bob Rumson, but maybe I'm not like Dad either." But the point is I'm the President's kid, and people pay attention to what I say, and if I say something different from what you say, it'll be embarrassing for you. So I can't just get up in social studies class and say whatever I want.
shepherd		 Stand up please.
shepherd		 I want you to pay very close attention to what happens now.
shepherd		 School is for you, Lucy. You say what you want. The only thing you have to do to make me happy is come home at the end of the day.
shepherd		 One more thing. I don't dislike Senator Rumson because of his political views. And even if you voted for everything he would vote for, that wouldn't make you like him. There's a fundamental difference between you and the Bob Rumsons of the world.
lucy		What's that?
shepherd		The difference is that he says he loves America. Saying you love America is easy. What takes character -- and this is what you have--
shepherd		 Luce, I gotta go.
lucy		Dad, is everything all right?
shepherd		Everything's fine. I'm just a little late for work.
shepherd		Somebody get my daughter some food! The girl's from Wisconsin, for cryin' out loud!
shepherd		Yes, he will. 'Morning.
robin		Good morning, Mr. President.
shepherd		That's all right, you can keep your seats. For the last couple of months, Senator Rumson has suggested that being president of this country was, to a certain extent, about character...
robin		 Lewis...call A.J. and come on down here...I don't know, but something's happening.
shepherd		...and although I have not been willing to engage in his attacks on me, I've been here three years and three days, and I can tell you without hesitation: Being President of this country is entirely about character.
shepherd		 For the record: Yes, I am a card- carrying member of the A.C.L.U. But the more important question is why aren't you, Bob? This is an organization whose sole purpose is to defend the Bill of Rights, so it naturally begs the questions.
shepherd		 Why would a senator, his party's most powerful spokesman and a candidate for president, choose to reject upholding the Constitution? If you can answer that question, then, folks, you're smarter than I am, because I didn't understand it until a couple of minutes ago. Everybody knows American isn't easy. America is advanced citizenship.
shepherd		 You gotta want it bad, 'cause it's gonna put up a fight. It's gonna say, "You want free speech? Let's see you acknowledge a man whose words make your blood boil, who's standing center stage and advocating, at the top of his lungs, that which you would spend a lifetime opposing at the top of yours. You want to claim this land as the land of the free, then the symbol of your country can't just be a flag; the symbol also has to be one of its citizens exercising his right to burn that flag in protest." Show me that, defend that, celebrate that in your classrooms. Then you can stand up and sing about the land of the free. I've known Bob Rumson for years. I've been operating under the assumption that the reason Bob devotes so much time and energy to shouting at the rain was that he simply didn't get it. Well, I was wrong.
shepherd		 Bob's problem isn't that he doesn't get it. Bob's problem is that he can't sell it. Nobody has ever won an election by talking about what I was just talking about.
shepherd		 This is a country made up of people with hard jobs that they're terrified of losing. The roots of freedom are of little or no interest to them at the moment. We are a nation afraid to go out at night. We're a society that has assigned low priority to education and has looked the other way while our public schools have been decimated. We have serious problems to solve, and we need serious men to solve them. And whatever your particular problem is, friend, I promise you, Bob Rumson is not the least bit interested in solving it. He is interested in two things and two things only: Making you afraid of it and telling you who's to blame for it. That, ladies and gentlemen, is how you win elections. You gather a group of middle-aged, middle-class, middle- income voters who remember with longing an easier time, and you talk to them about family and American values and personal character. Then you have an old photo of the President's girlfriend. You scream about patriotism and you tell them she's to blame for their lot in life, you go on television and you call her a whore. Sydney Ellen Wade has done nothing to you, Bob. She has done nothing but put herself through law school, prosecute criminals for five years, represent the interests of public school teachers for two years, and lobby for the safety of our natural resources.
shepherd		 You want a character debate? Fine, but you better stick with me, 'cause Sydney Ellen Wade is way out of your league. I've loved two women in my life. I lost one to cancer, and I lost the other 'cause I was so busy keeping my job I forgot to do my job. Well that ends right now.
shepherd		 Tomorrow morning the White House is sending a bill to Congress for its consideration. It's White House Resolution 455, an energy bill requiring a 20 percent reduction of the emission of fossil fuels over the next ten years. It is by far the most aggressive stride ever taken in the fight to reverse the effects of global warming. The other piece of legislation is the crime bill. As of today it no longer exists. I'm throwing it out. I'm throwing it out and writing a law that makes sense. You cannot address crime prevention without getting rid of assault weapons and handguns. I consider them a threat to national security, and I will go door to door if I have to, but I'm gonna convince Americans that I'm right, and I'm gonna get the guns. We've got serous problems, and we need serious men, and if you want to talk about character, Bob, you'd better come at me with more than a burning flag and a membership card. If you want to talk about character and American values, fine. Just tell me where and when, and I'll show up. This is a time for serious men, Bob, and your fifteen minutes are up. My name's Andrew Shepherd, and I am the President.
robin		Any questions?
lewis		He's got the whole White House Press Corps asking each other how to spell "erudite."
lewis		I know. Gotta rewrite the State of the Union.
lewis		Oh, good. I thought I was gonna be rushed.
shepherd		I don't want the limo. I don't want an escort.
shepherd		 I want a plain, ordinary, non- bullet-proof automobile. Someone around here must have a Chevy I can borrow. Well, find one and meet me outside the West Wing entrance in five minutes.
shepherd		I'm going to her house. I'm gonna stand at her front door till she lets me in. And I'm not leaving till I get her back.
shepherd		I haven't worked that out yet. But I'm sure groveling will be involved.
shepherd		I'm the Commander-in-Chief of the most powerful army in the world. You don't think I can drive ten blocks?
sydney		Just stay away from DuPont Circle. I hear it's murder this time of day.
sydney		Hi, A.J.
sydney		I heard your speech. I was in my car, and it just kind of steered its way over here.
shepherd		I'm glad.
shepherd		 Sydney, I didn't decide to send 455 to the floor to get you back.
sydney		I didn't come back 'cause you decided to send 455 to the floor.
lewis		 Mr. President, I thought you might want to look at this. I moved Social Security up front. Hello, Sydney.
janie		Mr. President, Leventhal at Treasury wants two minutes. Hello, Sydney.
shepherd		 I've got some things to do.
sydney		Yes, you do.
shepherd		I'm having a cuff links crisis.
shepherd		 I think they've locked.
lucy		Hold still.
robin		Mr. President, they're waiting for you.
lucy		All done.
shepherd		Lewis.
lewis		Sir.
shepherd		Things have been a little rough between us lately.
lewis		I know sir, I'm sorry.
shepherd		Don't stop what you're doing.
lewis		That's kind of you, sir, but I realize I've been a little insensitive about some personal...
shepherd		No, you were right. Two hundred and sixty-four million people don't give a damn about my life.
lewis		Just so you know I've never been one of them, Mr. President.
robin		This way, people. Let's go.
shepherd		 See you after.
shepherd		 Whatcha got there, Luce?
lucy		Article 2, Section 3, of the U.S. Constitution. Executive Powers.  "He shall, from time to time, give to the Congress information of the State of the Union, and recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient."
shepherd		Thank you.  I'll see you afterward. I want a critique.
shepherd		 Anyay...
shepherd		 These are for you.
sydney		They're beautiful.
janie		Mr. President?
shepherd		Gotta go.
sydney		Should I stay here?
shepherd		No, walk with me.
sydney		How'd you finally do it?
shepherd		 Do what?
sydney		Manage to give a woman flowers and be President at the same time.
shepherd		Well...it turns out I've got a rose garden.
doorkeeper		Mr. Speaker!!!...THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES!!!
****Dialogues from script :American_Psycho.txt****

price		Jeez. That's not a helluva lot, is it?
bateman		Just...say...no.
courtney		Tell me. Stash...do you think SoHo is becoming to...commercial?
bateman		J&B. Straight.
price		 Jesus. Dorsia? On a Friday night? How'd he swing that?
homeless man		Al.
homeless man		Al.
bateman		There's a quarter. Go buy some gum.
kimball		Just some preliminary questions that I need for my own files, okay?
kimball		You seem...nervous.
bateman		She's from...France.
bateman		I'm looking for...Paul Owen's...place.
****Dialogues from script :American_Shaolin__King_of_Kickboxers_II.txt****

kwan		Luck is no concern, Mrs. Rodriguez. Shaolin warriors depend on heart and soul  that's how they saved the T'ang emporer. He looks again at the door, then claps his hands together, gathering his students around him. KWAN ... er... fortunate to have the best instructors in the world train me. But, there was also time for individual training  where skills were honed like the blade of a sword. Now, it is that time for you.
drew		Practicing. I saw it in this movie... Kwan shakes his head and walks over to Drew, standing in front of him. KWAN
drew		Look, Bob, I'm not bothering you, am I? BOB
chauncy		Very good, sir. TREVOR Don't come here any more, you hear? Over a little more to the left, Sam. The masseur nods and adjusts his technique accordingly. TREVOR  It's hard being me, you know. So much pressure... EXT. COLISEUM  DAY People are streaming into the large building. The marquee out front reads "Diamond Nationals".
drew		Never were?
kwan		No. Drew nods, an idea forming in his head. A slight smile forms on his face. Kwan was expecting him to be angry, he never expected this.
ashema		We are here. DREW STOPS THE BIKE AND LOOKS BACK AT HER. ASHEMA GESTURES TO THE TEMPLE FRONT, AND DREW TURNS IN AWE. EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE  SAME DAY ESTABLISHING SHOT OF THE TEMPLE. This is it  the temple he came halfway around the world to see. The Shaolin Temple, the birthplace of the martial arts. DREW Whoa! Ashema climbs off the back and takes the bike from Drew, marveling at his awe-struck face.
admissions monk		The training is too difficult. Besides, Shaolin policy is no foreigners.
drew		I didn't come all this way, from America, to get turned away. I want in. I want to become a Shaolin monk. ADMISSIONS MONK What people want and what they can have are often not the same. DREW Not in this case. MONK Oh, yes, especially in this case. DREW
cut to:		EXT. SHAOLIN COURTYARD  SAME DAY ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW LANDING ON THE FLAGSTONES OF THE COURTYARD WITH A THUMP!
drew		Hey! What about my...
drew		How long? ASHEMA A long time  through the worst weather. He just sat there, unmoving, through rain, sleet, snow. DREW Did they let him in?
ashema		No.  Of course they did  what kind of story do you think my
drew		At first I was really bored, and very lonely. But then,
ashema		They are disciples. This is the last class for fighting monks at Shaolin. Drew, very concerned, watches as the monks-to-be file through the temple doors. The mothers and fathers of the boys watch proudly as the last ones go through. The temple doors close.
monk		Do you accept the authority of the Shaolin patriarchs? DISCIPLE 1
gao		Shut up!
drew		 Oh, unbelievable, in the same place...
san de		Are they ready to begin their training? DRILL SERGEANT They are. SAN DE
drew		What are you doing, man? MONK
drew		Blow me!
li		Wan an. DISSOLVE TO:
dissolve to:		LATRINE WORK AREA  MONTAGE MONTAGE SEQUENCE OF WORK DETAIL.
drew		 What'd you do that for? D.S. Do a job well or don't do it.
shu		Poor guy. GAO He just wasn't good enough. I wouldn't be surprised if half of us go out the same way. The D.S. appears and motions for them to work. INT. MEDITATION HALL  DAY ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DISCIPLES, DREW IN THE MIDDLE, SITTING IN ROWS IN THE INCENSE-FILLED MEDITATION CHAMBER. The monk in charge of the chamber is talking to them. MEDITATION MONK
drew		So what is this 'night soil' stuff anyway? LI
mu		But we swore to obey them... DREW
drew		We have to stand up for our rights! If they don't even know we're dissatisfied, things will never change. GAO
drew		Master San De! SAN DE
san de		This is an interesting coincidence, as I was just on my way to your sleeping quarters to talk with you all. DREW
monk		In order to keep our bodies strong, Bodhidharma gave us a series of exercises and breathing techniques. Because the times demanded action, we developed Shaolin style wu shu from these exercises. He goes through a couple of martial movements. MONK 
drew		 Excuse me, Master, but there aren't any mats here. D.S. Do they always use mats in America?
monk		Then do it that way... The Monk walks away, shaking his head.
drew		This sure beats sweeping...
san de		Legend states that Bodhidharma gave us tea. Once, while meditating, Bodhidharma fell asleep, a natural reaction we all have to fight against. San De looks pointedly at Drew, who doesn't meet his eyes. SAN DE  From those eyelids grew the first tea bush. You see, even the leaves look like eyelids. San De shows Drew a tea leaf.
wu		And we don't know how to talk to girls... DREW
gao		Yes. But, I am not completely blameless... SAN DE I didn't think you were...  Shake hands and let your emotions go.
drew		Did you say you were going to keep us OUT of trouble? The group pauses for a BEAT, then they all laugh, relaxing. INT. DINNER ROOM  DAY ESTABLISHING SHOT OF GAO CARRYING A PLATE OF CHINESE FOOD OVER TO A TABLE WHERE THE DISCIPLES EATING, THEIR EYES SCANNING THE ROOM FOR SIGNS OF WARNING. Gao sits down and looks around. They are all dressed in their training clothes, dirtied after a full day of training. GAO I can't believe nobody's said anything! It's been a whole day!
gao		Are you staying?
ashema		Are they making you do this? She wants to hear that they are, even if it's not true. She NEEDS to hear it.
drew		No. It is my choice, and my responsibility. I'm sorry... He embraces her for the last time, and she openly begins to cry. He holds her for a moment, then breaks the embrace and with one last long look at Ashema, walks away. EXT. TRAINING AREA  DAY 103 
drew		 Boy, his spirit is strong...
drew		I wonder what you did now... INT. SAN DE CHAMBER  DAY ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW AND SAN DE SITTING ACROSS FROM EACH OTHER. San De has an ornately embroidered golden box in his hand, and he is showing it to Drew. SAN DE
woman		Why not?
drew		I'm a monk. I've taken a vow to abstain... WOMAN
tourist 2		Do they have a gift shop?
tourist 3		Guide! How do you say 'gift shop'? GUIDE
arhat		What is life? What is reality? The head of a dead cat. He walks off, leaving Drew sitting there, dumbstruck by the answer. DREW 
dissolve to:		EXT. ARHAT HUT  NEXT MORNING
arhat		The bus. Drew laughs at the crazy reply and starts for the mountain path that brought him to the hut. The Arhat runs after him, grabs his sleeve
san de		You are now Shaolin. We welcome you into our ranks as fighting monks... A roar rises from the assembled monks, and fireworks go off all around. ANGLE ON REAR OF COURTYARD
san de		Before you leave for American, can you help at an international tournament in Beijing? The Shaolin temple has an entry, and he will be fighting men from all over the world  I'd like you to be there. DREW No problem. 
trevor		Remember last time, punk? DREW Nothing exists but the moment, and... 
****Dialogues from script :American_Sniper.txt****

chris kyle		Fucking hot box.
goat		Dirt over here tastes like dog shit.
chris kyle		I guess you'd know.
chris kyle		 I got a military-aged male, on a cell phone, watching the convoy. Over.
chris kyle		 He stepped off.
chris kyle		 Hold up. I got a woman and a kid, 200 yards out, moving toward the convoy.
chris kyle		Her arms aren't swinging. She's carrying something.
chris kyle		She just pulled a grenade. An RKG Russian grenade. I think she gave it to the kid.
chris kyle		You got eyes on this? Can you confirm?
man's voice		Get back here.
wayne		Don't ever leave your gun in the dirt.
chris		Yes, sir.
wayne		Helluva shot, son. You got a gift. You're gonna make a fine hunter someday.
wayne		Everything dies to give life.
chris		Can it see me?
wayne		It's a deer, son.
wayne kyle		 You shot it, you deal with it.
pastor		We don't see with his eyes so we don't know the glory of his plan. Our lives unfold before us like puzzling reflections in a mirror. But on the day we rise, we will see with clarity and understand the mystery of his ways--  JEFF, his reedy little brother, watches Chris slip the Bible in his pocket. Jeff laughs and gets smacked by--  DEBBIE, their mother. She wears big oval glasses and runs a wayward-boys home with that same steady hand.
wayne kyle		Some people prefer to believe that evil doesn't exist in the world, and if it ever darkened their doorstep they wouldn't know how to protect themselves... those are the sheep.
wayne kyle		Now we're not raising any sheep in this family and I will whoop your ass if you turn into a wolf--
debby		Wayne--
wayne		But we take care of our own. And if someone picks a fight with you or bullies your brother, you have my permission to finish it.
chris		The guy was picking on Jeff.
wayne kyle		That true?
jeff		 Yes sir... Yes, he was...
wayne kyle		 And did you finish it?
wayne		Then you know who you are...
jeff		Wasn't nobody there and you come away with a belt buckle too damn big to wear. What you supposed to do with it?
chris		 You're supposed to get laid with it. I'm gonna wear it in and see if it puts Sarah in the mood.
jeff		A strong wind'd put Sarah in the mood.
chris		Is that what they say?
jeff		You know what they called her in high school--
chris		Don't say it.
jeff		Sarah suck-a--
jeff		Shit man--
chris		Who wants to hump a rodeo star?
chris		What the fuck--
sarah		You said you wasn't coming home until tomorrow.
chris		 Why would you do this?
sarah		Just let him out. He didn't know...
chris		 You didn't know?
sarah		What the fuck is wrong with you! What'd you expect? You drag me out here then run off with your damn brother every weekend!
chris		Get out.
sarah		You think you're a cowboy cause you rodeo? You're no cowboy. You're just a lousy ranch-hand and a shitty fuckin lay!
jeff		Some people ain't worth fighting for.
chris		But she was right...
jeff		 A job is a job. At least we're outside.
chris		Jeff, wake up. Look at this--
chris		Look what they did...
chris		I saw what they did, on our soil, and--
navy recruiter		And you're from Texas and you're a patriot so it pissed you off.
chris		Yes, sir. But I can't see myself on a ship. I'd wanna be in the fight--
navy recruiter		You wanna fight? Meet the warrior elite.
chris kyle		SEALs?
navy recruiter		Sea, Air and Land.
chris		I ain't much of a swimmer--
navy recruiter		 This isn't for the faint of heart. Most men wash-out. They quit--
chris		 I'm not most men, sir. I don't quit.
instructor rolle		 You a quitter, boy?
chris kyle		No, sir!
instructor rolle		Bullshit, you are fleet-meat. Don't turn away. Look up and take it. You're old as fuck. Did you join the Navy cause you had such a good time on Noah's Arc? How old are you?
chris		30, sir.
instructor rolle		30! You fart dust and could've fathered half these boys. You think cause you had a pop-gun back in Texas you're cut out to be a SEAL?
chris		No, sir.
instructor rolle		No, you're not cut out to be one?
instructor rolle		What kind of asshole joins the Navy but hates the water.
chris		I love water, hooyah.
instructor rolle		My ass you do.
instructor rolle		Is that you giggling you fat fuck? Look at you. You're so fat they had to baptize you at Sea World. Your momma fat too?
ryan		No sir, she's not.
instructor rolle		Don't lie to me! I bet we could use her panties as a parachute. What the fuck are you doing here fatboy? Do your feet get wet when you shower? When's the last time you saw your pecker? You're not a Seal, you're a fuckin Walrus. A big giggling Walrus. "Biggles" that's your new name--
instructor rolle		--and that's your ticket home. Just drag your jelly-roll ass up and ring it and you'll be headed home to momma Shamu.
instructor rolle		 Did I ask you to count?
chris		No, sir.
instructor rolle		Was that your ass talking then?
instructor rolle		That's a quitter. If he quits here, he'll quit in battle. When shit gets hairy he can't step up. You get shot, he can't pull you out. We're gonna weed out the quitters and see if we can find a warrior or two.
instructor rolle		Wave goodbye to the sun, boys...
chris		--and when I told her the condom broke she started crying and begging me to do something. And I'm a virgin, I don't know what to do, but I'd heard if you pour Coke up there you won't get pregnant--  So we went to 7-11, got a liter of Coke and drove back into the woods. She took her panties off and did a handstand against a tree but when I start pouring, she starts screaming, "it stings, it stings" but when I'd stop, she'd scream "no don't stop" and it's fizzing out and--
dauber		Country is countrywide, sir.
biggles		Hooyah. I'd toss that critter shitter on a baguette and get my eat on.
squirrel		Nuts crawled up inside. The little shits are gone for good.
chris kyle		Dangerous, sir. Feeling dangerous.  The boys send up a spirited "HOOYAH" and-- TONY looks them over with some small measure of approval.
chris		I'm gonna try and get into sniper school.
biggles		Can you shoot?
chris		I can hunt. And what's cooler than being a sniper?
biggles		Blowing shit up. Blowing shit up is way cooler.
taya		 Will a drink make you 6 inches taller and charming? Will it make you not married?
taya		I watched you take your ring off. Don't be a scumbag. Go home.
chris		It could be the leather pants.
taya		Yeah? What kind of pants does a girl have to wear to be left alone?
chris		Corduroy.
taya		Is that how it is with you guys-- suddenly single after three beers?
chris		Only thing that happens to me after three beers is a fourth.
taya		That's great. A real red-neck.
chris		I'm no redneck, I'm a Texan.
taya		What's the difference?
chris		We ride horses, they ride their cousins.
taya		 What do you do for work? You look like military.
chris		I polish dolphins. They have to be polished in captivity or their skin disintegrates.
taya		Do I look stupid to you?
chris		To be honest, you look a little sad.
chris		So am I tall enough to buy you a drink?
taya		Not until you tell me what you do.
chris		How about this: one shot, one answer.
taya		You're obviously military. What branch?
chris		I'm just finishing BUD/S.
taya		Are you kidding me? You're a SEAL?
chris		That was two questions...
taya		 I know all about you guys. My sister was engaged to a SEAL.
chris		What's that mean you know all about us?
taya		You're a bunch of arrogant, self-centered pricks who think you can lie and do whatever the fuck you want.  I'd never date a SEAL.
chris		 How can you say we're self-centered? I'd lay down my life for my country.
taya		Why?
chris		Cause it's the greatest country on earth and I believe it's worth protecting.  I'm sorry this guy hurt your sister but that's not me. Nice talking to you.
taya		Where are you going?
chris		You said you'd never date a SEAL, so I'm going home.
taya		I said I'd never marry one.
chris		Well in that case... what's your name?
taya		Taya.
chris		Nice to meet you, Taya. I'm Chris Kyle.
taya		 Pretty egotistical of you to think you can protect us all, isn't it Chris?
chris		Our instructors say our biggest enemies are ego, liquor, and women.
taya		Sounds like you're under attack.
taya		--I'm not going home with you so don't even think about it.
po tosh		Feel breath filling every cell of your body. This is our ritual. We master our breath, we master our mind---
po tosh		--pulling the trigger will become an unconscious effort. You will be aware of it but not directing it. And as you exhale, find your natural respiratory pause and the space between heart-beats.
taya		You figured what?
taya		Did you always want to be a soldier?
chris		I wanted to be a cowboy-- but I did that and I felt like I was meant for more.
taya		So you started rescuing girls from bars?
chris		I rescued that bar from you.
chris		Do you like country music?
taya		Only when I'm depressed.
chris		You want kids?
taya		Someday. My mom says I have a nose for picking the wrong men.
chris		That's a shitty thing to tell a girl.
taya		I've proven her right.
chris		But those wrong picks put you here. They made you who you are. And I like who you are.
taya		What happens when there's a real person on the other end of that gun?
chris		 I don't know... I just pray I can do my job if that day comes.
po tosh		Mirage is boiling at 35 degree angle.
chris		Check. I'm dialed for windage.
po tosh		Hold right-four, up-two.
po tosh		Are we looking at the same target?
chris		You're trembling...
taya		I know. I don't...
chris		We don't have to do this...
taya		I want to. I do...
po tosh		You need to shut your off-eye.
chris		If I close my off-eye I can't see what's out there.
chris		Negative. There's something--
po tosh		Give me 50 push-ups. Clear and safe. Push `em out.
chris		There it is.
taya		You hardly even know me.
chris		I know enough. You're a package deal, babe.
chris		What are you afraid of?
taya		Nothing. Everything. I don't know. What if it doesn't work out?
chris		I'm going to marry you, and we're going to start a family.
taya		You got it all planned out, don't you.
chris		I love you. I'm done.
taya		 Oh my god! No! Chris--  Chris bounds up, running into the next room. Taya stands in front of the television. They both watch as--  ON TV NEWS: THE SECOND PLANE hits the World Trade Center.  It steals their breath. Chris hugs her close, trying to shield her from it. His shock bleeds to rage.
taya		 What the hell is on your neck?
chris		Would you believe me if I told you I was painted green and on an IV two hours ago?
taya		What do you--
chris		 Package deal babe.
tony		 It's on boys. Just got the call.
chris		They say it'll be over in 6 weeks.
taya		I'm so afraid.
chris		Don't be afraid. It's all part of the plan.
taya		Your heart is beating out of your chest.
chris		 I'm not the only one going to war.
marc lee		AQI have put a price on your heads and extremists from around the globe are flooding the borders to collect on it.
marc lee		You snipers will be paired with a man to watch your back and inserted along the main road to do "overwatch" for 1st Marines going door to door. Your job is to protect those Marines at all costs.
marc lee		The city was evacuated. Any military-aged male still here, is here to kill you. Let's bring these boys in safe and get our asses back home. Move--
winston		Keep your head down, Tex. The Muj' got snipers too.
chris		A sniper won't aim for your head.
winston		They got this sniper that's been hitting headshots from 500 yards out--
chris		They got sniping in the Olympics now?
winston		 What're we looking for?
chris		You ever hunt?
winston		I ain't that kind of red-neck.
chris		 You just got your first kill, Goat.
chris		I'm going to the roof. You stay here and be on the lookout for farm animals.
chris kyle		 I got a military-aged male, on a cell phone, watching the convoy. Over.
chris kyle		 He stepped off.
chris kyle		Hold up. I got a woman and a kid, moving toward the convoy.
chris kyle		Her arms aren't swinging. She's carrying something.
chris kyle		She just pulled a grenade. An RKG Russian grenade. I think she gave it to the kid.
chris kyle		You got eyes on this? Can you confirm? Over.
goat		You hear that?
chris		Get the fuck off me.
marc lee		That's your overwatch, Einstein. You can thank him later. Keep moving.
marc lee		Smells like piss in here.  You covered our ass out there, man. Appreciate it. Those were ballsy shots.
chris kyle		And they were clean. Right?
marc lee		Hell yeah, they were.
chris		 That sniper walked right up our ass.
marc lee		I chewed out our security detail. It won't happen again.
chris		My shooter statements are on the dresser.
marc lee		Six?
chris		Should be eight. Two got dragged off.  Something wrong?
marc lee		No... but you got more kills than the rest of the snipers combined.
chris		They still got one of our guys.
marc lee		You can't shoot what you can't see.  Marc's eyes land on piss-stained cement where Chris lay; this fucker didn't take his eye off the glass all night.
biggles		Heard you got your dick wet.
chris		Where is everybody?
biggles		We're just picking our dicks here, training those fucking haji soldiers.
chris		Why ain't you out there?
biggles		I got the shits. Marc Lee said you were on fuckin fire out there.
chris		 You still read comic books?
biggles		It's a fuckin graphic novel. Talk to me, man. Did you pop your cherry?
chris		This kid didn't even have hair on his balls and his mom hands him a grenade-- sends him running off to kill Marines.
biggles		 You saw his balls?
chris		It was evil, man. That was hate like I've never seen it before.
biggles		That kid could've taken out ten Marines--
chris		 I know.
biggles		You did your job. End of fuckin story.
chris		It's just not how you imagine the first one going down.
biggles		How about the other ones? What about the other kills?
chris		The other ones-- were righteous. Like God was blowing on my bullets.
jag officer		Our task here is to make sure every kill is a righteous kill and conforms to ROEs.
chris		By every kill, do you mean just our kills or you're monitoring the bad guys too?
chris		Sorry, was that a question?
marine sniper		Haven't seen shit all day. Maybe the war is over and they forgot to tell us.
chris		 I got a armed military-aged male moving tactically with a car battery. Maybe he needs a jump?
jag officer		His wife said he was carrying a Koran.
chris		Well, I don't know what a Koran looks like but I can describe what he was carrying-- it was pressed metal, fired
biggles		Listen up ladies and genitals. The Legend here would like you to know that when it comes to sniping it's better to be lucky than good! Our boy here has a Texas horseshoe crammed so far up his ass that--
chris		That's not how the call-home goes, babe.
chris		There are things we can't say over the phone.
taya		 You knocked me up and now I'm stuck here by myself assembling baby-cribs and you can't talk to me? That's the big plan?
taya		You guys almost done over there yet?
chris		I can't stop thinking about that pink silky thing you wore on our honeymoon...
taya		It's called a nightgown.
chris		Yeah--
taya		And three days is not a honeymoon.
chris		It was a good three days. I miss you bad.
taya		 You want me to talk dirty to you?
chris		Yeah. But I got my gun in one hand and the phone in the other--
taya		Well, you'll just have to decide what's more important.
chris		You're horny preggers.
taya		Fat and horny. It's kinda disgusting.
chris		You could be 300 pounds I'd still do you.
taya		-So romantic.
chris		How's my boy?
taya		Nobody said it's a boy--
chris		I can't wait to see the way you are with him. You're gonna be incredible.
taya		 How do you know?
chris		I just know. I can see it.
taya		I hope you're right.
taya		 Did your dad get hold of you?
chris		I haven't checked any email.
taya		Shit. You need to call him. Hang up and--
chris		What happened?
taya		I'm so selfish. I wasn't even thinking--
chris		Taya.
taya		Your little brother deployed.
chris		What happened to jump school? I thought--
taya		He didn't get in. Just call your dad--
chris		Deployed where? Where's he going?
taya		Over there. He's headed to Iraq.
chris		These Marines rush in like they been doing, they'll get their asses shot off.
marc lee		They're Marines. They don't get the training we do. Half of them were civilians six months ago.
chris		So let's coach them up. I'll show them how Team Guys do it and lead a unit in the street.
marc lee		Can't do. We need you on overwatch.
chris		But if I was down in the street--
marc lee		House-to-house is the deadliest job here. You got some kind of savior complex?
chris		I just wanna get the bad guys. And I can't shoot them if I can't see `em.
marc lee		You got a hot hand. These Marines all know your name now and they think they're invincible with you up there.
chris		They're not--
marc lee		They are if they believe they are. Just keep banging on the long-gun and let these ground-pounders sniff out Zarqawi.
chris		You said that AQI sniper was in the Olympics-- but Iraq hasn't qualified a shooter in the last three games.
goat		Mustafa's not Iraqi. He's from Syria.
chris		 Once you make entry I can't see shit, so keep it slow and push through the target.
chris		Fuck this-- I'm going down to clear houses with the Marines. You coming?
goat		No man. No. I like my life. I wanna make it home. I go fishing and do all kind of cool shit. It's not my job to knock down doors. Those guys picked the wrong fucking job. I ain't doing that shit.
chris		 If I don't see you down there, you make sure I don't see you again.
chris		 You wanna be a sniper? Swap me guns.
chris		I'll roll with you guys if that's cool?
thompson		You're that guy. They're calling you The Legend. You got like 24 confirmed kills.
thompson		That's badass.
sanchez		There's some boy in Bravo catching up.
chris kyle		 Y'all are meateaters for sure but I got a little training I could show you, some simple shit, that might just keep us above ground. What do you say?
sanchez		 -Whas that mean again?
gillespie		Cover and follow.
chris		Down. Down! On the floor, now!
chris		I will fucking shoot you! Down! Get down--
gillespie		He does look a little retarded.
chris		You were ordered to evacuate. Why are you still here?
sanchez		I found these bitches in the back closet.
sanchez		This sand nig' want us in here so he can blow us up. Check his ass for a vest.
chris		Who will know we've spoken?
chris		Bring the other guys in.
chris		Who is he? I need a name.
terp		He calls him - the pure flame of fire- . Basically, this man comes to their house and prey on the weak with hurt.
chris		So he's some kind of enforcer?
chris		 We want Zarqawi. Where do we find Zarqawi?
chris		How do we find him?
terp		He will ask for money.
chris		We don't even have proof this guy exists.
chris		I'm sorry. I want to help you. I do. But I need names, places, phone numbers--
thompson		 Hey, we got a Marine unit pinned down in a house just uprange--
chris		Give me a name, Sheik. Give me something.
thompson		They're out of ammo. If we don't go now--
agent shead		I guess that translates to "pay me" in just about any language, doesn't it?
chris		Yes sir, it does.
marc lee		And you're the secret squirrel with the cash, right?
agent shead		 When you were having tea with Sheik al- Obedie did he tell you he ran a network of highway bandits before AQI moved in?
chris kyle		He left that part out.
agent shead		That's AQI's racket now. Your Sheik got edged out. This could be blowback.
chris		Or he could be upset The Butcher cut off his wife's hand. Either way, seems like you'd wanna explore it.
agent shead		This is your guy here.  We believe The Butcher is Zarqawi's number two man.
chris		But you don't know his real name or you'd have it written up there.
agent shead		We have several aliases--  If "Fanus" is legit we go see the Sheik.
agent shead		If he delivers the Butcher he'll get it.  This is Agent Shead, DIA, I need a name check on "Amir Khalaf Fanus." I'll wait.
chris		If we're going back out, TEAM 3 could pull security--
agent shead		If we're humping money the head-shed will want contractors on it.  I'm here. What do you got?
contractor		Road-kill.
agent shead		The Butcher is Zarqawi's enforcer. They say his weapon of choice is a drill.
marc lee		I went to seminary school before I joined the Navy. Came close to being a preacher.
chris		Why didn't you?
marc lee		I love to gamble, man. Love those dice.
chris		My kind of preacher.
marc lee		It's like that now, huh?
chris kyle		You haven't heard? I'm The Legend.  Hey babe--
chris kyle		It's a boy!
marc lee		Hell yeah. Congratu--
taya		Chris!--
marc lee		I heard one shot.
chris kyle		Check. Large caliber. Came in at an angle, gotta be 300 or more out--
marc lee		 He's all over us. You get a bead?
chris kyle		Negative--
chris		Minaret, 11 o'clock!
agent shead		 There's no room. We'll come back for you--
chris		You got eyes on that?
marc lee		Negative.
chris		Eyes on The Butcher. He's got that Sheikh's kid in the street--
chris		Fuck!--
marc lee		 --requesting back-up. We're pinned down taking sniper fire on approach of high-
marc lee		We're on the wrong end of this.
chris		I'm gonna pop smoke for cover but don't move till I say.
chris		Hold.
marc lee		We gotta go--
chris		Holding! Hold...
chris		Move now. Go--
marc lee		How you know he'd wait--
chris		Cause I'd wait.  In the smoky haze, A SAT PHONE in the dirt--
taya		 Chris--
chris		Go around. I'll go high.
the butcher		 You talk to them, you die with them.
chris kyle		He had line-of-sight 500 meters out.
biggles		Colonel Gronski is all over Marc, bro.
chris		We need to work up a squad to pursue him.
marc lee		They're shutting us down.
chris		What do you mean?
marc lee		We're confined to base pending an incident review.
chris		Can he do that? Just shelf us like that? I ship home in three weeks.
biggles		It's gonna be a long three weeks.
taya		I thought you were dead. I thought--
chris		Shh. I'm know. I'm so sorry.
chris		You're the most beautiful thing I've ever seen.
taya		I have an alien growing inside me--
taya		And there's a strange man in my bedroom.
chris		Our bedroom.
taya		 Why isn't it on your finger?
chris		If it catches the light...
taya		Your hands feel different.
chris		They're mine. I swear...
taya		Why am I so fucking nervous?
chris		 I'm nervous too.
taya		No you're not. Don't lie.
chris		I am... What if that little alien reaches out and grabs me?
taya		Why are you so good with me.  Her face opens in ecstasy.
chris		 Huh?--
taya		What do you want to do today, hon'?
chris		Maybe we just relax here?
taya		Okay, we do that. Let's relax.
doctor hoffstader		How you feeling?
taya		I'm done being pregnant. I want to meet him.
doctor hoffstader		It'll be any day now.
doctor hoffstader		How about you Mr. Kyle? How're you feeling?
chris kyle		Good. Doing good.
doctor hoffstader		I imagine you're still decompressing.
chris		Not really.
taya		Well, this is the first time we left the house.
chris		I'm just happy to be home.
doctor hoffstader		Here, slip this on for me.
chris		If you wanna help, you should be looking at my knees. I don't know what I did but--
doctor hoffstader		Are you a smoker?
chris		No, ma'am.
doctor hoffstader		Do you drink?
chris		 Only when I'm thirsty.
taya		 Jesus Christ Chris...
chris		Is that high?
doctor hoffstader		Not if you just had 14 cups of coffee. But for someone who is sitting down--
chris		I'll look into it. Thanks doc.
chris		You sabotaged me back there.
taya		What am I supposed to do. You're not talking. You act like it's all okay--
chris		It is okay. I'm fine.
taya		You're not fine. Your blood pressure--
chris		Babe, I'm driving down the freeway, it's sunny and 72 degrees. I'm fine. But there are people dying over there and I look around and it's like it's not even happening. It's barely on the news, no one talks about it. No one cares. And if I stay too long I'll forget about it too.
taya		Chris--
chris		We're at war and I'm headed to the mall.
chris		I don't belong here. I can't help anybody-
taya		--it's happening--
chris		Oh shit--
taya		What're you doing!
chris		I'm going back.
taya		 --oh my god, you're crazy! You're fucking crazy you know that?
chris		My little man...
chris		Look at our boy. Look what we did.  I love you, baby. We made it--
taya		Don't bother turning it off, I already watched it.
taya		I had to make sure you didn't have an Iraqi girlfriend sending sexy videos.
chris		This sniper is recording his kills. Mustafa. They sell these in the street.
taya		That day we were on the phone--
taya		You're not protecting me by not talking about it.
chris		I don't want you thinking about it. I don't need you worrying.
taya		My imagination is so much worse than anything you could tell me--
chris		 No, it's not. They're savages.
taya		Chris--
chris		They're fuckin savages.
taya		It's not about them, it's about us.  You have to make it back to us.  Her eyes trail off him as she steps into the kitchen.  Chris holds his son, taken with his ruddy innocence. Then the BEDOUIN MUSIC swells, his arms tighten around his son, and his eyes are drawn back to Mustafa.  "SECOND TOUR"
chris kyle		Slower than Christmas.
chris		Can you give me a second--?
chris kyle		Hey, grunt--
jeff		Chris?
chris kyle		Y'alright? You in one piece?
marine lcpl		Let's go, PFC Kyle. Move your ass.
chris		You okay? Jeff?--
jeff		I heard you're kickin ass our here. All the guys, that's what they say--
jeff		You're my hero, bro. Always have been.
jeff		 The Legend...
jeff		 I'm gonna miss my ride.
chris kyle		What happened?
jeff		I'm just tired, man. I'm--  I'm going home.
chris		I'm proud of you. You hear me?
chris		Dad too. He's proud of you.
jeff		Fuck this place--
chris		 What?
jeff		Fuck this place.
chris kyle		Thank you, sir.
chris kyle		Don't tell my wife, she might take that number right about now.
chris kyle		Yes, sir.  COL. JONES We plugged the rat-hole that is Fallujah and flushed them into Ramadi. We got some intel indicating his area of operations.  As they cross the Euphrates the SLUMS OF RAMADI are laid out before them like a blanket of chaos.  COL. JONES I want you to put the fear of God in these savages, and find his ass.
chris		You guys know how I hate this shit so shut your traps. Our target is Amir Khalaf Fanus aka The Butcher.  We'll be heading in under cover of darkness, sector P13, north of the river--
biggles		You give good power-point, Legend.
marc lee		Is this thing bulletproof?  You never open it so I assumed...
chris kyle		God, country, family, right?
marc lee		You got a God?
chris kyle		You getting weird on me?
marc lee		We had this electric fence around our property in Oregon and us kids used to see who could grab it and hang on the longest. War feels like that, it puts lightning in your bones, makes it hard to hold on to anything else.
chris kyle		You need to sit this one out?
marc lee		I just wanna believe in what we're doing--
chris kyle		Evil lives here, we've seen it.
marc lee		It lives everywhere--
chris kyle		You want to invite these motherfuckers to come fight in San Diego? Or New York? We're protecting more than this dirt.
marc lee		Hooyah then. Lets go kill this fucker.
tony		 This building, any apartment on the east side, will look down Fahima Halal.
chris		 Breacher-up.
chris		Tell em they won't be leaving till we do--  Ask if they seen him.
biggles		 --Private eyes, we're watching you, watching your every move...
marc lee		Big freezers.
chris		Let's keep eyes on it get pictures of anyone coming and going.
biggles		Fucking Chief Nappy-nap.  A challenging smile. Chris flips him off.  "D" Got some nice rugs up in here.  This shit is hand-knotted. Beautiful.  Surveillance rolling, Chris closes his eyes.
chris		What do we got?
marc lee		16 military aged males have gone in.
chris		Sixteen?
biggles		They serve more customers than McDonalds.
marc lee		And check this.
chris		He still inside?
marc lee		I'm only clocking one point of entry. He's in there, but it's no easy breach.
biggles		When they see it's The Legend they'll probably just invite him in--
chris		You got a problem? I didn't promote myself.
biggles		No, I did it for you. You'd never have made Chief if I nicknamed you "The Myth".
tony		Enough. It's everybody's Navy.
biggles		--naw, it's Legend's Navy now. Just hope he leaves some for the rest of us.
chris		Hash out tactics. We go at zero-dark. And Big Giggles is making the coffee.
terp		 He invites you to join him for Eid al- Adha supper. He says -on this day everyone has a seat at my table-.
chris		Tell him that's very generous of him.
chris		Tell him he's gonna be shipped off for detention and the Iraqi courts can decide what to do with him-- or he can help us get inside that restaurant down there.
marc lee		That's a bad move--
biggles		He's our breech. He's a fucking way in--
marc lee		If something happens--
biggles		He's AQI man, look what he's holding.
chris		It's his choice. Tell him.
chris		 We have eyes on the target. Flushing them out the back--
biggles		 Negative. Nothing yet.
chris		 Help him--
chris		 They're coming back up! Watch your six--
biggles		--I can't hear you. Say again.
chris kyle		Move.
dauber		Biggles! Watch your six. Roadies on you--
chris		Pull back! Loading--
biggles		Got you.
biggles		RPG!
chris		Contact. Eyes on The Butcher. 12 o'clock.
chris		 Dauber? You got visual? Confirm.
dauber		Negative. No shot--
chris		He's on the move. Crossing!
biggles		Got you. Got you. Go, go, go--
chris		 I offered his father detention. I gave him a choice--
pfc alvarez		Sir, we have armed insurgents moving this way. We need to make tracks.
chris kyle		Tell him this boy's father was fighting for the people that butchered the clerics we found in the freezer in there.
terp		- This is our territory. If you want to come here, you ask me. If you want to find someone, I find them-
chris kyle		 If I ask for your help you're the one they carve up next. I've seen it happen.
terp		-I am the seventh son of Isaac of Abraham. This is the land of my father, and I am not afraid.- He says your evil is greater than those you fight. He calls you white satan, devil of Ramadi.
chris kyle		You tell him to deliver The Butcher to us, or the devil comes back.
chris		Hey, some help here-- She's crying--
colton		But I want that one--
chris		 You don't get to choose, bubba.
colton		But I don't like it! I want that one--
chris		You get what it gives you. That's how this thing works.
chris		Don't do this. Get up. Come on--
chris		 Get off the floor. Right now--
young man		Are you... "Chief" Chris Kyle?
chris		That's me.
young man		Sorry to intrude, sir, but we met in Fallujah. You saved my life.
chris		Did I--?
chris		 Yeah. Right. Well, you Marines saved our ass plenty out there. How you holding up?
mads		It cost lots of guys more than a leg.
chris		Did you lose some friends?
mads		That too, but I'm talking about guys that lived. They made it back but they're just not back. They can't seem to get right.
chris		Yeah, I-- I'm sorry to hear that.
mads		You should come down to the VA sometime. The guys would love it. They all know who The Legend is.
mads		I bet you missed your daddy when he was gone. But can I tell you something? Your dad is a hero. He saved my life--  He helped me get home to my little girl.
mads		So thank you for loaning him to us, li'l man. I wouldn't be here without him.
mads		My family thanks you for your service.
taya		I'm making memories by myself. I have no one to share them with.
chris		We have the rest of our lives for that.
taya		When does that start? Even when you're here you're not here.
taya		I hate the teams for it. I do. You're my husband and the father of my children-- but they're the ones that pull you back.
chris		 We can wait. They can't.
taya		You can only circle the flame so long.
biggles		 --we are tailing the Butcher's courier, turning onto Maryland Street. Over.
biggles		I bought the ring.
chris		Here?
biggles		They're cheaper here.
chris		You want some savage's ring? What if it's a blood diamond?
biggles		What the fuck do you care? You spilled more blood than anyone!
chris		Not for a rock.
biggles		Whatever, man.
chris		Ease off, don't get too close.  You gonna tell her where it came from?
biggles		Hell no! I'll tell her I got from Zales.
marc lee		20 years from now, we'll have a reunion and you'll be married to a dude.
chris		The Butcher has his peepers out.
biggles		This motherfucker is Keyser Sze. Next time you got a shot try not to miss.
chris		I coulda taken him in that alley if I didn't have to save your ass--
biggles		 Whatever helps you sleep at night.
biggles		You gonna be my best man?
chris		 Is it just me? Or other guys too?
biggles		You fucking egomaniac--
biggles		Rooftop, twelve-o'clock--  SIX INSURGENTS pop up on a rooftop, firing. Chris leans into the .60 spitting lead in pneumatic bursts.
chris		Get me a shot, grandma.
biggles		That should do it.
chris		What the fuck!? How'd he survive--
biggles		Rubber junk-man's got your horseshoe.
biggles		Clear.
chris		 We're headed to the roof. Secure the van.
marc lee		No ammo, no jihad.
biggles		How the hell'd he make that?
chris		He didn't--
biggles		So much for leading us to the Butcher.
chris		So much for him having my horseshoe.
chris		She'll take it to Zales and try to find out how much your spent.
biggles		She's not like that.
chris		They're all like that.
biggles		It's giant, bro. Four karats. It had to belong to one of Saddam's bitches--
chris		No!--
chris		 No, buddy. No! Stay with me--
chris		 Cover! I need cover. He's picking us off.
biggles		 I'm got it. I got it-- I can walk--
biggles		 --I'm sorry--
chris		You got nothing to be sorry for. I shouldn't have had us up there--
biggles		Am I gonna die?
dauber		We'll rub a little dirt in it, get you a sip of water, you'll be fine.
biggles		--it was always gonna be me--
chris		Coulda been any of us. Just hang on--
biggles		Not you. Not the Legend. You lucky fuck--
chris		Don't die, Ryan. You hold on--
chris		He was 1000 meters out. Only one enemy sniper makes that shot.
dauber		Doesn't look good, Master Chief.
marc lee		Lex talionis...  Eye for eye, tooth for tooth.
chris		We're going back.
marc lee		Two clicks out. Lock and load.
chris		For Biggles.
marc lee		Courtyard is clear. Moving.
chris		Some stronghold. Move.
marc lee		Clear.
marc lee		Somebody left in a hurry.
chris		 You sure we got the right address--
marc lee		Contact--
chris		Marc--
taya		Marc wrote that letter two weeks ago. Did he say any of that to you?
taya		Chris? I want to know what you thought of his letter...
chris		 An AQI informant called in a tip. Biggles had just been shot. We were operating off emotion and-- we walked into an ambush.
chris		But that's not what killed him. That letter did. That letter killed Marc.  He let go and he paid the price for it.
chris		If something ever happened to me-- you'd meet someone else. You'd be alright.
taya		Do you want to die? Is that what it is?
chris		No.
taya		 Then tell me why do you do it. I want to understand.
chris		I do it for you. To protect you.
taya		No you don't. I'm here. Your family is here. Your children have no father--
chris		Without this, there's nothing.
taya		Bullshit. It's not about us anymore. You don't know when to quit. It's over-  You did your part! We sacrificed enough. Let somebody else go--
chris		I could never live with myself.
taya		You find a way! You have to. I need you to be human again. I need you here.  If you leave again, we might not be here when you get back.
chris		I know.  Her eyes sink into a well of ruin.
chris		 Hey, buddy--
biggles		Chris? Where are you?
chris		I'm right here just give me a minute--  Just blind as a bat, huh?
biggles		Yeah... It fucking blows. They're gonna fix my face though.
chris		That's good. Your face always needed a little fixing.
chris		I heard you proposed? Did you tell Kelly the diamond was from Zales?
biggles		Naw, I bought a new one. A small one. Her dad helped me out.
chris		Nice.
biggles		She wouldn't leave me, bro. I told her to go-- but she wouldn't leave. 
chris		No she's not. How can you say that? She's getting you.  All four inches.
biggles		I'm glad this happened to me and not you. No way you could've handled it.
chris		You're probably right.
biggles		They say you're the deadliest sniper in U.S. Military history.
chris		Is that what they say?
chris		The bad guys fled up into to Sadr City.
biggles		You're not going back?
chris		We're gonna wall `em in and hunt `em down.
biggles		You don't have to do this.
chris		Yes I do. You're my brother and they're going to pay for what they did to you.
biggles		Hooyah, Legend. Hooyah--
chris kyle		You have to ask the Navy. I lost count.
chris		Any other Punishers here?
chris		 Teams and shit.
chris		I know. I visited him before I left. That fucker can't see shit.
chris message		I love you too.
chris		Is it Mustafa?
ranger one		Moo-who?
delta sniper		In the middle of a fucking sandstorm?
chris		What was that--
gate guard		Step away from the car!
tribal leader		 Tell the devil we found his Butcher. We will protect ourselves now.
chris		No--  It came from behind us. We went the wrong way. He's south of the wall.
chris		For Biggles.
chris kyle		Tango down.
ranger one		You just fucked us, Legend--  We need Stryker and QRF units, ASAP.
chris kyle		He was on our boys and I took him out.
ranger one		We are fucked like a football bat.
chris		There are two ways onto the roof. We cover both stairways and conserve ammo.
chris		Conserve--
ranger one		 Negative, negative, danger-close, they're all over us--
ranger one		 QRF is stuck three blocks out.
marine gunner		I'm out of ammo--
ranger one		I don't wanna get dragged in the street--
chris		Do it. Call in our coordinates.
ranger one		 I know my fucking position! They're right on top of us. Drop it!
marine sniper		White-side!
pilot		3-4, copy that. 30 seconds out.
chris		--you got four rounds.
taya		Hello?
chris		 Hey baby--
taya		Chris-- What's the noise?
taya		I can't hear you--
chris		I'm ready to come home. I'm ready...
taya		What's happening--
chris		--I'm coming home. Can you hear me?
taya		Chris--
chris		Go, go, let's move--
chris		 Stryker-3, what's your location--
chris		Hold there! We are 30 seconds out--  Go. Straight ahead. Go--
gunner		BDUs-- That's them! Drop the ramp.
driver		I don't see him--
chris		 --hello?
chris		 Yeah, I got out early.
chris		I'm here, I'm stateside.
chris		 I guess I just needed a minute.
chris		Yeah, I know... Me too. I'm coming.
chris		Yeah. I'm good.
chris		Okay.
taya		Chris...?
taya		--his game is Saturdays. He's the tallest kid on the team. The doctor said he could be six-four. I can't wait for you to see him play. Maybe you could even coach?
taya		McKenna's about to lose that tooth and I'm worried she's going to swallow it. She said she'd let you pull it. But only you.
boy's mom		Get him off! Get away--
doctor		Maybe you saw things, or did some things over there that you wish you hadn't--
chris		That's not me.
doctor		What's not you?
chris		I was just protecting my guys. They were trying to kill our soldiers and-- I'm willing to stand before my creator and answer for every shot I took.  The thing that haunts me are all the guys I couldn't save.
navy doctor		You want to save more guys, walk down any hall in this hospital. We got plenty soldiers that need saving.  I'm going to recommend Zoloft and--
chris		How's it feel?
wynn		Feels like The Legend is trying to fuck up my shot. Stay still, man.
wynn		Bulls-eye, boy! Damn, if that don't feel like I got my balls back.
wynn		Why you spend all this time with us? I know you got a family.
chris		I heard you had a nice boot collection before the war and--
wynn		 Seriously man. Why do you do it.
chris		We gotta take care of our own.
chris		Get `em up, lil' lady. Hands in the air.
taya		Can I tell you something.
chris		Tell it to the judge.
taya		I'm proud of you and I don't say it enough. I feel blessed. You're an incredible father and-- I feel lucky to have my husband back.
chris		We could lock the doors. They can't get out of the yard.
taya		I know how hard you fought to get here.
chris		You're worth fighting for.
taya		Did you pleat those jeans?
chris		Yes, ma'am. Right up the middle.
taya		Well, you're just a regular old cowboy again, aren't you?
chris		I meant what I said about locking the doors.
taya		Aren't you and Chad going to the range?
chris		 Not for four minutes.
taya		Is that all it takes.
chris		It'll take half that. Then I got two minutes leftover just to look at you.
taya		Who are you taking out?
chris		This Marine. His mom does parking at school and she asked for my help.
taya		Well don't be late for dinner.
colton		Dad, you want to play Skylander? Please--
chris		I gotta go do something but when I get back, okay? But you have to let me win.
colton		No way.
mckenna		Poke the bear--
mckenna		No. You're supposed to roar. Like Grrr.
chris		I should get going...
chris		Look after our women, Bubba.  Love you, babe.
taya		Love you too.
****Dialogues from script :American_Splendor.txt****

harvey		 Joyce... Joyce?
joyce		What's wrong, Harvey? What are you doing up?
joyce		What is it?
harvey		 Tell me the truth. Am I some guy who writes about himself in a comic book? Or am I just -- am I just a character in that book?
joyce		Harvey...
harvey		If I die, will 'dat character keep goin'? Or will he just fade away...
joyce		Omigod, Harvey! Harvey, wake up!
boys		 Trick or treat!!
housewife		Well, look at this! All the superheroes on the porch! Ain't that cute.
housewife		 We got Superman here, Batman, his sidekick ROBIN, ohh, The Green Lantern even...
housewife		And what about you young man?
kid		What about what?
housewife		Who are you supposed to be?
kid		I'm Harvey Pekar .
housewife		Harvey Pekar? That doesn't sound like a super hero to me...
boys		 Pecker, Pecker...
kid		I ain't no super hero, lady. I'm just a kid from the neighborhood, alright?
kid		Ahh, forget this...
kid		Why is everybody so stoopid?
harvey		Doc, you gotta help me. My old lady's dumping me 'cause I can't talk. She says I'm a social embarrassment. Now that she's got her PhD, she's some hot shit academic star an' I'm nuthin' but a file clerk with nothin' ta say an' no voice ta say it. But me bein' a file clerk was fine when I wrote the damn check for her tuition --
harvey		I just don't get it... We were doin' okay for a while. Then we took that stupid belated honeymoon. I started losin' my voice on the plane. Can you believe that... On the plane, doc?
harvey		"Ahhh."  "Ahhh" ruined the trip. I got crazy, started to worry my voice would never come back. I mean, my wife didn't know me so long before we got hitched. What if she totally forgets what I'm like? Man, it's torture --
harvey		 What? Is it bad, doc?
harvey		It's cancer? First I got marital problems and now yer tellin' me I got throat cancer? Omigod...
harvey		Whew... Okay, okay. But fer how long?
harvey		 Months!!
toby		Hi Harvey. You weren't in work today. Are you okay, Harvey?
toby		 I'm heading downtown to the White Castle. Wanna come, Harvey?
harvey		 Look at 'em yakkin'. How do they do it?
harvey		 They all make it seem so easy.
harvey		 Ay... What is this?
lana		Exactly what it looks like.
harvey		 Ah, shit!
lana		Look, your plebeian lifestyle isn't working for me anymore. Cleveland's not working for me anymore. I gotta get out of here before I kill myself.
harvey		But --
harvey		 Please! Wait, honey... Just listen to what I got to say...
nurse		Thank you, Harvey dear.
harvey		 Plebeian... where the hell did she get that shit?
harvey		Huh? Oh. Hiya, Mr. Boats.
boats		You know what that means, son?
harvey		Yeah. It's from an Elinor Hoyt Wylie poem. It means stay away from the crowds of common ordinary people an' do yer own thing.
boats		Nope, it means don't compromise yourself for women. Ain't gonna do you no good! Get away from 'em as soon as you can!
harvey		Well I ain't got no woman now. So I'm living like the stoic bird, man.
harvey		Huh? That's an A.M.-F.M. radio he's listening to... They got 'em fixed up now like a pair of earmuffs.
harvey		Well, I don't know. Rock music's got some good qualities. I mean it ain't jazz or nothin'.
harvey		I don't got any of that, Mr. Boats...
marty		C'mon, Harv. You dig Jay McShann. You gonna buy that or what?
harvey		I don't know, Marty. It's got a lamination crack in it...  A quarter. Maybe I can get him down.
marty		You are one cheap bastard Harvey.
harvey		Yeah, I know I'm tight, man, but I live on a government wage.
crumb		You collect Jay McShann, man?
harvey		Yeah, man. How 'bout you?
crumb		Yeah but most of my records are back in Philly.
pahls		Harv, meet my buddy Bob Crumb. He just moved to town. He's an artist at American Greeting Card Company.
harvey		That's cool.
pahls		You should see his comics, Harv. They are outta sight.
harvey		 Yeah? I'm into comics myself.
harvey		It's terrific, man! I really dig your work.
crumb		 This PETER WHEAT book is by Walt Kelly... It's pretty rare.
harvey		Yeah? Can I get good bread for it?
crumb		Nah! Not yet.
harvey		Listen man, let's get back to your book. What are you gonna do with it?
crumb		 I hadn't thought about it. It's just an exercise.
harvey		It's more than an exercise. It's breaking ground, man. There's some wild shit in here.
crumb		You're spitting on me, Harvey.
crumb		 Check it out, man. Pretty scary.
harvey		Yeah, ya don't know the half of it.
harvey		I dunno, man. On the one hand most women gettin' graduate degrees wouldn't give a guy like me the time a' day. An' she married me an' everything, so I gotta give her some kinda credit. But then she got so mean to me in the end. An' it ain't like I tried t'keep her captive or anything like that, y'know?
harvey		An' then on top of it I lost my voice for three months. I still sound like shit, but before I had nothin'. Man, talk about hell. I started forgettin' what I sound like, y'know? So I started writin' stuff down -- stories an' things, my points a' view, ideas. I even published a couple jazz record reviews. I guess that ended up bein' a good thing.
crumb		Uh-huh.
harvey		But don't think I buy into this "growth" crap. Everybody talks about how bad experiences can cause ya t'grow, an' all that clichd stuff. I've had enough bad experiences and growth to last me plenty.  Right now, I'd be glad to trade some growth for happiness.
harvey		So how long are ya stayin' in Cleveland?
crumb		I dunno, man. I gotta go visit this chick in New York. And I'm really busy with the comic book stuff. It's good bread and all man but I'm getting fed up with the whole scene.
harvey		What are ya talkin' about? Yer makin' a good living doin' yer art? Sheesh. How many guys get that lucky in their life, huh?
crumb		Yeah, I dunno.
harvey		Ya know man, people are startin' to know the name "Crumb." When you croak you're gonna leave something behind.
crumb		Yeah, my ashes and some crappy doodles. It's not like I'm Blind Lemon Jefferson or Big Mama Thornton.
harvey		C'mon, man. It sure beats workin' a gig like mine -- being a nobody flunky and sellin' records on the side for a buck.
crumb		Yeah, well that's true...
harvey		Damn it!
harvey		I'm starvin'.
cashier		 Frank! I need a price check.
cartoon harvey		Man, Old Jewish Ladies will argue forever with a cashier about anything. Get behind them in a line an' yer gonna wait forever!
cartoon harvey		I mean, I'm a yid myself, an' the women in my family are like that... But I never got used to it... I may be cheap, but I got limits!
cartoon harvey		Wake up! You're whole life's gettin' eaten away by this kinda crap! What kind of existence is this? Is this all a workin' stiff like you can expect? Ya gonna suffer in silence fer the rest a' yer life?! Or ya gonna make a mark. Huh? Huh?
harvey		Shit. Work.
harvey		See, ever since I read your stuff, man I've been thinking I could write comic book stories that were different from anything being done.
crumb		 Uh-huh.
harvey		I'm thinkin', the guys who do animal comics and super-hero stuff are really limited 'cause they gotta try to appeal to kids. And underground comics like yours have been really subversive or opened things up politically. But there is still plenty more ta be done with 'em, too, y'know?
crumb		Pass me the ketchup?
harvey		I mean with pictures and words, it could be more of an art form. Like those French movies are. Or De Sica over in Italy, y'know?... So I tried writin' some things about real life. Stuff the everyman's gotta deal with.
crumb		These are about you.
harvey		Er, yeah...
crumb		You turned yourself into a comic hero?
harvey		Sorta, yeah. But no idealized shit. No phony bullshit. The real thing, y'know? Ordinary life is pretty complex stuff.
crumb		These are really good, Harv.
harvey		 Really? Ya think so?
crumb		Yeah. This is great stuff, man. I dig it. Can I take them home and illustrate them?
harvey		Wow!!
harvey		You'd do that for me, man? That'd be great! I can't draw a straight line!
crumb		Hey, what's up with your voice, Harv? All of a sudden it sounds fine.
harvey		 I don't know, man! I guess you cured me!
harvey		 See that? All stories by yours truly.
harvey		No way, Jack, I don't go in for that macho crap.
harvey		Nah! I don't draw. I just write the stories. A buddy of mine and some of his friends do the art work.
toby		Harvey, am I in here? You promised I would be in here.
harvey		Yeah! Yeah! You're in there, alright? Jeez, Toby.
toby		Mr. Boats, it's not polite to grab things. Next time --
marty		Hey look guys, here comes Captain America.
pahls		 You gonna hang with the boys now that yer a comic book star?
harvey		Cut it out. Man, I ain't nothin' yet compared to Bob Crumb.
pahls		Hey Harvey, if ya wanna make comics for adults, ya oughtta put some dirty stuff in it.
pahls		Yeah. Howdja do? Wudja git offa her?
marty		Ah, lousy. All's I got wuz armaround.
harvey		 I got a job... I got a job...
toby		Hi, Harvey. Do you want these gourmet jelly beans? I gave up sweets for lent.
harvey		Huh? Sure, I'll take 'em.
harvey		Hey, watermelon. That's pretty good.
toby		I recommend the pia coladas. They are excellent and very authentic tasting.
harvey		Hey Toby, can you eat lentils during lent?
toby		Sure. I don't see why not. You can't eat meat on certain days, but lentils should be acceptable anytime.
harvey		Ya think there's any connection between lentils and lent?
toby		I don't think so but I'll ask Sister Mary Fred at church on Sunday.
harvey		Sister Mary Fred, huh? Is she cute? Sounds kinda mannish but who am I to be picky.
toby		Harvey, you're funny. She's a nun.
harvey		So what? Maybe she became a nun because she couldn't get a guy.
toby		Harvey, she became a nun because she had a higher calling.
harvey		Higher calling. That is such a crock of shit. I don't know why you waste your time prayin' anyway.
toby		Well, Harvey, I like the ritual. And I'm a very spiritual person. You know, you should try believing in something bigger than yourself. It might cheer you up.
harvey		 What? Do I seem depressed, Toby?
harvey		 Yeah! I'll have two crullers, a jelly donut with powdered sugar... And you got any "day old bread"?
alice		Hey, you're Harvey Pekar.
harvey		Yeah...
alice		Alice Quinn. From school.
harvey		Oh yeah. College. We had a couple lit classes together.
alice		What happened to you? You just disappeared after one semester.
harvey		I know, man. I got good grades and all but there was this required math class. I can't do math, an' that required class hangin' over my head made me crazy. Eventually the pressure got to be too much.
alice		Well, you're doing okay anyway. I heard all about your jazz reviews and your comics.
harvey		Ya did?
alice		Sure, you're famous. Meanwhile I got my degree but I'm just a plain old wife and mother.
harvey		Yeah. I'm not doing as great as ya think. My second wife divorced me and I work at a dead end job as a file clerk. Sometimes I hang out with the guys on the corner but most of the time I just stay home by myself and read.
alice		You're luckier than you think. My husband and kids make it impossible for me to cuddle up with a good book.
harvey		I'm reading this book by Dreiser now -- JENNIE GERHARDT.
alice		That's one of my favorites.
harvey		I hope it don't end like so many a' those naturalist novels... With someone getting crushed ta earth by forces he can't control.
alice		I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. It's certainly not a Hollywood happy ending, but it's pretty truthful. Which is rare these days...
alice		This is me.
harvey		Nice car. I don't have one yet.
alice		Can I give ya a lift somewhere?
harvey		Nah. It's a nice day. I'll just walk.
alice		Well, we should have you over sometime for dinner.
harvey		Sure, I'd be glad t'come. But if you really wanna do me a favor, introduce me to some a' your single girlfriends. I bet they're all smart like you. I'm no catch, though, so I'll take anything you can get me.
alice		I'll work on it.
alice		Nice seeing ya Harvey.
joyce		What happened to the new American Splendor?
rand		We sold 'em, babe.
joyce		All of them?
rand		Yep.
joyce		 Damn it! I put one aside for myself, next to the register. I didn't even get a chance to read it.
rand		Whoa, sorry, Joyce. I didn't know you were such a Splendor fan. Next time take it home.
joyce		Maybe I'll call the publisher. But they take so damn long. Shit! Why does everything in my life have to be such a complicated disaster...
rand		Okay, I'm gonna hustle before the vibe in here gets any worse.
harvey		...man, she's got good lookin' handwritin'...
harvey		Dear Joyce, Thanks for the letter. Whattya do besides sellin' comics?
harvey		Look, I think you an' I got a lot in common. How am I gonna get you to come visit me in Cleveland?
harvey		It's a great idea. You should meet me, 'cause I'm a great guy. Despite the way my comics read, I got a lot of redeeming characteristics.
joyce		I don't know. Where would I stay?
joyce		I'm not worried about that...  Hold on, I just spilled chamomile tea all over my bathrobe.
joyce		 Well, the way all those different artists draw you, I don't quite know what to expect. I mean sometimes you look like a younger Brando, but then the way Crumb draws you -- like a hairy ape with all those stinky, wavy lines radiating off your body -- it's kind of scary.
joyce		That's a dangerous offer. I'm a notorious reformer...
joyce		Hi, Harvey. We finally meet in person.
harvey		Hiya. Look, before we get started with any of this, ya might as well know right off the bat. I had a vasectomy.
harvey		What's wrong?
joyce		Nothing.
harvey		Somethin's wrong. Yer lookin' around everywhere.
joyce		I guess I never imagined you eating in a place like this.
harvey		Me? I never been here. I thought you'd like it. But obviously ya don't, do ya?
joyce		It's fine. What difference does it make?
harvey		I dunno. None, I guess.  They sure got a lot of meat on this menu.
joyce		You're a vegetarian?
harvey		Kinda. I mean ever since I got a pet cat, I couldn't eat animals anymore.
joyce		Hmm. I support and identify with groups like PETA, but unfortunately I'm a self-diagnosed anemic. Also, I have all these food allergies to vegetables that give me serious intestinal distress. I guess I have a lot of borderline health disorders that limit me politically when it comes to eating.
harvey		Wow. Yer a sick woman, huh?
joyce		Not yet. But I expect to be. Everyone in my family's got some kind of degenerative illness.
waitress		 Good afternoon! I'm your server Cindy! What can I bring you two today?
harvey		Look, I was gonna clean up, but why should I give you any false notions? The truth is I got a serious problem with cleanliness. I could wash a dish ten times and it'd still dirty. They even kicked me outta the Army 'cause I couldn't learn ta make a bed.
joyce		I've seen worse.
joyce		Harvey, go get me water and a few aspirin.
harvey		What, ya got a headache?
joyce		No, but I want to avoid one.
harvey		Well lemme tell ya Joyce, it sure is nice ta have company. I mean, despite all your problems, you seem like a great person. An' hey, sorry if my dating skills are kinda rusty, but I've just been through hell and back with women. I mean that last one turned out to be a real nasty bitch.
joyce		I had a nice time with you, too.
harvey		Yeah? You had a nice time?
joyce		Don't make people repeat themselves. It's annoying.
harvey		Oh, sorry.
joyce		C'mere...
joyce		Harvey?
harvey		Yeah?
joyce		Which door's the bathroom?
harvey		Hey, Joyce! What's wrong? What is it?
joyce		Ugh! I don't know. I think that yuppie food did me in.
harvey		I feel terrible. Lemme at least do something for you.
harvey		Can I make ya something? How about some chamomile tea?
joyce		Chamomile tea? What the hell's a guy like you doing with that? I thought you drink soda pop for breakfast.
harvey		The girl at the Food Co-op picked me out all kinds of herbal stuff. One of 'ems good for stomachaches. Grandma Bear's Tummy Mint, I think. Are you still there?
joyce		Harvey, we better skip this whole courtship thing and just get married.
harvey		Man, am I glad I talked you into comin' up here. Any more time alone and I mighta lost it fer good.
joyce		Me too.
harvey		So you don't have any problems with movin' to Cleveland?
joyce		Not really. I find most American cities depressing in the same way.
harvey		An' yer okay with the vasectomy thing?
harvey		Ay Toby.
toby		 No you can't have any of my White Castle hamburgers so please don't even ask.
harvey		Can I have a fry?
toby		Okay, but just a couple, Harvey. I'm not going to eat dinner until very late and this has got to hold me over.
harvey		 Whattya got, a church function?
toby		No, I'm driving to Toledo to see a movie. Would you like to come?
harvey		Nah. I gotta fly to Delaware tonight. I'm gettin' married.
toby		Oh. Why Delaware?
harvey		The chick I'm marryin' is from Wilmington. Plus, I gotta help her move her stuff here.  Why you drivin' ta Toledo to see a movie?
toby		It's not playing at the Mapletown.  I didn't know you had a girlfriend, Harvey.
harvey		Yeah. We met last week.
harvey		Toby, what movie could possibly be worth drivin' 260 miles round trip for?
toby		It's a new film called "Revenge of the Nerds." It's about a group of nerd college students who are being picked on all the time by the jocks, so they decide to take revenge. I already saw it once.
harvey		Wow, ya really dig this movie.
toby		I like it a lot, Harvey.
harvey		What are these nerds like? How would you describe them?
toby		Hmm... Nerds are smart but they look and act differently than other people. Like nerds might wear polyester button- down shirts and flood pants where their ankles and their socks are showing.
harvey		So what yer sayin' is you identify with those nerds?
toby		 Yes, I consider myself a nerd. And this movie has uplifted me. There's this one scene where a nerd grabs the microphone during a pep rally and announces that he is a nerd and that he is proud of it and stands up for the rights of other nerds. Then, he asks the kids at the pep rally who think they are nerds to come forward... So nearly everyone in the place does. That's the way the movie ends.
harvey		So the nerds won, huh?
toby		 Yes.
harvey		Wow. You got this movie an' I'm gettin' hitched. We both had a good month, huh?
toby		 Right. Harvey, how long are you going to be in Delaware because I'd really like to see this movie with you?
harvey		I'm only goin' for a week but then I'll have a wife, so I'll have to take her along. Is it a girl flick?
toby		Depends on the girl. What kind of girl is your new bride? Is she a nerd?
harvey		I don't know, man. Maybe. She's into herbal teas.
joyce		I agree with Toby. I think it's a story of hope and tolerance.
toby		Yes. It's about time that the people who get picked on get to be the heroes.
harvey		It's an entertaining flick an' I can see why you like it Toby, but those people on the screen ain't even supposed to be you! They're college students whose parents live in big houses in the suburbs. They're gonna get degrees, get good jobs and stop being nerds.
joyce		Harvey, what did I say about loud talking? Use your inside voice.
harvey		 Look Toby, the guys in that movie are not 28-year-old file clerks who live with their grandmothers in an ethnic ghetto.
joyce		That's enough, Harvey.
harvey		They didn't get their computers like you did -- by trading in a bunch of box tops and $49.50 at the supermarket.
toby		You're funny Harvey.
harvey		Sure, Toby. Go to the movies and daydream, but "Revenge of the Nerds" ain't reality. It's just Hollywood bullshit.
real harvey		Y'see, I wasn't even married a month and my old lady was already showin' signs a' trouble. Granted, I tend ta get married fast 'cause I'll take any woman that'll have me, but this time I really met my match...
director		Okay, I think the thing with Joyce is that as manic as Harvey can be, she matches him with depression. In that way they complete each other. I mean, she's obviously a very smart woman, but she has a lot of trouble functioning in a world she can't control. And she's totally obsessed with all things negative; y'know, diseases, dysfuctions, etc.
joyce		What about these 78's, Harvey? Can't you sell them to one of those collectors?
harvey		Are ya kidding? No way, man. I ain't getting rid of my 78's.
joyce		 Forget it then. I give up! How can I make more storage space, if you won't get rid of anything?
harvey		I'll get rid of stuff. Just not my good stuff.
joyce		Everything's your good stuff. How am I supposed to live here, if there's no room for me?
harvey		Aw come on, baby. I'll make room for ya. You just have to give me time. I'm not so good at these kind of things.
joyce		That's because you're obsessive compulsive Harvey.
harvey		C'mon. I don't wanna hear that psychobabble crap!
joyce		I don't care if you wanna hear it or not. You're the poster child for the DSM III. I'll have you know that I come from a very dysfunctional family. I can spot personality disorders a mile away...
toby		Hello Joyce. Is Harvey home?
joyce		Borderline autistic!
joyce		Polymorphously Perverse.
joyce		Paranoid Personality Disorder.
answering machine		Please leave a message. 
joyce		 Delusions of grandeur.
harvey		I hate checkin' bags, man. It always takes forever.
harvey		Jesus, look at the time. The bus is gonna leave soon and there won't be another one for an hour. That means I gotta shell out an extra thirty bucks for a cab.
harvey		Hey wait, there's our --  Figures. That lucky Yuppie's gonna get on the bus in time.
joyce		Y'know Harvey, vasectomies are reversible.
harvey		 Damn Yuppies get everything.
joyce		 Are you listening to me? I said vasectomies are reversible.
harvey		What? Whattya talkin' about? I don't want kids. An' I came clean about my vasectomy the first time I set eyes on ya', right here in this airport.
joyce		I know but things have changed. I think we can be a family.
harvey		Family?! What kinda family could we possibly be? I ain't no good with kids. I can barely take care of myself.
joyce		I'll take care of the kid and you.
harvey		 No way Joyce. Forget it. I can't do it; I can't have no kids.
harvey		Where the hell is that Ornette Coleman album, Joyce? I got a review due tomorrow.
joyce		I didn't touch it, Harvey. Would you let me sleep?
harvey		But it's one o'clock! How late can a person sleep?
joyce		It happens to be Saturday you selfish sonofabitch! And don't you go telling me what to do. I'm the one who moved into your city, into your home, into your vasectomy and into your screwed- up life. The least you could do is allow me to live here my way.
harvey		 We can go out for dinner tonight. How 'bout catching a bite at Tommy's?
joyce		 I'm not hungry.
harvey		I give up.
harvey		Hey Joyce, we got a message here. Why didn't you pick up.
harvey		Useless.
male voice		Hi, this is a message for Harvey Pekar. My name is Jonathan Greene and I'm a producer for LATE NIGHT WITH DAVID LETTERMAN. We'd like to talk to you about coming on the show to plug your comics. Please give me
male voice		Hi, this is a message for Harvey --
harvey		Aw, c'mon. Who the hell cares?
harvey		Hey, whattya doin?
joyce		Merchandising.
joyce		People like this show?
harvey		I'm gettin' hungry back here. They oughtta leave ya donuts or somethin'.
stage manager		Dave's ready for you now, Mr. Pekar.
harvey		Hey, you got anything ta eat? My stomach's growling.
stage manager		 There's no time to eat now.
letterman		Okay. Our next guest works as a file clerk in a Cleveland hospital.
joyce		Wait a minute. Where's the doll?
harvey		He's got it at the desk. Will you relax about that already?
stage manager		Guys, guys, we're in a hurry here.
letterman		...He also writes comic books which detail his day-to-day pains and pleasures, and this is an anthology of nine of those comics. It's entitled AMERICAN SPLENDOR... From off the streets of Cleveland, please say hello to Harvey Pekar.
harvey		I'm ready for those Cleveland jokes. Go ahead...
letterman		Alright settle down Harvey. Settle down.  Now let's explain to folks who may not be familiar with your work what it is you do here, exactly. You have comic books about you in your daily life in Cleveland.
harvey		That's right.
letterman		And are they embellished at all or is it pretty much factual?
harvey		 No. It's all true, David. All true.
letterman		And you also have a regular job in Cleveland working at a hospital.
harvey		That's right. Aiding the sick, yes.
letterman		Aiding the sick. Well that's certainly noble work.
harvey		Thank you. Thank you.
joyce		 Such brilliant repartee...
letterman		Now it seems to me Harvey that you have a very successful career here. This is being published by a major publishing company, Doubleday. Why do you maintain the day job?
harvey		 I don't make a living as a writer. I've been writing for many years, David. Maybe more years than you've been alive.
harvey		Yeah, I know that my youthful appearance belies, you know, my actual age. But, I've been around for a long time --
letterman regular		 You know this guy?
joyce		I'm beginning to wonder.
letterman		But I have a feeling though, if you wanted to, you could probably get by on what you make selling your work. Because I know people are after you to write other things. You're publishing this anthology...
harvey		Who? What people? What people? What are you talking about? Where the hell do you get that stuff?
harvey		I'm no show biz phoney. I'm telling the truth. Come on, man.
letterman regular		 At least he's keeping up with Letterman.
joyce		Pandering is more like it.
joyce		Damnit.
letterman regular		Excuse me, but what are you doing?
joyce		I'm trying to get some news. You know there's a big story about to break about the US selling arms to Iran and the Contras.
letterman regular		That's a monitor.
joyce		Ugh. Just forget it.
letterman		Harvey, I know you've got a job. I've got a job. We're both very lucky. We both have jobs.
harvey		Then what's the matter?
letterman		We've gotta go. Harvey I like you. I'm on your side. I enjoy the comic books. And here, quickly tell us about the little doll here.
harvey		My wife made it.
joyce		Finally something good.  Watch this.
letterman		They're made out of your old clothing.
harvey		That's right.
letterman		And what do these go for?
harvey		Thirty-four bucks.
letterman		 Thirty-four dollars? Thirty-four dollars for this?
harvey		What are ya cheap. You cheaper than me?
letterman		Would you pay thirty-four dollars for that?
harvey		No but I'm not asking it. My wife is.
stage manager		He's a natural.
letterman regular		He is. Good stuff.
stage manager		C'mon. Your turn.
harvey		Whad'ya think?
joyce		Megalomaniac.
letterman		Harvey, you are the embodiment of the American dream...
letterman		It is my pleasure to welcome back our next guest, the lovable Harvey Pekar!
letterman		Tell me Harvey, what do you do to get away from the pressure of being -- well, a file clerk? 
harvey		Go ahead and laugh, folks. But he has more contempt for you than I do!
mtv director		Christ! Watch where you're going!
harvey		 Fuckin' yuppie or whatever kinda freak you are.
toby		Hamburgers are a safer addiction than drugs. Say no to drugs. Say yes to White Castle!
joyce		 Harvey, I've been reading about these kids who grew up in war zones... Palestinians, Israelis, El Salvadorians, Cambodians... These kids are amazing and they're --
yuppie		Hey, you're that guy from the Letterman show, right?
harvey		 Yeah, that's me.
yuppie		That's so excellent. You and Stupid Pet Tricks are a riot.
harvey		Yeah? Then why dontcha buy one of my comics, man. That's the only reason I go on that dumb show anyway.
yuppie		Right, sure. Later, Harvey Pekar!
harvey		Asshole.
joyce		Anyway, I want to do a political comic book about these kids. There's a conference in Jerusalem in a few weeks, and I can start by doing interviews there.
harvey		Whoa whoa, wait a second. Jerusalem? I can barely drag you off the futon to go to the Letterman show.
joyce		Y'know why? 'Cause I don't give a damn about the Letterman show. I want to work on something important to me. Something that matters.
harvey		 Hey! You know I only go on the show for the extra bread!
joyce		Harvey... you're yelling...
harvey		Maybe if you got yer lazy ass up and got a job, I could work on something that matters, too, huh?!
harvey		I'm sorry, baby. I -- I'm sorry...
harvey		This is crazy. Can't ya just do somethin' here in Cleveland?
joyce		Harvey, you'll survive a few weeks alone.
harvey		Alright... Be careful. I love you, baby.
harvey		What do I care! Just gimme the chart already!
miguel		What is your problem today?!
harvey		Look, Miguel! I just don't wanna keep comin' back here for it, okay?!
miguel		Harvey, that patient's due t'be admitted a week from now! Why do you always have to be picking fights with everybody?
harvey		 How many times do we gotta go through the same bullshit. Just gimme the fuckin' chart!
miguel		We'll see what the doctor says about this.
harvey		 Whadya mean? Another two weeks? Ya gotta come home some time! Hello? DAMNIT!
harvey		 Okay, asshole. You'll pay for that one...
stage manager		Joe, put more sodas in the fridge, there. And let's clean up the counters. That Pekar guy's a pig.
joyce		I guess you did it this time.
harvey		Who cares. He wasn't helpin' my sales anyway.  Baby, don't go away anymore. I just can't take bein' alone.
joyce		If you met those kids over there and saw what they go through, you wouldn't ask that of me.
harvey		But if you go again I'm really gonna lose it.
joyce		It's not open for discussion, Harvey. I need this in my life right now.
joyce		But I do appreciate the fact that you missed me so much. C'mere...
joyce		Harvey, what is that?
joyce		I don't understand, does "tumor" mean the same thing as "cancer"?
harvey		How can I have cancer? I don't feel sick at all.
joyce		That's a positive thing.
harvey		My cousin Norman died of lymphoma. He was twenty-nine. He was a brilliant oncologist.
joyce		Stop it! You're not going to die, Harvey. You're not.
harvey		What's going to happen to you, baby? Who's gonna take care of you if I'm not around?
joyce		Harvey, look at me and focus. We are going to get through this. I understand illness. I know how to handle these things.
harvey		But that's you. I'm not strong enough. I don't know how ta be positive. I can't do it. I can't.
joyce		Yes, you can. And I'll tell you how. You'll make a comic book out of the whole thing. You'll document every little detail. And that way you'll remove yourself from the experience until it's over.
harvey		I can't do that. I'm just not strong enough... I just wanna die.
joyce		Fine. I'll do it without you.
fred		Hey, I'm Fred. You called me about the comic book?
joyce		Right -- the artist. Come on in.
fred		This is my daughter, Danielle. I had to bring her along. I hope you don't mind.
joyce		Hi, Danielle. What's that you're holding?
danielle		A pony.
joyce		A pony? What's his name?
danielle		She's a girl. Clarissa.
joyce		Oh, I see. Well, I'm Joyce. Nice to meet both you and Clarissa.
fred		I'm really sorry to hear about Harvey. Is he here?
joyce		He's going to work until next week, when he starts the chemo. That's why I wanna get this project started now. Once he's stuck here, I know he'll take over.
harvey		Shit!
harvey		Damnit!
harvey		Joyce, open the door! I lost my keys again! Joyce!!
harvey		Joyce!! Open the fucking door!!
fred		Hey, Harvey.
harvey		Fred?
fred		Here are some ideas we batted around.
harvey		Sheesh. Joyce doesn't know what she's doing. There's too many words in these frames. When are ya comin' back?
fred		Uh, she said something about next Tuesday, which is fine with me. Only thing is, I might have the kid again. My ex-wife's supposed to take her, but I don't have much faith in her showing up. She is in worse shape than me these days.
harvey		Next week my treatment begins. Do me a favor. Bring the kid with you.
harvey		I wanna die... just let me die...
harvey		 Joyce... Joyce?
joyce		What's wrong, Harvey? What are you doing up?
joyce		What is it?
harvey		 Tell me the truth. Am I some guy who writes about himself in a comic book? Or am I just -- just a character in that book?
joyce		Harvey...
harvey		When I die, will 'dat character keep goin'? Or will he just fade away.
joyce		Omigod, Harvey! Harvey, wake up!
harvey		My name is Harvey Pekar. It's an unusual name -- Harvey Pekar...
harvey		1960 was the year I got my first apartment and my first telephone book. Imagine my surprise when I looked up my name and saw that, in addition to me, another Harvey Pekar was listed!
harvey		I was listed as Harvey L. Pekar... My middle name is Lawrence... He was listed as Harvey Pekar -- no middle initial... Therefore, his was a purer listing.
harvey		Then, in the seventies, I noticed that a third Harvey Pekar was listed in the phone book! This filled me with curiosity.
harvey		How could there be three people with such an unusual name in the world, let alone in one city?!
harvey		Then one day, a person I worked with expressed her sympathy to me concerning what she thought was the death of my father. She pointed out an obituary notice in the newspaper for a man named Harvey Pekar. One of his sons was named Harvey. These were the other Harvey Pekars.
harvey		Six months later, Harvey Pekar Jr. died. Although I'd met neither man, I was filled with sadness. "What were they like," I thought. It seemed that our lives had been linked in some indefinable way.
harvey		But the story does not end there. For two years later another Harvey Pekar appeared in the directory. What kind of people are these? Where do they come from, what do they do? What's in a name?
harvey		Who is Harvey Pekar?
harvey		Hey Joyce.
joyce		What is it Harvey?
harvey		That was the doctor.
harvey		He said I'm all clear.
harvey		Ya keep readin' 'em backward.
danielle		I like reading them backward.  Is that you?
harvey		I keep tellin' ya, all of 'ems me, man.
danielle		You look like a monster.
harvey		Yeah, well wait'll ya see what you're gonna look like.
danielle		Me??
harvey		Sure. Yer part of the story too, now.
danielle		What story?
harvey		The story of my life.
harvey		Yeah, I know I'm not as interesting as The Little Mermaid and all that magical crap...
danielle		Maybe I want to write my own comic.
harvey		Oh yeah? What about?
danielle		I don't know yet. But not about you. You have enough already.
harvey		Ya know, you should write about things in your own life. Like school and... ponies... I don't know, girl stuff...
danielle		 Do you have to hold my hand?
harvey		 What, are you embarrassed a' me? I know, I'm embarrassing. I felt the same way about my father.
danielle		No Harvey. You're just squeezing it too hard.  Joyce is right. You are obsessive compulsive.
****Dialogues from script :American_Werewolf_in_London.txt****

fade in		 1    MAN'S FOOTPRINT  on the moon.  EXT. MOON  Camera begins to pull back slowly, straight up - the song "Moon Shadow" by Cat Stevens begins.  Once we are high enough to see the entire moon, the main title is superimposed.  An American Werewolf in London  We continue to retreat from the moon, looking on as it grows farther from us, continuing credits until the full moon is the size it appears to us from earth.  2    EXT. CROSSROADS ON THE MOORS - NIGHT  Tree branches enter into the frame, the camera pans down and we see a truck approaching.  We are at a crossroads in the moors, looking sinister enough to have earned their literary reputation.  The truck stops at the crossroads, the DRIVER, mustached and wearing tweeds, boots, and a muffler, climbs down.  "Moon Shadow" ends.
truck driver		Here, lads, East Proctor and all about are the moors.  I go east here.
jack		Yes, well thank you very much for the ride, sir.  You have lovely sheep.
truck driver		 Boys, keep off the moors. Stay on the road.  Good luck to you.
david		Thanks again!
jack		Are you cold?
david		Yes.
jack		Good.
david		Jack.
jack		David.
david		You're not having a good time are you?
jack		Oh, I don't know.  I mean look around.  Isn't this a fun place?
david		Well, I like it here.
jack		I'm sorry.  Northern England first, Italy later.
david		Right.
david		I think Debbie Klein is a mediocre person with a good body.
jack		Debbie is not mediocre and she has one of the great bodies of all time.
david		She's a jerk.
jack		You're talking about the woman I love.
david		I'm talking about a girl you want to fuck, so give me a break.
jack		Well, anyway, do you think she'll be there?
david		I don't know.
jack		 Rendezvous in Rome starring Jack Goodman and Debbie Klein. The love affair that shocked Europe!  See torrid lovemaking at its most explicit!  See Jack and Debbie expose their lust in the sacred halls of the Vatican!  Never has the screen dared....
david		If you don't stop, I'm going to kill you.
jack		I have to make love to her. It's very simple.  She has no choice really.
david		It just fascinates me that you can spend so much energy on someone so dull.
jack		It is impossible for a body like that to be dull.
david		We've known Debbie what, since the eighth grade?  How many years of foreplay is that?
jack		She says she `likes me too much'.
dissolve		TO:
jack		The Slaughtered Lamb?
david		Of course, The Slaughtered Lamb.  Why else would they have a severed fox head on a spear as their symbol?
jack		That's a wolf's head.
david		Of course, The Slaughtered Lamb.  Why else would they have a severed wolf's head on a spear as their symbol?
jack		That's not a spear.  It's a pike.
david		A severed wolf's head on a pike as their symbol.
jack		David, before we go in there I want you to know that - no matter what happens to us - it's your fault.
david		I assume full responsibility.
jack		Okay.
david		Shall we?
david		Hello.
jack		Nice to see you.
david		 It's very cold outside.  May we come in?
jack		Do you have any hot soup?
woman		No.
david		Well, do you have any coffee?
woman		No.
jack		Hot chocolate? WOMAN We've got spirits and beer. If it's something hot you want, you can have tea.
jack		Then you have some hot tea?
woman		No.
jack		Oh.
woman		But I can heat some up for you if you'd like.
jack		Nice looking group.
david		Listen, at least it's warm in here.
jack		Look at that.
david		What about it?
jack		It's a five-pointed star.
david		Maybe the owners are from Texas.
jack		 Remember the Alamo?
woman		I beg your pardon?
david		He was joking.  Thank you.
woman		Joking?  I remember The Alamo. I saw it once in London, in Leicester Square.
chess player		She means in the cinema, that film with John Wayne.  Checkmate.
david		Oh, yes, of course.
jack		Right, with Laurence Harvey and everybody died in it.  It was very bloody.
chess player		Bloody awful if you ask me!
chess player		Here, Gladys, Tom.  Did you hear the one about the crashing plane?
woman		No, but we're about to.
chess player		You be quiet, woman, and let me speak.
woman		 Quiet, everyone!  Hush!  Shhh!
chess player		All right, laugh then.  I shan't tell it.
woman		Oh, come on, tell us.
chess player		No.  You've had your chance.
jack		 Ask them what the candles are for.
david		 You ask them.
jack		 Listen, that's a pentangle, a five-pointed star.  It's used in witchcraft.  Lon Chaney, Jr. and Universal Studios maintain it's the mark of the wolf man.
david		 I see.  You want me to ask these people if they're burning candles to ward off monsters.
jack		 Right.
david		 Wrong. The drinkers have gotten the Chess Player to tell the joke as everyone knew he would.
chess player		Oh, all right.  There was this airplane over the Atlantic on its way to New York.  It was full of men from the United Nations.
woman		That's very funny, that is.
jack		 Go on, ask them.
david		 You ask them.
chess player		Here now, let me finish!  So halfway over the ocean the engines run low on petrol so they have to lighten the plane.  So they heave out all the baggage, but it's still too heavy.  So they chuck out the seats, but it's still too heavy!  Finally this Froggy steps up and shouts "Viva la France" and leaps out.  Then an Englishman....
dart players		Hear!  Hear!
chess player		 ...steps up and shouts `God save the Queen!' and leaps out.  But the plane is still too heavy.  So the Yank delegate from Texas steps up, shouts, `Remember the Alamo!' and chucks out the Mexican.
jack		Excuse me, but what's that star on the wall for?
dart player		 You've made me miss.
jack		I'm sorry.
dart player		I've never missed the board before.
david		Jack, we'd better go.
jack		What do you mean?  I'm starving.
dart player		There's no food here.
david		Come on, Jack, shall we go?!!
jack		Apparently so.
woman		 You can't let them go.
david		 How much do we owe you?
chess player		Nothing, lads.  Go, God be with you.
david		Uh, thank you.
woman		Wait!  You just can't let them go!
dart player		Go!  And stay on the road. Keep clear of the moors.
david		Yes, well, thanks again.
chess player		Beware the moon, lads!
jack		What the hell was that all about?
david		I don't know.  Let's see if there's an inn or something up the road.
jack		Beware the moon?
david		Come on, I'm freezing.
woman		You can't let them go.
dart player		 Should the world know our business?!
chess player		It's murder then.
dart player		Then murder it is!  It's in God's hands now.
dissolve		TO:
david		That was weird.  I guess leaving was the best idea.
jack		I don't know.  Now that we're out here and it's three degrees, I'm not so sure I wouldn't rather face a blood- thirsty mob.
david		Well, not quite a blood- thirsty mob.
jack		What do you think was wrong?
david		I have no idea.
jack		Maybe that pentangle was for something supernatural.
david		I see and they were too embarrassed to talk about it, because they felt so silly. There is a flash of lightning that sends a ghostly illuminating sheet of light over the boys' faces.  The clap of thunder follows loud and rumbling.
david		Please don't rain.
david		Of course.
jack		Say, David....
david		I'm well aware of how pleasant the weather is in Rome at the present time thank you.
jack		Santa Lucia...Santa Lucia.
woman		Perhaps they'll be safe in the rain.
chess player		No one brought them here!  No one wanted them here!
woman		You could have told them!
dart player		Are you daft?  What do you think they'd say?  They'd think us mad.
woman		Listen!
woman		Did you hear it?  We must go to them.
dart player		I heard nothing.
chess player		Nor I.
jack		Did you hear that?
david		I heard that.
jack		What was it?
david		Could be a lot of things.
jack		Yeah?
david		A coyote.
jack		There aren't any coyotes in England.
david		The Hound of the Baskervilles.
jack		Pecos Bill.
david		Heathcliffe.
jack		Heathcliffe didn't howl.
david		No, but he was on the moors.
jack		It's a full moon, `beware the moon'.
jack		I vote we go back to The Slaughtered Lamb.
david		Yeah.
david		We're lost.
jack		Shit!  David, what is that?
david		I don't know.  Come on.
jack		Come on, where?
david		Anywhere!  I think we should just keep moving.
david		It's moving.
jack		It's circling us.
jack		Fuck.
david		What's the plan?
jack		 Plan?
david		 Let's just keep walking.
david		That's right, a lovely stroll in the moors.  Tra-la-la, isn't this fun?
david		It's in front of us.
jack		Do you think it's a dog?
jack		Oh shit.  What is that?
david		A sheep dog or something. Turn slowly and let's walk away.
jack		Nice doggie.  Good boy.
david		Walk away, Jack.
jack		Walking away, yes, sir.  Here we are walking away.
david		See anything?
jack		No.
david		It sounds far away.
jack		Not far enough.  Come on.
david		Jack?
jack		Yeah.
david		Where are we going?
jack		I'll tell you when we get there.
david		Well.  I'm glad we...WHOAA!!
jack		You really scared me, you shithead.
david		Are you going to help me up?
jack		Jesus fuck!  David!  Please help me!  Please!  David! Shit!  Help me!  Oh God!
david		Jack?  Oh my God, Jack!
david		Jack....
david		Jack?!
alex		Mr. Kessler?
alex		Mr. Kessler?
miss gallagher		He all right?
alex		Yes, I should think.  He called out just now.
miss gallagher		He's an American, you know. Dr. Hirsch is going to fetch round one of those Embassy fellows to see him.
alex		Chart says he's from New York.
miss gallagher		I think he's a Jew.
alex		Why on earth do you say that?
miss gallagher		I looked.
alex		 Really, Susan, I don't think that was very proper, and besides, it's common practice now.
alex		Dr. Hirsch, Mr. Kessler cried out a minute ago.
miss gallagher		Yes, Doctor.
miss gallagher		Yes, Doctor.
alex		Dr. Hirsch?
alex		Yes, Doctor.
alex		Yes, Doctor?
alex		He said `Jack'.
alex		What happened to them?
alex		No, sir.  Of course, sir. Good day, Doctor.
david		Where am I?
david		London?  Where's Jack?  I had a strange dream.
david		The guy I was with.  Is he all right?  How did I get to London?
david		What?
david		Ow, shit!
david		Jack's dead?
david		Everything's in order?  What are you talking about?
david		 Who the hell are you people? What's going on here?  Where is Jack?  I demand to see him!
david		 Get your fucking hands off me! What the hell is going on here?
david		How long have I been here?
david		Two weeks?
david		 Lunatic?
david		 It wasn't a lunatic.
alex		 I beg your pardon?
david		It was a wolf.
alex		 What?
david		A wolf.
alex		Yes, I believe he did.
david		I'm sorry if I conflict with your report, but Jack and I were not attacked by a man.
david		There were witnesses?
david		How could there have been witnesses?  It was so dark. We were running and I fell and Jack went to help me up and this thing came from nowhere...I don't understand what they're talking about.
david		Doctor, my memory is fine. It's my sanity I'm beginning to worry about.
cut back		TO:
cut back		TO:
miss gallagher		Mr. Kessler?  Wake up, please.
david		 I was having a nightmare.
miss gallagher		Yes, well these should help that.  That's right, drink up.
miss gallagher		Now go back to sleep so you'll be fresh for Dr. Hirsch in the morning.
david		What time is it?
miss gallagher		It's nearly eight.  I'm off duty shortly, then I'm off to the films with Alex.
david		Alex?
miss gallagher		Miss Price, the other nurse that attended you.
david		What are you going to see?
miss gallagher		An American film about the Mafia called `See You Next Wednesday', and I want to see it badly, so you give me no problems and go to sleep.
david		 Do you have bad dreams, too?
miss gallagher		Some, everyone does.
david		Yes, but does everyone kill Bambi?
miss gallagher		Bambi?
miss gallagher		Kill Bambi?
alex		Yes, Mrs. Hobbs.
alex		Has he been refusing food?
alex		Yes, Mrs. Hobbs.
alex		Hello, Benjamin.
benjamin		No.
alex		No what?
benjamin		No.
alex		Well, all right then, be that way.  Here, swallow this.
benjamin		No. Alex pours a glass of water, gives the pill to Benjamin who promptly takes it and then drinks the water, handing Alex back the glass.
alex		Feeling better?
benjamin		No.
alex		The doctor will be round later.  Would you like a picture book to look at?  We have some lovely funny Beanos.
benjamin		No.
alex		Right.
alex		Has the patient in twenty-one gotten his tray yet?
orderly		The American?  Yes, duck.
alex		How did he look?
orderly		What do you mean, `how did he look'?
alex		You know, did he seem depressed?  Do you think he'll eat the food?
orderly		 I'm an orderly, not a bleeding psychiatrist!  I push things about, but I've little say what happens to them.
alex		Thank you.
alex		 Mr. Kessler?
david		 Yes?
alex		You haven't eaten your lunch.
david		I'm not very hungry, thank you.
alex		I'm afraid you have to eat something.
david		Please, really.  I'm not hungry.
alex		You put me in an awkward position, Mr. Kessler.
david		How is that?
alex		 Well, you're to take these after you've eaten.  Now what kind of nurse would I be if I failed in so simple a task as giving out some pills?
david		Leave the pills.  I'll take them later.
alex		Sorry.
david		Aw come on, Miss Price!
alex		Call me Alex.
david		Aw come on, Alex!
alex		Shall I be forced to feed you, Mr. Kessler?
david		Call me David.
alex		Shall I be forced to feed you, David?
david		This is absurd.  I'm not hungry.  I don't want any food.
alex		Right.
alex		Let's try a little harder, shall we?
david		Will you give me a break?
alex		Will I have to take such drastic action again, David?
david		May I have a glass of milk?
david		 Sure, as a kid.  But never so real.  Never so bizarre.
david		I've told you, it wasn't a man.  It was an animal.  A big wolf or something.  A rabid dog.
david		Look, Dr. Hirsch, I know I've been traumatized, but Jack was torn apart.  I saw him.  A man can't do that to someone with his bare hands.
david		Did you see Jack?
david		Did you talk to the police in East Proctor?  Did the cops go to The Slaughtered Lamb?
david		Then why the hell are you so quick to disbelieve me?  You yourself said it must have taken incredible strength to tear apart a person like that. DR. HIRSCH  David, please.  The police are satisfied.  I'm certain that if a monster were out roaming northern England we'd have seen it on the telly.
david		You really think I'm crazy, don't you?
david		Dr. Hirsch?  I'd rather not be by myself.
dissolve		TO:
david		 You're a very beautiful girl.
alex		 I thought you were asleep.
david		I was.  What are you reading?
alex		`A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court' by Mark Twain.
david		Do you like it?
alex		I've just started it.  My friend gave it to me.
alex		What do you dream about?
david		I dream of death mostly.
alex		I'm sorry.  I shouldn't have asked you.
david		It's okay.  I want to talk to you.
david		How old are you?
alex		That's not really a very proper question.
david		How old are you?
alex		Twenty-eight.
david		I'm twenty-seven.
alex		I know.
david		Now what do you want to talk about?
alex		Was Jack Goodman your good friend?
david		 My best friend.  My very best friend.
alex		 Shall I read to you?
david		What?  Oh, yes, please.
alex		 A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court by Samuel L. Clemens.  This is after the preface but before chapter one: A Word of Explanation. You all right?
david		 Yes, go on.
alex		 Ahem, A Word of Explanation. It was in Warwick Castle that I came across the curious stranger whom I am going to talk about.  He attracted me by three things: his candid simplicity, his marvelous familiarity with ancient armor, and the restfulness of his company - for he did all the talking.  We fell together as modest people will in the tail of the herd....
dissolve		TO:
father		I'll get it.
father		All right, all right!  Hold your horses.
david		Stop!
alex		 Hello.  You all right?
david		I'm sorry I woke you up.
alex		Don't be silly.  Can I get you something?
david		No, thank you.  Just keep me company for a while.
alex		That's easy enough.
david		I keep having these really terrible dreams.  They are getting worse and I can't seem to stop them.
alex		David, your dreams will stop. You'll leave England and your bad memories; and then this will all fade away.
david		Will you come with me?
alex		 What?
david		 I'm serious.  You don't know me and I know nothing about you.  We have a perfect relationship.
alex		Now, David, I said I would keep you company, but I meant right here and now.
david		Will you think about it?
alex		How did we get from your bad dreams to my taking a holiday with a patient?
david		 Not just a patient -- me.
alex		You're being awfully forward, aren't you?
david		Forgive me, I'm trying to cheer myself up and an affair with a beautiful nurse seemed like just the thing to do it.
alex		 All I am to you is a sex fantasy then?
david		Now I'm embarrassed.
alex		Good.  I thought for a moment I was the only embarrassed one in the room.
david		Where were we in the book?
alex		 Let me see here.
orderly		Ah you're up.  Good morning and a good day to you.  We've quite a meal for you here this morning.  Bacon, oatmeal, orange juice, and toast with jam.  Good stuff there.  Now eat it up and I'll be back for the dishes when you've finished.
david		Good morning.
david		 Please, sir, I want some more.
jack		 Nice to see you.
david		 Get the fuck out of here, Jack.
jack		Thanks a lot.
david		 This is too much.  I can't handle this.
jack		I'm aware that I don't look so great, but I thought you'd be glad to see me.
jack		David!  You're hurting my feelings.
david		 Hurting your feelings?  Has it occurred to you that it may be unsettling to have you rise from your grave to visit me? Listen to me, I'm talking to a hamburger!
jack		I'm sorry to be upsetting you, David, but I had to come.
david		 Aren't you supposed to be buried in New York someplace?
jack		Yeah.  Your parents came to my funeral.  I was surprised at how many people came.
david		 Why should you be surprised? You were a very well-liked person.
jack		Debbie Klein cried a lot.
david		I can't stand it.
jack		So you know what she does? She's so grief stricken she runs to find solace in Rudy Levine's bed.
david		Rudy Levine the shmuck?
jack		Life mocks me even in death.
david		 I'm going completely crazy.
jack		 David!
david		 What?!
jack		David, now I know this may be hard for you, but I have to warn you.
david		 Warn me?  Will you get out of here, you meat loaf?
jack		I'm a grisly sight, it's true; but I love you and that's why I'm here.  You've got to know.
david		If you love me so much, Jack, you'll realize how disconcerting it is to share one's breakfast with the living dead!
jack		We were attacked by a werewolf.
david		 I'm not listening!
jack		On the moors, we were attacked by a lycanthrope, a werewolf.
david		Shut up, you zombie!
jack		I was murdered, an unnatural death, and now I walk the earth in limbo until the werewolf's curse is lifted.
david		 What's wrong with you?  Shut up!
jack		The wolf's bloodline must be severed.  The last remaining werewolf must be destroyed.
david		Will you be quiet?!
jack		It's you, David.
david		What?!
jack		You survived and now you shall continue the curse.
david		What are you talking about?  I won't accept this!  Get out! God damit!
jack		Remember what that guy at The Slaughtered Lamb said? `Beware the moon.'
david		 Stop it, Jack.
jack		Beware the moon.  The full moon, David.  You've got two days.
david		 Jack, please go away.  Please go away.
jack		You'll stalk the streets of London a creature of the night.
david		 You're talking like Boris Karloff!  It's movie dialogue!
jack		David, please believe me.  You will kill people, David. You've got to stop the bloodshed before it begins.
david		 Nurse!
jack		Listen to me!  Take your own life, David.  It's our only chance.
david		Nurse!
jack		The supernatural!  The powers of darkness!  It's all true. Take your own life!  Suicide, David.  Join me.
david		 Nurse!  Oh God!  Alex!
jack		It's cold, David, and I'm so alone.  The undead surround me.  Have you ever talked to a corpse?  It's boring!  I'm lonely!  Kill yourself, David, before you kill others.
jack		Don't cry, David.
jack		Please don't cry.
jack		 Beware the moon, David.
alex		David?  David!
alex		David, what's wrong?
david		 I'm a werewolf.
alex		A werewolf?
alex		Are you better now?
david		I'll let you know the next full moon.
alex		You're to be discharged tomorrow.  Will you be all right?
david		My friend Jack was just here.
alex		Your dead friend Jack?
david		Yeah.  He says that I will become a monster in two days. What do you think?
alex		What do I think?  You mean about the possibility of your becoming a monster in two days or about visits from dead friends?
david		I was dreaming again?
alex		I would think so.
david		 Yeah, I would think so, too.
alex		Do you have a place to stay in London?
david		Very nice.
alex		Closet.
david		Charming.
alex		Bathroom.
david		Lovely.
alex		The bedroom.
david		There is only one bed.
alex		 David, perhaps you'd like to watch the telly while I take a shower.
david		It's nice to see you.
alex		It's nice to see you.
david		Alex?
alex		Yes?
david		Will you be here in about fifteen minutes?
alex		Of course.
david		 Good.
alex		David, you don't honestly believe that in reality your friend Jack rose from the grave to breakfast with you? Do you really?
david		I was awake and he was in my room.
alex		But, David.
david		 I wasn't hallucinating.
alex		 Tomorrow is the full moon.
david		That's good, Alex.  Reassure me.
david		It's all right, I know I'm being insane.
david		Okay, okay.  I'm properly reassured!
david		 This is very reassuring.  I'm feeling very reassured.
dissolve		TO:
david		 You're not real.
jack		Don't be an asshole, David. Come here.
david		What are you doing here?
jack		I wanted to see you.
david		Okay, you've seen me.  Now go away.
jack		David, I'm sorry I upset you yesterday, but you must understand what is going on.
david		I understand all right. You're one of the undead and I'm a werewolf.
jack		Yes.
david		Get out of here, Jack!
jack		David, tomorrow night is the full moon.  You'll change, you'll become....
david		 A monster.  I know, I know.
jack		You must take your own life now, David, before it's too late.
david		Jack, are you really dead?
jack		What do you think?
david		I think I've lost my mind.  I think you're not real.  I think I'm asleep and you're a part of another bad dream.
jack		You must believe me.
david		What, Jack?  That tomorrow night beneath the full moon I'll sprout hair and fangs and eat people?  Bullshit!
jack		The canines will be real. You'll taste real blood!  God damit, David, please believe me!  You'll kill and make others like me!  I'm not having a nice time, David! Don't allow this to happen again!  You must take your own life!
david		 I will not accept this!  Now go away!
alex		David?
jack		 This is not pretend, David.
david		 I will not be threatened by a walking meat loaf!
alex		David, what's wrong?  I heard voices.
david		 It was just me, Alex.  It was just me.
woman		Hello, there.  What can I get you?
woman		Sorry, love.
dart player		I'm afraid I don't know what you mean, sir.
chess player		 And where are you from, sir?
chess player		What?
chess player		Oh, yes, yes.
woman		 Oh, that's been there for two hundred years.  We were going to paint it out, but it's traditional, so we left it.
dart player		Incident?
chess player		Are you a police officer?
dart player		You thought what?
chess player		 A story about werewolves - now really, sir.
alex		Let me go now, you'll make me late.
david		Do me an enormous favor?
alex		Anything.
david		Tell me that it's silly of me to be apprehensive.
alex		It's silly of you to be apprehensive.
david		Werewolves simply do not exist.
alex		 David, do you want me to stay here tonight?
david		Yeah, I do, but go to work.
alex		Listen, if you get too anxious, call me at the hospital, okay?
david		Okay.
alex		I've left those pills for you.
david		A doper werewolf.
david		See you later.
david		 What did I do?
david		Thanks a lot, dog.
david		Wonderful.
david		An American werewolf was found frozen to death today in the heart of London, England.
david		What did I do, cat?
david		 Snarl.  Growl.  Grrrr.
david		I'm not hungry.
david		 `Moon River, wider than a mile I'm crossing you in style, Someday....'
david		Fee fi fo fum, I smell the blood of an Englishman.
alex		How are we feeling tonight?
benjamin		No.
alex		No what?
benjamin		No!
alex		 Benjamin, have you ever been severely beaten about the face and neck?
benjamin		No.
alex		I thought not.
alex		You sleep now and have sweet dreams.
david		Jesus Christ!
david		 What?  Christ!  What?
david		I'm burning up!  Jesus!
david		 Jack!?  Where are you now, you fucker!?!
david		Help me!  Somebody help me, please!  Jack!!
david		 I'm sorry I called you a meat loaf, Jack.
woman		Which one, Harry?
man		Number thirty-nine, but let's go `round the back.
woman		Why?
man		Come on, we'll give Sean a scare.
woman		You're crazy, Harry.
harry		Come on.
woman		Did you hear something?
harry		Just now?
woman		Yes.
harry		No.  Here we are, Sean's is the one....
wife		Sean, those hooligans are in the park again.
sean		Aren't you ready yet?  They'll be here any minute.
wife		Something's going on out there.
miss gallagher		Uh, I don't know if....
alex		It's all right, Susan.  Yes, Doctor, I have.
sean		 Is anyone there?
alex		Yes, sir.
alex		At my flat.  I'm off at midnight and....
alex		He's not?
alex		Well, yes, but he seems to be more upset by the death of his friend.
alex		Yes.
alex		David says Jack comes to warn him.
alex		Dr. Hirsch, what's wrong?  Is this more serious than I know?
alex		Yes.
alex		And what else?
alex		No.  He knows no one in London, besides me.  I shouldn't have left him alone.
alex		Surely you're not suggesting....
alex		 Dr. Hirsch?
alex		What shall we do?
passenger		Hello?
passenger		Is there someone there?
passenger		I can assure you that this is not in the least bit amusing!
passenger		I shall report this!
passenger		Good Lord.
cut to:		WOLF'S P.O.V.
david		Wake me up, Alex.
david		Ouch!
alex		 Hello?  No, Dr. Hirsch, he hasn't come back yet.  Yes, I will, doctor, but I just feel so helpless sitting here doing nothing.  Thank you, yes, goodbye.
david		Hello.
david		Excuse me, won't you?
little boy		 I don't know who you are.
little boy		Why would a thief want to give me two pounds?
david		Thank you.
mother		Yes, love?
little boy		A naked, American man stole my balloons.
mother		What?
little boy		A naked, American man -- the famous balloon thief.
david		 A lot of weather we've been having lately.
alex		David!  Where on earth have you been!?!
david		I'm freezing.
david		Alex, I've lost my mind.  I woke up at the zoo!  But you know what?  I feel terrific!
alex		The zoo?
david		Waking up at the zoo, that's not so insane.  Having no clothes on?  That's insane. What did I do last night, Alex?
alex		Don't you remember?
david		I said goodbye to you.  I was locked out of the flat.  I climbed the wall and came in through the bathroom window. I started to read and then I was naked at the zoo!  I guess I am out of my fucking mind.
alex		I worried about you.  We didn't know where you were.
alex		Where did you get that coat?
alex		I'll get it.
alex		Hello?
alex		He doesn't remember.  He woke up at the zoo.
alex		Yes, he is.  He's very excited and confused, but he's not crazy, if that's what you mean.
alex		No, why?
alex		No, not really.
alex		Yes, I should think so.
alex		Yes, Doctor.
alex		He's fine.  We'll come right over.
alex		No, a cab will be faster.
alex		The next corner we can get a cab.
david		 I should be committed.
alex		Dr. Hirsch will know what to do.
david		 I don't know why I feel so good.  I haven't felt this good in a long time.
david		My body feels alive, alert.  I feel like an athlete.
alex		Get in.
alex		Saint Martin's Hospital.
driver		Right.
driver		It's like the days of the Mad Barber of Fleet Street, isn't it?
alex		I beg your pardon?
driver		The murders.
david		 What murders?
driver		Last night.  Haven't you heard?  Six people in different parts of the city mutilated.  A real maniac this one.
david		Pull over.
alex		But....
david		 Pull over.
david		Pay the man.
alex		David, wait!
alex		David, what are you doing?
david		Six people mutilated?  It had to be me, Alex.
alex		David, stop!
david		I am going to the cops. There's a full moon tonight. Jack was right.  I....
alex		 Jack is dead!
david		Jack is dead.  Look, six people have been killed.  I'm going to the police.
alex		David, please be rational. Let's go to Dr. Hirsch.
david		Rational!?!  I'm a fucking werewolf, for Christ's sake!
david		Officer, I killed those people last night.
bobbie		 You did, did you?
alex		He's playing a stupid joke, sir.
david		 What?
alex		We had an argument.  He's being silly.
david		 I swear, I don't know this girl.
bobbie		All right, you two, move along.
david		Hey, you asshole!  I want you to arrest me!
bobbie		There's no call for that kind of language.
david		 Queen Elizabeth is a man! Prince Charles is a faggot! Winston Churchill was full of shit!
bobbie		 Now see here young man.
david		Shakespeare was French!  The Queen Mother sucks cocks in hell!  Shit!  Fuck!  Piss!
bobbie		That's quite enough!
alex		 David, please!
david		Who is this girl?
bobbie		You're going to have to stop this disturbance or I shall arrest you.
david		 That's what I want you to do, you moron!
alex		 Sir, he's very upset.  His friend was killed and....
david		Will you shut up!?!!
bobbie		 That's enough!  Now go about your business.
alex		Yes, David, let's go.
david		 You're not going to arrest me?
david		Don't you think he should arrest me? ONLOOKER Well, I'm not sure.  How does he know this isn't a prank?
david		 A prank?
alex		 David....
bobbie		I've no time for this foolishness.  Nothing to look at.  Move along.
david		Hopeless.  It's hopeless.
alex		 David, let's go now.
david		Leave me alone, dammit!  You people are crazy!  I've got to get away from here!  I've got to do something!
alex		 David, don't lose control.
david		 Control!?!  What control!?! Get away from me!
david		Leave me alone!
alex		David, wait!
alex		He tried to have himself arrested.  He....
alex		He wants help.  He....
alex		 What shall we do?
david		Yes, operator.  I'd like to call the United States and reverse the charges.  David Kessler for anyone.  Yes, I'll wait.  Hello?  Yes, area code 315/472-3402.  Thank you.  Hello?  Rachel?  Just say yes, you'll accept the charges. Just say yes, Rachel.  Is Mom or Dad home?  Where are they? Where's Max?  You're all alone?  Mom and Dad wouldn't leave me alone when I was ten. No, not ten and a half either. I'm still in London.  I'm all better.  Look, would you tell Mom and Dad that I love them? I don't care, Rachel, just do it for me.  Okay?  Good.  And, Rachel, don't fight with Max. Well, try.  Look, kid, please don't forget to tell Mom and Dad I love them.  I love Max and you, too.  Well, I do. No, I'm not being weird, you little creep.  You promise? Okay.  Be a good girl.  I love you.  Bye.
ticket lady		Two and a half quid, please.
david		Will you take a traveler's check?
ticket lady		No, sorry.
david		Keep the change.
ticket lady		Well, thank you, sir!
david		Hi, Jack.
jack		Hi, David.
david		What can I say, Jack?
jack		You don't have to say anything.
david		Aren't you going to say, `I told you so'?
jack		If I was still alive, I probably would.
david		You look awful.
jack		Thank you.
david		 I didn't mean it.  I don't know what I'm saying.  I'm not even sure it was me who killed those people.  I don't remember doing it.
jack		What about the zoo?
david		Well, even if I'm not the wolfman, I am crazy enough to do something like that.  I mean, here I sit in Leicester Square talking to a corpse. I'm glad to see you, Jack.
jack		I want you to meet some people.
jack		David Kessler, this is Gerald Bringsly.
david		Hello.
jack		Gerald is the man you murdered in the subway.  We thought it best you didn't see him as he's a fresh kill and still pretty messy.
bringsly		 Yes, I do look most unpleasant.
david		 Why are you doing this to me, Jack?
bringsly		This isn't Mr. Goodman's idea. He is your good friend, whereas I am a victim of your carnivorous lunar activities.
david		 Mr. Bringsly, I'm sorry.  I have absolutely no idea what to say to you.
bringsly		You've left my wife a widow and my children fatherless. And I understand that I am to walk the earth one of the living dead until the wolf's bloodline is severed and the curse lifted.
bringsly		You must die, David Kessler.
jack		David, this is Harry Berman and his fiancee Judith Browns.
jack		And these gentlemen are Alf, Ted, and Joseph.
david		 What shall I do?
jack		Suicide.
harry		 You must take your own life!
david		That's easy for you to say - you're already dead.
bringsly		No, David.  Harry and I and everyone you murder are not dead.  The undead.
david		 Why are you doing this to me?
jack		Because this must be stopped.
david		How shall I do it?
judith		Sleeping pills?
david		I could hang myself.
jack		If you did it wrong, it would be painful.  You'd choke to death.
jack		Do you mind?  The man's a friend of mine.
bringsly		Gentlemen, please.
harry		A gun.
david		Don't I need a silver bullet or something?
jack		Be serious, would you?
david		Madness.  I've gone totally mad.
harry		A gun is good.
judith		You just put the gun to your forehead and pull the trigger.
bringsly		If you put it in your mouth, then you'd be sure not to miss.
david		Thank you, you're all so thoughtful.
david		 Go away!  Please!  Go away!
david		 Run!  Please...run.
ticket lady		It's horrible, horrible! There's a beast!  A mad dog! It's killing people in there!
alex		David?
cop		It's some kind of animal, sir. We.... Suddenly the doors splinter apart and there stands the Wolf, eyes blazing.  It leaps on Lt. Villiers, savaging him.  The crowd falls back in panic.
alex		David!  It's David!
alex		Let me through!
cop		Stand clear, miss!
alex		I must get through!
alex		David?  Is it you?  Is it true, David?
alex		David?
officer		Fire!
****Dialogues from script :Amityville_Asylum.txt****

shooting script		27TH JULY 2012
figure		Kill them. Kill them all.
lisa		Me! Sorry-
lisa		Shit!
lisa		Oh God, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to say that!
mixter		It's quite alright. I'm Doctor Elliot Mixter. Come into my office.
mixter		Please, take a seat.
lisa		I've uh... brought my resume and some references. I know I already sent a copy with my application but just in case.
mixter		Thank you.
mixter		Very good. I see you've had lots of experience cleaning private homes.
lisa		Yes, I uh... I've done a lot of them.
mixter		Well an institution such as this one is a very different proposition.
lisa		Oh yes. Yes I know. You'll see I've also worked cleaning a school, so I am used to big areas.
mixter		Yes I've seen that. When I say this is a different proposition I mean in terms of the sensitivity required due to the nature of what we do here.
lisa		Oh yes, yes of course.
mixter		You would mainly be working night shifts at a time when patients are on lock down. But many of our patients here have psychological disturbances so there may be situations where you have to clean up things you may not be used to cleaning up. If you know what I'm saying.
lisa		I know what you mean, yes.
mixter		Would that bother you?
lisa		It may be strange at first but I actually have some experience in 8
mixter		I see. How is your mother now?
lisa		Well... she passed away.
mixter		I'm sorry to hear that. So... it's important to me that every employee here, whether they are a psychiatrist, an orderly or a cleaner, needs to fully understand what our mission statement at this hospital is.
lisa		Okay.
mixter		High Hopes was only built two years ago and as an institution we have only been running for just over a year now. So we're still building our reputation. But I am very clear on what I want that reputation to be. I intend to make this institution one of the foremost centres for mental health treatment in the country. If you look into my history you'll know that I have a stellar reputation in the field of psychiatry and I want to use that to help others. That is why I have put my own money into the creation of this institution. We are only just starting out but we have a long term ambition to be considered the best. So what I require is that every person who works at this institution, in any capacity, must be professional and sensitive to the needs of the patients. Unlike other institutions, the welfare and care of our patients comes first here.
lisa		I really admire that and I promise I would not let you down if I was given this job.
mixter		I'm sure you wouldn't.
lisa		Oh my God, I'm so sorry!!
mixter		It's quite alright, please sit down, I can take care of it.
mixter		Okay... well thanks for coming in. I'll let you know.
lisa		Look I'm so sorry, I really am!
mixter		It's fine. We'll be in touch.
lisa		Hello? 10
lisa		Hey Nancy.
lisa		It was a total fucking disaster!
lisa		I sneezed on the head of the institution.
lisa		I sneezed on him! It was one of those sneezes that just sneaks up on you, I didn't have time to cover my face. Before you know it he's covered in my snot!
lisa		Go on, go ahead. You know you want to!
lisa		Laugh it up, it's gonna be your last chance because I'm not going for any more job interviews! I'm done, I'm always so damn nervous and I just don't make a good first impression.
lisa		That's just not me Nance. I wouldn't know where to start with flirting or any of that. Christ, if I wore high heels to one of these interviews I'd probably trip over! I'm a clumsy dork!
lisa		I dunno. Thanks for not disputing that dork remark by the way.
lisa		I guess I'll have to sign on welfare to make the rent. Long term, maybe I should go back to school. Get better qualified for something.
lisa		I dunno, I just... it's like I just haven't been able to bring myself to write since ... you know...
lisa		Maybe.
lisa		Not really. I just think I'm gonna get myself a nice big tub of ice cream from the freezer and watch some TV.
lisa		[Smiles] I know but if there's ever a good time for ice cream it's today!
lisa		Sure. Night.
lisa		Hello?
lisa		Really? Oh, I uh... Hi!
lisa		Um... is this a joke or something?
lisa		Seriously?
lisa		Oh my God I... I can't believe it.
lisa		Oh God, thank you so much! I really appreciate this, I won't let you down!
lisa		Okay, see you tomorrow!
man		Gswno!
man		Can I help you?
lisa		Yeah, I'm here for an induction into the cleaning job.
man		You must be Lisa?
lisa		Yes, that's right.
man		Doctor Mixter said you would be coming. I'm Delaney, we'll be working together.
lisa		Oh great.
delaney		We work nights so today we'll just show you around, okay?
lisa		Okay, thank you.
delaney		I'll clean this up and we'll get to it.
lisa		Okay.
delaney		The most obvious task is hoovering. This is our hoover here, it's straight forward. You'll be surprised that although it's powerful it's very quiet, because we are working when everyone's in bed so obviously we don't want to wake them up! It has a Telescopic suction tube and six stage filter system. So a lot more powerful than you may be used to.
lisa		Okay.
delaney		The mop and bucket is here, we usually use standard bleach to mix with the water so that's straight forward. But there is this specialist stain remover that you must use if there are any stains on the floor or carpet. It needs to be sprayed and left to set for twenty minutes before scrubbing or mopping. It's a special formula for tea, coffee, water marks and other yellow and brown discolourations on the carpets or floors. It's pretty strong so wash your hands after you use it!
lisa		OKAY
delaney		One of the worst parts of the job is we have to remove chewing gum from lots of surfaces. They don't just stick it underneath the tables, it ends up everywhere!
lisa		Gross! 16
delaney		Yes! I think a lot of the time it's the staff doing it, not the patients! But we have this GumCart, which is a bit complicated but it's easier than just scraping the gum. The steam is super heated to one hundred eighty degrees and delivered at seven point zero bar pressure. It can produce a hundred and fifteen litres of superheated steam per minute.
lisa		Is it okay if I watch you use it a few times first so I know exactly what I'm doing? I don't want to end up burning myself or any furniture!
delaney		No problem. Now here we come to the most dangerous chemical we have. This is a concrete cleaner, very toxic stuff, so you have to wear the face mask and gloves we have here, okay?
lisa		Okay.
delaney		This is for cleaning and descaling brick, stone and concrete and for metal de-rusting. For concrete you must mix it one part to four parts water. Brush or spray it on with the equipment here then leave it five to ten minutes to set, then rinse it off. But for those stubborn son-of-a-bitch marks use it neat!
lisa		Okay.
delaney		Don't worry if anything seems complicated, you'll get used to it. But you'll mostly be mopping and hoovering in your first few weeks.
lisa		Yeah that's fine.
delaney		This is Ward B, one of two wards you'll be responsible for cleaning each evening. Essentially the main duties will be emptying the bins, hoovering the carpeted areas and mopping the hallways. The patients in here are Category B. They're mainly people who have had nervous breakdowns and those who are catatonic. They're harmless. Like Missus Hardesty here.
delaney		Hello Missus Hardesty.
delaney		She hasn't spoken a word in all her time here. The orderlies just lift her from the bedroom to the day room and back again every day.
lisa		Why did you just talk to her?
delaney		We've still got to treat them like human beings. Otherwise they just become like furniture and we all lose our humanity. I like to think she can hear me, even if she won't talk to me. See you later Missus Hardesty. 18
delaney		The patients are locked in their rooms on our night shift, but now and again they might have an accident we gotta clean up.
lisa		Okay.
delaney		In the day time there are nurses who often clean up but in the night we may be called to provide fresh linen or mop up. Not the most pleasant of jobs but it happens from time to time.
lisa		Yeah I understand.
delaney		Now here we come to the most difficult part of the job.
lisa		Cleaning crap up isn't the most difficult part?!
delaney		Oh no, that's very easy compared to what's behind this door.
lisa		What's behind it?
delaney		This leads down to Ward X.
lisa		Sounds ominous.
delaney		You could say that. It's where Category A patients are held. The criminally insane.
lisa		Really? Doctor Mixter didn't mention that.
delaney		Yes, well, these patients are beyond help so they've become athe hospital's secret. Many of them were transferred from prisons and other institutions. Doctor Mixter probably thought he could help them. He can't. The staff call this place Blood Row.
lisa		What's that smell?
delaney		It always hangs in the air. No matter how much we bleach the floor there is always that smell of death. 20
lisa		These patients are dangerous?
delaney		Yes. But don't worry, we never have to interact directly or anything like that. You will just be mopping the corridor and dusting.
delaney		That's Jerry Kimble. He was convicted of stabbing a young mother forty-nine times in front of her two year-old son, then killing and sexually assaulting a woman before smothering her four-year-old daughter. They call him the Green Chain Rapist. He was in Sing Sing but was certified insane and his lawyer got him transferred here. He doesn't make any noise or fuss, but he is a dangerous man. Especially towards women. This next inmate is even worse. Delaney slides the hatch shut and walks over to the next door. He slowly slides open the hatch and Lisa peers inside. Another basic white cell with only a bed and toilet. A man stands in the centre of the room with his hands behind his back. His hair is slicked back, as jet black as the eyes that stare at Lisa. He smiles. Delaney slides the hatch shut. DELANEY That's Dennis Palmer. Also known as The Long Island Cannibal. He was abused as a child so his targets were always paedophiles and rapists. He'd track them down and torture them. He would eat parts of their body while they were still alive.
lisa		That's horrible.
delaney		The most horrible thing is that a lot of the public thought he was a hero.
delaney		Sadie Krenwinkel.
lisa		What's her deal?
delaney		She was a member of a Witchcraft cult. They kidnapped six people for a demonic ritual. Five were killed but one got away and led police to the cult. She turned her trial into a circus, talking about lots of crazy stuff. The media enjoyed it but she got certified insane by the court. She's been around a few institutions since. Now she's here.
lisa		Some strange stories here.
delaney		Well those aren't the strangest.
lisa		Really? DELANEY This last patient is the strangest case. Delaney walks over to the last door on the left. He slides open the hatch. A singular shaft of light coming from a tiny barred window barely penetrates the darkness of the cell. Lisa peers inside to see a man sat in the shadows. DELANEY This is our resident John Doe. Sometimes we have people with 22
lisa		Why is he down here?
delaney		They first brought him in about six months ago. No one knows where he came from, he literally just turned up late one night. An orderly found him wandering the grounds. First of all he was like Missus Hardesty upstairs-catatonic. Then a few weeks later he started to respond to Doctor Mixter and the nurses through facial expressions and gestures. But soon, he got violent. Very violent. He'd have bursts of rage and beat other patients. One day he appeared to have a seizure and collapsed. A young doctor tried to take his vital signs. Patient X here throttled him so hard he crushed his larynx. It took six orderlies to restrain him. Now they won't even let him out for the obligatory hour a day exercise. We still don't know who he is.
lisa		Oh God.
delaney		God has nothing to do with this man. Delaney slams the hatch shut. Lisa looks disturbed.
delaney		I haven't put you off have I?
lisa		I guess not... it's just a lot to take in. I've obviously never been around stuff like this before.
delaney		This is the reality of this place. We don't deal with these people directly but we may have to clean up their mess. If you can't handle
lisa		I'm not a quitter.
girl		I don't know.
lisa		I don't think you should be.
girl		Do you want to play with me?
lisa		I'd love to sweetheart, but it's very late now. I think you better go back to bed. 24
girl		Okay.
lisa		Fuck!!
delaney		Sorry, I didn't mean to startle you.
lisa		It's okay.
delaney		Are you okay?
lisa		Yeah, just hurt that's all!
delaney		Sorry.
lisa		I'll live.
delaney		Do you want to grab a coffee?
lisa		Sure.
delaney		Did you change the bins in the Day Room?
lisa		Yeah.
delaney		Good. I've got a light bulb to change in Room Twelve upstairs soon. We're making good time.
lisa		Cool. It's funny, I never thought I'd get this job. The interview didn't go well!
delaney		Doctor Mixter told me you were the only person he interviewed for the job.
lisa		Really?
delaney		Yeah. I'm sure he felt you were right for the job and didn't need to interview anyone else.
lisa		Cool.
lisa		Nice tattoo.
delaney		Oh yeah. I forget I have it sometimes. 26
lisa		What does it mean?
delaney		Well... it represents a lot of wrong turns in my younger years.
lisa		Like what?
lisa		Sorry, I didn't mean to pry.
delaney		It's okay. Let's just say the past is better left there.
lisa		Fair enough.
delaney		So how is the first night going for you?
lisa		Not bad. I ran into a young girl in the hallway earlier. Sweet little girl, she was only about twelve or thirteen. I told her to go back to bed. I guess they don't lock the kids in at night huh?
delaney		You sure it was a young girl of that age?
lisa		Yeah definitely. She was carrying a teddy bear. She was about thirteen at the most.
delaney		Umm... okay.
lisa		What?
delaney		Well... there are no children of that age here.
lisa		What?
delaney		In fact, there are no children of any age in this place. I think our youngest patient is about twenty.
lisa		You're kidding right?
delaney		No, I'm serious.
lisa		Then who was that girl in the hallway?
delaney		You sure you saw a girl that young?
lisa		I'm positive.
delaney		I better tell the orderlies. This is no place for a little girl to be.
delaney		No.
hardcastle		So you're the one who saw the little girl huh? 28
lisa		Yes.
hardcastle		You sure you saw a little girl?
lisa		Of course.
hardcastle		Well I've had to pull staff off other wards to search this goddamn place top to bottom. We found nothing.
lisa		That's strange.
hardcastle		A big fucking inconvenience is what it is! Do me a favour, the next time you think you see something be absolutely sure before you go running to Jumpsuit here! I ain't got time to be running around this place looking for shit that isn't there! You understand??
lisa		Yes.
lisa		Sorry.
delaney		Don't worry about it. Better safe than sorry.
delaney		Hey, can you do me a favour?
lisa		What?
delaney		Can you empty the rubbish in Doctor Mixter's office? I've got to check the boiler, there's been complaints about the heating not working.
lisa		No problem.
lisa		Doctor Mixter? Hello?
pemberton		What the hell are you doing in here?
lisa		Uh... I was just emptying the garbage.
pemberton		Funny, I don't remember Doctor Mixter keeping the garbage in the filing cabinet.
lisa		Look I... it was just open and I ... I dunno.
pemberton		Well, y'know I'm gonna have to report this.
lisa		Oh please don't, I didn't see anything I just opened it.
pemberton		Well new girl, it's hospital policy to report this kind of thing.
lisa		But I've only just got this job and I really need it.
pemberton		Perhaps we can come to some arrangement.
lisa		What do you mean?
pemberton		Well, I'd be doing you a big favour if I kept this to myself. So perhaps you can do me a favour.
lisa		What kind of favour?
pemberton		A blow job.
lisa		You're disgusting!
pemberton		Oh come on, I bet you'd love it. LISA Look, you better get out of my way or I'm going to report you for sexual harassment.
pemberton		You've been working here for five minutes. You really think Doctor Mixter is gonna believe a fucking cleaner over a medical professional?
delaney		Pemberton! 32
delaney		Leave her alone.
pemberton		She ain't no prisoner here! I was just talking, what's the problem?
delaney		No problem. Lisa, come with me, we've got a job up on Ward B. A grateful Lisa brushes past Pemberton and exits the room. Delaney glares at Pemberton for a moment before leaving the room. Pemberton smirks.
delaney		You okay?
lisa		I'm fine. It was just a little bit intimidating, y'know?
delaney		Pemberton can be like that. He works nights with that other son- of-a-bitch Hardcastle. They like to throw their weight around. You'll get used to it.
lisa		People like that shouldn't be in charge of patients.
delaney		Let's get a coffee.
lisa		You sure love your break times!
delaney		I like to pace myself! Lisa smiles.
lisa		Missus Hardesty, you scared me! What are you doing up at this time?
lisa		Sorry, I forgot you don't talk. I'll just go and get an orderly.
mrs hardesty		You're going to die in here.
lisa		What did you say?
lisa		I'll... I'll go get an orderly. 34
lisa		Hi.
pemberton		Well look who it is, Miss Sexual Harassment.
lisa		Bite me.
pemberton		What are you laughing at?
hardcastle		This one's got a big mouth! First ordering a search of the hospital for a little girl, now she's busting your balls!
lisa		Look, I don't want any trouble. I just came to tell you there's a patient whose out of their room in Ward B.
hardcastle		You won't get no trouble from me, I'm a professional. Unlike this useless bag of bones.
pemberton		Fuck you!
hardcastle		Catch you later sweetie.
hardcastle		Where is this patient huh?
lisa		She was right there, in that chair.
hardcastle		Who?
lisa		Missus Hardesty.
hardcastle		Missus Hardesty?
lisa		Yeah. She even spoke to me!
hardcastle		Missus Hardesty was here and she spoke to you?
lisa		Yes!
hardcastle		Just a second...
hardcastle		The new girl here says that Missus Hardesty was just sat in that chair. Says she even spoke to her.
lisa		Look I know she's supposed to be catatonic but I swear she said something to me! 36
pemberton		That's not the strange thing, sweetheart.
lisa		What do you mean?
pemberton		Missus Hardesty died this morning.
lisa		But I could have sworn...
hardcastle		Listen newbie, how about you just get on with the cleaning and stay off the crack pipe. Okay, honey bunny? Pemberton and Hardcastle both laugh and leave the room.
lisa		Hello?
lisa		Little girl, wait!
lisa		Don't go in there! Lisa rushes down the stairs after her.
lisa		Little girl? Lisa slowly walks down the hallway, passing the cell doors. She can hear whispering. Lisa is drawn to the last door on the left. She approaches with caution. Stood in front of the door she slowly slides the hatch open and peers inside. John Doe sits in the corner, cloaked in shadow. Lisa peers down and in the centre of the floor, illuminated by a single shaft of light from the small window, is a TEDDY BEAR. Lisa slides the hatch shut and walks backwards. She is seriously unnerved. As she steps back from the door she hears a whispering from Kimble's cell. She edges closer to his cell door and listens. KIMBLE  Palmer... Hey Palmer...
lisa		Of course I do. Suddenly tears of BLOOD run down Lisa's cheeks. Lisa's mother reaches out a hand. Lisa stretches her arm out to grab her mother's hand. Everything is in slow motion, it seems to take Lisa forever to reach her mother's hand. Suddenly a BLACK GLOVED HAND grabs her outstretched arm. She turns to see a HOODED FIGURE, face shrouded in darkness, standing next to her. A deep voice echoes around the church:
figure		Kill them. Kill them all.
delaney		Okay, next thing is mopping the floor in Ward X. 40
lisa		Umm... could you do that?
delaney		Why?
lisa		I dunno... I just need a break.
delaney		Does Ward X frighten you?
lisa		A little.
delaney		That's normal, it frightens me sometimes. But I've got to go up to a patient's room in Ward A. Apparently they've had a little accident. Surely you wouldn't prefer to clean that up?
lisa		Well... maybe not.
delaney		I know Ward X is a scary place. But you'll get used to it.
lisa		I can hear them talking. It's kinda unnerving.
delaney		I know, I hear that too when I'm down there. But trust me, once you get used to it things will get easier.
sadie		I can hear you out there.
sadie		I've been talking to your mother Lisa.
sadie		She's here with me Lisa. She's told me all about you.
sadie		I know you're out there Lisa. Talk to me.
lisa		What... what do you expect me to say?
sadie		Perhaps you can tell me all about the summer trips to Key West with your mother? Those were your favourite memories of your mother weren't they? Or perhaps you'd prefer to tell me about when you sat at your mother's bed side for six months, watching on helplessly as the cancer ravaged her body and sucked the life out of her?
lisa		How... how do you know all this?
sadie		Because your mother is speaking to me from the flames of hell!
lisa		You sick fuck!
sadie		She has a message for you Lisa. Want to hear it? 42
sadie		Want the message?
lisa		What is it?
sadie		GET OUT!! A distraught Lisa rushes towards the exit.
delaney		What's wrong Lisa?
lisa		I'm not going down to Ward X again, I'm really sorry I just can't handle it down there!
delaney		Okay, just calm down okay. Tell me what happened.
lisa		They say things to me through the doors. Horrible things!
delaney		I know, they've done it to me too.
lisa		But that woman Sadie, she says things she couldn't possibly know about me.
delaney		Like what?
lisa		I sound crazy don't I?
delaney		No. This place just gets under your skin sometimes.
lisa		I'm starting to wonder if I'm losing my mind.
delaney		Well it's not healthy to think too much about what those crazy son-of- a-bitches say. Believe me you don't want them inside your head.
lisa		It's hard to keep them out sometimes.
delaney		Listen, take a break from Ward X for a while. I'll go down there for the next week or so.
lisa		I'm really sorry about this, I didn't think it would effect me so much. 44
delaney		Don't worry, it gets to everyone at first. But the last thing I want is for you to dread coming to work.
lisa		Thank you. I really appreciate that.
delaney		No problem.
pemberton		What's with all the fucking racket Palmer?
palmer		Sorry to bother you Mister Pemberton. But I wondered if it would be possible to get some medical attention?
pemberton		Now how the hell did that happen?
palmer		I believe it was this rather crude weapon that did the damage.
pemberton		Jesus Christ Palmer! Now put the weapon on the floor and back away.
pemberton		Put your hands on your fucking head and face the wall! Now!! Palmer willingly follows the instructions. Pemberton takes a set of keys from his belt and unlocks the cell. PEMBERTON I'm coming in dipshit, one fucking move from you and I'll cave your fucking skull in! You understand??
palmer		As you wish Mister Pemberton.
pemberton		Don't you fucking move!!
pemberton		I said don't fucking move!
palmer		I'm terribly sorry about this.
palmer		Good evening Mister Kimble
hardcastle		Pemberton? Pemberton, what's taking you so long man?? No response. Hardcastle rushes down the steps.
hardcastle		Shit!
hardcastle		Stay alert!
palmer		Good evening gentleman. I believe we will be one short at roll call tomorrow morning. Hardcastle and the orderlies charge Palmer. He doesn't resist as they viscously tackle him to the ground.
hardcastle		What the fuck are you doing?? 48
lisa		I just heard something so I ... I was just curious.
hardcastle		What are you seeing in there?
lisa		Oh nothing, I didn't see anything.
hardcastle		You make sure it stays that way. That guy is a fucking menace and he deserves everything he gets. So you don't talk to Mixter or anyone else about anything you've seen in there. You understand?
lisa		I won't say anything.
hardcastle		Good. Now don't you got some cleaning to do somewhere?
lisa		Of course.
lisa		I'm so sorry I'm running late Nanc!
nancy		Don't worry about it, have a seat. A latte yeah?
lisa		YEAH
nancy		Good, I've ordered it. They'll bring it over soon.
lisa		Thanks.
nancy		God hun, you look like shit!
lisa		Oh thanks! NANCY Sorry, I didn't mean to be blunt but you do. The night shifts getting to ya?
lisa		The whole job's getting to me. My body clock's all out of whack but it's not just that. There's something seriously wrong with that place.
nancy		What do you mean?
lisa		Thanks.
nancy		Wow, you like a little coffee with your sugar?
lisa		I figure it'll wake me up a little.
nancy		So what's wrong with the place? 50
lisa		A lot of things. The way they run things for starters, the orderlies are complete bastards.
nancy		They usually are in those places.
lisa		Some of the patients are extremely violent.
nancy		You haven't been hurt by anyone have you?
lisa		No, nothing like that. Some of the things they say though... it's pretty frightening. The weirdest thing is... Oh I dunno, maybe it's just me. I wonder if I'm seeing things.
nancy		What do you mean?
lisa		I think the place might be haunted. Either that or I'm losing my mind.
nancy		Well I wouldn't be surprised if it was haunted.
lisa		What do you mean?
nancy		I told my father about your new job.
lisa		Yeah?
nancy		Well, y'know they only built that Asylum a couple of years ago?
lisa		Yeah.
nancy		He says it was built on the site of One Twelve Ocean Avenue.
lisa		What's that?
nancy		You never heard of it?
lisa		No.
nancy		It was a famous house. Or should I say infamous. Some guy shot his whole family there back in the seventies. Parents, brothers, sisters. Wiped out his entire family with a shotgun. Then the next owners of the house only lasted there about a month. They said they were driven from the house by evil spirits. The house became known around the world. That's why the recent owners sold the land, they had enough of all the media interest and constant tourists. Have you seriously never heard of the Amityville horror house?
lisa		I vaguely remember hearing some stuff a while ago, but I never really took it in. I honestly didn't realise that the hospital was on the same land.
nancy		Yup, right on the spot where the house was demolished. You really think the place is haunted?
lisa		Either that or I'm going crazy.
nancy		Well you're not crazy, hun. Perhaps the stories about hauntings at the house were true. Maybe the house is gone but the spirits stuck around. 52
lisa		You believe in ghosts?
nancy		I dunno, never seen one. But I like to think I'm open minded. Plus you're the most intelligent girl I know. If you say you've seen something, I believe you.
lisa		Thanks Nanc.
nancy		So what are you gonna do? Are you gonna quit?
lisa		Part of me says I should. There's a lot about the place that frightens me. But I dunno... I think I've seen too much to be able to just walk away and forget the place.
nancy		If I was you I'd just walk away. Who wants to work at a place that frightens them?
lisa		Well I need the money for starters. But now it feels like I need to find out more.
nancy		Maybe you are crazy after all!
butch		Hey Pop.
ronald senior		You come to help?
butch		I'm going out.
ronald senior		Again? Boy, you better not be turning up for work tomorrow like a goddamn zombie again.
butch		Yeah, yeah Pop.
ronald senior		Don't yeah yeah me boy. You're on a last warning.
butch		I seen you got Mark a wheelchair. Mom says it cost five hundred bucks. RONALD SENIOR What of it?
butch		Well how come you're spending five hundred bucks on Mark and I gotta come beg you for money all the time huh? 54
ronald senior		What's the matter with you, boy? Your brother's broken his leg, he needs that wheelchair.
butch		Well I need money too!
ronald senior		Butch, you get a wage from the auto dealership every Friday and it's gone by Monday. Why is that?
butch		I gotta live.
ronald senior		What you spending that money on huh? Cos it ain't rent or food. You get everything you want for nothing 'round here. I know what you're really doing with that money.
butch		You don't know shit!
ronald senior		Boy, you better shut that mouth of yours.
butch		This ain't over.
butch		Hey Mick.
mick		Butch, I told you man, you can't get no shit on lay-away any more. Your credit's all used up.
butch		You accept cash?
mick		My man! Come on in.
ronald senior		Nineteen thousand dollars boy! Nineteen thousand!!
butch		What??
ronald senior		You stole that fuckin' money from the auto dealership!!
butch		What the fuck you talking about?? I was robbed!! Didn't Brigante tell you huh? Some fuckers car jacked me Pop. I told the police about it!
ronald senior		You expect me to believe that, boy? You think I'm fuckin' stupid??
butch		I ain't saying your stupid pop, I'm telling you the truth! I was robbed god-damn it!
louise		What the hell's going on??
ronald senior		Our son's a fuckin' junkie thief, that's what's going on!! He robbed the fucking dealership!!
butch		Don't listen to him Ma, I ain't done nothing!!
louise		Stop it!! Stop it now!! Louise attempts to pull Ronald Senior off Butch. Her nails dig into her husband's neck and draw blood. An enraged Ronald Senior grabs his wife's arms as she starts to slap him. Butch scrambles to his feet and rushes down the hallway. Ronald Senior remonstrates with Louise who is still trying to slap him.
ronald senior		Why do you always have to get involved huh?? You've always been too soft on that boy!!
louise		Don't you touch him!!
ronald senior		He needs some fuckin' discipline!!
louise		Stay away from him!!
butch		I've had enough of you fat man!!
louise		Ronnie, don't!! Please!!
louise		No!!
figure		Kill them before they kill you.
lisa		Do you know the history of this place?
delaney		There's not much history. We've only been open a couple of years.
lisa		No, I mean the history of the land.
delaney		You mean... what was on the land before the hospital?
lisa		Yeah.
delaney		I know a bit about that.
lisa		One Twelve Ocean Avenue. The Amityville haunted house.
delaney		Well I don't know that it was haunted. Lots of people think that's lies. I know about the kid that killed his family. That's true.
lisa		I didn't know about it until a friend told me.
delaney		Really? It's a famous case.
lisa		How come you never mentioned it?
delaney		You seem spooked already. I didn't want to make it worse.
lisa		Y'know why I'm spooked?
delaney		Because of the patients on Ward X.
lisa		It's not just that Delaney. I think this place is haunted. In fact, I'm sure of it. 60
delaney		You've seen something?
lisa		Remember I said I saw a little girl roaming the hallways here? I know who she is. She's one of the DeFeo children who were killed. You ever seen her?
delaney		No.
lisa		Honestly?
delaney		To be honest I don't believe in all that ghost stuff.
lisa		Well I wasn't a huge believer, but I know what I've seen.
delaney		I believe that you've seen something. Some people are more open to that kind of thing, y'know? But me? I'm closed off to that extra terrestrial stuff.
lisa		Extra terrestrial is aliens.
delaney		Whatever it's called, I don't know.
lisa		So what do you believe in? Do you believe in God?
delaney		Serious questions tonight.
lisa		I'm just curious.
delaney		Why do you ask?
lisa		It's something I've been thinking about. How can evil exist in a
delaney		I don't believe that God is a bearded man who lives in the sky. Or that the Devil is a red demon with horns. I believe God and Satan are within all of us. God is our human side. Satan is our animal side. Whether we become good or evil depends which side of us we feed.
lisa		It's a frightening thing to believe that if God exists he is not powerful enough to stop evil.
delaney		Free will in the hands of a person who feeds the Evil inside them. That's what frightens me.
lisa		Doctor Mixter must have known what stood on this land before the hospital.
delaney		Of course he did. He bought the land and organised the demolition of the house himself.
lisa		Why would he build on this land knowing the history of the place?
delaney		He's not superstitious. He's a doctor, they don't usually believe in those things. Amityville is full of local legends, going back even before the DeFeos.
lisa		Like what?
delaney		There's stories about the Native Americans being slaughtered on this land many years ago. Some people 62
lisa		Really?
delaney		I don't think that's true. If I've learnt anything from the patients on Ward X, it's that some people have a mind that works in a different way to other people. Those people who do bad things have fed the evil within them more than the good. It's not possession, it's sickness. Sickness of the soul.
lisa		I don't know what to think.
delaney		Just don't let your imagination run away with you Lisa. You're a person who feeds that good within you. Don't let this place feed the evil.
gloria		Yes, that's me.
lisa		Oh great! Thank you for agreeing to meet with me.
gloria		No problem, nice to meet you! I've set up a table in the back. I've
lisa		Thank you, that's great.
gloria		So you wanted to know about the history of Amityville dating back to the Native Americans?
lisa		Yes that's right. I'm writing a college paper and I had heard some rumours in the neighbourhood about Native Americans being killed on the land down on Oceans Avenue.
gloria		Well that area has quite a dark history.
lisa		You mean the DeFeo murders at One Twelve?
gloria		Yes. Terrible business that. Those young children. Breaks my heart to think about such a tragedy.
lisa		Yeah it's awful.
gloria		You know most of the town was very upset when they decided to build that mental institution on the land. That used to be a nice suburban neighbourhood, now there's this big eye sore there. We had a 64
lisa		So what about the native Americans? Is that story about them being killed on that land true?
gloria		There's something on that here.
gloria		Ah yes, here it is.  in order to induce the spirit of their God, The Dark Master, who they believed manifested his powers through his devoted followers, giving them immortality. The hundred strong tribe settled in Amityville but were later chased off the land by local Christians. Satchem accused the Christians of not properly compensating his tribe for the land. A war started and the Christians hired a hunter called John Underhill from Salem. At the site where One Twelve Oceans Avenue was later built in Amityville, Underhill killed all of the tribe. The Indians were buried in a mass grave on the site. Before he died Satchem vowed revenge. According to local legend, Chief Satchem is believed to have subsequently haunted the land. Various parapsychologists and mediums have
lisa		So the legend has basis in historical fact?
gloria		Absolutely.
lisa		You told me the other night that you think evil is within us all. But do you think that people can be influenced by an evil that comes from outside of themselves?
delaney		Are you still thinking about this?
lisa		I guess I am yeah.
delaney		I worry that you're thinking too much. This place is getting to you. LISA There's something going on in this place. Something sinister. And I don't just mean the patients on Ward X. Have you not noticed that?
delaney		I've noticed some things.
lisa		Why haven't you said anything? Or done anything? 66
delaney		It's like the honey bee.
lisa		What do you mean?
delaney		The honey bee is fine when it's just flying from flower to flower. Then they think that a person is a threat and they sting them. They might leave a sting but the person will recover. The bee dies. So I ask myself... is it worth it?
lisa		I know what you're doing.
lisa		I've seen that blog. How are you getting access to the internet?
lisa		Are you allowed to have all this stuff in your cell huh? 68
sadie		The Dark Master is near. It's too late to stop it now. Tonight will behold a great becoming.
lisa		What's going to happen? You're planning on a human sacrifice aren't you?
sadie		All good things to those who wait.
lisa		Tell me!!
sadie		Our time is at hand!
lisa		Doctor Mixter.
mixter		Oh Lisa, Hello. What brings you here?
lisa		I just wondered if I could speak to you for a moment sir. It's very important.
mixter		Of course, come in.
mixter		What can I do for you Lisa?
lisa		Well... what I'm going to tell you will sound really strange but I need to tell you.
mixter		Okay, go ahead.
lisa		Do you know the history of the land the hospital is built on?
mixter		What are you referring to exactly?
lisa		Well, first of all. The DeFeo murders and the infamous house that people said was haunted.
mixter		I am aware of the DeFeo murders yes. The hauntings... well I think it's common perception now that a lot of that was exaggerated by the media.
lisa		Maybe. Are you aware of the history of the land dating back to the eighteenth century?
mixter		No, I can't say that I am. 70
lisa		There were a group of Native Americans in Amityville known as "The Satchem Tribe". They were massacred by Christians after a dispute over the land.
mixter		Okay. I'm sure there's a point to all this?
lisa		Yes. Sadie Krenwinkel down on Ward X. She shares the beliefs of the Satchem Tribe. I have reason to believe that somehow she has access to the internet and Witchcraft paraphernalia and she's planning on a human sacrifice tonight to try and raise the God she believes in, The Dark Master, and become immortal.
lisa		I'm serious.
mixter		Have you been reading up on Sadie? It's rather outlandish stuff isn't it? But I can assure you she has no access to the internet or anything else.
lisa		Go on the internet and check out the Blog! She signs herself Sister Sadie.
mixter		Well that could be anyone called Sadie couldn't it?
lisa		Go down and search her cell!
mixter		I don't believe that will be necessary. The patients on Ward X spend twenty three hours a day in the cell. They get an hour of exercise in a small yard guarded by six of our staff. There's no way
lisa		Then someone is helping her get access to this stuff! Someone who works here! Please Doctor Mixter. Just check out her cell and speak to her. If I'm wrong about this and it's all just her delusions then fine. I'll accept that. But I had to tell you. You testified at her trial didn't you?
mixter		Yes I did. What are you implying?
lisa		Nothing. I just meant you know how dangerous she is.
mixter		Yes, I understand how dangerous she is and I appreciate you coming to express your concerns. One thing you need to bear in mind Lisa is that there are some very sick patients at this institution. We do our best to help those who can be helped but unfortunately the patients on Ward X are beyond help. Their personality disorders are too advanced, their delusions are too grandiose. I worry that perhaps you have been rather taken in by one of those delusions.
lisa		I know that it might sound like that. But can you check her cell and speak to her? Look at the blog on the internet, see if you can connect the IP number of the writer with a computer here at the hospital.
mixter		Okay look. That does take time and resources I don't necessarily have. But as you've come to me with a concern of patient infraction and potential threat of violence, I am duty bound to investigate. 72
lisa		Thank you.
mixter		In fact, I'll order a cell search immediately. Stay here for a moment, I'll be right back.
lisa		What the hell are you doing??
mixter		This is for your own good Lisa. You need treatment.
mixter		This is for your own good Lisa.
lisa		Fuck you!!!
lisa		Let me out of here you sick fuck!!
mixter		Now Lisa, let's talk calmly or you will be sedated again.
lisa		Why are you doing this?
mixter		You're having paranoid delusions. I'm also aware that you've been having disturbing visions.
lisa		I'm not having delusions, I know what I've seen!
mixter		Well you think you know. The human brain is a powerful thing and I'm sure you do believe what you've seen. But it's all in your mind Lisa, it's not reality. You're a very sick girl and you need treatment.
lisa		You do this to all your staff huh? The minute we speak out we get fucking committed??
mixter		Staff? You were never staff here Lisa. You're a patient here. You've always been a patient here.
lisa		No, no. You're lying to me, I know who I am! I KNOW WHO I AM!! MIXTER I'm afraid not my dear. You've always been with us here. Initially as an out patient but now the delusions have progressed I feel it's time for you to become a full time resident. 74
lisa		But... but...
mixter		Look, I understand it's a lot to process now. I'll leave you to think about it and then we'll begin counselling sessions tomorrow.
lisa		Okay.
mixter		Listen, how about I take this straight jacket off so you're more comfortable?
lisa		Thank you.
mixter		First you must take this. It will help you sleep.
mixter		Good girl. I know it's a lot to take in but together we'll get through this. Now I'm going to take your restraint off. Remember though, if you're violent then I promise you it will go straight back on. Okay?
lisa		Okay.
mixter		That better?
lisa		Yes. Thank you.
mixter		No problem. I'm going to leave you get some rest now. Tomorrow we start the healing process.
sadie		Adoni, Helumnay, Peenay, Adoni, Helumnay, Peenay, The gods do command thee from thy majesty oh mapulamun.
sadie		We did it Elliot, we did it! Our time is at hand!! Immortality is ours! Patient X raises the rifle and squeezes the trigger. The BLAST rips through the back of Sadie's head, blowing half of her face away. She is killed instantly and her lifeless corpse drops to the floor. Mixter smiles and leaves the Ward.
delaney		We need to get out of here! One of the patients is running around with a shot gun down on Ward X!
lisa		Fuck!!
lisa		Please help us!
delaney		The patients are loose!
lisa		Shouldn't we help them??
delaney		We need to save ourselves. Let them reap what they've sewn.
allison		Why don't you want to play with me? CRASH! A door at the other end of the hallway is kicked open. Patient X bursts through and aims the rifle. Lisa and Delaney rush back down the hallway. A BULLET HITS the wall just as they turn into an open doorway.
man		My...my skin's on too tight!
delaney		What?
man		My skin is on too tight!
man		My skin's on too tight!!
man		My skin is on too tight!!
man		That's much better.
lisa		Come on, hurry, please!!
delaney		Kurwa!!
lisa		What, what??
delaney		A fucking key's been snapped in the lock! Delaney rushes to the reception desk and grabs a chair. He rushes over to a window next to the door and raises the chair. BANG! A bullet tears through his back and exits through his chest with an explosion of blood. Lisa SCREAMS! Delaney drops to his knees and Lisa rushes to his side. Patient X loads fresh cartridges in the rifle. Delaney is DEAD. Lisa runs down the hallway. Patient X takes aim. Just as Lisa bursts through a door, a bullet blasts apart one side of the frame.
lisa		Lights out, you son-of-a-bitch!! BANG! The shot gun BLASTS a hole through Patient X's chest, blood splatters over Lisa. Suddenly a WHITE LIGHT fills the room and ALLISON DEFEO materialises. She is dressed in a clean white dress, her angelic complexion bears no wounds. Allison takes the hand of PATIENT X's corpse. The WHITE LIGHT swarms over Patient X's body and he rises to his feet. His head is now intact and he is dressed in a white robe. He looks at Allison and they share a peaceful smile. Allison walks with Patient X through a doorway filled with a blinding WHITE LIGHT. They disappear and the light slowly dissipates.
mixter		I see we've dispensed with the usual pleasantries. Come in Lisa.
lisa		You gonna tell me it's all in my head now huh?? Wanna tell me I'm the crazy one??
mixter		Well maybe it is, maybe it isn't. How would you know?
lisa		Get the fuck out of my head you son-of-a-bitch! I know who I am and I know what I've seen! You're part of all of this. I know you are! You're the crazy one!!
mixter		You're the one holding the gun on a well respected doctor, my dear.
lisa		Why did you do this? Why??
mixter		You are part of a great becoming tonight. A rising of The Dark Master who blesses all of his followers with power and immortality.
lisa		You fucking believe that do you?? Sounds like a bunch of bullshit to me! You're no better than those fucking fundamentalists who kill innocent people because they've twisted shit they've read in some Holy book. It's all shit!!
mixter		The plan for the becoming is almost complete. Just one more sacrifice, that's all we need tonight. 84
lisa		How about if I blow your fucking head off then huh??
lisa		What the fuck are you laughing at?
mixter		It's all falling into place.
lisa		The cops coming here? I'm gonna tell them everything about you and your little sick plan! They're gonna lock you up and throw away the key!!
mixter		If you say so.
mixter		Tell me something Lisa, would it help your grief over your mother if you knew she was a slut?
lisa		What did you say??
mixter		Yes. That's why she's burning in hell.
lisa		You shut the fuck about my mother, you don't know anything!!
mixter		I know that sometimes you wonder why you don't cry enough for her. I know you feel guilty for not doing more for her when she was alive. You feel guilty for moving on with
lisa		I have not forgotten about her!!
mixter		Face it Lisa, you never cared for her. You never cared for anyone but yourself. She's looking up from the bowels of hell now knowing that you never loved her!
lisa		SHUT UP!! SHUT UP!!
mixter		She was a whore!
mixter		Your mother's in hell and you don't care!!
lisa		Fuck you!!
presenter		And we're back with our next guest. A year ago he was a survivor of the High Hopes Hospital mass murder when cleaner Lisa Templeton ran amok with a rifle, claiming six victims and injuring many others. Doctor Elliot Mixter has written a new book entitled 'Shattered Hopes' which provides an account of that fateful night as well as some background into the mind of the murderer. Doctor Mixter, good morning.
mixter		Morning Katherine, how are you?
presenter		I'm good thank you. So Doctor, can you tell us a little more about the book?
mixter		Well, it features a blow by blow account of the evening. It was obviously a very harrowing experience and for me it was rather therapeutic to deal with my feelings about what happened in writing.
presenter		How has it affected the hospital Doctor?
mixter		Obviously we were all left very numb by events for a long time and I know a lot of people in the town felt we should close the institution. But that never occurred to me. I feel that people should be brought closer by tragedy and the Staff and I have definitely become closer, both as colleagues and friends, since the incident. That bond makes for a better
presenter		You mentioned there that some people wanted the place to close. I know many were also resistant to the opening of the institution in the first place given that it was built on the site of the infamous house, where Ronald DeFeo murdered his family in the seventies. I know a lot of people associated with that case were accused of exploiting it for their own ends. You've also faced some criticism for that, particularly as we heard last week that you have sold the movie rights to this book. How do you respond to that criticism?
mixter		Well I know that some people accuse me of hurting the memory of the victims but I feel I'm helping the memories of those involved live on. Granted, some victims were criminally insane but other victims were loyal staff who had families and I'm determined that they not be forgotten. Each staff member gets their own chapter in the book so that the readers can get a full picture of what wonderful people they were. I always say that all forms of media, whether it be books, newspapers, TV or movies, are a preservation of life. Our physical bodies may die but our images live on when we are famous. Our work and our passion is preserved, therefore it's as if our souls are preserved. Through all of these forms of media we are, in effect, immortal.
****Dialogues from script :Amour.txt****

police officer		 What's the date of the last letter?
superintendent		 The 16th from what I can see... Wait...
janitor		...no as far as I know. During the whole time, they had a nurse, but it's been a while since I last saw her. My wife has been...
georges		They used a screwdriver or something like that...it doesn't look very professional...
anne		But who would do something like that?
georges		No idea. Why do people break in? Because they want to steal something.
anne		From us?
georges		 Hey, why not? If I thought about it, I could come up with at least three or four people we know who've been burgled.
anne		What time is it? Can't we call the superintendent?
georges		I'll do that tomorrow morning. Anyway, they didn't see anything.
anne		Or the police?
georges		Come on, give me your coat.
anne		Imagine if we were here, in our beds, and someone broke in.
georges		Why should I imagine that?
anne		But it's terrible! I think I'd die of fright.
georges		 So would I.
anne		I'm tired.
georges		I still fancy a drink.
georges		They must have been professionals.
anne		No.
georges		 What about next week? No but still, it would make sense to get it done soon. It might give people silly ideas. And anyway, it's too ugly to look at... Wednesday? What time? OK... Will you bring the paint with you too, to paint over it? But at least some primer...Yes, OK. Thank you.
anne		 I hope so. The last time, he kept us waiting for ages, if you remember.
georges		 Thanks. If I call a regular professional, we'll still be waiting two months time.
anne		 Really?
georges		The Frodons waited three days when their toilet was blocked. Not exactly pleasant.
anne		What are you doing?
georges		 Hey, what's going on? Are you completely crazy? Is this supposed to be a joke, or what's going on?
anne		What did you say?
georges		 Is this a joke? Is this meant to be a joke?
anne		What joke? I don't get it! Why are you talking to me like that? What's got into you?
georges		Anne! Please! Stop this game. It's not funny.
anne		 What game, for Christ's sake? What on earth's the matter?!!
georges		What's the matter? Why didn't you react?
anne		To what?
georges		To what? To me, to everything.
anne		When?
georges		Just now. A moment ago.
anne		Please tell me what's wrong. What am I supposed to have done?
georges		I don't know what to say. Do you really not know what just happened?
anne		But what DID happen?
georges		 You were sitting there, staring at me. You didn't answer me when I asked you what the matter was.
anne		When... When was it?
georges		Just now, a few minutes ago.
anne		So...??
georges		There's no "So". I went into the bedroom to get dressed. I wanted to get help.
anne		Help?
georges		Yes, and then you turned off the tap.
anne		Yes. Because you left it on.
georges		Neither do I.
anne		Why? What can he do?
georges		I don't know. Examine you.
anne		I'm fine. There's nothing wrong with me.
georges		Anne, please!! That's absurd. We can't pretend that nothing happened.
anne		But what DID happen?
georges		Can you explain how the tea towel got there?
anne		 No, I can't!
georges		Who turned on the tap?
anne		You did!
georges		Can you remember that?
anne		 No I can't! Do you want to torture me? Leave me in peace!
georges		Don't you think it would be better to fetch Dr. Bertier?
anne		No!
eva		You know how he is. Once he's got something into his head, he has to go through with it. In the end, everybody was delighted. And besides, it didn't hurt our financial situation. We're playing until the 28th. 
georges		What about the children?
eva		Liz is at boarding school and John is living his own life. He's twenty- six years old.
georges		What does he do?
eva		He's a student. We rarely see him. He's got his own ideas. Life Geoff. They don't really get along. Geoff wants to advise him on everything, and John doesn't like that at all.
georges		Is he good?
eva		I think so. He's less impulsive. Very industrious.
georges		That sounds rather derogatory.
eva		No!! He's not like Geoff. Quiet, but stubborn. I think he'll do all right. At the last Conservatory concert, he played the solo part in the Haydn Concerto. It was very good. Geoff was there and congratulated him at the end.
georges		And you?
eva		What do you mean?
georges		Did you both make up?
eva		 My God, you know him, don't you? Over the winter, he suddenly discovered his passion for a viola player who'd been in our ensemble for years. What can I tell you? It was a huge drama, and the poor little darling wound up trying to commit suicide. That scared him and he came back to me in full remorse. I've got used to it now. What's a bit embarrassing is that the ensemble, you can't keep any secrets from anyone.
georges		Do you love him?
eva		Yes, I think so.
georges		What can I say? The carotid artery was blocked. They did an ultrasound scan, two in fact, and they said they had to operate on her. She was scared. She was confused and scared. You know she has always been afraid of doctors. They said the risk was very low and that if they didn't operate, she'd be certain to have a serious stroke.
eva		And what do they say now?
georges		Just that it didn't go well. It's one of the 5% that go wrong.
eva		I'm so sorry.
georges		Yeah.
eva		What can I do for you?
georges		Nothing. It was nice of you to come despite all of your stress.
georges		Here. Thank you very much. It's for both of you. You can just put the things down here. There, beside the window, right. We'll be okay on our own. Thanks a lot.
superintendent		If you need anything, just call downstairs. If we can help at all...
georges		Right now everything's fine. I'll let your wife know as soon as we need anything.
superintendent		 It's nice to have you back, Mrs. Laurent.
anne		Yes. Thank you, Mr. Mery. Thank you.
superintendent		Yes... So... Goodbye then, ma'am. Welcome home again. Goodbye, Sir.
georges		Goodbye, Mr. Mery.
superintendent		Goodbye.
georges		 Where do you want...
anne		In the living room.
georges		Shall I make some tea?
anne		 First come sit with me.
georges		 Of course.
anne		It's best if you put my arm around your neck and your right arm around me, that way it'll be easy.
georges		 I'm glad you're back.
anne		 Me too.
georges		What?
anne		Please never take me back to the hospital.
georges		What?
anne		You promise?
georges		Anne...
anne		You promise?
georges		Anne, I...
anne		Don't talk right now. And don't give me any lectures. Please.
georges		What can I say, it's...
anne		 Nothing. Just don't say anything. OK?!
georges		There.
anne		Thank you. Thank you, Darling.
georges		Everything OK?
anne		 Everything's fine.
georges		I don't feel guilty.
anne		That's good.
georges		 OK.
anne		Did you buy the new book on Harnoncourt?
georges		I've already read it.
anne		And?
georges		Do you want it? I'll get it for you.
anne		Sure.
anne		Don't worry. It isn't that important.
anne		 Thanks.
georges		OK.
superintendant's wife		Unfortunately the strawberries were already moldy. I'll go and get you some fresh ones tomorrow from the market. My husband will bring you the bottled water this afternoon. I'm not supposed to carry anything heavy: my back, you know...
georges		Sure, no problem.
superintendent's wife		It came to 76 euros and 40 cents. There's the till receipt and here's
georges		Thank you very much. Keep the change. Thanks.
superintendent's wife		Thank you, sir.
georges		Yes. I will.
superintendent's wife		Is your wife well? ...
georges		Yes, she's OK. She's recovering.
superintendent's wife		Fine. Give her my regards. My husband and I are very glad she's back.
georges		Yes, we are too. Bye, Mrs. Mry, thanks so much.
superintendent's wife		Goodbye, sir.
georges		... some banal romance or other about a nobleman and a lower middle- class girl who couldn't have each other and who then, out of sheer magnanimity, decide to renounce their love - in fact I don't quite remember it any more. In any case, afterwards I was thoroughly distraught, and it took me a bit of time to calm down. In the courtyard of the house where grandma lived, there was a young guy at the window who asked me where I'd been. He was a couple of years older than me, a braggart who of course really impressed me. "To the movies", I said, because I was proud that my grandma had given me the money to go all alone to the cinema. 
anne		So? How did he react?
georges		No idea. He probably found it amusing. I don't remember. I don't remember the film either. But I remember the feeling. That I was ashamed of crying, but that telling him the story made all my feelings and tears come back, almost more powerfully than when I was actually watching the film, and that I just couldn't stop.
anne		That's cute. Why didn't you ever tell me before?
georges		There are still a few stories you don't know.
anne		Aha...? Don't tell me you're going to ruin your image in your old age?
georges		 You bet I won't. But what is my image?
anne		 Sometimes you're a rotter. But you're nice.
georges		 Can I take you for a drink?
anne		Listen to this! My horoscope. Motto: You have lots of verve, but need to be more serious! Love: High-class conversation is what you need. Work: You're motivated again. But proceed with care. Health: Loosen up by doing exercises. It'll give you renewed pizzazz.
georges		 You've only yourself to blame if you read stuff like that.
anne		You have to go.
georges		I fear I must. I don't want to go at all.
anne		Who does like going to funerals?
georges		Oh, I know a few people who do. Annette can never wait to get all dolled up again. And Franois has...
anne		You're mean. What would you say if no one came to your funeral?
georges		 Nothing, presumably.
anne		Have you talked to Jeanne since I was in the hospital? I mean, does she know I can't come?
georges		Of course.
anne		What did she say?
georges		She was shocked.
anne		How?
georges		 My God, what are people like when they're shocked? She couldn't believe it, she was speechless. I don't remember any more. In any case, not exactly. I've spoken to a lot of people since.
anne		Sorry.
georges		No, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to be unkind, but I just don't see the point of talking about it all the time.
anne		Do I talk about it all the time?
georges		No. Sorry.
anne		Don't worry.
georges		What ... ?!
anne		 Why are you back already? What time is it?
georges		Anne...
anne		Can you wheel me into the living room?
georges		Yes.
anne		Yes. Why are you home earlier?
georges		I didn't come home earlier. I took a taxi. In August, there isn't a lot of traffic.
anne		That's true. How was the funeral?
georges		Anne...!
anne		How was it, go on, tell me!
georges		It was rather bizarre. The priest was an idiot. Then one of Pierre's co-workers made a speech that was embarrassingly emotional. His old secretary came with a radio- cassette player and after the speech she put on "Yesterday" by the Beatles. You can't imagine. Everybody turned round to look at her. Apparently, it wasn't planned. His grandchildren were there. Of course they giggled as soon as the music began. Then the urn was put on a huge stretcher that was obviously designed for a coffin, and out we went into the rain. They placed the urn on a small electric cart that crawled along for what seemed like an eternity to the tiny hole they had dug. A lot of people had to stifle their laughter. It must have been terrible for Jeanne. I have...
anne		 There's just no point in going on living. I know it can only get worse. Why should I inflict it on us? On you and me.
georges		You're not inflicting anything on me.
anne		You don't have to lie, Georges.
georges		Imagine you were me. Didn't you ever think something like this could happen to one of us?
anne		Of course I did. But imagination and reality have little in common.
georges		But things are getting better every day. We'll...
anne		 Georges, I don't want to carry on. You're making such efforts to make everything easier for me. But I don't want to go on. For my own sake. Not yours.
georges		I don't believe you. I know you. You think you're a burden on me. But what if things were the other way around? What would you do then?
anne		I don't know. I can't be bothered to think about being you. I'm tired. You tire me. Everything tires me. I can't talk. I want to go to bed.
georges		 Oh hello! Nice to see you.
soloist		Forgive me for dropping in on you like this, Professor. I tried to reach you by phone a couple of times, but no luck.
georges		I'm sorry. I only pick up the phone when I've stored the caller's number and I can see who's calling. Why didn't you leave a message? Anyway, do come in...
soloist		I just couldn't manage to come by after the concert. I was so sorry, because I was so pleased you came along.
georges		Come with me.
soloist		... And now, an unexpected opportunity has arisen because Franois Mitry called me - you know him, he's my agent - to say he'd arranged for me to meet the boss of the Thtre des Champs-Elyses tonight to talk about their new concert series. 
georges		Yes, she is. I'll go and get her in a minute. Have a seat.
soloist		I hope I'm not disturbing you too much.
georges		No, not at all. I'm happy that you came. We were so thrilled by your concert. We hoped we'd see you again soon. Please do have a seat. Can I can get you something? A cup of tea?
soloist		No, no, thank you very much.
georges		Hold on, I'll just freshen up the flowers; in this heat they wilt so fast...
soloist		I've only just bought them. They should keep quite...
anne		Martin! What a delight. How lovely to see you!
soloist		Mrs. Laurent! Lovely to see you too.
anne		Don't get up. Come on, sit yourself down and don't look so shocked.
soloist		Oh God! I wanted to bring you the CD, but I left in such a hurry that I forgot it. I'm so sorry. I'll get one today and drop it by.
anne		 No, no, don't worry. We want to make a contribution to your success. Even if it's only twenty euros.
soloist		You've already contributed so much. I owe you so much, Madame.
anne		You owe it to your hard work and your talent.
soloist		 Do you remember, when you first gave me the Bagatelles to play? I was twelve at the time, and in my youthful arrogance I said: "But why the Bagatelles?" And you really gave me a piece of your mind.
anne		My right side is paralyzed, that's all. It can happen when you get older.
soloist		And how...?
anne		Let's talk about something else, shall we?
soloist		 Sure ...
anne		Don't be offended. But I want to enjoy the lovely interlude you've given us with your visit.
soloist		 Of course.
georges		You haven't told us yet what's been going on since the Paris concert.
soloist		Well, actually I've spent most of the time in London studying. Then I went to Copenhagen for two performances, that was Schubert too. My whole life revolves around Schubert at the moment. The concerts with the Impromptus and the Moments Musicaux, and for my bread-and-butter work I'm developing the sonatas. Not the late ones, I think I still need a couple more years for those.
anne		Could you do me a favor?
soloist		 Really?
anne		Would you play Fr Elise?
soloist		 Um, I don't know if I remember it very well. Beethoven, it's been a long time since I've... But if you want...
anne		Give it a try.
soloist		 OK.
anne		What's the matter?
georges		 Good God, what are you doing?
anne		 I'm sorry.
georges		 Yes, so am I.
anne		 Sorry.
georges		The lamp is broken too.
anne		Georges? What's going on? Who is it?
anne's voice		Calm down will you! There's nothing there. It's nothing.
anne		What was it?
georges		 I didn't understand... I thought I'd gone mad... It was something impossible...
anne		What was?
georges		Eva. They're coming on the 12th.
anne		Why?
georges		No idea. Apparently she's coming with Geoff.
anne		When is it?
georges		I don't know exactly. What day is it today? I'll go and look.
anne		I don't want that.
georges		What?
anne		Geoff doesn't need to come.
georges		Dear Madame Laurent, Dear Monsieur Laurent, it was beautiful and yet sad to see you. My heartfelt wishes that things will get better. With deep gratitude, your former pupil, Martin.
anne		Stop the CD.
georges		The family albums? I don't know, there, in the other room. Why?
anne		Can you get them for me?
georges		What, now?
anne		I'd like to look at them.
georges		 You're welcome.
anne		That's nice.
georges		 What?
anne		Life...so long... What a long life...
georges		 I wasn't watching you.
anne		Of course you were. I'm not that dumb yet.
georges		You're soaked through.
anne		What do you mean?
georges		Hold on.
anne		 I can't... take it any more.
georges		My love. My darling.
eva		... thinking about whether it wouldn't be better to invest the money in an apartment block. If inflation gets going again, property is the only sure thing. Right now, savings accounts pay 1.75% at best. Four years ago, Geoff bought some stocks with a small sum of money and the whole thing collapsed. So now we're obviously worried. Unfortunately, in the meantime, other people have had the same idea, and property prices are going through the roof. Since we came back from Scandinavia, I spend all my spare time looking through newspaper ads.
anne		 Yes yes I have... I have... the grandmother... woman with house... not... the house then ... money
eva		I don't understand you, I'm afraid.
anne		... yes... now... it's all... house sel... sel... sel... was... in two strokes of... so quickly... god it's hard... to say... sell... money gone... left... there too...
georges		... three times a week... I'm not experienced enough. We'll see if that's enough.
geoff		How much is she asking?
georges		It's paid by the hour. We'll see.
geoff		And her?
georges		Anne?
geoff		And what about the doctor? What does he say?
georges		He's...
eva		 She only talks gibberish. I don't know what...
geoff		Hey, dear...
eva		Nothing is OK.
georges		We can't do anything for the moment. Calm down, darling. She's getting medical treatment, they give her the necessary medication, and there are no other options right now.
eva		What does that mean, "no other options"? Why isn't she in a hospital?
georges		She had a second stroke. Bertier examined her and felt we could spare her all the hospital inpatient procedures. 
geoff		Don't you think you're taking on too much?
georges		Have you got a better idea?
eva		I can't believe that these days there's no way of handling this efficiently.
georges		 No one's stopping you from finding out.
eva		I didn't say that. I'm simply questioning whether what I see going on here is the answer to everything!
geoff		 Don't you want to get a second opinion?
georges		Now you two had better stop, OK? Another doctor did come. He said Bertier was right. From Monday, a nurse will come three times a week. Now can we talk about something else?
eva		Like what?
georges		There, my love, I hope you like it.
anne		OK...
georges		I added a little orange juice. I find it tastes quite good.
anne		...Mom to the concert...
georges		Yes?
anne		...Mom to the concert... no dress...
georges		Mom has no dress for the concert?
anne		...Mom to concert... no ... uuu... no...
georges		Yes?
anne		 Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help!...
nurse		... we could take turns. She'd come from 8 till 12 and I'd do 2 until 6, or 3 to 7. That would certainly relieve the pressure on you.
georges		I'll think about it.
nurse		She just has to know in time so she can arrange it in her schedule.
georges		Yes, of course, I'll let you know in the next few days.
nurse		Very well. I have to go now...
georges		My pleasure. I'll see you out.
nurse		You mustn't take it too seriously. Usually they always say something. She might just as well say "Mom, Mom, Mom". It's just mechanical.
georges		 I know.
nurse		Goodbye, sir.
georges		Goodbye.
anne		 ...Help...Help...
georges		Would you mind putting them in the kitchen.
superintendent		Can I do anything else for you, sir?
georges		No, thanks, Mr. Mry. You've been a big help.
superintendent		Oh, it's nothing, sir.
georges		I'll let you know if I need you again.
superintendent		With pleasure, sir.
georges		What is it?
superintendent		My wife and I, we're very impressed by the way you're managing everything. I take my hat off to you.
georges		 That's very kind of you. Thanks. See you soon.
superintendent		Give my regards to your wife.
georges		I certainly will. Thanks.
anne		... Ssssur...
georges		...Sur le pont...
anne		po ... pont ... sss
georges		...Sur le pont ... Sur le pont ...
anne		... Ssssur le pont ...
georges		: ... Sur le pont d'Avignon...
anne		... ssur... le ..
georges		... pont... Sur le pont d'Avignon... : Sur le pont d'Avignon on y danse, on y danse, sur le pont d'Avignon tout le monde y danse en rond...
second nurse		 ... there we are...now we're all beautiful again...so everybody will admire us...there...you see... wait...
nurse		... as you wish, sir. I don't know what you were expecting. I gave up another job to come and work here. You should have thought it over before deciding whether you wanted a second nurse or not.
georges		But I've only just found out how incompetent you are.
nurse		 What's that supposed to mean?
georges		I don't want to discuss it with you. Anyway, you wouldn't understand.
nurse		No one has ever complained.
georges		Good for you.  How much do I owe you?
nurse		 Seven hundred and eighty euros.
georges		Do you have twenty euros?
nurse		No.
georges		Then take the eight hundred euros. You can go now.
nurse		You're a nasty old man. I feel sorry for you.
georges		I hope from the bottom of my heart that one day someone treats you the way you treat your patients, and that you too will have no way of defending yourself. Now get out.
nurse		Go fuck yourself, you old fart!
georges		... Please, open your mouth... go on... open it... Anne! Please!... come on... stop that!...
anne		 Help... help...
georges		 Please, forgive me.
anne		 Help... Help... Help... Help...
georges		Who's there?
eva's voice		It's me.
georges		Eva?
eva's voice		 Yes.
georges		Just a minute.
eva		Hello. What was going on?
georges		I was in the toilet. Sorry.
eva		What's going on with Mom?
georges		Nothing. What should be going on?
eva		Well... 
georges		Don't you want to sit down first?
eva		What's going on with Mom? Why don't you answer the phone? After our last conversation, I left four messages on your answering machine. Why don't you call back?
georges		Sorry. I didn't listen to it. Forgive me.
eva		Don't you realize we're worried?
georges		Your worries are no use to me.
eva		Dad...
georges		No. Let's stop this conversation right there. I'm taking care of your mother. It's a full-time job. And I'm not saying that to complain, just to explain why I didn't answer your phone calls and why I don't want to have any pointless discussions on the subject. Your mother is just as could have been expected: bad the whole time. 
eva		Dad, what's the matter?
georges		Nothing's the matter; your visit caught me by surprise. And I'm annoyed that you show up here to check that everything's OK. Who do you think you are?
eva		I...
georges		Stay here, will you!
georges		Please, sit down.
eva		I don't want to sit down. What's going on here?
georges		 Nothing's going on. I want to spare us all a pointless drama. I presume your mother is asleep. She mostly sleeps the whole day. And then she wakes up at night. If you really want to, we'll go and see her in a little while. Now, sit down. OK?
eva		 You can't stop me from seeing her.
georges		 No.
eva		It's me, Mom.
anne		Mom... Mom... Mom... Mom... Mom...
georges		The tea isn't very hot any more.
eva		Thanks.
georges		It was silly of me to lock the door. I'm sorry. You took me by surprise, that's all. I'm sorry.
eva		What's going to happen now?
georges		 What's going to happen now? The nurse comes twice a week, and every two weeks Dr. Bertier and the hairdresser come. That's what you want to know, right? Things will go on as they have done up until now. They'll go from bad to worse. Things will go on, and then one day it will all be over.
eva		You can't go on like this, Dad.
georges		Can't I? What do you suggest?
eva		Can't we have a serious talk, you and me?
georges		What do you call "a serious talk"? What do you want to suggest? Do you want to have Mom live with you? Do you want to pack her off to a care home? Do you? What do you want? Go on, talk to me "seriously"!
anne		: ding... dong...
georges		 Yes, it swung to and fro.
anne		: like that... serious...
georges		 Yes. I think I was pretty uptight.
anne		 yes... up... tight...
anne's voice		 Help... Help... Help... Help... Help...
anne		I'm almost done.
anne's voice		You can put your shoes on if you want.
anne		Thanks.
****Dialogues from script :An_Education.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Analyze_That.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY
2.		appeared, holding AUTOMATIC WEAPONS. DUCKS Caesar, you know me! What kind of fuckin' idiot would I have to be to try that shit with you? CAESAR A dead fuckin' idiot. As he walks out the door, the soldiers OPEN FIRE on Marty "Ducks." Caesar doesn't look back.
tv screen		The title credits come up on the made-for-cable series we've been watching, "Little Caesar." CLAPPING AND CHEERING from O.S. WIDEN TO:
3.		VITTI I'm going to bed. Vitti stands up and heads back to his cell.
cut to:		INT. CELL BLOCK - MOMENTS LATER As Vitti approaches his cell, he sees a prison guard standing by. His cellmate, EARL, a giant of a man, comes out of their cell carrying his bedroll and a box containing his other meager possessions. VITTI  I'm sorry. I just grabbed stuff -- I didn't know -- VITTI That's okay.     Keep it.   Go ahead. EARL Thanks.     See you around. Earl exits with the guard. Vitti hesitates a moment, then warily steps into his cell. CUT TO: INT. VITTI'S CELL - MIDDLE OF NIGHT The cellblock is quiet. A guard stops outside the darkened cell, looks around to make sure no one is watching, then
4.		pulls out a GUN with a SILENCER, reaches through the bars and FIRES REPEATEDLY into Vitti's shadowy form under the blanket. Then he slips away as quietly as he appeared.
ben		 One, of    course, is the public Isaac Sobel,    the eminent psychotherapist and popular    author known to millions of readers    around the world. Laura, Michael and Ben's Mother listen proudly to the eulogy. BEN The second Isaac Sobel is the private man -- my father -- Dad. And for those of you who knew him well and knew our family -- well, let's face it -- my father was a psychotic, mind- fucking prick. An arrogant, abusive, ego-inflated -- A RINGING CELL PHONE interrupts him. JUMP CUT TO: BEN
5.		still seated in the front row, daydreaming. The RINGING CONTINUES as all the mourners and even the Rabbi discreetly check their cell phones.
cut to:		INT. PRISON PAY PHONE - SAME TIME VITTI Guess who, you fuck! INTERCUT WITH:
ben		Paul?  I can't talk right now.     My father died! VITTI So what does that have to do with me? BEN Call me later -- VITTI Don't hang up on, Sobel!    They're tryin' to kill me!
6.		Ben hangs up. CUT BACK TO:
vitti		He stands there for a long beat just staring, the DIAL TONE BUZZING in his ear. CUT TO: INT. SING SING - MESS HALL - NEXT DAY
7.		But Vitti can't stop. He drops his tray of slop, splattering food on the men. Coyote leaps to his feet and pulls a shiv. COYOTE You're a dead man, jefe! Coyote lunges at Vitti with the knife, but Vitti suddenly whirls around, bashes Coyote in the face with his food tray and bursts into song. VITTI  'I like to be in America, Okay by me in America...' The guards drag him down and cuff his hands behind him, then carry him out stiff as a board. VITTI 'Tonight, tonight, won't be just any night -- ' DISSOLVE TO: EXT. SOBEL HOUSE - LATER A limo pulls up to an old, but well-maintained suburban house, the family gets out and starts walking to the house.
cut to:		EXT. SOBEL HOUSE - FRONT PORCH - MOMENTS LATER
ben		Okay, I might have strayed from my notes a little. I'm dealing with a lot of stuff here. Grief is a process. Laura notices FBI AGENTS CERRONE and MILLER waiting for them in the living room. Cerrone is an attractive woman in her late twenties, wearing a dangerously-short skirt. Miller is a clean-cut man in his thirties. MILLER Dr. Sobel, I'm Agent Miller, this is Special Agent Cerrone, Federal Bureau of Investigation. We'd just like to ask you a few questions, if we could. LAURA  Can I ask what this is about?    We just came from the cemetery. CERRONE We know this is a difficult time for you, Dr. Sobel. Sorry about your father. BEN Thank you, I'm going to miss him
9.		terribly. Ben gestures for them to sit.
laura		You told her --  You told her at the drop of a hat. Agents Cerrone and Miller eye each other. BEN She's with the F.B.I.   She needs to know these things.
laura		Oh, I see. And I don't. Why tell Laura? She couldn't possibly handle a phone call. BEN Did I say that? MILLER You folks need a minute? BEN No, we're fine.
laura		If you don't need me anymore, I'll be in the kitchen.  Vitti? BEN Oh, yes. Paul Vitti and I were involved in some organized crime activity a couple of years ago. I mean, I wasn't involved -- not 'involved' involved -- I was just trying to help him therapeutically, and some people tried to, uh, kill us. No big deal. MILLER Well, shortly after you spoke, he
11.		seemed to have some kind of breakdown. BEN What kind of breakdown?
miller		I think you'd better go up there and see for yourself. CUT TO: INT. SING SING INFIRMARY - PSYCH WARD - DAY
12.		there? What mirror? Where?       Who can that attractive girl be?' BEN Paul, it's me.    Ben Sobel.   Paul?  Really. Can we take him to an examining room? DR. CUTLER Of course. CUT TO: INT. EXAMINING ROOM - MINUTES LATER Vitti sits inert on the examination table. BEN You already did a neurological work- up? DR. CUTLER Yep. No tumors, no aneurisms, no sign of stroke --
ben		Okay -- He sticks the needle into Vitti's shoulder. VITTI  'Boy, boy, crazy boy, keep cool, boy! Got a rocket in your pocket, keep cool-y cool boy -- ' CUT TO: INT. SING SING - CONSULTATION ROOM - NEXT DAY Vitti is sitting at a table facing Ben.     Dr. Cutler observes from a chair in the corner. BEN Paul, we're going to    give you some tests to assess your    mental condition. There's no pressure    -- just answer as best you can. Do I     have your consent to share the results    of these tests? VITTI Mommy's mad at me because I made a boom on the rug.
14.		BEN I'll take that as a yes. Okay, I'm going to show you ten cards, each containing a picture of an inkblot. I want you to look at each card and tell me what you see. VITTI I see you.   I see him.   I see a table. BEN Focus, Paul. You haven't seen the card yet.  What does this look like to you? Take your time. Vitti looks at the wrong side of the card.    It's all white. VITTI It looks like snow. BEN No, Paul, the other side. Vitti turns it over and makes a face.
vitti		A bat.   A big bat. Or a weasel. BEN  See anything else? VITTI Just the pussy with the teeth.
ben		 Pussy with teeth. Next card.
cut to:		SHAPES TEST Vitti is literally trying to pound a square peg into a round hole.
vitti		Blue. CUT TO:
ben		The wife or the midget?
vitti		 Trick question, right?    Both of 'em. CUT TO: ANOTHER TEST
ben		Okay, Paul. Last test. In this one, I'm going to start a sentence and you complete it any way you want to. Ready? 'I get angry -- ' VITTI Yes. BEN No, you're supposed to complete the sentence. VITTI I did.   I said 'yes.'
ben		I wasn't asking if you agreed or disagreed; it was more like, 'I get angry when -- ' VITTI -- whenever. BEN Well, that about does it for me. CUT TO: INT. U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE - DAY Ben meets with RICHARD CHAPIN, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York. BEN Based on his symptoms and the test results, I'd say brief psychotic disorder -- if it persists, possibly schizophreniform disorder. And Dr. Cutler agrees with my diagnosis. CHAPIN So he's crazy?
17.		BEN Dr. Cutler?   No, he's annoying, but -- CHAPIN Vitti. BEN Not crazy. At least not permanently. In certain people, continuous exposure to an extremely stressful situation -- soldiers in combat, for instance, disaster victims, a hostage situation, or being locked up in a maximum security prison with someone trying to kill you -- it can produce a temporary psychotic state. CHAPIN How temporary? BEN A day, a week, up to a month -- if the precipitating stressors are removed. CHAPIN  Well, couldn't you release him to    a halfway house or some place where    he could get some decent treatment? Based on my earlier work with him,    I don't think he's dangerous, and I think he was making a real effort    to reform himself.
18.		CHAPIN You do, huh?  Okay. Then I'll tell you what. I'm gonna release him into your custody. BEN Mine? Me? No, this is a bad time for me. My father just died -- and I've got this bulging disc in my neck -- and we're redecorating, which is a total nightmare. I can't -- CHAPIN You want to see him killed in prison? BEN No, of course not. CHAPIN Or sent to a facility for the criminally insane. BEN No --
chapin		Then he's all yours. I'm going to talk to the Bureau of Prisons and get you certified as a temporary federal institution. BEN  Yes.    We're clear.
19.		CHAPIN You still want him? BEN  Yes. CUT TO: EXT. SING SING - FEW DAYS LATER
20.		BEN What are you talking about? VITTI I call you to say somebody's trying to kill me and you hang up on me? BEN I was at the funeral home! VITTI You're my fuckin' doctor!
ben		My father died! VITTI Me me me me!   He's dead!   Get over it. BEN Are you hearing yourself? VITTI  What's that? BEN Decongestant. I'm getting over a cold. All right, what's going on? Who's after you? VITTI I don't know -- take your pick. Could be my old family, or could be the Rigazzis. Ever heard of Lou Rigazzi - - Lou 'The Wrench'?
21.		BEN Why "The Wrench"? VITTI Because he twisted a guy's head off once. BEN Off? VITTI Off. Fuckin' Calabrese -- animals. And comin' from me you know that's a big compliment. BEN I'm sure they'd be flattered.    So -- VITTI The feds are really putting the pressure on. The families are fighting each other again -- what's left of 'em. It's the fall of the fuckin' Roman Empire. It's World War Three out there. BEN So what does that have to do with you? VITTI They knew I was gettin' out soon and the last thing anybody wants to see is me getting into it on either side. BEN Maybe if you just explain to them -- that you're out of it now, that you're starting a new life -- VITTI Yeah,   they'll probably want to throw me a   party and give me a gold watch. Trust   me -- nobody's lookin' forward to me   being out. BEN You are, aren't you? VITTI Me? Oh, yeah, my future looks real fuckin' rosy. Ben can't believe what he's gotten himself into. CUT TO: EXT. SOBEL HOUSE - LATER
vitti		What are you, my father now? BEN And you    have to get a job as soon as you're    well enough, which is now. So are you    coming in with me or do I have to make    a phone call? Vitti relents and grabs his stuff from the back seat. VITTI I'm comin'.    Some fuckin' life this is gonna be. He follows Ben up the stairs. CUT TO: INT. U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE - LATER Chapin is conferring with another U.S. ATTORNEY, DAVIS, and Agents Miller and Cerrone. CERRONE You really think Vitti is crazy? CHAPIN Yeah, he's about as crazy as I am.
23.		Think about it. Locked up, he was absolutely no use to me. But back on the street, Vitti's still powerful enough to pose a threat to both families. It's like throwing gasoline on a fire. DAVIS If we can use Vitti to escalate this war, we might just end up putting them all away.
miller		That's if he goes back to his old life. CHAPIN If? People like Paul Vitti     don't change. This guy's been a     menace to society since he was twelve    years old. Being a criminal is all he    knows. Trust me. DAVIS He's gonna head straight for trouble. Then all we have to do is sit back and pick up the pieces. We could get twenty, maybe even thirty indictments next time the grand jury convenes. CHAPIN  -- mobster -- in my home -- eating off my dishes.
24.		 Ewww.
ben		I told you. He's in my custody.      I'm a federal institution. LAURA You should be in an institution.     Why couldn't he just go home? BEN His wife and kids aren't here. They're in Ohio. LAURA Ohio! Sure. Everyone gets to be in Ohio except me. BEN His life was threatened and he didn't want to endanger his family. LAURA How thoughtful! What about endangering our family?  Here he is! VITTI Coffee?
laura		What?
vitti		Somebody said something about coffee. LAURA That was you.    You said you wanted some. VITTI So what's the holdup? LAURA  Are you really that pussy-whipped?
ben		I'm not -- this has nothing to do with Laura.
vitti		I heard her busting your balls. BEN We were having a disagreement. A certain amount of conflict is normal in a marriage.
vitti		Or? BEN Or what? VITTI Or you're pussy-whipped. BEN Paul -- VITTI Good night, Whippy.
ben		 Mike, can we talk for a second? MICHAEL Sure.     What?
ben		I know the last few weeks have been kind of tough with Grandpa -- dying and everything -- and it might've felt to you like I didn't have time for you or I didn't care about how you feel. MICHAEL No, it didn't. BEN Good. Because I want you to know that you can talk to me about stuff and that I can really listen and understand what you're going through. MICHAEL I do, Dad. BEN And if I seemed a little hard on Grandpa, it's just that your grandfather was a hard man in a lot of ways. He wanted everything done his way and sometimes I just felt like nothing I ever did was good enough. I don't want it to be that way with us. MICHAEL It's not. BEN And you know, at times like this we all might start questioning our own mortality and you might be thinking how devastated you'd be if I died. Right? MICHAEL No.   Not really. BEN That's good. Good talk. And I realize it's all a little hectic right now, but this Paul Vitti thing is only temporary, okay? MICHAEL Oh, really? I didn't hear you the tenth fuckin' time. BEN That's not funny.   Good night, Michael.
michael		Good night, Whippy.
cut to:		INT. MASTER BEDROOM - SAME TIME The room is dark. We PAN UP the foot of Ben and Laura's bed and find them both wide awake staring straight up at the ceiling, listening. WOMAN  Ohhhh, God!   Oh, oh, oh, oh! BEN This has to be some kind of record, don't you think? It's been like forty minutes. LAURA How long are you going to let them go on? BEN Let them? How much longer can he go? Another twenty minutes, I'm either breaking it up or calling the Guinness Book of Records. The MOANING shifts into low gear, more guttural and bestial. LAURA Oh, give me a break.    She's got to be
29.		faking.   Nobody sounds like that. BEN  That's not entirely true. LAURA Okay, sometimes you do sound like that. The O.S. MOANING kicks up another notch. Laura rolls over and jams her pillow over her ears. Ben growls, exasperated.
cut to:		INT. MICHAEL'S ROOM - SAME TIME Michael's girlfriend is gone. He has his bedroom door open a crack and he's standing there holding a small tape recorder and smiling broadly. WOMAN  Ah, ah, ah, ah...! CUT TO:
30.		BEN Can I talk to you, please? VITTI Actually, I'm right in the middle of someone. Sheila starts to light a cigarette. BEN Miss? Excuse me.     There's no smoking in this house.
cut to:		INT. MICHAEL'S ROOM - SAME TIME Michael freezes, about to light a cigarette himself. CUT TO: INT. LIVING ROOM - MOMENT LATER Ben comes down the stairs with Vitti. BEN What do you think you're doing?
vitti		Minding my own fuckin' business, like you should be doin'. BEN Well, it's a little hard with the live sex show going on in the guest room. VITTI I've been in prison for two and a half years. What am I supposed to do? BEN Go to a hotel. VITTI That's what I wanted to do, but you told me I had no choice -- it was either here or Sing Sing. BEN I'm not trying to punish you. These aren't my rules, but I have a responsibility here. Besides, I thought you might like a nice home- cooked meal after being in prison that long.
vitti		Yeah, that's what I've been jerkin' off about for eight hundred consecutive nights -- a nice home- cooked meal.  Ohhhh, tuna casserole. BEN That girl is not staying here.
vitti		I think you're jealous. BEN Oh, yeah, I'm really jealous. VITTI I didn't hear nothin' comin' out of your room. BEN We don't think it's necessary to wake the neighbors every time we have sex.
vitti		Hey, if you're really quiet, you might be able to do it without even wakin' up your wife. SHEILA  Ohhh.   Ohhh. Ben looks curiously at Vitti. VITTI I told her if I wasn't back in two minutes to start without me. I gotta go. Vitti heads back upstairs. BEN This is not a good start, Paul. CUT TO: INT. DINING AREA - NEXT MORNING Laura and Ben are hosting a brunch for the out-of-town relatives. Laura offers a basket of bagels to a seated, older woman.
laura		Aunt Ester, I'm so sorry we had to put you up at the hotel. We wanted you here with us, but we had an unexpected house guest. She glares at Ben. AUNT ESTHER  Your father always had room for us.
ben		I'm sorry.  Go to hell, Paul! You just go to hell!
33.		Vitti bellies up to the buffet, stepping between an older couple. He eyes the food disdainfully. VITTI Oh, great. Jew food. Who do you have to fuck to get some bacon around here? The woman reacts in horror. VITTI Not you, I'm guessing.
ben		 Why don't we go to my office?   I'll make you a plate. CUT TO: INT. BEN'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER Ben and Vitti enter.   Vitti still in his robe. VITTI What is it with your relatives?   They tend to overreact quite a bit.
ben		I know. All you did was flash everybody in the dining room. VITTI So? From the look of 'em, some of those broads haven't seen the old salcicc' in a long time. It's good for them. BEN Well, when the paramedics revive my Aunt Goldie, I'll be sure to ask her. Sit. Vitti starts for Ben's chair. BEN Ah ah ah! He points Vitti to the sofa and takes his own chair. BEN So what are you going to do, Paul? VITTI What do you mean? BEN With your life.
vitti		First I'm gonna find out who's tryin' to kill me. I'm a target. Somebody could shoot right through that window -- blow my fuckin' head off. Ben sees that he's in the line of fire, gets up and moves out of the way.
ben		Okay, that's a priority. Have you thought about what you're going to do for work? VITTI Yeah. I'm too big for a jockey so I was thinkin' maybe a hairdresser. They'll call me Mr. Paul. BEN Come on. There must be something you like to do. VITTI I like hitting a guy on the head with a baseball bat. BEN Oh, sporting goods. We'll check the want ads tomorrow but don't get your hopes up. Anything else? VITTI Shylocking, bookmaking, unions, the usual -- BEN Who are you? VITTI Who am I? I'm the guy who's paying you $150 an hour to play these stupid fuckin' games. You know who I am. BEN I know that.   I mean what are you? VITTI What do you mean, 'What am I?' BEN I just want to know how you see yourself.
35.		VITTI You're making me very fuckin' nervous. BEN Just answer the question.     What are you? VITTI  I'm the boss. BEN Really? The boss of what -- Jelly? You're not the boss of me. So what are you the boss of? VITTI You, you're good. I see what you're doing here. BEN What am I doing, Paul? VITTI You're pissing me off is what you're doing. Look at me. It's starting again, the anxiety.
ben		I understand. BEN  You've    spent your whole life becoming who you    are and now you can't be that anymore    -- that's gotta be scary. If you're    not Paul Vitti the mob boss, who are    you? Vitti is at a loss. BEN Well, let's think. When you were a kid, What did you want to be? VITTI I don't know.    Who remembers that stuff? BEN You must've wanted to be something when you were little -- fireman? VITTI No. BEN Baseball player?
vitti		No.
ben		Astronaut? VITTI No. BEN Al Capone?
vitti		Yeah, maybe.    What did you want to be? BEN We're not talking about me. VITTI I am. BEN Fine.   I wanted to be a philatelist. VITTI You wanted to look up people's assholes all day? BEN No, Paul, I believe you're thinking of a proctologist. I wanted to collect rare and unusual stamps. VITTI You must've been a lot of laughs when you were a kid. Lonely, huh? BEN Oh yeah. Big time.      So what did you want to be? VITTI It's stupid. BEN You afraid to tell me? VITTI Yeah, I'm afraid. BEN Then tell me.    I'm not here to judge you.
37.		VITTI  Marshal Dillon. BEN Marshal.    So who were your favorite cowboys? VITTI This is so fuckin' retarded. BEN Paul! VITTI All right. Gene Autry, Roy Rogers, the Lone Ranger -- BEN Interesting.   They're all good guys. VITTI Yeah, I guess. BEN No, that's important. You didn't want to be the bad guy. You wanted to be the hero.
vitti		Yeah, so?
ben		So what happened? VITTI I don't know.    Nothing happened. BEN So why didn't you become a cowboy?
vitti		I lived in East Harlem! I joined a street gang when I was 12 and that was it. BEN Something else happened when you were twelve. VITTI What? BEN  Something that made you very sad? VITTI The Dodgers moved from Brooklyn to L.A. Everybody took it pretty hard. BEN Something else. VITTI We playin' a guessing game here? BEN Paul! Your father was murdered! Right in front of you. Remember? VITTI Do I remember? I think about it every fuckin' day of my life. What's that got to do with it? BEN It's got everything   to do with it. He gave you the cowboy   suit. With a white hat. He was    in the mob, but he wanted you to be a   good guy, didn't he? Vitti starts thinking about his father and starts to weep.
39.		VITTI Yeah.   He did. BEN He didn't want you in the gang life. He only did it himself so you wouldn't have to. He was trying to buy you a better life than his. VITTI  Yeah, just sprinkle some fuckin' fairy dust on me. BEN I'm just saying you've got to keep an open mind and explore some new possibilities. Try some different things -- maybe you'll connect with one of them. There's a career counselor I work with. I can call him for you. He may be able to help you find a job. VITTI You mean working for somebody? I'm supposed to take orders from some guy who used to get me coffee? (starts sweating and
40.		breathing hard) I can't do that. It's not right. It's not me.
ben		How do you know unless you try? Suddenly one of the WINDOWS behind Vitti SHATTERS. Ben dives for cover. Silence -- then another RAP on the window. Ben looks out and sees JELLY in the back yard, tossing stones at the window.
jelly		 Ben?
ben		That's great, Jelly. I'd love to catch up with you -- outside.
jelly		 So long, everybody.    Ess gesunterhait.
42.		JELLY Yeah, but it is short. Vitti, now dressed, comes out of the house and crosses to the car. BEN  Where are you going? VITTI I got stuff to do.
ben		What kind of stuff? VITTI  Calm down. I'll be back. BEN You can't leave without my permission. VITTI Oh, yeah?   Watch me.   Drive, Jelly.
43.		INT. KNIGHTS OF PALERMO SOCIAL CLUB - DAY Soldiers lounge at the bar, keeping a respectful distance from the capos seated at a table in the rear. All eyes turn as the door opens and Vitti enters. SAL MASIELLO, Vitti's old consigliere rises and warmly but warily welcomes Vitti back into the fold. MASIELLO Paulie, great to see you! You're lookin' good, kid. Lookin' very good. Jelly, how are ya? Vitti embraces him and they sit down with the others. MASIELLO So, Paul, we heard you had some trouble while you were away. Some 'mental' problems. VITTI No, I'm okay. It was an act. I had to pretend I was nuts. There were people watching me all the time. MASIELLO Little people? VITTI Doctors. They never woulda let me out if they thought I was normal. MASIELLO So you ain't crazy? VITTI You want to see crazy? Just tell me who's trying to kill me. I'll show you crazy. MASIELLO We're in a war, Paul -- nobody's safe right now. The Rigazzis are walkin' all over us. We got next to nothing coming in, and I don't have to tell you, you don't buy a lot of muscle without money these days. We need you, Paul. The family needs you. VITTI I can't do it, Sal.   I'm out of it. MASIELLO Come on, Paulie. Nobody used to do the big jobs like you. Air France-- they're still talkin' about it.
vitti		Sal, even if I wanted to -- the feds
masiello		After your father died, I always treated you like my own son. You know that. VITTI I know.
masiello		He was a good man. I still miss him. VITTI Yeah, I do too. MASIELLO So you'll think about it.    For me, Paulie? VITTI Yeah, okay, I'll think about it. MASIELLO  Don't forget what I said. We're countin' on you. Vitti gives his old friend a pat on the back and exits. CUT TO: EXT. LOPRESTI HOUSE - SAME MORNING Jelly pulls up, Vitti gets out and strides up to the front door of a nice home on Staten Island and RINGS the BELL. CUT TO:
45.		INT. ENTRY HALL - CONTINUOUS ACTION The door is opened by EDDIE DEVOL, early thirties, dark and sullen.
eddie		Yeah, what? VITTI 'Yeah, what?'    That's how you answer the door?
eddie		You got a problem with that? VITTI Yeah. Vitti punches Eddie in the mouth, sending him sprawling back into the living room. Several other bodyguards are watching television, caught off guard by Vitti's sudden entrance. VITTI Where is she? PATTY  In the kitchen, Paul. CUT TO: INT. PATTY'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS ACTION Vitti enters. PATTY LOPRESTI, mid-forties, still sexy even in an apron, is mixing cake batter in a bowl with an electric mixer. PATTY Paul -- what a nice surprise. VITTI How's it goin', Patty? PATTY Good.   It's good. Give me a kiss, you. Patty hugs and kisses him, taking the opportunity to pat him down for a weapon or a hidden wire. VITTI Sorry to hear about Carmine.     He was a good man. PATTY Yeah. You live with a person twenty- one years, then one day they're
46.		pulling his torso out of the river. It's hard. VITTI I'll bet -- especially with all the talk about you being the one who put him there. PATTY That's why I try not to gossip, Paul. It's ugly. Just a sec.  Wow.   Have you been working out? VITTI Yeah, I been workin' out who's trying
47.		to kill me. I'd love to hear your thoughts on that. PATTY It's a dog-eat-dog world out there. Nobody's gonna be safe unless we can end this thing with the Rigazzis. VITTI So then you didn't have nothin' to do with it. PATTY  Oh, Paul. I just got a chill. VITTI I just want to be left alone.   Put my life back together -- straight  up this time. Put the word out, will   ya? Nobody's got nothin' to worry  about from me. PATTY Sure, Paul.    I understand. He heads for the door.
48.		PATTY  Don't be a stranger!
cut to:		EXT. PARK AVENUE AUDI DEALERSHIP - LATER Vitti is trying to sell an $80,000 Audi to the MacINERNYS, an upscale middle-aged couple. Vitti opens the trunk. VITTI Look at the size of that trunk. You could fit three people in there.  Not people -- suitcases. It's a joke.
joey boots		Paul, I heard you were out.
vitti		Hey, Joey. JOEY BOOTS All dressed up for dinner, huh? VITTI Yeah.
50.		Vitti poses grimly with a BUSINESSMAN and his friends. BUSINESSMAN Thanks, Paul.    Appreciate it.
cut to:		INT. IMPERIAL DIAMONDS - DAY Two Hassidim are in the back of a 47th Street jewelry store, sorting through a huge pile of diamonds. Behind the    display counter, Vitti stares at the diamonds, breathing    hard, starting to perspire. His customers, a thirty-ish    YOUNG MAN and his FIANCEE, study the diamond engagement    ring on her finger. YOUNG MAN This stone is supposed to be a 'G' color, but it looks kind of yellow, doesn't it? VITTI  Fluorescent light. Makes everything look yellow. He starts instinctively casing the store. QUICK CUT TO: ARMED SECURITY GUARD
51.		FIANCEE I thought fluorescent light makes everything look blue?
cut to:		FANTASY - SECURITY GUARD bound and gagged. END FANTASY.
vitti		 What? FIANCEE A lens.    Do you have a lens? CUT TO: FANTASY - SAFE in the back as it BLOWS UP. END FANTASY. OWNER Ben's cousin, approaches Vitti who is now hyperventilating.
52.		OWNER Are you all right? VITTI I'm gonna do us both a big favor.    I quit. CUT BACK TO: INT. CAR DEALERSHIP - DAY The MacInernys are trembling.
vitti		You want to see the manager?  Get a Hyundai! CUT TO:
ben		is listening to Vitti, but dressed as Sigmund Freud. BEN  Eins, zwei, drei! VITTI What? VITTI'S MOTHER is sitting next to him.
53.		VITTI'S MOTHER  Acht gemacht gehunden nicht. VITTI'S MOTHER I tell him the same thing. Suddenly, the WINDOWS are SHATTERED by GUNFIRE.
door		BLASTS open, flying off the hinges. Jelly enters, pushed into the room by a gang of thugs, led by Patty LoPresti, Eddie DeVol and his guys, all at least ten-feet-tall and all holding huge guns.
vitti		leaps to his feet and reaches for his gun, but instead pulls out a long sword. Confused but desperate, he holds up the sword to menace the intruders, but the sword suddenly goes limp. He tries to make the blade stand up, but it just keeps dropping like a piece of soft rope. Patty, Eddie, and the thugs laugh contemptuously at Vitti, while Jelly looks on with an incredible stream of tears pouring from his eyes. END DREAM SEQUENCE. CUT TO:
laura		 Don't look, don't look.
vitti		Coulda had that sandwich made by now. LAURA  Yes, I'll make you a sandwich.
55.		VITTI Ham, cheese, lettuce, tomato, mayonnaise, no onion.
cut to:		EXT. SOBEL FRONT PORCH - LATER Jelly   comes out the front door with Vitti's suitcases as Ben pulls   into the driveway. He gets out of the car holding a small   bag from the drugstore and sees Vitti coming out the front   door. Ben stops him on the porch.
ben		 I'm goin' to Jelly's. Jelly carries the luggage to his car parked in the driveway.
ben		 I probably shouldn't be listening to this. VITTI So don't! JELLY Sorry.
56.		BEN  Do you think this dream might be sexual?
vitti		I know what you're thinkin'. The sword is my cock and I can't get it up, but that ain't it. I saw Sheila last night and I had a hard-on you could swing from.
ben		 Look at me. I'm havin' a fuckin' panic attack here. My heart's beatin' like a rabbit. BEN You're hyperventilating.
ben		Excuse me? VITTI Tellin' me I have to get a job like I'm some fuckin' nobody. It was humiliating! Thanks a lot. BEN  Hey, I'm doing the best I can!     If you can't appreciate that, or if my    best isn't good enough for you, then    maybe you should find somebody else to    talk to, you selfish prick! Ben breaks down and cries what amounts to one racking sob, then quickly pulls himself together. BEN Sorry. VITTI What the hell was that? BEN I'm fine.    I'm grieving.   It's a process. Ben takes a pill bottle out of his pocket and pops a couple of pills. VITTI Now what are you takin'? BEN Echinacea and goldenseal. Do you know the TV show 'Little Caesar'? VITTI Yeah, I know it. BEN The producer of that show is a man
58.		named Raoul Berman. A mutual friend told him I knew you and Mr. Berman called me this morning. He wants to meet you.
vitti		For what? BEN Meet him and find out. CUT TO:
miller		 I heard him. And I think it was 'effing bait.'
vitti		Why you talkin' like that?
ben		Like what? VITTI Like a fuckin' retard. BEN  Yes. Paul, I'm such a huge fan of yours -- not a fan, but you know, an admirer. VITTI Don't admire me too much. RAOUL Is there any chance you might be interested in working on 'Little Caesar' as a consultant? Give us technical advice, coach the actors, make sure the dialogue rings true --
ben		Wow. That would be incredible. Did you hear that, Paul? Raoul wants to know if you'd be interested in working on his show as a consultant. You know, give technical advice, coach the actors -- VITTI  Got it. RAOUL So what do you think, Paul? VITTI Yeah, sure, whatever. RAOUL Fantastic!
sheila		This is so exciting. Mr. Berman, I love your show. Anthony Bella, the guy who plays Nicky Caesar -- I think he grew up in Bensonhurst next door to my cousin's friend's husband. VITTI That's her claim to fame.  I hate to bust your bubble, but he's not from Bensonhurst. He's a professional Italian. He grew up in Connecticut or something like that. SHEILA Well, wherever he's from, I think he's a wonderful actor. JELLY Yeah, I bet he gets a lot of pussy. Laura chokes on her drink. VITTI What's the matter with you?   We got women at the table. JELLY You said 'fuckin'.'
vitti		That's different. It's colorful.
ben		Hey, speaking of colorful -- this peacock walks into a bar -- LAURA Oh, my god.  So. I see in the paper where Oklahoma! might win the Tony award.
ben's table		Nobody's hurt.   Vitti helps Sheila to her feet. BEN  What the hell was that? VITTI I think somebody's got it in for Raoul.
ben		Actually, I hear she was tough to live with. Lot of parties, loud music -- lepers. LAURA You don't need this in your life -- especially not now. You really need to be grieving for your father.
ben		I am. LAURA Really?   I haven't seen it. BEN Well, you know, it's a process. I mean, we had issues -- there's some anger -- but I'll work it out. Laura goes to Ben and embraces him. LAURA It's okay, honey. You can let it go.
65.		my desires. He looks at her expectantly.
laura		 I don't know what. She puts her arms around him and holds him. CUT TO: EXT. ROOFTOP - LATER THAT NIGHT Vitti and Jelly stand with the Gunman on the roof of the parking garage, four stories above the ground. The guy's arms are bound. Jelly ties a rope around his ankles. VITTI I'm gonna ask you once nicely.     Who you working for?
gunman		Fuck you. VITTI Fuck me?    Fine. Jelly? Jelly shoves the guy to the parapet at the edge of the roof, grabs him by the legs and hangs him over the side of the building. The guy screams. VITTI I'll ask you again.     Who you working for? The guy keeps screaming. JELLY He's screamin' too loud.     Hold on a second. Jelly swings the guy against the building, hitting his head and dazing him momentarily. JELLY Go ahead. VITTI Who are you working for?
66.		GUNMAN Nobody! VITTI Drop him, Jelly. GUNMAN Okay! Okay!    Rigazzi!   I'm working for Rigazzi! VITTI Pull him back up.
jelly		That's not what I heard. VITTI You heard what you wanted to hear. JELLY Okay, you got me there. CUT TO: EXT. RIGAZZI PLUMBING AND HEATING - NEXT MORNING A "family" business in Jersey. CUT TO: INT. BACK ROOM - NEXT MORNING The light from outside barely penetrates the painted windows of the shabby office. LOU RIGAZZI, aka "Lou the Wrench," the aging boss of the Rigazzi family, sits in the half-light as a couple of his soldiers enter with the battered and hobbling Gunman between them. RIGAZZI What the hell happened to you?
67.		GUNMAN Vitti threw me off a roof. RIGAZZI Vitti? You talked to Vitti?     What did you say to him? GUNMAN Nothing. I didn't tell him anything. Mr. Rigazzi, can I go -- I think my leg's broken.
rigazzi		That must hurt. Rigazzi pulls out a GUN with a silencer and SHOOTS the Gunman. RIGAZZI I hate to see people in pain.  He's a hard man to kill. But he's not immortal. Our time will come. CUT TO: EXT. BACK-YARD SWIMMING POOL - DAY A big, family barbecue is going on in a back yard in Queens. Several children are splashing in an over-sized, above-ground swimming pool. Oddly, the children appear to be shouting and laughing but make no sound. At the barbecue, Nicky Caesar is watching his friend MELLO turn Italian sausage on the grill. CAESAR I like mine burnt. MELLO I don't know how you like your sausage? Twenty fuckin' years we been doin' this. So you got the money? The wind shifts and blows the smoke from the barbecue in their faces.
68.		CAESAR  Cut! Can you do something about the fucking smoke?
vitti		Yeah, this is real authentic. RAOUL  It's a pleasure, mate.
69.		VITTI  Mate? I don't believe this! You're an English guy? You ain't even Italian. TONY BELLA Australian-Italian. We got some paisans down under. VITTI Down under what?
raoul		 How incredible is this? Paul tells me they watch the show in Sing Sing! TONY BELLA Fantastic!    That's so fuckin' great. VITTI I wouldn't wet my pants over it.      They watch 'Supermarket Sweep,' too. Raoul laughs hard.
vitti		You laugh too much. TONY BELLA So, Paul, you going to join us? Vitti looks around, his future plans now beginning to form. VITTI Yeah.    You got a good setup here. TONY BELLA Great.   See you later then. He exits.   Vitti turns to Raoul. VITTI Coupla things, though. I don't know who makes these decisions, but some of this, it don't look right. RAOUL  I sensed it myself. Which elements strike you as wrong? VITTI The people mainly. I mean, you got a boss who speaks Australian. What the fuck is that? And I'm guessing your
70.		background is -- what? RAOUL The theater, mostly.
vitti		Yeah, the theater. So how about if I bring in some guys that I know -- you know, more 'authentic.' RAOUL I would be eternally grateful. Anything else? VITTI  I'll put that in the works right now. He hurries off to talk to his assistant.   Jelly comes up to Vitti.
jelly		You really gonna do this? VITTI No fuckin' way. I've had it with this job bullshit. A week of this and I'd either shoot myself or shoot Raoul. But it's good cover while I figure out my next move. Call the guys. JELLY You got it. CUT TO: MONTAGE Jelly and Vitti's old crew, MO-MO, BIGS, TUNA, EDDIE COKES, and eight or nine other wiseguys walk en masse into base camp. Vitti's guys go to the front of the lunch line, forcing the crew aside. A big, pop-out trailer labeled "Mr. Vitti," guarded by three of his guys. Tuna brings a lunch tray and knocks on the door. Jelly opens the door and takes the tray. Vitti conferring with Raoul and Tony Bella on the script,
71.		ripping out whole sections. Vitti in the makeup trailer getting a haircut and manicure while he smokes a cigar and talks on his cell phone.
masiello		You're the shrink who's taking care of Paul Vitti? BEN Yes, sir. That's right.  Meaning -- he -- fails to conform to societal norms with respect to -- lawful behavior. MASIELLO I'm getting a fuckin' headache here.
73.		What are you saying? BEN He's got a -- criminal temperament.
masiello		 He's a criminal? This is news? And for that you need a doctor degree? So what are you doin' with him?
ben		Well, I'm trying to at least show him the possibility of change -- PATTY Wrong.   You do not want him to change. Ben looks at her, sensing her command of the group. BEN We haven't really been introduced -- MASIELLO This is Mrs. LoPresti.
patty		Patty. BEN Ben Sobel. Ben offers his hand but she ignores it. PATTY Ben, Paul Vitti is important to this family. We don't want to see you turn him into a stromboni. BEN A stromboni? That thing they clean the ice with at hockey games? MASIELLO That's a Zamboni, asshole.   Stromboni. PATTY It's a bull with his balls cut off. She reaches under the table and grabs Ben's balls.    He winces in pain. BEN  No, we don't want to do that.
patty		Not unless you want to be one, too.
ben		 Then do the right thing, understand?
ben		 Yes, I understand completely. May I go now? I have perishables -- He takes his groceries and edges away. CUT TO: INT. "LITTLE CAESAR" SET - DAY Vitti is sitting at a table with Jelly and some of his main guys. From a distance it looks like they're playing cards. Up close it's a different story.
vitti		We're gonna need a grapple or a crane with maybe a fifty-foot boom. MO-MO I seen one -- in Bayonne -- but I'll call around. VITTI See what you can come up with.   And we're gonna need a city bus. JELLY I got a guy in the Transit Authority. He owes me. Just let me know when. PATTY  Paul!   Hello! Vitti turns to see Patty, Eddie Devol and his men heading across the set. PATTY I guess everybody's gone Hollywood, huh? VITTI How you doin', Patty.
75.		PATTY Jelly -- you're working here, too? JELLY I'm an extra. PATTY An extra what? JELLY A supernumerary. An 'atmosphere.' It ain't bad. You just stand around all day waitin' for them to shoot and they pay you eighty bucks. PATTY Eighty bucks? For standin' around all day? You used to sneeze eighty bucks. How much you make shootin' craps? JELLY Today?   About eight hundred maybe. PATTY And how about bookin' bets for the Teamsters and the crew?
jelly		Another grand. One of the producers really likes the ponies. PATTY So eighteen hundred bucks. JELLY Plus eighty -- PATTY I know -- extra. They all laugh. An ASSISTANT DIRECTOR approaches the group. ASSISTANT DIRECTOR This is a closed set. We're about to start shooting. EDDIE Yeah?    So am I. Eddie grabs the Assistant Director and walks him away. CUT TO: EXT. "LITTLE CAESAR" BASE CAMP - SAME TIME
76.		The trucks and trailers are arranged on a parking lot.   A car pulls up and Lou Rigazzi gets out with his bodyguards. DRIVER Should I wait here, Mr. Rigazzi? RIGAZZI No, pull the car up your ass and wait there. CUT TO:
77.		PATTY You're a good friend, Paul. And I would never think of insisting on this, but I'd feel better if you brought in Eddie and some of my guys to help with the job. VITTI I don't think so. PATTY Then I'll have to insist.
vitti		Whatever. Raoul approaches and eyes Patty disdainfully. RAOUL Oh, dear God. First of all, sweetheart, we're not shooting the hooker scene until tomorrow. And the hair -- please, what is that? PATTY Excuse me?
vitti		Raoul, this is a friend of mine. Patty LoPresti. Raoul freezes, recognizing the name. RAOUL Mrs. LoPresti -- I am so very, very Raoul wheels on a production assistant who happens to be passing by. RAOUL How dare you not inform me Mrs. LoPresti was on the set. You're fired!  Enjoy your visit with us. If there's anything I can do -- PATTY Go fuck yourself. RAOUL Immediately. Raoul moves away quickly.   Patty turns back to Vitti. PATTY It's good to have you back, Paul.
78.		 We'll be in touch.
79.		Raoul freezes. RAOUL  Please, forgive me. I'm on painkillers -- half the time I don't know what I'm saying.
vitti		 This way. CUT TO: EXT. CRAFT SERVICES TABLE - MOMENTS LATER Vitti and Rigazzi stand at the table.     Rigazzi's soldiers are nearby. RIGAZZI The guy who shot at you -- he was acting on his own. I never gave an order. VITTI Is that right? RIGAZZI And he's been taken care of. There won't be another incident. Unless you're thinkin' of workin' for Patty LoPresti. VITTI Me?    No. RIGAZZI Good.    Then I got no beef with you.
vitti		Thanks.    I'll sleep much better.
rigazzi		Because   that would not be the way to go. You    want to back a winner, which is gonna   be me. It only makes sense. You come   work for us. I'll treat you right. VITTI I don't think so. RIGAZZI  Well, so much for sleeping better. Rigazzi smiles and pats Vitti's cheek, then exits with his soldiers. CUT TO: INT. EXTRAS HOLDING TENT - SAME TIME Ben walks in and sees Vitti's guys sitting around.
jelly		Hey, Dr. Sobel? BEN Jelly, hi.  Hey! Yo-Yo! JELLY It's Mo-Mo. BEN Right. I was thinking of the cellist. How's it going? MO-MO Goin' good. I did a 'Law and Order' last week, I had a line on 'Sex and the City' -- TUNA I'm up for a recurring on 'NYPD Blue.' BEN That's great.    Have you seen Paul? JELLY Yeah, I think he's in his camper.
81.		BEN His camper. CUT TO:
ben		No, what are   you doing here? I came to tell you   we have a preliminary meeting with   your parole officer and who do I run   into? Patty LoPresti. VITTI Patty who? BEN What is this -- a knock-knock joke? Patty-who-kidnapped-me-and-threatened- to-cut-off-my-balls. Stop lying to me, Paul. Your whole gang is here.
vitti		Who says I'm lying? I finally    get a straight job and start putting   my life in order and you come in here   and start accusing me! That's how    much you trust me? BEN  It's not that   I don't trust you, I just don't --   trust you.   Are you lying to me?    Because I know you, Paul. You'll    say or do anything to get your own   way. VITTI This is what's so hard about being an ex-con. You make one little mistake in your life and people never let you forget it. BEN Oh, so now you're the victim?    I want the truth. VITTI Wait a second.    Say that again.
82.		BEN Say what? VITTI 'I want the truth.'   Say it -- like you did just now. BEN I want the truth? VITTI No, strong, like before.
ben		 I want the truth! VITTI Yeah, that's good! BEN Paul -- VITTI No, I'm serious. That had power. I believed it. You could be an actor.
ben		I'm not an actor -- VITTI Hey, you're as good as most of the bums I see around here. They have this part. You could do it. BEN Actually, I did The Music Man in tenth grade. VITTI Of course.   I'm gonna talk to Raoul. BEN About being on the show?   I couldn't - - VITTI No, this part you could do.   It's perfect. Believe me. CUT TO: EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY  The camera rolls.
83.		ASSISTANT DIRECTOR We're rolling. SOUNDMAN Sound speed. RAOUL  Action!
84.		Vitti is laughing. BEN Oh, screw you, Paul.   Just screw you.
ben		Don't worry about me. Just worry about what you're going to say to this parole officer. What are you going to say? That you've moved out of my house. That you've got your old gang back together. For what, a high school drop-out reunion? VITTI I'm gonna say that's none of his fuckin' business. BEN It's my business. I want to know. I'm a federal institution. VITTI  You recognize that car? BEN Which car? VITTI The one that's been following us the last mile and a half. Ben jerks his head around to look and sees a black Mercedes behind him. VITTI Lose 'em. BEN What do you mean, 'lose 'em'? Vitti stomps his foot down on Ben's, flooring the accelerator. CUT TO: EXT. HOBOKEN STREET - CONTINUOUS ACTION
85.		Ben's car speeds up suddenly. The black Mercedes behind him speeds up, too, as does a third car that has joined the chase.
cut back to:		INT. BEN'S CAR - CONTINUOUS ACTION Ben is on the edge of panic. BEN Maybe I should just pull over.   It could be the F.B.I. VITTI No, they're two cars back. You gotta be a little more observant, Doc. Turn left. Ben executes a hard, SKIDDING left.   The Benz stays right with him. BEN What if we just stop and get out? They're not going to shoot us in broad daylight.
vitti		Broad daylight's the best time. You can see better. Take a right. Now!
87.		CUT TO: INT. BEN'S CAR - CONTINUOUS ACTION
cut to:		BENZ DRIVER'S POV
ben		 -- screwed.
cut to:		EXT. RIVERBANK - LATER Police divers search for the sunken Mercedes in the middle of the channel. On shore, Ben leans against a government car looking tired and distraught while Chapin berates him. CHAPIN Where is he, Dr. Sobel? BEN I wish I knew. CHAPIN Well, considering that he's in your custody, that's not quite the answer I was looking for. He's got something big in the works. You want to tell me what you know? BEN I don't know anything. As far as I can tell, he's making a real effort to go straight. CHAPIN Yeah, that's why I've got two corpses at the bottom of the river. He reaches through the open car window into his briefcase and pulls out a file of photographs. CHAPIN Here. Vitti with Sal Masiello. Vitti with Patty LoPresti. Vitti with Lou Rigazzi. Let me know -- I can order some wallet size for you. I've got more than enough to put him away again without these. Violation of parole, second-degree murder here. When I really start digging, it'll be amazing
90.		what I come up with. You have twenty- four hours to find him and deliver him to me. Otherwise you're looking at obstruction of justice, and accessory to felony manslaughter. And trust me, Dr. Sobel, if you don't like me now, you really don't want to see me in court. BEN I'm getting that.   Can I go now?
vitti		No, I gotta go. P.A. He said it was important. VITTI  I'm looking for something to do when my character finds out he's being indicted. I was thinking of punching the wall, but I did that when they killed Uncle Lenny, and I did it again
92.		when Franny left me. Oh, and I punched a car, a van actually, when Peezee screwed up the big drug deal. So I'd like to find something different, that doesn't involve, you know, punching anything. VITTI Try kickin' something.   Let me know how it works out. Vitti starts for the door.
tony bella		Wait, Paul.   That's interesting.    Like what? VITTI  I don't know. You could yell real loud?
93.		TONY BELLA Yell real loud? That's original. VITTI  Okay, you can cut that shit out right now.
tony bella		Okay, you can cut that shit out right now. VITTI  Hey, I'm serious, asshole! TONY BELLA Hey, I'm serious, asshole! CUT TO: EXT. MAKEUP TRAILER - MOMENT LATER The door flies open and Tony Bella comes flying out of the trailer backwards, hitting the pavement hard. Vitti charges out of the trailer and storms away. Tony wipes blood from under his nose. TONY BELLA That was good.     My character could do that. CUT TO: EXT. SOBEL HOUSE - LATER A cab pulls up to the house, and Ben gets out.
94.		He walks up the driveway and sees Jelly's car parked at the back door and a big man in a dark suit and tie wiping the windshield.
ben		 Jelly!   Where's Paul? The guy in the suit turns.   It's Michael. BEN Michael?   What are you doing?
michael		Working. BEN  I'm working for Mr. Vitti.   I'm his driver.
ben		Oh, no, you're not! MICHAEL You keep telling me to get a job! BEN I meant making sandwiches at the Subway, not driving a getaway car! MICHAEL He's paying me twenty dollars an hour. BEN I don't care if he pays you two hundred an hour, you're not doing it. MICHAEL Dad -- BEN He had no right to ask you without my permission. Where is he? MICHAEL I can't tell you. BEN What do you mean you can't tell me?
michael		I promised I'd never repeat anything I heard in the car. I took an oath.
ben		You took an oath! Oh, my God!     Was there blood involved? MICHAEL Dad, I gave my word.
ben		Tonight, I hope. I just have to find him and -- LAURA Why? A few days ago you weren't even sure you still wanted to be a therapist. Now you're going to risk your life again for that lout. BEN Yeah, but he's an amazing lout, isn't he? I can't quit now. You know that. LAURA  Go.   Just don't get shot -- please? BEN I love you. They kiss.     Then Ben turns to Michael. BEN All right, where is he? MICHAEL I can't.
96.		LAURA  Okay!   I dropped him at the club. BEN What club?
michael		Little Darling's in Queens. BEN Okay, Mafiaboy, give me your car keys. MICHAEL I'm grounded? BEN No, I'm borrowing your car. He kisses Laura again and takes off.
cut to:		EXT. LITTLE DARLING'S - LATER THAT NIGHT Several limos are parked outside a family-owned nightclub in Queens. Ben pulls up, leaning way back in the driver's seat of Michael's, half-painted, modified '82 Honda Civic with the BUBBLING MUFFLERS. CUT TO: INT. CIVIC - CONTINUOUS ACTION Ben takes out a bottle of pills. He tries to remove the child-safety cap but his hands are shaking so badly he can't do it. Frustrated, he tries to bite the cap off, then gives up and throws the bottle away. CUT TO:
97.		CUT TO: INT. CLUB ENTRANCE - MOMENT LATER
ben		Jelly! JELLY  A ten and five ones -- when you have the chance. He turns around to talk to Jelly, but he's already gone. Ben finds Jelly at a table with Vitti. BEN Okay, Paul, what's going on?
vitti		 What are you doing here?
ben		I could ask you the same thing. VITTI What's it look like? We're just blowin' off a little steam. What's the big deal?
99.		VITTI You better get out of here. BEN  Don't make me hurt you.    Get the fuck out of here. He walks away leaving Ben frozen. Ben watches as they disappear through a door leading to the back of the club. He starts toward the door. CUT TO: INT. BASEMENT ROOM - MOMENTS LATER Vitti is seated at a big table in the crowded, smoke-filled room. Jelly sits at  his side. He's surrounded by his crew, about a half-a-dozen guys, and Patty's man, Eddie DeVol. Several street maps and diagrams are spread out on the table. VITTI Okay, this is big and we only get one shot at it; and there's only about a million ways this fuckin' thing can go bad, so listen up. Vitti pulls a street map to the center of the table and taps a spot downtown. VITTI The Federal Gold Depository in Lower Manhattan. Three times a year a shipment of gold bars goes in a heavily-guarded armored truck from the Depository to the vault at the Federal Reserve to hold for foreign governments that trade in bullion. At three o'clock in the morning -- eight hours from now --we're gonna hijack that truck. CUT TO: INT. LITTLE DARLING'S - SAME TIME Ben enters the back room of the club, looks around, and starts down the stairwell leading to the basement.
cut to:		INT. BASEMENT STAIRWAY - MOMENTS LATER
enormous bobby		I found this guy listening at the door. BEN  Hi, Carol. AL PACINO You're a dead man, asshole.    Let's go.
101.		He starts muscling Ben to the door. VITTI What are you doing?
eddie		What do you think? He can make every guy in this room. BEN Oh, I'm not into that, fellas.
vitti		Get your fuckin' hands off him!   He's with me. EDDIE What, on the job? Vitti hesitates. EDDIE  Okay.    Go ahead. CUT TO: EXT. LITTLE DARLING'S - LATER THAT NIGHT Agents Cerrone and Miller watch the front of the club from their car parked across the street.
cerrone		 I wonder what it costs to keep that many limos waiting for three-and-a- half hours.
their pov		A dozen men looking like Vitti and his crew come out of the club and get into the limos.
103.		 Call it off. We lost them. CUT TO:
jelly		This ain't Bloomingdale's. Nobody knew you were comin'. You're lucky you're alive, Doc. He glances at Eddie DeVol. BEN  Can you handle an M-16? He holds up an automatic rifle. BEN You mean shoot it? JELLY No, I mean twirl it like a fuckin' baton. How about an A.K.?
ben		 If we can, I'm gonna   get you out before the real shit   goes down. Just don't flip out on me,   okay?
105.		BEN You are making a huge mistake.   You know that, don't you?
vitti		You said it yourself.   It's my nature. BEN It's not your nature!   You have a choice. VITTI What are you, fucking Jiminy Cricket? I don't know what planet you live on, but here on Earth it's 'might makes right.'   Read the papers. The guys with the guns make the rules. BEN  Okay. Vitti walks off. CUT TO: INT. BATHROOM - SAME TIME Vitti comes in, locks the door and has a full-blown panic attack -- gasping for breath, sweating, whimpering, trying to stifle his panic. Then he sees his tortured face in the mirror and starts pulling himself together. CUT TO: INT. WAREHOUSE - FEW MINUTES LATER The guys are getting into the trucks. Ben keeps letting everybody go in front of him, then starts to back away, but Eddie and Enormous Bobby come up behind him and push him up into the truck.
106.		The big doors open and two trucks roll out carrying Vitti, Ben and the crew. CUT TO:
cut to:		EXT. ANOTHER STREET - SAME TIME
spotter		He looks down on the convoy from a vantage point on a scaffold high above the street. When the trucks are in the right position, he waves to Vitti on the ground. VITTI sees the signal. VITTI  Go! CUT TO: EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS ACTION A forty-foot, flat-bed trailer truck loaded with cement conduit backs across the street and stops, blocking the path of the convoy. The lead SUV HONKS. The truck doesn't move. The CAPTAIN of the marshals gets out and walks up to the truck. The driver has slipped out the other side and disappeared. Suddenly, a huge steel claw drops down from above and closes around the top of the armored truck, its sharp points crunching into the metal sides. Then the truck starts rising off the pavement. A couple of determined marshals jump out of their vehicles, race over and grab onto the bumpers as the armored truck is lifted off the ground. CUT TO: EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - CONTINUOUS ACTION A hundred-foot tower crane lifts the truck straight up. The marshals hang on as long as they can, then prudently let go and drop heavily to the street. Two marshals are still clinging to the truck as it rises to a height of thirty feet, then swings silently over the perimeter fencing.
108.		INT. CONSTRUCTION SITE A bank of arc lights is switched on illuminating the site as the truck is lowered to the ground. Heavily-armed gangsters in ski masks surround the truck and herd the driver, the shotgun guard and the frightened marshals into a construction shack, while men with acetylene torches attack the back doors. Vitti pulls down his ski mask and taps Ben. BEN Paul, it's not too late.   Don't do this. VITTI Let's go. He strides off to take charge. Ben pulls down his mask and hurries after him, but runs right into a pole. BEN Shit!   Ow! He raises his mask and scampers after Vitti rubbing the painful bump on his forehead.
cut to:		EXT. STREET - SAME TIME The marshals run around, frantically searching for a way into the construction site. CUT TO:
vitti		Totally in charge, he strides up to the armored truck just as his men finish cutting through the steel plate doors. Vitti yanks the doors open.. Vitti and Ben stare in awe at the exposed contents of the truck -- a fortune in gold bars. VITTI  You know, this might just fuckin' work.
109.		BEN You're gonna get in so much trouble. CUT TO:
ben		How much is that? VITTI $350 an ounce, 16 ounces in a pound, 90 pounds in each bar -- do the math. JELLY  Actually, gold is measured in troy ounces. 14.6 ounces to the pound. That would be... $18,396,000. BEN Really? JELLY Give or take. He hears a LOUD CRASH and all eyes turn to the gates.
110.		BEN Well, so much for not peeing in my pants.
cut to:		INT. CONSTRUCTION SITE The big, wooden GATES SHUDDER but Vitti's men roll two enormous earthmovers up to reinforce the gates. BEN You know what you said about not flipping out? VITTI Yeah?
ben		Sorry.  What did I do? What did I do? I had a perfect life, I threw it away. VITTI Don't do this. Vitti drags him off toward the building structure. BEN I can't help it! My life is over! I'm going to jail. Some people can handle prison -- I'm not one of them. I have delicate features. I'm small. I'll be way too popular! VITTI Calm down. BEN I can't calm down!      I'm gonna die! Inside the structure, Vitti spins him around and shakes him. VITTI You're not gonna die!
111.		BEN I can't breathe! I'm suffocating! VITTI  I'm sorry, Paul. I blame myself for this. I wanted to help you. I wanted to be there for you. But I just wasn't good enough.
vitti		You were good.  It isn't your fault. BEN No, it is. Since my father died --  I've lost my way. I don't know anything anymore. I mean, what's the point? I didn't think it would hit me so hard -- VITTI Would you just shut up about your father! BEN I'm grieving, goddammit!    Have a little respect! VITTI He was an asshole -- you said it yourself. What are you grieving for? BEN I'm grieving for myself, you fucking idiot! Ben lets it all go, sobbing for all the years of pain.
112.		VITTI  Jeez, I'm sorry.
ben		Now I know how you must have felt when your father was killed. Vitti looks at him. BEN  I know. I know. Jelly comes around the corner and sees the two men in a weepy embrace. JELLY Oh, boy.    This is bad.
113.		Another huge CRASH as the marshals ram the gates again, this time tearing loose one of the big hinges. JELLY Maybe we oughta should go. Vitti, Ben and Jelly run to the bus, but Eddie pulls a gun and stops them. Al and Bobby cover Jelly and the rest of the crew. Vitti backs away slowly. EDDIE Did you really think you were gonna live through this? VITTI I had my hopes. EDDIE Yeah, well, nice work.   Mr. Rigazzi will be very grateful. BEN  I can't take it anymore! That's what I hate about you fucking sociopaths! You just keep changing the rules to suit yourselves. Well, not this time, you anti-social asshole. You fucked with the wrong shrink! Sitting on Eddie's chest, he presses the gun against Eddie's nose. BEN Don't you read the papers?   The guy
114.		with the gun makes the rules. VITTI Yeah, what?
raoul		I have a permit! CAPTAIN I don't give a shit about your permit! The ASSISTANT DIRECTOR addresses the TV crew. ASSISTANT DIRECTOR All right, people. Back to one and let's try it again!  Release the traffic and reset for another take. On the perimeters of the set, the PA's signal the off-duty cops who work the set to release the real traffic they've been holding on the cross streets. A city bus passes behind Raoul and Tony Bella who are still screaming at the Federal Marshal. CUT TO: EXT. 11TH AVENUE - MINUTES LATER In mid-block, SWAT cops step into the street and wave the bus to a halt.
116.		CUT TO: INT. BUS - SAME TIME
lead swat		You! BEN Yes, Officer? LEAD SWAT You're one tough shrink. The cops unmask. It's Mo-Mo, Cokes, and Tuna.     They laugh and slap hands with Vitti and Ben. CUT TO:
ben		Five minutes?    And then what?
vitti		And then what?    I'll show you. CUT TO: EXT. RIGAZZI PLUMBING AND HEATING - NEXT MORNING A Rigazzi company van is forced open by a team of FBI agents led by Agent Miller. Stacked inside are forty gold bars. Agent Cerrone comes out of the building with Lou Rigazzi and several associates in handcuffs. U.S. Attorney Chapin makes a statement to the media. CHAPIN Acting on intelligence we developed in the last few days, the Justice Department and the F.B.I. took very aggressive action to recover the stolen gold and bring the perpetrators to justice. I'm happy to tell the people of New York that the streets are safe again. CUT TO: EXT. PATTY'S HOUSE - SAME TIME Vitti knocks on the front door.    Patty answers it in her robe. PATTY Hi, Paul.   How'd it go? VITTI Not so good. PATTY Yeah, I heard. It's all over the television. I never should've trusted Eddie. But, you know, a woman alone in the world is very vulnerable. VITTI Yeah, I know. PATTY At least I don't have to worry about the Rigazzis no more. Thanks to you. VITTI I told you -- I just want to be left
118.		alone. PATTY I know. I'll make sure. How about some breakfast? I could make you some waffles and -- whatever else you want. She adjusts her robe, providing Vitti a quick peek. VITTI Can't do that.
vitti		Yeah. BEN  Did she grab your balls? VITTI What kind of question is that? She's cool. She's just happy to have 'the Wrench' out of the way. BEN Well, I talked to the U.S. Attorney. VITTI Did he grab your balls? BEN No, Paul, he did not grab my balls. He thanked me for tipping him off about the gold. And he said he won't be coming after you if you stay out of trouble.  So what do you think? VITTI I'm gonna go to Ohio -- get Marie and the kids -- then we'll probably disappear for awhile -- figure out all
119.		this future stuff -- away from all the pressure. BEN Good idea. Change is hard, Paul.    But you did the right thing. VITTI Yeah, you, too. You hung in there. That took a lot of guts. BEN Well, I just -- VITTI No, you were like an animal back there. BEN I just vented my displaced aggression VITTI No. I'm telling you. You're a monster. I saw the beast in you. BEN I'm not a beast. I can handle myself if I have to -- VITTI Handle yourself? You were fuckin' John Wayne. BEN Well, I wrestled a bit in high school -- 122 pounds. VITTI Yeah, I could tell.   You're good, you. BEN I'm not -- VITTI Paul, I just -- VITTI No. You are good. You got a gift, my friend. Ben gives up. BEN Fine.   I have a gift. VITTI So -- happy ending, huh?
ben		Well, I think so.   Don't you feel better now?
vitti		Are you kidding? I feel like shit. All that work for nothing. 20 million bucks. BEN You're grieving -- it's a process.
vitti		Take it easy, Doc. BEN You, too, Paul. They embrace. Then Vitti starts to walk away toward Jelly who has been waiting at a respectful distance. Vitti stops and turns. VITTI Hey, Doc!  Somehow, someday, somewhere.' The ORCHESTRA SWELLS as we CRANE UP TO the Brooklyn Bridge and Lower Manhattan beyond. DISSOLVE TO: FADED 8MM COLOR HOME MOVIE FOOTAGE A little boy in a cowboy suit sitting on a pony as his father leads him around the ring. FADE OUT.
****Dialogues from script :Analyze_This.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY
wiseguy		You wanna be a ribeye?   Get away from the fuckin' car.
manetta		Anyway, Carlo Gambino came out of it capo de tutti capi, and that was the last time the whole commission tried to meet -- until now.
vitti		 I don't know. I don't like it. What do we need a meeting for? Let everybody worry about their own business.
manetta		The '57 meeting was about how we were going to divide up the whole country. This meeting is about how we're gonna survive. You got 'made' guys informing for the Feds; bosses going to jail; everybody's dealing drugs; people are getting whacked without permission. And on top of everything, now we got the Chinese Triads and these crazy Russians to deal with. Everything's changing. We need a leader. Someone with fresh ideas. Someone like you. It's gonna be a new century, Paul. We gotta change with the times.
vitti		What are we gonna get, a fuckin' web site?
manetta		You remember what else happened in 1957, Paul?
vitti		Yeah, I remember.
manetta		When your father died, I promised him I'd always look out for you. Come to the meeting. 
vitti		Wait a second. I'm just gonna grab a toothpick.
caroline		 I kept telling him that I needed room to grow and find myself as a person. Not just as a woman but as an independent entity.
caroline		I told him I needed to get in touch with my uniqueness, but he couldn't handle that. He said I was driving him away. Do you think I was driving him away, Dr. Sobol?
ben		Things end, Caroline. That's just a part of life. It's how we deal with things ending that's important.
caroline		I just can't believe it's over between me and Steve. Maybe there's still hope.
ben		Well, he did take out a restraining order against you. I have to be honest, that's usually not a good sign.
caroline		But what should I do?
ben		Well, Caroline, I think the first thing you have to do...  'Steve doesn't respect me. Steve doesn't love me anymore.' Who gives a shit! Get a fucking life! You are, without a doubt, the most boring human being I have ever met! Please, say something interesting before I lapse into a goddamn coma!
caroline		Dr. Sobol?
ben		Yes. Yes. I was just reflecting on your whole -- situation. It's very interesting what you were just saying. I want you to think about it, and I'm going to think about it, so we'll both think about it and we'll continue next week when I get back from my vacation.
ben		Or not.
michael		You're late.
ben		 I know. I couldn't get rid of my last patient. I think she was a tick in a past life.
michael		Yeah, what's Caroline's problem? Your boyfriend's gone, he hates your guts, get over it.
ben		Michael! What did I tell you? You can't listen to my sessions! It's private stuff.
michael		I can't help it. I hear you through the vent in my room.
ben		Funny how that happens when you lie on the floor and put your ear up against it.
michael		Okay, okay. How's that guy who dreams about shitting trout?
ben		 Fine. He moved up to striped bass. Put on your cummerbund. Boy, have you grown. Did your mother move next door to a nuclear power plant?
michael		 Why do we have to wear rented clothes to Grandpa's party? This blows.
ben		 Forget the tux. Regular clothes.
michael		 Are you ambivalent about Grandpa Isaac?
michael		Mom.
michael		Oh, yeah. She really cares. She says you're intimidated by women your own age, and that's why you go for these young babes.
ben		 Okay. Listen, for two seconds, pretend I'm not your father. I'm just some guy, okay?
michael		You gonna vent?
ben		Yeah.  Okay. Dad again. Let's go.
vitti		So what did you find out?
jelly		 The word is Primo Sindone must have ordered it, but, uh --
vitti		What?
vitti		What?
jelly		 A lot of people think you set him up.
vitti		Why the fuck would I want to kill Dominic? He was like a father to me.
jelly		So you could be the big boss. Everybody figures you're lookin' to wipe out the competition before the big meeting.
vitti		Oh, is that what they figure?
jelly		It's alright with me if you did --
vitti		I didn't kill him! I told you that! Don't you hear?
nicky		Please, Mr. Vitti, I told 'em I don't know anything but they don't believe me 'cause that one time I said Little Joe hit Dukey and it turned out he didn't but I didn't know because --
jimmy		 Shut the fuck up!
vitti		Nicky, you know me, right?
nicky		Yeah.   You're Mr. Vitti.
vitti		And you know what I'm gonna do to you if you lie to me, right?
nicky		Uh, you're gonna crack me on the head with that pipe?
jimmy		 It's a rhetorical question, you fuckin' idiot.
vitti		I'm only gonna ask you this one time. Who killed Dominic Manetta?
nicky		I don't know.
vitti		 Don't fuckin' lie to me!
nicky		 Honest to God, I don't know!
vitti		You little rat bastard...
vitti		Forget about it. He doesn't know anything.
vitti		Get him outta here.
ben		 Look at this. Everybody's nuts. Ooh, I hate walking into that house late.
michael		I think you're reacting like this because you're mad we have to go to this party.
ben		No. Don't. I'm not going to be analyzed by someone who up until a few years ago believed in Santa. Sorry, but we only have room for one Dr. Sobol in this family.
michael		But there's two Dr. Sobols. There's you and Grandpa.
ben		 Can we talk about something else?
michael		Are you going to read Grandpa's new book? Mom says you won't because you're...
ben		Does your mother talk about anything else or is it just me twenty-four hours a day?
ben		That's your mother's fault!   Your mother did that! Damn!
jimmy		 What's the matter with you?   Are you some kind of moron?
ben		I'm sorry.   It's totally my fault.
jimmy		Did you see anything?
ben		I was talking to my son.   I took my eyes off the road --
jimmy		Forget that bullshit.   Did you see anything?
jelly		That's all right, sir. It's our fault for being in front of you like that.
ben		 Well, I should have been watching. Let me give you my insurance information --
jelly		It's okay.   Forget about it.
ben		Really? It looks like your whole rear end might be screwed up.
jelly		No, it was like that before.
ben		Maybe we should call the police?
jelly		 Why?    Fuck the police.
ben		Right!   Fuck 'em.
ben		At least take my card. You might look at the damage in the morning and change your mind.
jelly		You're a doctor?
ben		Ph.D.    Psychologist.
jelly		A shrink. You talk to a lotta nuts, huh?
jelly		Pings and knocks. Cheap gas. Hey, how do those minivans handle?
jelly		Take it easy, Doc.
isaac		 All right, neurotics only! Well, you must have been a beautiful ba-a-by, 'cause baby look at you now, thank God for Prozac, baby look at you now!
ben		What do you mean you're not coming? It's my wedding.
dorothy		We understand it's a special day for you, Benny, but your father and I can't just pick up and leave town every time you decide to get married.
ben		Every time? This is a once-in-a- -- twice-in-a-lifetime thing.
ben		Dad, you're not coming to my wedding?
isaac		We want to be there, but I have three book signings next weekend. I can't piss off these big book stores. If I cancel, they'll stick me down on the bottom shelf. That's how they are.
ben		Yeah, that's the word on the street. The self-help book business is full of vindictive pricks.
dorothy		 Ben!   The language.
ben		I'm sorry, but I've been alone for eight years, now I've finally met someone I want to spend the rest of my life with and I would really like you to meet her before we get married. You're going to be her family. I think it's better she knows that up front.
isaac		You're really hostile tonight.
ben		I'm joking.
dorothy		 I think I'll go talk to the mayor.
ben		The mayor's here?
dorothy		I can only hope.
isaac		What's wrong?
ben		Nothing.   Everything's fine.
isaac		How's your practice?
ben		It's great. Just great. I've got some very interesting patients -- extremely interesting. Fascinating actually.
michael		Dad has a patient who dreams he shits trout.
ben		Thanks, Mike.
isaac		Excuse us, Michael.
isaac		Why are you wasting your time out there in the boondocks? New York City is the Mecca of Madness.
ben		I'm just not sure I could spend my life dealing with people whose biggest crisis is how to fire the maid.
isaac		It beats a guy with an ass full of flounder.
ben		Trout! And don't minimize my practice.
isaac		Why are you getting so defensive? This is about your own feelings of inadequacy.
ben		You always turn it back on me. Why do you do that?
isaac		Why do you think I do that?
ben		Why do you think I think you do that? Go ahead, now you ask me why I think you think I think you do that.
isaac		Enough. I want you to think about what I said. And when you're ready to talk to me like a normal person, I'll be at the piano with Regis Philbin.  Rege!
regis philbin		I'm not singing, Isaac!
isaac		Now, ladies and gentlemen, at the piano, Regis Philbin!
ben		 Thomas Wolfe was right. You can't go home again -- because your parents still live there.
masiello		The Manetta family is asking a lot of questions. They think we hit Dominic.
mangano		Forget Dominic! They were after Paul.  It's a miracle you survived. I thank God.
vitti		Yeah, thank God. All I know is if I didn't have some veal stuck in my teeth, I'd be laying there with Dominic.
johnny bigs		This is all about the big meeting. Primo Sindone wants to run the whole show.
mangano		Yeah, but Primo's a boss. He knows the rules. He couldn't go after Dominic and Paul unless the other families gave their permission.
vitti		 Talk to Zello and Baldassare. Find out what you can. We got two weeks. If the other New York bosses are against us, I want to know it before I walk into that meeting.
mangano		You all right, Paul? You don't look good.
vitti		I'm a little choked up here.   I gotta get some air.
jelly		You feel all right?
vitti		I feel like shit. This whole thing is like a huge fuckin' headache.
jelly		 You havin' one of those mindgrains?
vitti		Get the car.
doctor		Good news, Mr. Evans.   Your heart is just fine.
vitti		How could it be fine? I've had like eight heart attacks in the last three weeks.
doctor		Well, based on everything, I'd say you probably had an anxiety attack.
vitti		 What?
doctor		An anxiety attack. A panic attack. I can give you some Xanax if it happens again soon --
vitti		 Look at me. Do I look like a guy who panics?
doctor		 There's nothing -- I mean -- it's a common thing --
vitti		Where did you go to medical school? I had a heart attack, you quack bastard.
doctor		 Well, not according to these --
vitti		 Listen to me, jerk-off. I had a mild heart attack and now it's over. You understand?
vitti		If anyone asks you, you never saw me, and I was never here. Is that clear?
doctor		 Yes.
vitti		Good.  Take the chart.
vitti		Jelly, I need you to do something for me as my friend.
jelly		Anything.
vitti		You have to find me a doctor.
jelly		We just came from the doctor.
vitti		Not that kind of doctor.   I need a head doctor.
jelly		You're gonna change your face like Sonny Black? Don't get his nose though, he looks like a pig.
vitti		Not a plastic surgeon, ya spoostud. Do I have to spell everything out?
jelly		It saves time.
vitti		I need you to find me a psychiatrist.
jelly		Wow. This is like the Psychic Network or something. I just ran into a psychiatrist. Actually he ran into me.
vitti		Is he any good?
jelly		Yeah, he seemed like a smart guy. He had a business card and everything --
vitti		He had a card? That's a real fuckin' achievement.
jelly		What do you need a shrink for anyway?
vitti		It's not for me. It's for a friend. This friend is having some problems, so I'm going to ask the shrink some questions and get some answers for my friend.
jelly		Got it.
vitti		And nobody can know. If anyone hears I'm talking to a shrink, it could be interpreted the wrong way. You know what I mean?
jelly		Of course. Absolutely.  Can I ask you one thing?
vitti		What?
jelly		This friend.    Is it me?
ben		Carl, I'm detecting a pattern here. You seem to settle too easily for things.
carl		You're right.    I do.
ben		No, well, there you go. You just did it again. I suggested something and you immediately agreed.
carl		You're right.    I did.
ben		Why do you think you do that?
carl		I don't know.
ben		Well, sometimes people do it because they fear rejection or disapproval, but you can't let that worry you, Carl. And you can't agree with things just for the sake of agreeing. Stand your ground. Don't let people roll over you.
jelly		Dr. Sobol?
ben		Excuse me!    I'm in a session here.
jelly		Yeah, I know, I'm sorry.
ben		You're... You're one of the guys I rear-ended the other night.
jelly		Bingo.  Get outta here.
jelly		Upsa-daisy.   You got a coat, nutbar?
ben		What are you doing?
jelly		He's leaving.
ben		The hell he is. He's not going anywhere until we're done with his session.
jelly		 I'll give you a hundred bucks to get out of here.
ben		Don't take it, Carl.
jelly		 A hundred and fifty.
ben		He's not leaving.
carl		 Three hundred.
jelly		 You're not that fuckin' crazy.
ben		Listen, if you're upset about your car, I can understand that. But you don't just barge in here --
vitti		You know who I am?
ben		Yes.
vitti		No you don't.
ben		Okay.
vitti		You've seen my picture in the papers?
ben		Yes.    And no.    Sometimes.   Never.
vitti		Jelly, wait outside.
vitti		Sit down.
ben		Sure.
vitti		Tony Bennett, huh?
ben		Yeah.   He's my favorite.
ben		 Mr. Vitti, I tried to give the guy my insurance information, but he wouldn't take it. Seriously, I tried several times because it was all my please don't kill me.
vitti		I was just gonna ask if you liked baseball.
ben		Yes.   Big Yankee fan.
ben		Mr. Vitti. Not that it's your fault, but your friend, he interrupted a patient's session and that's -- not good. I think this is a matter for our insurance companies, don't you think?
vitti		I don't care about the car.
ben		Then what -- ?
vitti		A friend of mine is having a problem and he might have to see a shrink, so I'm going to ask you a couple questions. Do we sit?
ben		Whatever makes you comfortable.
vitti		Okay, the first thing I gotta know about is privacy. You must hear a lot of weird shit in here. How do I know you won't go testifying -- not testifying -- but, you know, talking about it to somebody else.
ben		I won't discuss a patient with anyone for any reason, unless I know the patient may be a danger to himself. Like if I'm concerned a patient might kill himself...
vitti		Not fuckin' likely --
ben		-- or kill someone else.
vitti		So who starts?
ben		Why don't you tell me why you think you need therapy?
vitti		I don't need therapy. I'm helping out my friend. You didn't hear me say that?
ben		Right.   I'm sorry.
vitti		You guys are supposed to be so great when it comes to listening. You can't remember what I said two seconds ago.
ben		I'm very sorry.
vitti		I have to tell you, Doc, I'm not thrilled with the level of service up to this point.
ben		Why don't you tell me about your friend?
vitti		He's a powerful guy. Never had a problem dealing with things, you know? Now all of a sudden, he's falling apart. He cries for no reason. He's having trouble sleeping. And then he started having these attacks. You know, can't breathe, dizzy, chest pains -- like you think you're gonna die.
ben		Panic attacks.
vitti		What's with all you doctors and the fuckin' panic? Did I say panic?
ben		Not panic. Dizzy -- breathing -- chest pain attacks.
vitti		Right. So the question is, what can he do to make it stop?
ben		I'm going to go out on a limb here. I think your friend is you.
vitti		You -- you -- you -- you have a gift, my friend. Go on.
ben		Medication could help, but if you really want to get to the bottom of this, you're going to want to get some kind of therapy.
vitti		With you?
ben		 With me? Oh, I don't know. I'd have to look at my schedule. I'm very heavily booked right now and I'm going on a short vacation tomorrow.
vitti		Where you going?
ben		I don't really share that information with...
vitti		Where?
ben		Miami Beach.
vitti		You know, this could be good. Just getting that off my chest, I feel better already. It's like a load is off my shoulders. Thank you.
ben		Well, I really didn't do anything --
vitti		You did something. The load? Off. Where is it? Don't know. You're good, Doctor. I'll be in touch. But listen to me.  If I talk to you and it turns me into a fag, I'll kill you. You understand?
ben		Could we define 'fag,' because some feelings may come up --
vitti		I go fag, you die. Got it?
ben		Yes.
ben		I hope you didn't leave any food in your room. I don't want to come home and find a science fair.
michael		I didn't.   Hey, Dad? One thing though.
ben		Yeah?
michael		I go fag, you die.
ben		Michael! That's it!      I am sealing that vent.
michael		You are so cool, Dad. Was that really Paul Vitti?
ben		 I didn't ask to see his Mafia decoder ring, but yeah, it was him. And you cannot tell anyone he was here. You understand?
michael		Should I take it off the internet?
ben		What?
michael		I'm kidding!
laura		So judging from the mob scene around the pool here today, I think you'd have to say that there's nothing 'off' about the 'off-season' in Miami Beach this summer. Now, on a personal note, this is my last report for W.V.B.F. I'm getting married to a wonderful man and moving to New York, so if you're up that way, watch for me on the W.P.I.X. news team. Thanks for everything, Miami.  For the last time, this is Laura MacNamara, W.V.B.F. news.
laura		Catch!
producer		We're clear.
laura		 Ben!
laura		This is him, everyone!    This is the guy!
ben		 Hi, everybody.
laura		 Oh, I missed you.
ben		I missed you too. Michael, say hello.
michael		Hi, Laura.
laura		 This is Michael? I don't think so. If I remember correctly, Michael was a little boy, and this, this is a great big kid. Hey, you. Tell us what you did with Michael Sobol.
laura		Okay. Come on. Give me a break. I'm trying.
michael		No, it was nice, but I'm fourteen so it wasn't -- you know -- age appropriate.
laura		 How are you, Michael?
michael		Great.
ben		Mike, you want to go look at the camera?
michael		Why would I want to look at the camera?
ben		'Cause I bet there's all kinds of cool video stuff over there. Why don't you check it out?
michael		 Is it okay?
laura		Go ahead. If you break something, don't worry. I'm out of here.
laura		You think he likes me?
ben		Michael?   He's crazy about you.   I am too.
laura		You are? And you still really want to get married?
ben		Of course.
laura		But what if you get tired of me? I know so many couples that were really happy, then they got married and just completely lost interest in each other.
ben		That's not going to be us.
laura		I just don't want to lose the passion.
ben		Yes, I'm brimming with passion. I'm up to here with passion.
laura		I want us to be like animals. You know just screaming and sweating and tearing at each other all the time --
ben		The sweating shouldn't be a problem. The tearing sounds painful.
sound guy		 Uhh, Laura? You want me to take your mic, or at least turn it off?
laura		Oh my God.
sheila		Oh, yes. Oh, yes.  Is everything okay, Paul?
vitti		What are you talking for?   I'm trying to do this here.
sheila		You seem -- distracted.
vitti		I got things on my mind.    Stop talking.
sheila		Okay, I'm sorry. Just relax, baby.
sheila		 Were you thinking about your wife?
vitti		No, I wasn't thinking about my wife.  Now I'm thinking about my wife. Goddamn it, Sheila, why can't you keep your mouth shut!
sheila		 I'm sorry, Paul.
ben		Mom?
jelly		Mr. Vitti wants to see you.   I have your robe.
vitti		I got news for you. I'm still fucked up. Whatever you did the other day, it didn't take. You did nothing for me.
ben		 That got away from me near the end.
vitti		I couldn't get it up tonight.
ben		 You mean sexually?
vitti		No, I mean for the big game against Michigan State. Of course sexually!
ben		You flew fifteen hundred miles and dragged me out of bed in the middle of the night because you couldn't get an erection?
vitti		Doesn't that prove I'm motivated?
ben		You can take a pill for that, you know.
vitti		No, that's a cheat. You start with the pills, next thing you know you got implants with pumps. I think a hard-on should be gotten legitimately or not at all.
ben		Did you see that embroidered on a pillow somewhere?
vitti		Are you gonna help me or not?
ben		I don't believe this. All right. Has this happened before?
vitti		The dead dick thing? Never. Well, one time. Tonight. And another time.
ben		So twice?
vitti		Do the math. Two times.  There was another time. But it was after a big meal, so, you know, that don't count.
ben		Listen, being unable to perform three or four times --
vitti		Five.
ben		Five times -- it isn't the end of the world.
vitti		Maybe not to you -- look at you -- but if I can't get it up, that makes me less of a man and I can't have that. 
ben		 Okay.
vitti		I have until the end of the week to get strong or they're gonna eat me up. If they don't kill me in the meantime.
ben		What happens next week?
vitti		I can't tell you and you don't want to know.
ben		It's impossible. I can't do anything that fast. And even if I could, what's my goal here? To make you a happy, well-adjusted gangster?
vitti		Look, the other day I saw a commercial on television, some kid playing with a couple of puppies. I cried for 45 minutes. Slap a pair of tits on me, I'm a woman!
ben		I'm sorry.   I can't help you.
vitti		You're turning me down?
ben		Mr. Vitti, when I got into family therapy, this was not the family I had in mind. I'm turning you down.
vitti		You with your schmucky little office in your schmucky little house out there in Schmuckville -- you're turning me down? What, so you can spend more time listening to housewives piss and moan about how nobody fucks them right?
ben		I'd like to go now.
vitti		 You see this? This is what I'm talking about! I'm a dead man!
vitti		 You call yourself a doctor? You should be ashamed. A real doctor couldn't turn his back on a person who's suffering!
ben		 What happened with your wife tonight?
vitti		 I wasn't with my wife. I was with my girlfriend.
ben		You have a girlfriend? We could do two months on that alone.
vitti		What, you're gonna start moralizing with me now?
ben		Okay. Do you have marriage problems?
vitti		No.
ben		Then why do you have a girlfriend?
vitti		I do things with her I can't do with my wife.
ben		Why can't you do those things with your wife?
vitti		Hey. That's the mouth she kisses my children good night with. What's the matter with you?
ben		Okay, okay. Have you been under a lot of stress lately?
vitti		You mean like seeing your best friend murdered? Yeah, I got stress.
ben		Well, based on what you told me before about your attacks, I'd say that's probably it then.
vitti		It's just stress?
ben		I doubt if there's anything physically wrong with you.
vitti		 You.   You. You're very good.
ben		There's a lot more to it --
vitti		No, you're right. You're right on the money. I can feel the juices rushing back to my manhood as we speak.
ben		Well, I didn't need to know that.
vitti		This settles it. You're my shrink.
ben		I can't treat you, Mr. Vitti. I don't think you're really ready to open up and deal with --
vitti		Listen to you. The honesty. Nobody -- and I mean nobody -- talks to me like this. I'm ready. Let's do it.
ben		You don't hear the word 'no' that often, do you?
vitti		I hear it all the time. Only it's more like, 'No, no, please, no!'
ben		 All right. I'm here for two more days. When we get back to New York, I'll treat you exclusively for two weeks. I just need to figure out what to tell my other patients.
vitti		You want me to clear your schedule for you?
ben		No thanks, I'll handle it.   Now can I go?
vitti		Thank you.
laura		What is wrong with you? I woke up, you were gone, no note or anything. I've been going out of my mind, Ben. I walked all over the hotel looking for you. I almost called the police!
ben		Okay, listen. I'm going to tell you the truth. I had a serious patient emergency.
laura		You have patients in Florida?
ben		Just one. He followed me here from New York. I had to go.
laura		Who is this patient?
ben		Paul Vitti!  Paul Vitti.
laura		 Oh, Ben.
ben		I know.    But don't worry. It's not like   he's a real patient. He's got   this idea in his head that I'm   helping him. It's crazy.
laura		You're not going to treat him.
ben		No.
laura		Tell me you're not.
ben		I'm not!
laura		That would be too scary. You don't want a person like that in your life, believe me. I've covered the mob down here. I've seen what they can do.
ben		Listen, it's been taken care of. I told him I couldn't see him again. He understood and it's over.
laura		You sure?
laura		 I was so worried.
moony		It doesn't figure. We take out Manetta, what does Vitti do? Nothing. Why doesn't he move?
sindone		Fuck him.
moony		I'm telling you, Primo, he's planning something big. The shit is really gonna come down.
sindone		Then let it come down. Vitti's a tough guy but a lot of tough guys got fed to the crabs off Red Hook over the years.  You been down there a long time. Are you measuring my inseam or contemplating a lifestyle change?
moony		Primo?   What about Vitti?
sindone		Vitti. Vitti. The whole time we were growing up, he was the smart guy; I was the dope. My father was a nickel-and-dime shitheel; his father had it all. Vito Genovese blew it at Apalachin because he forgot to kill Gambino before the meeting. 
handsome jack		You got it, Primo.
laura		 Come on. Get into it.
ben		I don't understand. They jump out of the water, they splash, they eat fish. It's not a real stretch for a whale. If they did a number from West Side Story, then I'd be into it.
laura		Just stop.  We're having fun, right?
michael		Well, to be real honest. I'm not having as much fun as it looks like I am. I'm pretending, you know, because we have to bond and everything.
ben		 You've got to admire the openness.
michael		 Here comes the whale again!
jimmy		Fuck me!
ben		 I'm hungry. Yeah, I'm going to get a hot dog. Who wants a hot dog?
michael		 I'll go with you.
ben		No, I'll go. You're pretending to have a good time. I don't want to spoil that. Be right back.
ben		What is this?    Are you guys following me?
jimmy		Fuckin' fifteen-hundred dollar suit. You think the whales piss in that water?
jelly		No, I think they use the men's room next door at the Burger King.  Mr. Vitti wants to see you.
ben		Is this a joke?
jelly		You're an employee of Mr. Vitti's. That means you're on call twenty- four hours a day just like the rest of us.
ben		No, he and I discussed this. I told him I'd see him when I got got back to New York.
jelly		Don't be a skavootz. It is what it is. If he needs you sooner, you go.
ben		No, I'm not going, and if you bother me again I won't treat him at all. Understand? That's it. End of story.
boy		Asshole.
boy		Thanks, mister.
ben		They threw me in the shark tank, Paul. The shark tank!
vitti		They were trying to make a point.
ben		What, that you're a scary guy? I get it.
vitti		You're in a mood, you know that?
ben		Yeah, I get that way when a shark tries to chew on my ass.
vitti		Okay.   Okay.   Calm down.
ben		I don't want to calm down. My girl friend saw me all wet? I told her I fell into a tank with the manatees. I lied to her last night, now this. I don't like it.
vitti		Manatees.   That's a funny word. Manatees.
ben		I'm glad you're entertained. What's the problem?
vitti		Oh, I can tell you really care.
ben		Okay.   What's going on?
vitti		I had an episode. Not an actual panic attack, but I started panicking a little thinking I might have one. Does that seem weird to you?
ben		I'm redefining 'weird' on an hourly basis. What were you thinking about when you started feeling anxious?
vitti		I don't know. The usual bullshit. Family problems.
ben		Which family?  This one?
vitti		No, regular family.
ben		 I want you to draw a picture of a house. In the sand.
vitti		What kind of house? A warehouse? A whorehouse? My house? What house?
ben		A house.
vitti		Why?
ben		I'll tell you after you do it.
vitti		This is good. I come to Florida and draw pictures in the sand like a jerkoff.
tino		I don't know what they're doing. He's talking to some guy. Looks like Vitti is drawing something in the sand... What's he drawing? What am I, Superman? I'm a hundred yards away -- I can't see shit... No way, he's got that fat Jelly with him and his partner, Jimmy Boots. We could take him out with a rifle and a scope, but I don't have any of that shit with me. My scope's in the shop... Nah, it's a warranty item... Hey, don't sweat it. You told me to take care of him, I'll take care of him... Okay, I'll call you back.
vitti		There.   You happy?
ben		Where are the people?
vitti		What people?   You told me to draw a house.
ben		I know. But usually when people draw a house they draw people. Where are the people who live in your house?
vitti		Well, you see, they'd come out and say hello, but the whole family's in the Witness Protection Program. It's very sad. What the fuck you want from me?
ben		Okay, forget the house. I'm going to say some words, and you say the first thing that comes into your mind.
vitti		Good, more games. Shoot.
ben		Home --
vitti		-- plate.
ben		Mother --
vitti		-- fucker.
ben		Father --
vitti		-- forgive me for I have sinned.
ben		Wife?
vitti		 Love.
ben		Son?
ben		Son?
vitti		See this? Again with the crying. Let's get out of here. We're being watched. Don't look. There's Feds on the roof of the hotel.
ben		How do you know that?
vitti		I'm a criminal. It's my job.
agent ricci		Who's the new face?
agent steadman		I don't know. Get somebody down there to see what he drew in the sand.
agent provano		Whoever this guy is, he must be important to the family.
agent steadman		Maybe he's Vitti's new consigliere. Put his picture on the wire and see what you come up with.
vitti		Look at this, the whole crew.  You all right? Good flight?
marie		Yeah, we're fine. We're on our way to the pool. Kids, get your stuff. We'll get out of your way.
vitti		That's okay. Marie, this is a friend of mine, Ben Sobol.  He's -- from the boat. A fishing boat captain. Cuban refugee.
marie		 Nice to meet you, Senor Sobol.
ben		Gracias.
vitti		And this is Theresa and Anna --
anna		Anne.
vitti		-- Anna, and the big guy, Anthony.
anthony		How you doin'?
ben		Nice to meet you.
vitti		 Jesus, Theresa, you are not wearing that suit to the pool.
theresa		What do you want me to wear, a one-piece?
vitti		I want you to wear one of those Arab bathrobes with a veil over your face, is what I want.
theresa		Mom!
marie		Don't worry about it, Paul.    We'll be back in time for dinner.
vitti		Okay, babe.    Hey, Anthony.   Guess what I got?
anthony		What?
vitti		 Marlins and the Braves -- right behind home plate, tonight.
anthony		You and me?
vitti		Of course, you and me.  Have fun at the pool. Stay out of the deep end. And don't swim for a couple hours after you eat.
anthony		Okay, Papa.
vitti		 Send Jimmy down with them.
jelly		Already done.
ben		Nice family.    Cuban fishing boat captain?
vitti		I can't tell Marie you're a shrink. She'd worry, you know.
ben		About this? I think she'd be more worried about your career choice.
vitti		Just keep going with the therapy.
ben		You know, normally a patient wouldn't smoke or drink during a session.
vitti		 That's an interesting fact I'll have to remember if I'm ever on 'Jeopardy.'
ben		So tell me about your father.
vitti		My father. He was a big man in the neighborhood -- very well respected. Everybody loved him, God rest his soul.
ben		He passed away?
vitti		No, I just like saying 'God rest his soul.' Yeah, he passed away. He died when I was about twelve.
ben		How?
vitti		Heart attack.    Sudden thing.
ben		Were you and your father close?
vitti		Close? Yeah, you know, pretty close. I guess we weren't getting along that great right then.
ben		Why was that?
vitti		I was hangin'   out in the neighborhood.    I had a borghata -- like a kid   gang -- hooligan shit, nothin'   big. But my father didn't   like it.
ben		You fought about it?
vitti		He slapped the shit out of me.
ben		And then?
vitti		And then that night he died.
ben		How did that feel?
vitti		It felt great! How did it feel?  I don't know.
ben		Well, think about it. Were you angry, were you afraid? Sad?
vitti		Yeah, I guess.
ben		Any feelings of guilt?
vitti		About what?   I didn't kill him.
ben		I'm just speculating, but maybe in some way you wanted him to die.
vitti		Why would I want my father to die?
ben		Well, you said you were fighting. You were rebelling against his authority. There may have been some unresolved Oedipal conflict.
vitti		English.
ben		Oedipus was a Greek king who killed his father and married his mother.
vitti		Fuckin' Greeks.
ben		It's an   instinctual developmental drive.    The young boy wants to replace   his father so he can totally   possess his mother.
vitti		Are you saying I wanted to fuck my mother?
ben		It's a primal fantasy --
vitti		Have you seen my mother? That is the sickest fucking thing I've ever heard.
ben		It's Freud.
vitti		Well, then Freud's a sick fuck, and you are too for bringing it up.
belinda		Well, isn't this wonderful, all of us finally getting to spend some time together.
scott		All set for the big day, Ben?
ben		Can't wait, Scott.    Can I call you 'Scott?'
scott		My friends call me 'Captain.'
ben		Captain.
belinda		Well, if tomorrow goes as well as the rehearsal, I'd say it's going to be a beautiful wedding.
ben		Yes, thanks for going to all this trouble, and I have to thank you and the Captain for something else.
scott		For what?
ben		 For this.
laura		 Would you like a drink, because I'm definitely having eight or nine.
belinda		 Shall we go to the table?
scott		Ben, there's a lot I'd like to say to you, but I'm going to skip the big father-in-law speech because I know you've been married before.
ben		Technically, it wasn't considered a marriage. It was like the Korean War -- more of a police action.
scott		I served in Korea, son. I don't think you'd be laughing if you'd seen some of the things I saw.
ben		You're right.    Sorry.
ben		 Mr. Vitti! How are you? Mrs. Vitti! Honey, it's the Vittis!
vitti		 Look at everybody. Everybody's smiling, everybody's happy. Nice. This is Marie, my girls, my boy, then all these guys.
ben		Mr. and Mrs. Vitti, this is Laura, my fiancee.
vitti		Nice to meet you.
laura		 Thank you very much.
ben		And this is my son Michael.
vitti		Whoa.  He's a bruiser.  You ever want a job, you come talk to me, right?
michael		Seriously?
ben		Michael!
scott		You're Paul Vitti. The mobster.
ben		Mr. MacNamara -- uh --
vitti		Excuse me. Is that polite? Is it? I'm trying to be nice here. Do I walk up to you and go, 'You're whoever you are. The prick'?
marie		Paul!
ben		Mr. Vitti, this is Laura's father.
vitti		Yeah? Okay, well, sorry. But you should know, there is no mob, and, P.S., I personally have never been convicted of a crime.  We're nine for nine, right?
jelly		That's right.
vitti		 I heard about the wedding. Here you go. A little something for the bride and groom. God bless. You should live and be well.
laura		Mr. Vitti, we can't accept this.
vitti		Yeah, you can. Now, if you don't mind, I just need to borrow this guy for a couple of minutes, then that's it. I'm out of here. Okay?
laura		Okay. Then you leave us alone, right?
vitti		Of course. I wouldn't do anything to screw up your wedding.  Have a great night, everybody. Nice to meet you.
ben		 I've just got to talk to him for a sec. You okay?
laura		I've never been less okay.
ben		Great.
marie		I bet you eat a lot of fish since your fiance's in the business.
vitti		 Watch that door. And don't listen to what we say.
jelly		My ears are sealed.
vitti		 Okay, listen. I had a really weird dream last night.
ben		I feel like I'm having one right now. How could you interrupt our party?
vitti		You know, you're very rigid about certain things.
ben		Just tell me the dream.
vitti		Okay. I'm asleep. I hear a baby crying. I go to the refrigerator, I get a bottle of milk, I take it to the baby, but when I go to give it to him, I see that the milk is black.
jelly		That's fuckin' weird.
vitti		Okay, get out of here!
jelly		Sorry.
vitti		 What's it mean? And I don't want to hear any more filth about my mother.
ben		I don't know what it means.   What does it mean to you?
vitti		This is what I'm paying you for? I say something, you say it right back to me? I could get Jelly to do this for nothing.
ben		Then get Jelly.
ben		Mr. MacNamara.
vitti		 Why don't you look over that way before I have to bust your fuckin' head open?
jelly		I'm gonna get something to eat. You want like a sandwich or somethin'?
bodyguard		Yeah. What kinda sandwich isn't too fattening?
jelly		A half a sandwich.
bodyguard		Sounds good.
jelly		I'll be back in about twenty minutes.
scott		 Nod your head and smile. Now, you listen to me, goombah. I know what your game is, and you'd better call it quits, because if you and your paisans do anything to hurt my little girl, I'll kill you. Understand? Nod and smile.
laura		 What was that about?
ben		Nothing. Your father thinks I'm in the Mafia.
laura		Oh.
ben		Let's get married.
justice		If any man here knows why these two people should not be joined in holy matrimony, let him speak now or forever hold his peace.
vitti		 You get the car, bring it around to the back and wait for me.
ben		That's it.   I've had it with you!
vitti		What happened?
ben		What happened? I just saw a man fall seven stories into a platter of poached salmon! That's what happened.
vitti		Did he break anything?
ben		Yes. Everything! They're still picking the capers out of his forehead.
vitti		Hey, people get depressed, they jump. It's a human tragedy, but it's not my fault.
ben		You're telling me it was suicide?
vitti		 I think he left a note. Jelly, did they find that note?
jelly		No, but they will in a minute.
ben		Oh, yeah, here it is. 
vitti		Enough talking. We got to get out of here. The place is crawling with feds. I'm going back to New York and I suggest you do the same. They're probably onto you too now.
ben		Onto me? What are you talking about? Being an accessory to murder was not part of our understanding.
vitti		Hey, why you busting my balls? I didn't kill him. I can't speak for everyone in the room, but --  The son-of-a-bitch came after me! It was self-defense. Trust me, Doc. In this one, we're the good guys.
ben		Laura!
laura		 How could you do that?
vitti		Great.  Another country heard from.  Get her outta here.
ben		Honey, why don't you wait downstairs?
laura		Why, they're going to throw me off the balcony, too?  I am thirty -- over thirty years old and all my life I have dreamed of walking down the aisle in a beautiful white dress and marrying the man I love.
vitti		That's a beautiful dress.
laura		Thank you, but it's not about the dress! We were supposed to get married!
vitti		You're upset.
laura		Of course I'm upset!  I'm going downstairs to pack, then I'm going to New York and I'm getting married with you or without you. Okay?
ben		I'll be right there.  Everything's going to be all right. I promise.
ben		Are you happy now?      You ruined my life!
vitti		What, you think I wanted this? I'm the victim here! I swear, I'm going to kill that son-of-a-bitch!
ben		Is that all you know? Do you hear yourself? I knew this would happen. 
vitti		Just 'cause of this?
ben		Of course because of this! You don't have even the tiniest shred of human decency. All you know is threats and violence and that's all you'll ever know and I can't be around that!
vitti		What do you want me to do?
sindone		How come I can't get on this show? This is a good show.
moony		Primo. You got a phone call. It's Paul Vitti.
sindone		 Hello?
vitti		Primo, it's Paul Vitti.
sindone		Yeah, how's it goin'?
vitti		Not good. Whoever killed Dominic is shooting at me now and I'm having a lot of feelings about it and I'd like to get some kinda --
ben		Closure.
vitti		-- closure on this.
sindone		What kind of feelings?
vitti		I feel very angry, you know. Very, uh, enraged. Mad. Real mad.
sindone		So why you telling me?
vitti		Why am I telling you? Like you had nothing to do with it?
sindone		I don't know what you're talking about.
vitti		Okay, whatever, I just wanted to tell you how I feel because I know that anger is --
ben		A blocked wish --
vitti		-- a blocked wish, and I'm getting my wish unblocked and I'm looking forward to getting some closure -- 
sindone		Vaffancul'!
sindone		Get a dictionary and find out what this 'closure' is. If that's what he's hitting us with, I want to know what the hell it is.
vitti		Good?
ben		Yeah, right up until the shoving the balls. You can't keep doing this! You want to get physical? Take a walk. Get a punching bag. Hit a pillow.
vitti		There's your fucking pillow.
ben		Feel better now?
vitti		Yeah, I do.
ben		Call the Vatican. Ask them if anything's missing.
michael		So cool!
janet		Michael, get your bags out of the car, please.
michael		It's almost as tall as the house!
ben		 He felt bad. It's a wedding gift.
laura		Well, we're not married, so I guess we'll have to send it back.
ben		Hey, don't blame me. You didn't want to finish the ceremony.
laura		What did you expect? You think that's what I want to remember on our anniversary? 'Gee, honey, let's go look at the wedding video. There's my parents, there's your parents, and there's the guy who plunged to his death.'
ben		I just want to marry you.
laura		I'm starting to think that's not going to happen.
ben		Come on. Next Saturday. It's all set. I even asked for a room with a low ceiling, just to discourage the jumpers.
laura		And who's going to be there?
ben		Us three, a clergyman, and any family members who've completed their crisis counseling.
laura		And no guests without necks. Everybody has to have a neck.
ben		We'll do a neck check at the door.
agent steadman		 Doctor Sobol, Mrs. Sobol -- I'm Agent Steadman, Agent Ricci, Agent Provano, Federal Bureau of Investigation, O.C.D.
ben		 Obsessive-compulsive disorder?
agent provano		Organized Crime Division. We need to talk.
michael		The FBI! This is better than the fountain!
ben		Michael, go to your room.
michael		But --
ben		Go!
michael		Fine. I can hear better in there anyway.
ben		 So.   FBI.
agent steadman		Can you explain these photographs, Doctor Sobol?
ben		I'm a psychotherapist.    Paul Vitti is my patient.
laura		Was your patient.
ben		Right.   Was.   That's what I meant.
laura		But not like a real patient.
ben		Right.
provano		So why did he send you that fountain?
ben		That was a gift to celebrate the completion of his therapy. We got our television from an agoraphobic, so it's not that unusual -- you know, maybe you should discuss this with my attorney.
laura		Yeah, maybe you should.
agent steadman		Doctor Sobol, Paul Vitti is an extremely dangerous man. We're talking conspiracy, fraud, extortion, racketeering, grand theft, murder...
ben		Well, yeah, but don't forget, the man is a sociopath. You've got to expect that kind of behavior --
ben		Excuse me, fellas. My folks are here and I'd like to -- well, die would be my first choice. Can I go out?
agent ricci		It's your house.
laura		Too bad you didn't remember that when you were breaking in.
ben		 Honey, maybe the federal agents would like something to drink? Could you see what we have?
laura		 No.
ben		 I tried, guys.
ben		Hi!   What a surprise.
dorothy		That certainly makes a statement. It's a little big for the yard, don't you think?
ben		What can I tell you, Mom? It looked much smaller in the store.
isaac		Think it'll affect your water pressure?
ben		I think it'll affect the tides. What are you doing here?
dorothy		Your father and I are just very concerned about what happened in Florida.
isaac		How was your flight home? Anyone hang themselves in first class.
dorothy		We got in last night, we couldn't sleep a wink. Is Laura inside?
ben		Yeah, but she and Michael are spending some time alone, you know, getting to know each other. That's important. I don't want to disturb that dynamic.
dorothy		 So you're not going to invite us in?
ben		 No.
dorothy		 Well, I'm going to wait in the car. There's too much spray.
isaac		All right. What's with you and Paul Vitti?
ben		Well, Dad, I'm not at liberty to discuss that.
isaac		He's your patient? Are you joking? Have you thought about what this could do to your reputation?
ben		You, know, I always wanted to be great, but then I realized that I might have to settle for just being good enough. Now I've got this guy who's hurting and I'm thinking that if I can help this guy, maybe I can be a little bit great.
isaac		Jesus, Ben, you're the one who's going to be hurting. I want you to stop seeing him.
ben		Didn't you read your own book? Instead of trying to run my life, why don't you just close your eyes, take a deep breath, tell me what you feel, tell me what you want.
isaac		 This is bullshit.
ben		You wrote it.
isaac		Okay.  I love you -- and I'm afraid for you -- I want you to be safe -- and I want you to have a good life.
ben		 Is that really it?
isaac		That's it.
ben		You know why I became a shrink? Because I grew up with a great one walking around the house.
isaac		I thought you became a shrink because you were sleeping with your psychology professor at Columbia.
ben		Yes, and because of you.
ben		Okay, so you were saying?
agent steadman		Let me cut to the chase. Sometime in the next week or so, the heads of every major crime family in the United States are going to meet together somewhere in the New York area.
agent provano		We think the stage is set for a major bloodbath. Has he mentioned anything about it to you?
laura		A bloodbath?
ben		No. If he said anything about a bloodbath, I probably would've remembered it. Bloodbath is one of those words that, you know, stands out in a conversation.
agent steadman		 You could really help us out by supplying information about that meeting.
ben		And if I don't?
agent steadman		If you don't, I will personally make your life a living hell. I want you to think about that and call me at this number when you change your mind.
ben		You mean if I change my mind.
agent steadman		I mean when.
laura		 Okay. Guess what, fellas? You don't scare me.
ben		Laura --
laura		Sit down! 
agent steadman		We'll be in touch.
ben		 Laura, that was really --
laura		 Oh, shut up!
masiello		Paul, I don't mean this in a disrespectful way. You know I was a good friend to your father and I will always be a good friend to you. But the word is out that you've been talking to a shrink. Is that right?
vitti		What's the point here?
masiello		This concerns the whole family. Right now, we're the only ones who know about it, but if it gets out on the street -- what then? Who knows what you've been saying in there?
vitti		It's none of anybody's business what I say in there.
masiello		Paul, I beg to differ. If you're doing this to establish some kind of insanity defense later, that's one thing. But everybody's gonna think you're falling apart, and that ain't good. They'll take it as a sign of weakness, and that makes us all vulnerable. Sindone would take over everything.
vitti		So what do you want me to do?
masiello		It's time to end it.
vitti		What do you mean, end it?
masiello		Get rid of this shrink.   He knows too much already.
vitti		You want me to whack my doctor?
masiello		If you don't do it, somebody else will. It's the only way.
vitti		No. Nobody touches him. You hear me? Anybody lays a finger on him, I'll kill 'em. Is that clear?
ben		I'm going to buy some fruit. You want anything?
vitti		No, go ahead.
vitti		Papa!   Papa!
vitti		You look lousy. You all right.
ben		Listen, Paul, please don't send me any more gifts.
vitti		You didn't like the fountain?
ben		That's not the point.   It's a boundary issue.
vitti		Boundary issue? I say if more people gave from the heart, we'd all be better off. Let's see your watch.  Piece of junk. You're getting a Rolex.
ben		Don't buy me a Rolex.
vitti		Who said anything about buying it?
ben		Listen, I really need to talk to you.
vitti		Tommy Angels. We grew up together. Worked for a crew out of Jersey City.
ben		How did he die?
vitti		He was on his way to talk to a federal prosecutor. Got hit by a truck -- twice.
ben		Do I need to know that? I'm having nightmares as it is.
ben		Last night I dreamed we were walking down the street, I stopped to buy some fruit, and they shot me -- like Brando in The Godfather.
vitti		Good scene.    Was I there?
ben		You dropped your gun, then you ran over to me and started yelling, 'Papa, Papa!'
vitti		I was Fredo.    I don't think so.
vitti		You're losing it, Doc.   You may need therapy yourself.
vitti		Him I don't know. Let's get private.
ben		Don't you see? You called me 'Papa.' It's all about your father.
vitti		What're you, nuts? It was your dream.
ben		Yes, but that's what your black milk dream was about, too.
vitti		Uh-uh. I don't buy it. In my dream, I'm bringing the baby the black milk.
ben		Freud believed you're everyone in your dreams.
vitti		Yeah, well, that guy I don't need to hear about. I can't even call my mother on the phone after that thing you told me.
ben		Let's say you are the baby. What kind of milk did you get from your father?
vitti		Could we stop talking about my father?
ben		 Fuck you. Nobody helps Paul Vitti.
vitti		Very good. Now I'll do you. 'Boo-fuckin'-hoo.' I never said this would be easy. Let's see how you like it. Let's talk about your father.
ben		Let's not.
vitti		Is he still alive?
ben		Yes, he's still alive.
vitti		What kind of work does he do?
ben		 That's not important.
vitti		You paused.
ben		What?
vitti		You paused. That means you had a feeling. What does he do?
ben		He's a psychiatrist.
vitti		Ooh, you're fucked up.   Next patient, please.
ben		We're running out of time, Paul. Let's not waste it talking about my problems.
vitti		Your father's a problem?
ben		No!
vitti		That's what you just said!   You seem upset.
ben		I'm not upset!
vitti		Hey, I'm good at this.
ben		We have three days left. If you want to spend it screwing around, I can't help you.  Call me when you're ready to get serious.
vitti		Say hello to your father for me!
potatoes		We could just pop him right now.
handsome jack		In front of a church? What are you, a fuckin' animal? It's a holy place.
potatoes		Is the sidewalk holy, too? I mean, where does the holiness end?
handsome jack		 I don't know. Second Avenue?
ben		 What do you want me to do?
masiello		Paul, he talked to the Feds.
vitti		I know this guy. He would never talk to the Feds.
masiello		The FBI was at his house today.
jimmy		It's the truth.   I saw 'em.
masiello		You'll see. Next thing is he's gonna call you and ask for a meeting.
vitti		Come on.   You don't know this guy.
jelly		It's Dr. Sobol. He says he needs to see you right away.
jelly		Sit up front with Jimmy.
ben		 You want me to sit in front? Paul usually sits in front.
jimmy		So this time you'll sit up front. Why you making a federal case?
ben		 Federal case? I'm not making a federal case? Let's go.
ben		 So what's everybody doing this summer?
vitti		This is Ben. He's a friend of mine.  Say hello to Carlo Mangano.
mangano		How you doin'?
vitti		 Carlo was on my father's crew. He's always been like a -- I don't know -- like a cousin to me.
mangano		I am your cousin.
vitti		I know, that's what I'm saying. It's like a family thing. The closeness.
mangano		Anything you need, anything I can do for you, Paul, you know. I'm here for you.
vitti		I know. So did you take care of that thing I asked you about?
mangano		Is it all right to talk business in front of your friend?
vitti		It's okay.
mangano		Yeah, I took care of it.
vitti		How about that other thing?
mangano		I'm waiting for that first thing to come through. I can't move until it does.
vitti		Did the guy give you a problem?
mangano		A little.    He's a lunatic.
vitti		You always gotta nip that shit in the bud.
mangano		Yeah. But if the first thing is okay, that should fix everything.
vitti		Including the second thing.
mangano		Yeah, but --
vitti		Exactly.  Don't repeat any of that to anyone.
ben		What? The first thing or the second thing?
vitti		That's Stevie Beef over there. I gotta go say hello to him for a second.  Come on.
ben		Stevie Beef. Interesting name. When he was younger they probably called him Stevie Veal.  You guys come here often?
jelly		Paretti's has a very special meaning to Paul.
jimmy		Yeah, this is where his father got whacked.
jelly		Hey!
jimmy		What's the big secret?
ben		 Wait a second. Paul's father was murdered?
jimmy		Right at that table.   With his whole family there.
jelly		Hey, just shut up.
ben		Paul, too?   He was there?
jelly		He don't like to talk about it.
jimmy		Where you goin'?
ben		Bathroom.
jelly		I'll go with you.
ben		I gotta -- you know -- poop.
ben		Ahhhh!
jelly		You need more roughage. A bran muffin in the morning would help with that.
ben		I have to talk to you -- in private.
vitti		 Leave us alone.
ben		Why didn't you tell me about your father?
vitti		What about him?
ben		You said he died of a heart attack.
vitti		So what's the problem?
ben		What's the problem?   Your father was murdered!
vitti		Heart attack, murdered, what's the difference? He's dead.
ben		There's a big difference.   Why didn't you tell me?
vitti		Because it's private. You think I tell you every little thing?
ben		That is not a little thing!
vitti		Okay, you want to know? Analyze this. I was twelve years old, the whole family was having dinner together right over there, two guys walked in and shot him dead right in front of us. Okay?
ben		And you didn't think this was important enough to tell me?
vitti		What am I supposed to do? Spend the rest of my life crying about the past? Forget about it.
ben		You know what? I think you want to talk about it.
vitti		No, I don't want to talk about it.
ben		I think you do.
vitti		No, I don't.
ben		Then why did you choose this restaurant?
vitti		'Cause I like it, okay?
ben		Of all the places we could've gone, why this one?
vitti		White clam sauce. The best.
ben		No, we're here because you wanted me to know about your father. You're reaching out to me.
vitti		I'll reach out to you --
ben		I think we have some major trust issues here.
sindone		 I'd like to see a movie but there's nothing out there. It's all this shoot-'em-up action bullshit. I get enough of that at work.
moony		That was our friend. He marked your guy at Paretti's.
sindone		Yeah? Then let's make it the last supper. Jack?
handsome jack		You got it, Primo.  Let's go.
sindone		 Hey, Jack. Just for fun, tear out his heart and bring it to me.
ben		Jimmy, you can have shotgun this time. I don't mind.
jimmy		Nah, sit up front. There's more room for your legs.
ben		My legs are short, it's fine in the back.
jimmy		Get in the front.
ben		You know what? It's late. I think I'm just going to call it a night. Why don't I just grab a cab and head on home.
jimmy		Get in the car.
ben		No really, it's all right.
jimmy		 Get in the fucking car.
vitti		Do what he says.
ben		You know, we call this a transference neurosis. It's when the patient starts acting out his problems with his therapist instead of out in the world. It's usually considered a good sign. Not for me, in this case, but --
agent ricci		What's he doing in there? He's been in the bathroom for half an hour.
vitti		 Leave us alone.
jelly		Sorry, Doc.    It's not personal, you know.
ben		Don't kid yourself, Jelly. It doesn't get more personal than this.
vitti		You know why I have to do this, don't you?
ben		Because you're a paranoid? No, actually you're a reverse paranoid. You think you're out to get everybody.
vitti		Don't bullshit me! You betrayed me! You stabbed me in the back.
ben		I betrayed you? What are you talking about? Who's got the gun?
vitti		You think I'm an idiot? Don't insult my intelligence. You cooperated! You talked to the Feds!
ben		They played me a tape! You said you were going to kill me.
vitti		Never.   I never said that.
ben		It doesn't matter. I didn't betray you, Paul. Yes, they made me wear a wire, but I took it off, because I think I know how to help you now.
vitti		I don't want to know what you think.
ben		Yes, you do.
vitti		No, I don't!
ben		I think you do.
vitti		 It's over! Don't you get it? I took one chance and that's it.
ben		Okay.  Can I ask you one last question?
vitti		 What?
ben		What did you order?
vitti		What?
ben		What did you order?
vitti		When?
ben		That night. What were you eating the night your father got killed?
vitti		How the hell do I know?
ben		You don't remember?
vitti		It was 35 years ago.
ben		What did your father have?
vitti		I told you!   I don't remember.
ben		Try.
vitti		What's the matter with you?
ben		It's a simple question.    What was your father eating!
vitti		 Penne.
ben		Good.    And you.
vitti		Ravioli.
ben		The food was on the table?
vitti		They were just serving it.
ben		Did you see the guys coming?
vitti		One of them.   Dressed like a busboy.
ben		Did your father see him?
vitti		No, but I knew he looked wrong.
ben		Why?
vitti		His pants. They looked too good for a busboy.
ben		He walked over to the table?
vitti		I watched him the whole way.
ben		Did you say anything?
vitti		My father was so mad at me.
ben		And you were mad at him.
vitti		I couldn't say anything.
ben		And then.
vitti		I never saw the second guy.    My mother started screaming.
ben		And you blame yourself?
vitti		I coulda saved him.
ben		But you were mad at him.
vitti		 I killed my father.
ben		You didn't kill him, Paul. You were angry but you didn't kill him. That's the life he chose.
vitti		I never got to say good-bye.
ben		Say it now, Paul. Talk to him. What do you want to tell him?
vitti		I can't.
ben		You have to.   Tell him, Paul.
vitti		 I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
ben		It's okay, Paul. You can let go of it now.
jimmy		What's taking so long?   I'm ruining my goddamn shoes here.   Fuckin' $350 Bruno Maglis.
jelly		What's wrong with you? Don't you have any respect? This is a very difficult thing for Paul.
jimmy		Shoulda let me do it. I'd be home watchin' E.S.P.N.2 by now. World's strongest man. You should see these guys.
ben		You couldn't save him, Paul. He was trying to save you. That's what you fought about. He didn't want this for you, and you don't want it for Anthony. You don't want him to grow up the way you did -- without a father.
jelly		Jesus, the guy's fallin' apart.
jimmy		Why doesn't he just pop him?   It's embarrassing.
ben		Your father's not dead, Paul. He's alive -- in you. And he's trying to tell you something.
ben		Oh, my God!
ben		 Paul!   They're shooting!
jelly		 He FIRES back at Handsome Jack.
potatoes		 He rakes the Lincoln with a BURST from the ASSAULT RIFLE.
ben		Paul! For God's sake, shoot somebody!
handsome jack		 He sees Potatoes fall and starts moving out, covering his retreat with another BURST from his MACHINE GUN.
ben		Goddamn it!
jelly		 He sees Handsome Jack emerge from cover and takes him out with FIVE QUICK SHOTS.
handsome jack		 He goes down FIRING, dead before he hits the ground.
scrap yard		 It's suddenly quiet. After a long moment, Jimmy rolls over and moans. Jelly goes to him and starts examining his wound.
ben		Oh my God!    Did I do that?
jelly		No, Doc. That one's mine. You got the Chevy Camaro and the side-by-side refrigerator-freezer.
vitti		Pretty fuckin' ironic, isn't it? You can give me back the gun now, Doctor.
vitti		It's okay. I wasn't really gonna whack you.  All right, maybe I was gonna whack you, but I was real conflicted about it. Progress, right?
ben		I don't think I can see you anymore.
vitti		Yeah, I figured.
ben		This was big tonight. You might feel a little raw for a while.
vitti		Yeah.
ben		So good luck.    It's been --
elaine		I want to please him in bed, but whatever I do it seems like it's never enough. Now he wants me to say things when we're making love.
ben		What kinds of things does he want you to say, Elaine?
elaine		Well, he wants me to call him 'big boy.' And he's my bucking bronco, and I'm supposed to ride him hard and put him back in the barn wet.
elaine		Are you all right, Dr. Sobol?
ben		Let me suggest something, Elaine. If the man wants you to say things ... damn it, you should get down on all fours and bark like a dog if that's going to get the job done. Break out the wine, baby. Smoke a joint. Do what you have to do, because life is too short. It's just too fucking short.
elaine		Okay.
jelly		How you feelin', boss?   You need anything?
vitti		No, I'm great. Never felt better in my life. When this meeting is over they won't know what hit 'em.
dorothy		Is Ben going to step on the glass?
isaac		No. He doesn't want to hurt his foot, so they're going to drop a person on it.
rabbi		We are put on this earth to find a love, a soulmate, someone with whom we can create joy. How glad we are today that Ben and Laura have found each other, and we anticipate and celebrate the years of joy they will share together from this day on.
rabbi		Ben, do you take this woman, Laura, to be your lawfully wedded wife, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, 'til death do you part, so help you God?
ben		 No!
rabbi		Excuse me?
ben		No, not you.    I was talking to him.
rabbi		Who him?
ben		It's not important.     Yes.
rabbi		Yes what?
ben		Yes to the thing before. To her. That's a yes. Pick it up from there.
jelly		 Hi, kid.
laura		I do not believe this!
jelly		 Haul ass, buddy. We got a problem.
laura		Who the hell do you think you are?
jelly		 Tick tock, let's go. Hurry up and pronounce them, huh?
rabbi		By the power vested me by the state of New York, I now pronounce you man and wife.
jelly		Okay.   Kiss, kiss --
jelly		I'm sorry about this, Mrs. Sobol, but duty calls, you know?
laura		 Oh. You're the first person to call me Mrs. Sobol.
jelly		Nice, huh?
laura		No.
ben		Laura, I'm sorry. It's the job.
laura		Go.  Just go.  Have him back here by the salad course or you're in serious trouble. Capiche?
jelly		You're a pistol.  I like her.
jelly		He's bad, Doc. Worse than I ever seen him. I think his inner child is all fucked up.
ben		Have you ever seen an episode like this?
jelly		Yes. Once on 'Bonanza,' Hoss Cartwright got bit by a raccoon. He got this fever and he was shaking --
ben		Never mind.
jelly		This is serious, Doc. If he doesn't make this meeting, they'll kill him for sure.
ben		Can't someone else in the family go for him? Tommy the Tongue? Louie the Lip? What about you? You go?
jelly		That would work except for one little detail. I'm a fucking moron. I'm known for it.  You have to go.
ben		Me?   You must be a moron.
jelly		Hey!   Watch that.
ben		You just said it yourself.
jelly		It's different when I say it. When you say it, it sounds very negative.
ben		I'm sorry, Jelly, but I'm not going. I'm not on the payroll anymore, so forget about it. My wife is waiting --
jelly		Doc.
jelly		Correction. Mr. Vitti couldn't shoot you. But here's something about me you should know. I never got married, Doctor Sobol. I don't have a hobby. I never got a dog or a cat. I don't even have a goldfish. I live for one reason only, and that's to serve Mr. Paul Vitti. He's what I'm thinking about when I wake up, and he's what I'm thinking about when I close my eyes to sleep. If he told me to jump off a tall building, not only would I do it, I would hope to survive so I could do it again and again until he told me to stop. This is all I know. This is all I got. So please don't think I won't kill you, because I'd hate for your last thought to be a wrong one. You're going to that meeting.
steadman		 Which one is it?
agent provano		The black one.
jimmy		 Just remember. That's a fuckin' $1200 Valentino suit. You spill anything on it, I'll mess you up good.
jelly		Shut up. You're making him nervous. If he gets nervous and fucks up, they'll kill him for sure.  Let's go over it again.
ben		This is insane.
jelly		Mr. Vitti's been detained, apologies all around, blah, blah, blah. Then you say you're the new consigliere, and you're prepared to speak for Mr. Vitti.
ben		Then what?
jelly		Then you just keep your mouth shut, and hope nobody asks you nothin'.
jimmy		Boy, this is some fuckin' plan.
jelly		Shut up.  If you have to talk, just be vague. Can you do that?
ben		I'm a psychologist.   Believe me, I can be vague.
vitti		Shouldn't you be outside playing or something?
anthony		No, it's all right.
vitti		How long you gonna sit there?
anthony		 How long you gonna lay there?
vitti		I'm done.
ben		 I can't do this. I'm telling you, I cannot do this.
jelly		Don't fucking whine! Whining's a dead giveaway. Come on! You're the consigliere, for Chrissake.
ben		These are the bosses? That one looks like my Uncle Max.
mangano		 What's goin' on? Where's Vitti?
jelly		On his way.   Don't worry.
mangano		What's he doin' here?
jelly		He's -- it's okay. Forget about it.
mangano		Forget about it? What the hell is that?
sindone		Who's the guy with Jelly?
moony		I don't know.
ben		 I can't do this.
moony		All right, gentlemen. I think we better start. We have a big agenda, so for now let's stick to the big issues. And it would help if you identify yourselves when you speak, since we don't all know each other, and we didn't think anybody would be into wearing any fucking name tags.
sindone		I'm Primo Sindone. They call me Sonny Long. It's good to see so many of the old faces here, and to welcome the new ones from all over the country. I see Frank Zello, and Joe Baldassare, but I'm a little disappointed to see that the head of our other New York family isn't here today. All I see is his man Jelly and some sawed-off little prick nobody knows.
jelly		 Yeah, well, the thing is Mr. Vitti has been detained and he sends his apologies for -- being detained -- and he apologizes for his -- detainment.
sindone		Detained? What kind of bullshit is that? What's more important than this? As the host of this meeting, I take his not being here as a sign of disrespect to me and to all these other men, too, who came a long way to be here.
jelly		Mr. Vitti meant no disrespect. The thing is, he's not feeling well. He's sick and he -- didn't feel well --
ben		 Jelly! We don't ever discuss Mr. Vitti's health outside the family. You know better.
sindone		All right, who is this guy and what the fuck is he doing here?
ben		In answer to your first question, my name is Ben Sobol --  -- leone. Sobboleone. They call me -- 'The doctor.' As for your second question. I'm here representing Paul Vitti. As his conser -- conghili --
jelly		 Consigliere --
ben		 Don't you ever correct me again! As his consigliere, I'm intimately involved in all aspects of the family business and I'm prepared to speak for Mr. Vitti on all matters.
sindone		Okay, Doctor, then let's get down to business. Everybody knows there's been this thing between me and Paul Vitti for a long time.
ben		Which thing are you talking about? The first thing or the second thing?
sindone		What second thing? I only know one thing.
ben		Well, I don't see how we can discuss the first thing without bringing up the second thing. Didn't you talk to the guy?
sindone		What guy?
ben		The guy with the thing.
sindone		What thing? What the fuck are you talking about?
ben		How should I know? You brought it up.  This is the whole problem. You can't have an intelligent conversation with the man.
sindone		How about if I just break your fuckin' neck? What do you think of that?
ben		It's not important what I think. What do you think?
sindone		What do I think? I think it's a good idea! Why would I say it if I didn't think it was good?
ben		I don't know.    Why would you?
sindone		 I wouldn't! That's what I'm saying!
ben		Have you always had a problem dealing with your anger?
sindone		What are you talking about?
ben		What do you think I'm talking about?
sindonsindone		 I don't know what the fuck you're talking about!
ben		See, you're angry again. Do you feel you have to get angry to be heard?
sindone		What's he talking about?
zello		I don't know. But you do have a tendency to get angry a lot.
baldassare		I agree, Primo.
sindone		I'm trying to talk about Vitti! Why are we talking about me?
ben		Interesting. Do you feel you're not worthy enough to be talked about?
sindone		What does that mean?
ben		What do you think it means?
sindone		Fuck you!
zello		Primo, calm down.
sindone		Calm down? How can I calm down when this prick won't stop with the questions?
ben		Could you pass the fruit, please?
sindone		That's it!   You're a dead man!
vitti		 Wait outside with the car running.
ben		What are you doing here?
vitti		Saving your ass. Sit down.    I'll take it from here.
vitti		 I'm Paul Vitti. I'm sorry I was late. Those of you who know me will know I meant no disrespect. If it's all right with you, there's something I'd like to say, then I'll leave you to your business.
vitti		About two and a half weeks ago, somebody killed my friend, Dominic Manetta.
sindone		Don't look at me. Everybody knows you whacked him so you could take over everything.
vitti		What I really came here to say is that I've come to a very important decision in my life. I want out.
vitti		I'm going away for a while, but I will respect the oath I took the day I was made, and whatever I know about anyone else's business, I take with me to the grave. You have my word.
vitti		As for my own organization, I know Carlo Mangano would like to be the new boss.
mangano		Thank you, Paul.
vitti		That's why he betrayed Dominic and me to our enemies and sent his own man to kill me in Miami.
vitti		But I leave it to my people to deal with that and choose their own boss. And even though it's my right, I won't take revenge, mostly because I'm in a good place mentally and feeling good about me.
zello		 I don't know, Paul. I can see where some people might have a problem with this.
vitti		I realize that, so as an extra token of good faith between us, I've taken the liberty of writing down everything I know and putting it in a safe deposit box in case anything happens to me or my family.
zello		I don't know what anybody else thinks, but I say good luck and God bless, Paul.
baldassare		Good luck, Paul. Salut.
ben		 Well done.
vitti		Let's move.
sindone		Vitti!
vitti		I don't want to do this, Primo.
sindone		You don't want to do this? That's fuckin' rich. What did you think, you could just quit and walk away? You think this is a fuckin' civil service job? What are you, crazy?
vitti		Not anymore.  Hey, Carlo, tell me. You gonna stab me in the back like the piece of shit I always knew you were?
mangano		I'm not gonna stab you in the back, Paul. I want to see your face when I do it.
vitti		I don't think so.  Mo-Mo!
vitti		Bigs!
vitti		Eddie!
vitti		It's over, Primo. Now get the fuck outta here.
ben		Good thinking. I was going to bring a machine gun but I don't have one. Of course, we haven't opened the wedding gifts yet.
zello		Oh, shit.
agent ricci		 Don't move! Don't you fucking move!
sindone		Hey!   Take a pill, Robocop.
vitti		 I can't believe it. You took a bullet for me. What doctor ever did that much for a patient? I'll never forget that.
ben		Paul -- I tripped.
vitti		Yeah. You tripped over your unconscious.
donny		I don't think my mother really listens when I talk. She never listened.
vitti		And how does that make you feel?
donny		It makes me feel angry.
vitti		I'll bet you feel hurt, too, don't you?
donny		 Yes, I do.
ben		Paul, what would you say about what Donny's feeling?
vitti		Donny, when you're thirsty, you don't go to the wall -- you go to the well. You know what I'm saying? Your mother may never be able to listen to you, but you have friends here who will. Okay?
ben		And be patient, Donny. Most people's problems take months, sometimes years to resolve.
donny		I'm doing twenty-five to life.
ben		That should be plenty of time.
ben		You know they found Primo Sindone dead in a field near LaGuardia.
vitti		I heard.  I had nothing to do with it. There were guys lined up from Canarsie to Atlantic City who wanted to whack that bastard.
ben		Okay, just checking.
vitti		You know, Doc, I don't think I ever thanked you properly for curing me.
ben		We don't say 'cured.' We say you had a 'corrective emotional experience.'
vitti		You, you, you're very good.
ben		 No.   You. You.
ben		Happy?
laura		I just can't get used to it.
ben		What?
laura		It's been three weeks since the last time you were kidnapped. I don't know if I can adjust.
ben		What do you say, Tony?   One more?
tony bennett		Whatever you want, Dr. Sobol. My friend told me to stay as long as you wanted me. What do you want to hear, Mrs. Sobol?
laura		Your choice, Tony.
tony bennett		I was hoping you'd say that.  'World on a String,' fellas.
****Dialogues from script :Anastasia.txt****

sonya		 Princess Anastasia - you're late and it's all my  fault!
anastasia		Don't worry, Sonya, no one'll notice. . .
anastasia		 . . .  owwwwwwwww!
ivar		 You're a servent! Never forget your place!
dmitiri		 Someday my place will be out there!
ivar		Never! You're a peasant, Dmitri! Back in the kitchen
tatiana		Why were you so late tonight
anastasia		I was showing Sonya something . . .
tatiana		What were you showing her?
anastasia		 How to read.
tatiana		I thought you were told not to tutor your servants anymore.
anastasia		I know, but I had to because . . .
anastasia		 Oh, Grandmama, why do you have to go back to Paris?
tatiana		It's where I've made my home but I do have something for you . . .
anastasia		"Together in Paris"! Oh, when can we be "together in Paris?!
tatiana		When you're older . . .
tatiana		Until then, whenever you hear this song, think of me and know that I'm waiting for you.
nicholas		Rasputin!  You're alive . . .
rasputin		 Despite being shot, poisoned and thrown into an icy river . . . YES!
nicholas		 I had nothing to do with it!
rasputin		You gave the orders!
nicholas		I did no such thing!
rasputin		After all I've done for your family - YOU TRIED TO KILL MEEEEEE ! ! !
anastasia		NO!
anastasia		We're not afraid of you!
rasputin		 You . . .  my little babushka . . . you'll be so much fun to kill that I'll save you for last!
rasputin		THIS IS THE END OF THE ROMANOV LINE - FOREVER !!!!
anastasia		My music mox!
tatiana		Anastasia, no!
tatiana		Hurry, child!
dmitri		No - this way!
dmitri		Go!
anastasia		Hurry, Grandmama!
tatiana		Get on! Anastasia, get on!
tatiana		Grab my hand!
anastasia		Don't let go!
tatiana		ANASTASIA!
gregor		Anya! Anya!
phlegmenkof		You can't get away from me now . . .
anya		Don't touch him.
phlegmenkof		 You ragged, skinny, little nothing!  I have had just about enough of you . . .
anya		About as bad as you smell!
serebreakov		I want her.
phlegmenkof		That's horrible, skinny thing?! She's crazy - she has no memory of anything before she came here! She didn't even know her name! That one is a rotten troublemaker, willful. . .
serebreakov		I'll break her will. . .  You will enjoy serving under me.
phlegmenkof		I couldn't break you - but he can!
gregor		 Anya?
anya		No.  I'm running to.
little girl		Running to? Running to what?
anya		To find my home.
chubby girl		But you are home.
anya		No. This isn't a home - it's just a building. Home is where you belong and none of us belong here.
gregor		Where is your home, Anya?
anya		I'm not sure but look. . .
anya		It says "Together in Paris". I was wearing this when I came here ten years ago - it's the only way that I know . . .
chubby girl		Is your home in Paris?
anya		It might be. I have to go and find out.
anya		I have to go now, before it gets light.
gregor		 But what if we can't ever find where we came from?!
anya		Then you'll have to make your own home. Lots of people do.
gregor		 Anya! What if we can't find anyone who loves us?!
anya		Then come find me.
anya		I think you should be more careful about who you invite to dinner!
anya		Could someone tell me. . .
peasant 1		End of the line!
anya		Which line?
peasant 2		Any line.
peasant 3		All lines are good lines.
guard		Very good. . .
anya		Is this the right line to get papers to travel?
peasant 4		Travel? Travel to where?
anya		To Paris. I have to get to Paris
peasant 5		Paris?!  What do they have in Paris that they don't have here?
peasant 6		Shorter lines?!
peasant 7		 Nobody leaves Soviet Russia.
anya		Is this where I get traveling papers?
clerk		It would be if we let you travel which we  don't so it isn't.  Russia is the people's paradise!
anya		 I didn't
clerk		No.
anya		 Dmitri? There must be a million Dmitris. . .
peasant 9		 Which line is this?
anya		Excuse me, do you know Dmitri. . .
peasant 9		I know nothing!
anya		 I wish they'd all stop telling me they didn't tell me!
tiny husband		 Could you get rid of her moustache?
anya		Excuse me - I'm looking for a man named Dmitri. . .
artist		But I didn't write it.
dissolve to		A SIGN
actress 1		 Oh, Grandmama! It's me, Anastasia! I've waited so long to see you!
dmitri		Vladimir, calm down!
dmitri		For a ten million rubles reward we can look a little longer. This is the big one. . .  and all I need is the right girl.
actress 2		 Oh, Grandmama! It's me, Anastasia. I've waited so long to see you.
actress 3		 See you!
actress 4		Oh. . . Grandmama. . .  It's me. . .
actress 5		Oh, Grandmama. . .
actress 6		 What's my modivation?
vladimir		 Stanislavski!
actress 7		Oh. . .
dmitri		I've gotta find the right girl!
dmitri		Next.
vladimir		It's no use, Dmitri - we'll never find the right girl!
dmitri		We will.  We have to.  Come on, Vlad - she's out there.
dmitri		She could be right under our nose
dmitri		 Ouch!  That really hurt!
anya		I'm sorry. . .  I'm. . .
dmitri		That's quite a hard head you've got there, boy.
anya		 I'm looking for Dmitri.  I need traveling papers - to Paris. I heard Dmitri could help me.
vladimir		Who did you hear it from?
anya		I heard it from everyone who said I didn't hear it from them!   Do you know Dmitri?
vladimir		 I know Dmitri well - perhaps I can help you.  Providded you have enough money to pay for this service. . .
anya		Well, I don't have any money . . .
vladimir		Good day!
anya		I have a bike!  Perhaps I could sell it and. . .
policeman		Nonsense.  There is no crime in the Soviet Socialist Republic.
anya		Sorry, boy, I have to go.
vladimir		. . .  even if we find her, what makes you think the Empress will even see us?
dmitri		She'll see us.
bartok		You, uhh. . .  hang here often?  "Hang" get it?  I said "hang" and we're both, you know, cause we're bats. . .  and, uhhh. . . what's your sign?
dmitri		 What was that?
vladimir		That was your dinner!  I do hope there is no cabbage in Paris!
bartok		Whatta' ya say we go somewhere - maybe get a bug to eat.  Get it?  A "bug" to eat, 'cause we're. . .
anya		What are you do. . .
anya		 DANCING BEARS, PAINTED WINGS THINGS I ALMOST REMEMBER. AND A SONG SOMEONE SINGS ONCE UPON A DECEMBER
vladimir		You're trespassing, boy!
anya		I. . .  I. . .  spoke to you earlier about traveling paper. .
dmitri		 It's her.
vladimir		He's her?
dmitri		Look!
anya		Are you Dmitri?  I didn't  mean to trespass - I don't want to do anything dishonest, but if you could just help help me. . .
vladimir		Perhaps you heard of our brilliant plan to find a girl and. . .
dmitri		 She doesn't want to do anything "dishonest". . .
vladimir		 Ew. . .  the honest type.
dmitri		 You look like her.  Like the Princess Anastasia.  Has anyone ever told you that before?
anya		 Oh, yeah - in the orphanage they constantly told me I looked like a princess! Stop that!
dmitri		People say Anastasia was the only member of the Royal Family to escape alive.  That makes her an orphan too 
anya		I don't know - I don't remember anything that happened before the revolution. . .
dmitri		You know, it's strange - Anastasia's grandmother, the Dowager Empress Tatiana has been looking for Anastasia since the revolution.  Why do you think she wouldn't go to her own grandmother?
anya		I don't know.  I don't see what this has to do with me.
dmitri		Perhaps it's because she has amnesia too - can't remember. . .
vladimir		How much do you weigh?
anya		Look, I came here to get papers to travel to Paris and. . .
dmitri		Why do you want to go to Paris?
anya		 I have my reasons.
dmitri		Anastasia's grandmother is in Paris.  We're going to bring Anastasia to her - in Paris. 
anya		Look - there isn't an orphan in the world who doesn't dream she's a princess but, come on. . .  Look at me!
dmitri		NO!  YOU LOOK AT HER!  LOOK AT HER!  It could be you.
anya		 THINGS MY HEART USED TO KNOW THINGS IT YEARNS TO REMEMBER. . .
dmitri		Find out the truth - come to Paris with us.
anya		All right.  I will go with you.
dmitri		The Her Royal Highness Princess Anastasia!
bartok		Oy. . .  he's gonna be so mad. . .
anya		 THINGS MY HEART USED TO KNOW THINGS IT YEARNS TO REMEMBER ...
dmitri		Find out the truth - come to Paris with us.
anya		All right. I will go with you.
dmitri		The Her Royal Highness Princess Anastasia!
bartok		Oy. . .  he's gonna be so mad...
bartok		Ummm ... Father Gregori? It's, uhh ... me. Bartok.  Phew! Not home ...
rasputin		What?
bartok		Oh my God!  Don't do that ... feel my heart. Go ahead. I'm dying here ...
rasputin		 And what do you want, my little rat-with-wings?
bartok		Name calling! That's mature.
rasputin		I gave you that tongue and I can rip it out!
bartok		 Oyyyy... Okay, now... promise you won't get angry.
rasputin		 Why would I ever be angry with you, little friend?
bartok		Yeah, right. Keep that thought okay? So, I'm in town, stop by the old palace. You get a better class of bats there - no tattoos or anything.
rasputin		Get to the point sometime tonight.. I'm late for a wenching.
bartok		Okay... you're not gonna like this but, well, it looks like Anastasia is ... still alive.
rasputin		Impossible. That rumor's been around for years.
bartok		Trust me, it's her!
rasputin		 How do you know?
bartok		Rodent's intuition, how do I know? She looks exactly like her. Except she's taller, which    is natural ... Of course my second cousin Treplev - he never    grew. Looks like a little pepper shaker. He was so cute ...
rasputin		 Source of my power. Owner of my soul. I need your help.
bartok		Hey, she's just a kid. And she's going to Paris outta sight, outta mind, outta Russia.
rasputin		I cursed then all!
bartok		My Aunt Bella, sweet woman not the brightest bat in the world - she used to hang right side up, anyway she always said "Curses were made to be broken". Course, she said it in those irritating little bat squeaks, so it wasn't quite so profound...
rasputin		The Romanovs tried to kill me and I swore to destroy all of them! If she lives, if she should have a child someday, the Romanov Family continues! And I won't lot that happen! THIS IS THE END OF THE LINE!
bartok		You know, this is really obsessive behavior. There is this doctor this doctor in Austria, Sigmund something and he feels. . .
rasputin		YOU IDIOT
rasputin		 Do you have any idea what would happen if that broke?!
bartok		 You'd lose your security deposit?
rasputin		 Evil, powerful beings - I have their power only if I contain them, control them. If they should all be released at once... well ...
bartok		Ohhh, that was dumb...
rasputin		Finish my prophecy...
bartok		Ew, I hate when he does this!
rasputin		She is not to get off that train... alive!
rasputin		Go! I don't care what you do with the others but finish the girl! KILLLLL HERRRRR!  And have fun...
tatiana		Take her away, Sophie.
tatiana		Haven't anything better to do than to break my heart.
sophie		 Oh, oh... I must say. I thought that one was bar - i'm just so shocked that she wasn't real well, she was real, I mean she was human, of course. but not our real. I must say, even my sisters were touched by her yes - yes they were...
tatiana		 No, Sophie. My heart can't take it anymore! I will see no more girls claiming to be Anastasia.
dmitri		Hurry up with those papers.
vladimir		Would you have leaned over Rembrant's shoulder and told him to paint faster?
dmitri		 "Wake up, your highness" - we should start getting used to saying it.
vladimir		What a world - a man who was in my position in society is calling a peasant 'Your Highness".
dmitri		 Wake up!
vladimer		We have a lot of work to do...
dmitri		Come on!
dmitri		Take my hand!
dmitri		Do you always punch people first thing in the morning?
anya		Sorry - it's a reflex. Living in an orphanage if someone bothers you - you automatically come up swinging.
dmitri		I wasn't bothering you. I was trying to wake you up!
anya		By pulling my hair?!
dmitri		I was all out of dynamite!
anya		 Put it on your nose. For heaven's sake, you're making such a fuss!
anya		 Men are such babies...
anya		Here, let me
dmitri		You're a princess...
vladimir		Royalty do not help people with their luggage.
vladimir		Well, she certainly has a mind of her own.
dmitri		Yes. And I hate that in a woman.
guard		Papers!
vladimir		 It's what I hate about this government - everything in red!
guard		Thank you, Comrade Zhivago.
zhivago		Doctor Zhivago.
vladimir		What do we do now?
dmitri		Pray he's color-blind...
guard		wait here.
anya		I'm going to stretch my legs
dmitri		That's a good idea - a great idea - stretch your legs  ... stretch then that way.
anya		 I must have hit him harder than I thought...
guard		That's them! Come on!
dmitri		Wait here!
anya		 Would you like to tell what we are...
dmitri		Come on up!
anya		Why?
anya		Just what do you think you're doing?!
dmitri		Trying... to... breathe...
dmitri		The guards!  I'll explain later.
anya		Forged papers! Now, what?!
dmitri		Now just get off the train.
anya		HUH?!
anya		Noooo....
vladimir		She's quite right, Dmitri, a man of my stature should not have to
dmitri		Come on, we'll jump together... Take my hand.
dmitri		Come on!
anya		No!
vladimir		I think I have hurt my...
dmitri		You must enjoy causing me pain!
anya		You shouldn't have pushed us!
vladimir		Is everyone all right?
anya		I'm fine.
dmitri		She's fine!  I may never walk right again, but she's fine...
bartok		Well, I better got goin'. Got a busy day letting all the blood rush to my head...
rasputin		She's too far away, isn't she?
bartok		Oy... not a road trip. I get wagon sick, you know that.
rasputin		We'll catch her and finish her!  We ride this night!
bartok		Well,    we wait this night!
vladimir		No have a lot of work to do, Anya! Come along, Meetoo!
anya		Who's Sophie?
vladimir		 Ah ... the Lady Sophie... The ravishing first cousin, once removed, from the Empress. We must convince Sophie that you are the Princess before we'll be granted a meeting with the Empress ... your grandmother, I mean.
anya		What?!
dmitri		You are the Princess.
vladimir		We're just going to refresh your memory...
anya		I don't have a memory and I'm not a Princess!  Even if I were - no one's ever going to believe it. I'm not exactly...
dmitri		What do you see?
vladimir		Ah! Let us begin!
anya		...and on my father's side, there was [THIS SECTION IS NOT LEDGABLE]
dmitri		Every Russian family has one..
anya		 Natasha! Natasha Feastavich!- but we called her Nashie Fooshie!
vladimir		Did I tell you that?
anya		You must have.
anya		 [THIS SECTION ALSO NOT LEDGABLE]
dmitri		 It's the best fork of all
anya		The dessert fork!
vladimir		 Ah, yes ... I have always loved that fork...
anya		What a beautiful ship!
dmitri		It used to be a private yacht before the government took it over.
vladimir		Oh, yes it was the seagoing vessel of elaborate elegance in entertaining...  A party boat. It once belonged to ...
anya		Konstantin Petrovich of Moscow!
elderly dowager		No, no, boys! You don't know where he's been!
vladimir		Come out! I can do alterations.
vladimir		I shant!
dmitri		I won't laugh - I swear...
anya		You said you wouldn't laugh!
dmitri		It's not you - it's the dress!
anya		 I'm never going to be..
vladimir		You are a natural! I don't know how you ever learned to dance that well! That must have been some high class orphanage ...
dmitri		I wanted to show you something.
anya		It's so beautiful ... and sad.
dmitri		Sad?
anya		Lost. it feels lost. This was hers?
dmitri		Yeah ... well, yours. You still don't believe that you're the Princess, do you?
anya		I know I must have had something to do with the palace - I've had little flashes of things - but being the Princess? It doesn't matter as long as I find my home.
dmitri		Well, the only thing you've got when you've got a home is a fear of losing it! You're lucky you don't remember the revolution -- I never had much, but what I did have -- I lost.
anya		I'm sorry.
dmitri		 Hey! It doesn't matter! You gotta make your own way in the world! Don't be sorry for me! I'm going to get what I want don't you worry!
rasputin		 She's out there ...
bartok		I'm getting a chest cold..
rasputin		Bartok... a question.
bartok		I'm getting pneumonia. I have a fever. Feel my forehead...
rasputin		What do you think is the most humiliating way to die?
bartok		My cousin Mischa, nice fellow had some dental problems - you didn't want to watch him eat, let's put it that way...
bartok		... anyway, a bunch of other bats were hanging in the belfry - I know, cliche, but there you have it, and Mischa, not the brightest bat in the world, decides to hang in the bell. Which was fine for awhile until it started ringing ...  Ewwww, what a mess ...
rasputtn		 Show her to me ...
bartok		And it didn't help the tonal quality of the bell, either.
dmitri		If you have to go - wake her..
dmitri		What were you doing?!
bartok		Boy, don't you hate it when that happens?
rasputin		 She leads a charmed life, that little one ... Someone is always there to save her. In the palace as a child, on the train and now ... it's him.
bartok		Nice looking fellow. I mean, don't get me wrong - I'm not attracted to him in the physical sense, I just ...
rasputin		You are toying with me, aren't you? You let me get so close...
bartok		Me? No. Rich food - it kills me. Ever try and fly after one of those heavy sauces?
rasputin		We are going to Paris - and while we're there, let's kill the young man. He annoys me.
anya		Oh! I'm sorry...
dmitri		It's okay. Didn't hurt..
anya		 I'm almost there... I'm finally going to know...
dmitri		How is our current financial status?
vladimir		If I used the word "bleak" I would be optimistic.
dmitri		It worked in Odessa...
elderly dowager		Help! My little dogs! Chevalier! Maurice! Hold on, darlings!
dmitri		I'll save them, Madame
vladimir		Such bravery! Why, that man should be rewarded! Amply rewarded!
anya		That was really very kind of you.
vladimir		I won't say a word...
dmitri		Nervous?
anya		Yes - If I can't convince Sophie, I'll never be able to see Tatiana....
dmitri		You'll convince her. You have the qualities of a princess you're poised and strong... and beautiful ... even if you forget a couple dates of family names - she'll know.
vladimir		May I present her Royal Highness Princess Anastasia!
sophie		Oh good! We haven't seen an Anastasia in several days!
sophie		I'd just like to ask you a few questions, dear...
anya		Of course.
sophie		Where were you born?
sophie		 This is the hard one ... what rare treat was served on the night of the Three Hundredth Anniversary of the Romanov Dynasty? The last ball they ever had?
anya		Father had fresh tropical fruits sent in. Oranges and pineapples from the far east. I remember ... I remember I threw an orange to a young boy who was hiding under a table...
sophie		 Yes ... yes, it was fresh fruit. Well, maybe not "fresh" Estelle got one rather brown banana but ...
vladimir		Are you impressed with our Anastasia?
sophie		Oh, heavens - I must say, yes.
vladimir		Then, you'll take her to see Tatiana?
sophie		Oh, heavens I must say... no, no actually, I can't - Tatiana has refused to see any more girls.
vladimir		Perhaps you could convince her?
sophie		Oh, heavens, no... but ...  She is going to be at the Ballet Russe tonight! That's the Russian Ballet - Russe for Russian, oh those crazy French... they only go to see which dancers will defect.
sophie		Come my dear, we've much to talk about.
vladimir		We did it! We did it, my boy! We're going to see Tatiana at the ballet tonight and we're going to be rich! Rich!
dmitri		But it's not    the money, Vlad.
vladimir		 Are you feeling all right?
vladimir		Life is funny, isn't it. You find the right girl ... and then you lose her.
dmitri		What do you mean?
vladimir		Dmitri ... You must understand that once you take her to Tatiana... well, it's over... nothing can happen between you. She's a princess and you're a commoner.
accordion player		Lovers!
flower seller		Ooh la la!
bartok		 PARSE HOLDS THE KEY TO MY HEART FRENCH- BAT- CHICKS HANG OUT AT MONTMARTRE WE'LL EAT SOME IN-SECTS THEN GO BACK AND HAVE --
bartok		Sorry, it's just... you know I saw these french postcards once and... ooh la la ... well, I'm not sure about the "ooh", but it's the "la la" I'm really lookin' forward to...  Right, I'm shutting up.
rasputin		We're close to her, aren't we?
bartok		What do you think? Is it me?
vladimir		Compliments of Sophie. Her escort has to look his best.
anya		How do I look?
dmitri		Look. There is your grandmother...
anya		She's so beautiful! I do remember her ... I remember her ...
dmitri		Come on. It's time..
anya		I'm so scared...
dmitri		Don't be
dmitri		 I know.
dmitri		I need to speak with the Dowager Empress ...
dmitri		Please, if you'd just listen...
tatiana		 Remove him at once.
dmitri		Please! Empress! It's not what you ....
dmitri		Anya. . . please. . .
dmitri		Anya, wait!
anya		 Tell me it isn't true?! Tell me you didn't do this for the money!
dmitri		No! Well, yes, but
anya		No! I thought you believed in me! It was all a lie!
dmitri		Sir! Your rear tire is flat!
chauffeur		it is?
tatiana		Ulo! Slow down!
dmitri		I'm not Ulo and I won't slow down. But you will listen to me!
tatiana		 You! How dare you?! Stop this car immediately!
tatiana		Stop this car!
dmitri		Please don't be afraid! I'm sorry, but there was no other way!
tatiana		Anastasia's music box... She had this all these years...  You could have found it...
dmitri		What I foundyour was your granddaughter!
anya		Go away!
tatiana		Who are you, child?
anya		 I don't know! I don't want to hurt you...
tatiana		Do you remember this?
anya		I remember something lost ... I'm so confused! Oh, please, just tell me if you recognize me! Do you think I could have... belonged to you ...
tatiana		Oh! Where did you get that?!
anya		I've always had it... I came here because of this! Tell me if you recognize it! Please! It's all I have...
tatiana		 If this is part of your scheme! If you found it or stole - I don't care, I'll give you whatever you want just TELL ME THE TRUTH!
anya		 THINGS MY HEAR USED TO KNOW THINGS IT YEARS TO REMEMBER
both		AND A SONG SOMEONE SINGS ONCE UPON A DECEMBER...
bartok		He is gonna yellllll.
bartok		I should have been a dentist ...
anya		... and that Christmas dinner, when Cook made that awful plum pudding and we hid it in our pockets so we wouldn't hurt her feelings! I do remember so much now, Grandmama, - but not everything.
tatiana		Don't worry about that now, child, it will all come back to you now that you're home...
rasputin		Yesss ... finally "home". And what a charming ... girlish little home it is.  Look, Bartok, little angels, the symbol of ... love. So sweet, so harmless.
tatiana		Anastasia! It was just a bat! It's gone, dear...
anya		 No, it wasn't a bat! I saw this horrible man - I remember him, I think...
tatiana		 No, no child... shush... it's all right ...
sophie		A grand ball for the Princess. How very exciting. So much to do, so little time...
tatiana		 Do it somewhere else, please. Quietly.
sophie		Caterers ... invitations ... saber dancers! We must have saber dancers!
pierre		Her head it is ... how you say?
andre		Beeg. Zat is how you say it. Beeg.
pierre		And the crown she is ... how you say?
andre		Small! Zat is "how you say" it! Don't be so French, Pierre wit the "how you say" all za time - zat is really annoying.
tatiana		You are going to make a beautiful princess.
tatiana		Lovely...  What troubles you, child?
vladimir		Madame, your... eh... guest has arrived.
tatiana		 Thank you, Vladimir.,
vladimir		Anya... Anastasia... I'm sorry ... We didn't mean to hurt you ...
tatiana		I sent for you because I owe you a debt of gratitude larger than I can ever repay
dmitri		No. Empress, you --
tatiana		I want you to have the reward money - you've earned it.
dmitri		Empress, no! I will not take the money! I just came to tell you I was sorry...
tatiana		Young    man, I...
dmitri		... and I'm going to keep my promise to stay out of your lives, forever.
tatiana		You are the boy ...
dmitri		 I should go
tatiana		That last night in the palace... one boy showed us kindness and courage. You were the boy who saved our lives, weren't you?  Please, is there nothing I can do to repay you?
dmitri		Promise me she'll have her home.
tatiana		She does.
dmitri		And tell me that she's happy.
tatiana		Oh, Dmitri.I wish that I could.
dmitri		I'm glad you found what you were looking for.
anya		I'm glad you    did too.
anya		Enjoy your fortune.
vladimir		But this invitation came from the Empress herself! It's the social event of the decade! You can't turn it down!
dmitri		Watch me.
vladimir		So where will you go?
dmitri		She found her home. Maybe it's time I found one too!
rasputin		So. You don't want to go to the coronation, eh?
dmitri		 Rasputin!
rasputin		I know, I know ... you thought I was dead. That's how the history books will remember me - not as the ruler of all of Russia, which I SHOULD HAVE BEEN - but as the guy who was never dead when you expected him to be.
dmitri		What do you want?!
rasputin		The same thing I wanted ten years ago - all the Romonovs dead I got the others, now I have to finish up with that nuisance, Anastasia...
dmitri		You're insane! You didn't kill the Romonovs - it was the...
rasputin		STOP IT! I DID SO KILL THEM! And I'm going to kill Anastasia.
major domo		... then as I say "Her Serene Highness Princess Anastasia" you, your Highness, should walk out on to the stage and greet your ...
tatiana		I believe her highness understands what she has to do.
anya		Oh, yes, Grandmama - I wait until I hear...
tatiana		No, not about the ceremony, Anastasia - do you understand the choice you must make.
anya		There's no choice...
vladimir		 Your "guest" is unable to attend.
anya		Oh, Meetoo! You look miserable! Oh, Vlad - look at him!
vladimir		 Yes, your highness.
anya		Poor Meetoo!
vladimir		 Yes, your highness.
anya		Cut it out, Vlad! I'm not angry with you anymore - I know how much you needed the money.
tatiana		But they didn't take the money - either one of them. I offered it to them, but they both refused.
anya		Dmitri didn't want the money?
tatiana		No, he just wanted to know you were happy.
vladimir		 With your highness, permission.
anya		Vlad, stop acting this way! You're my friend!
vladimir		No. From now on I am your loyal subject ... your highness. By your leave?
anya		Why does everyone have to act that way?
tatiana		You'll have to become used to it, child, if you accept the crown...
anya		"If" I accept?! Of course I'm going to accept! it's what I always wanted!
tatiana		Is it? Is this what you want?
anya		I wanted to come home, Grandmama - and I did. I came back to my home with you.
tatiana		You can't go back to find your home. Your home is in your heart, in the future that you make for yourself.
anya		And this is my future. This is who I am!
tatiana		This is who you were. Exactly who you are is up to you.
anya		I don't know who I am! I still don't know!
tatiana		Yes, you do. You do.
anya		I've spent my whole life waiting to find you ...
tatiana		And we have found each other nothing will ever change that! I am your family, dear child, but I may not be your home.
rasputin		Look, Bartok. Most of them were there the night I made this curse. Now, they'll get to see it finished!  Revenge is a dish best served... in front of a larrrrrge audience!
bartok		 Ahh, very witty. There's this English guy - Noel Coward - I'll bet he's quaking ...
anya		Dmitri?
anya		Dmitri ... Grandmama told me.
anya		Dmitri, what's wrong?
rasputin		 Throw her off the edge! Do it!
anya		Dmitri ... Look at me! It's Anya! It's ANYA!
anya		You saved my life in the palace! You won't take it now...
rasputin		 FINISH HER!
anya		Dmitri. I know you would never hurt me. You love me.
anya		Dmitri?
dmitri		Anya... where are we?
anya		I guess you aren't as powerful as you thought!
rasputin		I'll show you!
dmitri		Run, Anya -  go...
anya		I'm not leaving you!
rasputin		Fighting for fair lady. How noble...
dmitri		Anya!
rasputin		My curse is now complete! Good-bye, babushka!
dmitri		Take my hand!  Hurry!
anya		Don't let me go!
dmitri		I'll never let go!
rasputin		This little piggy had a palace... this little piggy had a throne...
dmitri		Come on... I'll take you home.
anya		I am home.
****Dialogues from script :Angel_Eyes.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY  FADE IN:  EXT. CITY STREETS  - NIGHT  CREDIT SEQUENCE.  As OPENING CREDITS play, we study the city's nighttime pulse, ribbons of headlights moving and cross-connecting like blood through the veins of a body -- impressionistic, even beautiful, but what we're hearing is soulful trumpet-based MUSIC, mellow and haunting, the modern classic -- JAZZ sound of a Wynton Marsalis, putting a voice to our story. As CREDITS END, we...  DISSOLVE TO:
sharon		Can you hear me?  This one's conscious!
sharon		Wait. Wait. Listen to me.    Can you feel that?
sharon		That's my hand. Hold it.    Go on -- as hard as you can.
sharon		It's over, and I've got you, and you're safe. You're safe now. You got that? Don't let go. Don't let me go.
sharon		That car is older than they are.
robby		'67 Chevy Impala.
sharon		That's what I said.
robby		Needs a servicing.
sharon		Don't we all.
sharon		Get it together, officer.
robby		Jesus, Pogo! Almost spilled my coffee again! You didn't like his hair, or what?
sharon		I love Elvis hair. They were going two damn miles an hour.
robby		Let's roll to this -- fight in progress.
catch		Y'know... since we're both walking the same way, I could take one of those bags for you. That way, I do some upper body work while I'm walking along. Helps my back. What d'you say?
catch		Right now your mind's making pictures of me robbing your groceires, but, y'know, nine times out of ten, people do the right thing.
old man		It's the dog food that makes it so heavy.
catch		I guess it's worth it... for a good dog.
kid		Look at this bitch.    Whoo!   Benny, look at this!
kid		 You come in with me.    Hey, bitch.
kid		You're going to arrest me, you come into the back seat with me. Come on!
kid		Come on.   We'll have a good time.
sharon		 Three Adam Five -- show us 1019 to the jail with one male prisoner.
kid		Take off your uniform. Take off my handcuffs, bitch, and come back here. I want one touch.
robby		Give it a rest!
kid		If you're going to put me away, you gotta give me one sweet touch.
kid		That ain't the touch.   That ain't the touch I want.
robby		As I remove your cuffs, I want you to put your hands here. Spread your legs. More.
robby		That's it.   Back off, John, we got it.
sanderman		You trying to be a bad-ass, Pogue?
sharon		I just dealt with the situation. The prisoner...
sanderman		And you don't see a pattern here?  I want you to keep yourself way inside the line instead of walking on it. All right? Are you taking notes?
robby		You broke his nose.
sharon		He grabbed me.     End of story.
robby		And you were waiting for him. You were hoping. You were making long-range plans for his ass while he was mouthing off in the car -- and you're supposed to be above that shit.
sharon		If you think I crossed the line, put it in the report.
robby		Pogo, stop the shit. What is it? You pissed off at me, too?
sharon		Not you, Rob. You're a rare unthreatened male cop with a good marriage, and you like to eat where I eat -- so everything's code four.
robby		Come over    for dinner tonight. I'll call    Charlene. She'd like to see you.     It's been awhile. We'll talk about    it.
sharon		Thanks. But  she'll invite friends, try and fix me up. She's always trying to fix me up so she doesn't have to worry about you and me.
robby		She doesn't worry about that.
sharon		They all worry about that.
sharon		You don't need to fix me, Robby, or fix me up. I don't want some guy to heart and soul me and then walk away 'cause he can't stand the cop thing -- or worse: he wants cop stories every night 'cause it turns him on, and he has no idea who I am inside my head. Anyway, I'm busy tonight.
robby		Got some action, huh?    Well, that's promising.
sharon		Yeah.   Hot and heavy.
catch		Hey! You want to turn that volume down? What's your point?
catch		What's the point of blasting your music through the whole zip code? Don't you realize there are kids trying to sleep in these apartments -- old people, sick people?
driver		You better watch your mouth, asshole.
catch		Why?   What're you gonna do?   Kill me?
candace		Hi.
catch		Hi.   Your keys are in the...
candace		Oh, thank you. Thanks a lot. God. I was trying to carry Tommy and all these bags. He was so tired. Of course, as soon as I put him down he had all this energy...
candace		Y'know, we were just baking nectarine bars because the peaches weren't ripe. Ever had a nectarine bar?
catch		Sorry.   Gotta be going.
sharon		Hi, Mrs. Vander. You're looking good.
sharon		Looks great.
sharon		Their vows?
sharon		Oh, yeah. We've had... there's been some problems with the mail in our building, so... I'll probably get it today.
sharon		So, I guess I'll see you.
sharon		I didn't see his truck, so...
larry		He's not here.
sharon		How you doing?
larry		I'm okay.
sharon		Kathy and the boy? Bet he's big now.
larry		Growin' fast.
sharon		Is he looking more like you now -- or did he get lucky?
larry		He's got Kathy's looks and brains and my strong back. You should feel his grip.  You just passing by?
sharon		Place is coming along nice. The octagon window. Dad's signature.
sharon		Look, Larry, I shouldn't have to hear it from Mrs. Vander -- about what's happening.
larry		What's happening?
sharon		 So you really weren't going to tell me? Nobody was going to tell me? Mom and Dad renewing their vows, the church, the party. Mrs. Vander is all excited. She bought a new dress. It's blue.
larry		We're workin' on Dad. We think you should be there. We told him.
sharon		Mom told him?
larry		We mentioned it.
sharon		He's holding out, hah?
larry		You want to come?
sharon		It's my family. Jesus, Lar. It's over ten years, and he won't let go of it.
larry		You two were always head to head.
sharon		For good reason. Remember?
larry		Let's just leave it.
sharon		You're still scared of him.
larry		I don't think it's a good idea you coming around here in uniform. People see it, they think we're in trouble here.
sharon		Nice seeing you, too.
sharon		Two more minutes.
kathy		Hi! Look -- it's your Auntie Sharon.
sharon		Hey, Champ, my God, look how big.
sharon		Ow! You hurt my hand with that grip. Whew.
kathy		We're bringing Larry his lunch. Hey, it's good to see you. It's been awhile. What?
kathy		Oh, I went boom into a low shelf -- chasing after him of course.  How're you doing?
sharon		I'm semi-okay. I heard about the... ceremony and the party.
kathy		 Really.
sharon		Take it easy.    You too, Champ.
sharon		Oh, no. You're not breaking my fingers again.
catch's pov		 Sharon is in the car beside Robby.
on catch		 Stunned by the sight of her -- and he doesn't know why. He can't move, can't breathe, eyes fixed on her. The POLICE CAR pulls around a truck and ROARS on -- and that's when he is struck by a memory, a little like lightning. It comes as a quick --
ray		Break-in alarm. One suspect in -- nobody out. Take the back.
robby		Freeze!
sharon		 Robby!
robby		Right behind you!  Stop and lie down with your arms... shit.
robby		Careful!
sharon		I see him!
robby		Citizen on your right!   Hey!
robby		Gun!
sharon		Freeze!    Right there!
robby		Hey!     Wait!
ray		You got him?
robby		He was armed.
ray		Jesus.
robby		Citizen took him down.
ray		No shit!?
ray		What happened here?
catch		I... just saw it and... I saw the gun, so...
robby		You all right, Pogo?
sharon		I was dead.   Y'know.
sharon		He had me.    I was dead.
catch		I was just walking by.      I live near here.
sanchez		Sergeant's going to want to talk to you, Mr. Lambert. We'll need a statement.
ray		Don't worry about it. That's just procedure. Look -- we appreciate what you did. No bullshit. Let us buy you a drink tonight, all right? You know where the Rib House is?
catch		I got you nectarines because the peaches are hard as rocks.
elanora		Your jacket's all dirty.
elanora		Why would you 'tackle' a guy?!
catch		He had the ball. He was going for a touchdown.
elanora		Can you be serious?
catch		 What day is today?
elanora		Wednesday.
catch		No.
catch		Met somebody today.
elanora		Oh? That's good. Ahh -- they had the broccolini today. Thank you.
catch		A woman.
elanora		You didn't tackle her, too, did you?
catch		No.
elanora		Good, Catch.
catch		She's a police officer.
elanora		 Are you in trouble?
catch		No.   No trouble.
elanora		Well... that's a good thing.
catch		I saw her once a long time ago.
elanora		Where?
catch		She looks the same.
cop		Beautiful.
sanchez		Yeah. My wife's got him in agility class.
ray		No shit.
ray		'Rex.' Rex is good. I wonder who the first person was to name a dog 'Fido,' and what the hell does it mean?
sharon		I like how you're always asking the big questions, Ray.
ray		I got a big question for you, Pogo -- but I can only ask it when we're alone.
sharon		Here -- use this -- call your wife and ask her instead.
sanchez		I happen to know Ray's wife is busy tonight.
ray		Why doesn't your partner ever come out with us?
sharon		Robby's a family man.
ray		I'm a family man.
sharon		Yeah, but his family actually likes him.
ray		That Lambert -- I guess he's not showing either.
ray		Where are you going?
sharon		The head.   Do you mind?
sanchez		She's just gonna freshen up her makeup.
ray		You're wearing makeup?
sharon		That reminds me, Ray. You still have that eye-liner you borrowed from me?
sharon		We thought you wouldn't show.    Why you sitting here?
catch		I don't talk to a lot of people. Would you...?
sharon		I didn't have a chance to thank you. I'm Sharon Pogue.
sharon		You look familiar.
catch		I guess I live on the beat you patrol.
sharon		Why would you do that -- jump a man with a gun?
catch		 He was going to shoot you.
sharon		He could've shot you. You have a death wish? You a bungee jumper?
catch		No. I didn't have time to think about it.
sharon		What d'you think about it now?
catch		I figure... it was worth the risk.
sharon		For someone you don't even know?
catch		Yeah -- and for what you do. I think cops are great. Out there, trying to keep it safe. You know? Tough job. Firemen are everybody's heroes. Kids wave at firemen. People should wave at cops. Did you ever think about how many people are walking around this town because you saved them?
sharon		I never thought about it.
catch		... because you helped them or because you arrested somebody who would've hurt them or because you just... did your job?
sharon		Now I'm walking around this town because of you. Ever think about that? Maybe you should be a cop.
catch		I don't know... I look pretty dumb in a hat...
catch		... and I don't drive and, like I said, I don't talk to many people. Am I talking too much? I am. You go ahead.
sharon		Okay. What d'you do? You employed around here? Oh, God. Sorry. Every time I try to talk to somebody, it comes out like an interrogation.
catch		Where do you want to be ten years from now?
sharon		What?
catch		Somebody taught that to me. Kind of a shortcut. You ask somebody, what are your plans for tomorrow -- what're your dreams for ten years from now. It's supposed to get things started.
sharon		Does it work?
catch		I never tried it.
sharon		Bullshit.
catch		No. Really. I just remembered it -- God is my witness.
sharon		Not in here.    It's mostly cops.
sharon		You have a nice smile.
sharon		So... what were we talking about? Oh, yeah, you were giving me some line about starting a conversation.
catch		The shortcut.
sharon		Okay.    I'll play.
sharon		Tomorrow I've got a night watch shift. If the weather clears, in the morning I'll go hiking. If it rains, I'll go to the gym -- and the laundromat. Ten years from now... I want to be living in some mountainous place.
catch		Tibet?
sharon		Could be Tibet. Could be Colorado. Your turn.
ray		Hey, Pogo -- don't keep him all to yourself. Come on over, Lambert, join the group. We'll buy you dinner, give you a medal for saving Pogo's ass.
sharon		Actually, I'm kind of tired, Ray. I'm taking off.
catch		Oh.     I'll... walk you to your car.
catch		Thanks for the drink.
ray		Least we could do. We don't like her very much -- but we don't want to lose her.
catch		Take care.
sharon		It's not a great neighborhood. Maybe I should walk you to your car.
catch		I don't have a car.
sharon		Want a ride home?
catch		Oh, thanks, but... I like to walk.
sharon		It's starting to rain.   Don't be a hero.
catch		Yeah. If it's no trouble. Thanks.
sharon		Okay... ten years from now, what d'you want to be doing?
catch		I don't know.    This is pretty good.
catch		Can you drive okay?
sharon		I'm not drunk. You think I'm drunk? I'm not. You'll know I'm drunk when I'm throwing up, and I never throw up, so don't worry about it.
catch		The only time I worry is when people tell me not to worry.
sharon		Get in the car, will you?
catch		I'm on Lundy Street, just off Pico.
sharon		I'm good at this.
catch		Streets are wet.
sharon		Are you one of those people who drive ten miles an hour in the rain? I hate that.
catch		I never drive.
catch		I'll be alright.
catch		Y'know, I can picture you in Colorado.
sharon		Oh yeah?   What am I doing there?
catch		Driving around... pissed off.
sharon		I'm not pissed off at you.
catch		Give me some time.
sharon		Those guys  in the bar are my friends --  sort of. We work together,  we tell jokes and we bullshit,  but I can't say to them...
catch		What?
sharon		Every time I close my eyes, I see that goddamn gun pointing at me and I don't know why I'm telling you unless it's because you were there and because I had three drinks, but I'm not ready to go inside and close my eyes and I don't want to go to your place and I don't want to keep driving around, so what the hell do we do?
catch		Whew. I feel like we're boxing, and you've got me on the ropes.  We'll do whatever you want.
sharon		What I want  is to know how you happened to  be walking by that parking lot  at that minute. What if you hadn' t been there?
catch		I guess we were supposed to meet.
sharon		If you want -- you can come in for a minute.
sharon		Want a drink?
catch		No thanks.
sharon		Sit down or something.
catch		I'm circling awhile.
sharon		You're not supposed to look around. I didn't have time to straighten up.
catch		So... it's more real this way.
sharon		It's rude.
catch		Now that I'm in here, you seem mad about it.
sharon		I'm not mad. You'll know when I'm mad. I don't usually let somebody in here, but here you are. That's all. Let's talk about something stupid.
catch		You first.
sharon		Okay -- one thing I don't believe is that 'supposed to' business. We were 'supposed to' meet. That sounds a little fringy to me, like something you might hear on public access TV. You believe that?
catch		Some people say we each give off a particular odor -- that can only be detected by one other person's brain.
sharon		So, we... smell each other?   Who says that?
catch		I have no idea.  I'm more in the destiny school, we-met-in-another-life school. Do you believe that? Do you think when we die -- we come back in another form?
sharon		You mean like   a duck? No. I think dead is   dead. I've been thinking about   it all day -- and I don't want to   think about it anymore.
sharon		Why'd you do that?
catch		See?   Now you're thinking about me.
catch		Let me guess.       Colorado.
sharon		It's Austria, but I can't picture myself in Austria. I'm not good with languages, so I couldn't qualify for the departments over there.
sharon		Thanks for... coming up here.
catch		Does that mean I'm going?
sharon		 No.    You don't have to.    I...
catch		You okay now?
sharon		Oh.    You're here as a medic.
catch		Is this the mad part?
sharon		Maybe going is a good idea.
catch		Can I come back some time?
sharon		Why?
catch		 Must be the smell.
catch		I better go.
sharon		Oh, God.
driver		What the hell do you think you're doing?!
driver		Are you crazy?!
man		Hey!    Hey!   What did you do?
man		That's my car!     What the hell were you doing?
catch		Nothing.    I just...
man		I saw you!    What did you take out of there?!
catch		No, I rolled up the window.       It's rain...
man		You take my phone?!       Hah?!
catch		Hey!   Hey!    Wake up!    Wake up!
catch		I helped you.  I helped you.
catch		I'm sorry.
catch		Oh.   Sorry.
candace		Shopping day?
sharon		It's looking great, Mom.
mother		 Thanks, honey. It's the best year ever for the impatiens. The very best.
mother		Let's go in.
sharon		Looks the same. Still smells like cigarettes. I thought he quit.
mother		He's down to six a day.
sharon		Your hair looks nice.
mother		Are you well?
sharon		I guess I'm well. Is this always here?
mother		Yes.   It's always there.
sharon		Did Larry tell you I came by where he's working? Is that why you called me?
mother		I called because we want to invite you to our renewal of vows. It's three weeks from Saturday.
sharon		Who's 'we.'     You said 'we' want to invite you.
mother		The family.
sharon		How come you're renewing your vows?
mother		It's sort of... a fresh start.
sharon		Your idea?
mother		No. Both of us. It's a way of... having the marriage blessed.
sharon		Wasn't it blessed before?
mother		Sherry... of course it was blessed. You just...
sharon		I just what, Mom?
mother		You just think about the bad, and you never remember the good. I wish you remembered the good.
sharon		Sorry.  I wish I did, too.  Does he? Remember any good about me?
mother		Of course. He doesn't hate you. He just... still feels hurt.
sharon		Hurt?    I hurt him?
mother		Being arrested like that. Somebody doesn't forget that.
sharon		Oh? How come you forgot what he did?
mother		It wasn't as bad -- you always make it sound worse. And it hasn't been that way for years.
sharon		I'm glad it hasn't been that way. That means it worked, Mom. That was the point. That's why I did it. Christ. Why do I get punished for it?
mother		Honey, nobody's punishing you. We're inviting you. Will you come?
sharon		Of course I'll come.
mother		We didn't think you'd want to.
sharon		Why not?
mother		We don't want any trouble... on that day. Please.
sharon		Mom, I'm your daughter. I don't want any trouble -- ever. I'll come to the ceremony. I won't come to argue, and I won't come in uniform.
mother		It's on the 23rd. Saint Monica's.
sharon		I'd like you to send me an invitation. Mrs. Vander said it's a beautiful invitation.
mother		I'll show you.
sharon		Mom. I'd like to get one... in the mail... from my family. Okay?
mother		Yes.
sharon		Tell Dad... thanks.
sharon		Do you have a machine?
catch		What?
sharon		Do you have an answering machine?
catch		Yes.
sharon		Will you hang up please, and I'll call your machine.
catch		Why?
sharon		Hi. Maybe we can... have breakfast or something. I get up early and run in Ballard Park. There's a Denny's across from the park. Like eight or so. If you're there, you're there.
sharon		Oh, God.
sharon		Hi, don't pick up. Look, I didn't sleep much and anyway this is a bad idea. I was feeling funky last night and I'm all right now so let's just leave it where it's at. Bye. Oh, thanks for the... Bye.
sharon		Damn it!
sharon		What?!     Who?!
sharon		Oh, Jesus.
sharon		I was just falling asleep. Finally.
catch		We made a date.
sharon		It wasn't a 'date.'
catch		Okay, an 'appointment.'     I keep my appointments.
sharon		I called you.    I called you at seven.
catch		I get up early. I walked there. I waited there.
sharon		Check your messages.
sharon		 I need more sleep. Come back in a month.
catch		Come back? What makes you think I'd come back here?
sharon		Then why are you here?
catch		I'm here to tell you that when you tell someone you're going to be somewhere then that someone rearranges his life and you should be more aware of that and a lot more considerate instead of just...
sharon		What's in the bag?
catch		What?   None of your business.
sharon		Did you bring some coffee?
catch		You think you deserve coffee?
sharon		What else did you bring?   Food?
catch		 You definitely don't deserve food. I've got coffee, sugar, sweetener, non-dairy...
sharon		Just black.   Black. Thanks.
sharon		So what kind of life did you rearrange in order to get to Denny's? You never said one word about yourself last night. What d'you do?
catch		What's the difference?
sharon		What's the difference?! You're standing in my bedroom. That's the difference. Who are you?
catch		Somebody who keeps appointments.
sharon		You're ducking. Don't duck.  Oh, shit -- you're married, right?
catch		I'm not.
sharon		I don't believe you.
catch		You don't believe me?   Give me back the coffee.
sharon		No.
catch		Give me the coffee.
sharon		Oh, God. Oh, wait -- you're involved in some criminal activity, aren't you? Great -- That's all I need.
catch		My name is Catch Lambert. I don't work. I don't commit any crimes. I like being with you. We can start from here -- from now.
sharon		Bullshit. I'm... I let you in here. I'm not going to be some fool. I need the details.
catch		And I need to start from here.
sharon		That's ridiculous. Why?
catch		That's the way it is.
sharon		Oh.   Your rules.
catch		My rules.
sharon		Jesus. Okay. Fine. I don't really want to know you anyway. Goodbye.
sharon		 Can I come in?
catch		Yeah.   Sure.   Come in.
sharon		You live here? Nobody lives here. This place is some kind of front, a scam, a drop -- or what?
catch		This is what you told me about -- right?
sharon		What?
catch		Your interrogation.      Do I need a lawyer?
sharon		I just don't want to be jerked around.
catch		I'm not.
sharon		Then tell me straight out.      Who are you?
catch		What is it you're looking for?
sharon		Your life.    I don't want any surprises.
catch		This is it. I sleep here. I walk around town. That's all of it.
sharon		That's all of it?
catch		Yeah. Except for you -- the way I feel about you.
sharon		Which is?
catch		Surprising.    I thought it was impossible.    I thought I was...
sharon		You thought you were what?       Gay?
catch		Dead.   In a way.
sharon		I'm supposed to understand that?
catch		No. Did you ever wonder what 'scratch' meant, when people say, 'we'll start from scratch'? This is scratch. We can start from here.
sharon		I don't know.    I just don't know.
elanora		I remember that. That was a smile.
catch		You know the cop -- the woman cop? She... visited me.
elanora		Oh?   Where did she sit?
catch		I have a chair now.
elanora		You're... seeing her?
catch		She has a lot of questions.    She wants to know everything.
elanora		Of course she does. Everybody does.
catch		We could start from today.    What's so wrong with that?
elanora		Tell her.
catch		Tell her what?
elanora		Tell her, Catch. Tell somebody. It's been almost two years.
catch		 Nora...
elanora		Every time I tell somebody, it gets a little bit easier. I'm not saying it goes...
catch		Nora!
elanora		She nice?
catch		She's tough.
elanora		She pretty?
catch		That doesn't matter.
elanora		 She is pretty.
catch		She's sort of pissed-off at me.
elanora		Apologize.
catch		For what?
elanora		It doesn't matter. We like it when men apologize.
catch		I'm sorry I yelled at you.
elanora		Have a cookie.     See?
sanderman		Sharon...
sharon		 Lieutenant...
sanderman		Anything bothering you?
sharon		Why?   What'd I do?
sanderman		Nothing. I'm talking about your general attitude lately.
sharon		My attitude's fine. End of a long day. I'm tired.
sanderman		Family matters getting to you?
sharon		Family?!
sanderman		Your brother, Larry...
sharon		What about Larry?
sanderman		You know Nester -- on the Culver City P.D.? He went out on a violent domestic dispute yesterday. A neighbor called it in. It got a little ugly. No arrest -- a warning.
sharon		Larry.     Oh Christ.
sanderman		Nester said it's not the first time.
sharon		Thanks for telling me.
larry		Jesus, you're up early.
sharon		I wanted to catch you before you went to work.
larry		I thought you were on late shifts.
sharon		I don't sleep much. Can I come in?
larry		What's up?
sharon		Where's Kath?
larry		She's busy with Larry Jr. right now.
sharon		Hey, Champ.
sharon		Y'know, they call this one a woody 'cause it has wood on the sides.
larry		Why'd you come by?
sharon		To see Kathy.
larry		She's not feeling good.
sharon		I'll just say hello.
kathy		Don't make it worse.
sharon		It gets worse?
kathy		He's okay now. He's torn up about it. Don't make him mad.
sharon		When Larry and I were growing up, our mother said that all the time. 'Don't make your father mad.'  Has he hit Larry Jr. yet?
kathy		He never would.
sharon		Oh.   Just you, huh?
larry		What d'you think you're doing in my house, Shar? In my home.
sharon		You see a pattern here, bro?
larry		I lost my temper. Things got out of hand. It won't...
sharon		People always say that: 'I've got a temper.' Like it's an excuse.
larry		I don't need a goddamn lecture.
sharon		You want to hit someone?       Next time your 'temper' flares      up, Lar, and you just have to hit      somebody, you go home and hit your      father.
larry		You blame everything on him.
sharon		I'm blaming you, you fucking coward.
larry		You don't come in here...
larry		You don't come in here and call me names.
sharon		What do you call a man who uses his wife as a punching bag?  Coward.
kathy		Don't hurt her, Lar...!
sharon		I know how it feels, 'cause I remember. I remember standing between you and Dad and taking the blows for you -- and for what?! You turned out to be just like him, you bastard.  And so did I.
sharon		 Oh, God. Oh, shit.
sharon		It's you, right?
sharon		Can you just shut up?    Just shut up and listen.
catch		I didn't say anything.
sharon		I don't want to talk. I don't care if you have to play some game and pretend you're a... 'angel of mercy' or... whatever. I don't care, but I don't want to hear about it. All right? I don't want to hear anything.
sharon		It's a bad night.
sharon		This is good... but I'm too tired to stand up anymore.
sharon		You want to kiss me?
sharon		Kiss me someplace I've never been kissed.
sharon		Why do you stop? You always stop.
catch		New day.
pindella		Catch?
catch		 Drive, will you?
catch		Drive!
catch		Will you get off this street?
sharon		What?       You owe him money?
catch		If you take a right and stop -- we can walk from here. I'd rather walk.
sharon		If you're in trouble...
catch		I'm not.
sharon		If you're in trouble with him, maybe I can help.
catch		Forget about him. Somebody I used to know. I don't want to know him anymore. That's all. Forget about it. Walk with me.
sharon		This is not a great place to walk.
catch		I like it here. It's fine.
sharon		I work here.   It's not fine.
catch		What's the problem?
sharon		Besides the shootings, break-ins, rapes, cart thefts? We've got a loose dog raiding garbage cans, knocking 'em over. Can't catch him. Got somebody blowing a trumpet between midnight and three. Can't find him.
sharon		You know everybody here?
catch		How's it goin'?
young man		Goin' uphill, man.
catch		 You try it.
sharon		Try what?
catch		Go ahead. We need this. Everybody.
sharon		I feel like a jerk. I feel like a smiley face.
old man		Mornin'.
mom		Go on.
mom		Move your arm!
mom		What are you staring at?
catch		She feels bad 'cause you yelled at her.
mom		What?! Who the hell do you think you are?
catch		She just needs you to smile at her.
mom		It's none of your business!
catch		Why not smile at her?   What's it cost?
mom		Who the hell are you to talk to me?!
catch		You're so damn impatient.
woman		Get away from me!
catch		You're so busy being pissed off, and time is going by.
woman		What?!
catch		It's not her fault.
woman		I'm calling the police!
catch		No.  I'm calling the police.  Hey -- police.
sharon		Jesus Christ, Catch.
catch		Maybe she'll think about it now.
sharon		You had no right to do that. God! You think you know everything?! Who the hell are you, some expert on raising kids?! The neighborhood angel?! Jesus!
catch		No. No, I just... some people are walking around blind...
sharon		That's not your problem!
catch		Don't tell me what my problem is!
sharon		Okay, fine -- you tell me what it is!
catch		Maybe it's not my problem. Maybe it's your problem. Maybe you're going around blind.
sharon		Blind to what?!
catch		Blind to what's going on around you. Blind to what people need. We're supposed to take care of each other. We're supposed to keep each other safe. That's the way it should be -- if you're not going around blind, like that woman...
sharon		Or like me, right? What about you? How come you can see?
catch		I think I'll... walk the rest of the way on my own.
sharon		Yeah.    Fine.
catch		I'll call you later -- about the hiking.
sharon		I'll be out.
catch		Shar... wait.    Hey!
sharon's pov		 She is watching the people on the street, NOTICING, for once, just how isolated they are, each in a box, passing without connecting.
on sharon		 watching.
catch		Do we go for... symmetry? Or... more off-center. Japanese.
catch		Are you into this? Bob?
larry		I don't want you around here.
sharon		Let's go talk in the yard.
sharon		You took a swing at me.
larry		You asked for it -- calling me a coward. You knew I'd swing. You think I look bad now? Look at this.
larry		Nice, huh? Beautiful. The cops'll love this, right? Evidence. Don't you guys love evidence?
larry		You wanted me to swing.
sharon		I'm sorry I hit you so hard.
larry		But you're not sorry you hit me.
sharon		Jesus, Larry, what about Kathy's face?!
larry		That's not your business! Nobody called you, right? She didn't ask for you to come here. This is my family. You don't get it, 'cause you've got no family. Nobody. So you try to run everybody else's life. Jesus Christ -- get your own life. That's the goddam problem. Get your own goddamn life.
sharon		Okay. I'm sorry I came here.       I'm sorry I hit you. Okay?
larry		Okay what?
sharon		Don't go to my department, all right?
larry		Why the hell not?
sharon		Larry...
larry		Why not?!
sharon		Because the job's all I got.
larry		That's what I said, right?    No life.
sharon		That's what you said.
larry		And you won't come around here. You won't call. Ever.
larry		And I don't want you to come to Mom and Dad's celebration...
larry		Not the church. Not the party. Stay away. I don't want you around. I don't want to see you, Shar.
larry		Go get a life.
sharon		I got a life!
sharon		How the hell would you know about my life?!
larry		I know.
sharon		You know nothing about me, because you don't want to know. The family doesn't want to know me. Well, too bad. Sharon's got a life. Sharon's got a boyfriend. Sharon's going hiking in the morning with her boyfriend. She's not sitting alone miserable like you want. Too bad!
catch		Hey. Hey!   Can you wait up a minute?!
sharon		I thought you walked all over the city.
catch		 The city is flat. Okay? Can we stop here? Can we examine the view? Have a Milky Way? I've burned every calorie I ever had.
sharon		My favorite lunch spot is another half mile.
catch		Up?!
catch		I'm not one of those competitive guys, you know!
catch		No thanks. I can't eat and have a heart attack at the same time.
catch		As soon as you get happy, you get sad.
sharon		I'm okay.   Everything's code four.
catch		Everything's what?
sharon		Everything's fine.
catch		Fine? This isn't fine. I know fine. This is something else. Something happened yesterday.
sharon		Yesterday -- you mean you want to hear about it?
catch		Sure I do.
sharon		No kidding. Why? You never talk about yesterday.
catch		All my days are the same.
sharon		Yesterday. Okay. Yesterday we rolled on a 415. Juliette and Sanchez had these four guys against a wall, but they were H.D.B. and definitely unco-op. It got pretty jumpy, but we got them in the car with a couple of bruises and Robby got a sprained wrist, so I did the rest of the shift with a rookie who lost it over a D.B. in Sunset Park, old woman who'd been dead maybe six, seven days, and I usually do all right but the smell got to me, and I can still smell her. Then we arrested a prostitute working out of her home, and I carried her little girl out to the social worker, and the kid was holding on real tight and making my shoulder wet and I wanted to punch her rock-head mother, and then shift ended and I had a nice visit with my brother Larry.
catch		 I'm sorry. That would make anybody sad.
sharon		Sorry you asked?
catch		No.   No, you can always tell me.
sharon		Well... I feel better now.    You feel better?
catch		I feel fine.   Great.
sharon		What are you doing?!
sharon		Catch! There's no swimming here! And you can't be naked in a state park!
catch		Take the day off, Pogo!
sharon		What if a park ranger comes?!
catch		Take your badge off for once. Don't be such a damn Marine about everything. Just...
catch		Someplace I've never been kissed.
catch		They tell me I was in an accident. Long time ago.
sharon		Looks like a bad one.
catch		I don't remember it.    I...
sharon		We should be thinking about lunch. We have to pack up.
catch		So soon?
sharon		Some of us have to work.  You ever work?
catch		Yeah.     I worked.
sharon		Oh?   You remember that?   Working?
jack		Catch -- Jesus!
jack		How are you? Sit down. Been years. You been out of town?
catch		 I've been around.
jack		Oh, man, I'm really sorry about what happened. I never got a chance to say...
catch		We don't need to go there.
jack		Okay. All right. So... what d'you want, a coffee?
catch		I want my old job back.  What d'you think?
jack		You been workin'?
catch		No, but I'm up to speed.
jack		 Well, it's not good with Randal anymore.
catch		No?
jack		No, he's out of it, but Danny Coley's got something going. Wanna go see 'im?
catch		Finish your coffee.
sharon		I have to check these jacket pockets. What's your name -- Allison?
sharon		I need to unsnap this, Allison. I'm checking your waistband. You got to Whitney School?
allison		St. Mark's.
sharon		Lift your arms higher. Got a good basketball team at St. Mark's. You play basketball?
robby		What's going on, Pogo?    You're not happy or anything?
sharon		Well, it's a mix, Robby. Life is shit, but I'm dating this great dead guy.
sharon		He says before I came along, he thought he was dead. Sounds better when he says it --  Listen.
robby		What?
sharon		Shhh.   Sh!
sharon		The trumpet player.
robby		This time we got his ass.
sharon		Wow.
robby		Got 'im?
sharon		Look at that moon.
robby		Full moon, man. Hey!
driver		This guy's crazy!
sharon		Are you McGuire?
sharon		Mark McGuire?
sharon		Then put that bat away.   Put it in your trunk. Now.
driver		I never touched his car.
sharon		Ow.     Ow!
catch		Sorry.
sharon		No.     That's good. Deeper.
catch		 How heavy was this guy?
sharon		Like a truck.
catch		God.     Tractor-trailer?
sharon		Pickup.        Ow.   Ow! That's really good.
catch		I better... More oil.
catch		This is pretty.
sharon		Don't get oil on it.
catch		Renewal of vows -- that's great. Is this your parents?
sharon		Yes. Just put it down.   I'm not going.
catch		Why not?
sharon		If I go, my brother'll hurt    me with the department. I got     mad and knocked him down. All     they need is a complaint. Just     leave it alone and keep rubbing.     Okay?
catch		So... he says you can't go?
sharon		Can't you rub without talking?  It's been bad with my family a long time, so the hell with it anyway. If they don't want me there, I don't want to be there. All right?
catch		All right.  Bad how?
sharon		Oh, Jesus!
sharon		My father used to knock us around, all of us. But I'm the one who called the cops -- finally.  They say I turned against the family.
catch		But... they invited you.
sharon		You don't know anything about it. So forget it.
catch		Well... I know about family.
sharon		Oh, yeah?   What about it?
catch		It's... a door you don't close.
sharon		I didn't close the door.
catch		You're closing it now. Right? Family invites you, you go. Family shows up, you welcome them in. That's family.
sharon		Oh, sure. What if they don't deserve it?
catch		Then you forgive.
sharon		You have all the answers.
catch		No. I just... It seems like a chance, doesn't it? A chance to make things right. I'd take it. Then you tried -- y'know? And it's up to them.
sharon		You close with your family?
sharon		See?    So why should I listen to you?
catch		What's your favorite song?
sharon		Catch, I'm beat. So are they.   I think they're finished.
catch		One more.   It's a surprise.
catch		Thanks, Danny.
on sharon		 Mouth-open surprise -- and then smiling with the wonder - - and Catch begins to play, closing his eyes and rendering a ballad, like the haunting "ANGEL EYES."  Sharon's smile slowly fades, replaced by a much deeper look, not only because he is so good, but because he is showing her his heart, his love and even his pain -- more than he can show her any other way. We INTERCUT as he opens his eyes briefly, watching her, sending her the music, closing his eyes again to fall into the song -- as Sharon's eyes fill at the beauty and sadness of it, and at this look inside her man. We LINGER. Then...  DISSOLVE TO:
sharon		Where I've never been kissed.
sharon		Oh, God.
ray		Are you in danger there?
sharon		Go away.
ray		I was talking to him, Pogo.
catch		No thanks, Ray. Everything's code four. Go away.
sharon		See that place? He's going to be playing there every weekend.
ray		 Oh, yeah? What d'you play?
sharon		It's music, Ray. You wouldn't like it.
sharon's pov		 She sees Catch and Bob on their way into the park across the street from the building.
on sharon		 She smiles and moves into the bedroom to dress.
catch		You like these?
tommy		Yeah!
catch		Well... They're for you. We can pretend it's your birthday.
catch		I hope you don't mind.
tommy		They're for me, Mom!
catch		Yeah. I've... kind of been saving them up.
candace		For Tommy?
candace		Well, thank you. Thanks a lot.
candace		Wow, Tommy -- Look at them all. Did you say thank you?
candace		Excuse me!
biker		Goddammit -- I saw the kid. Jesus. I wasn't even close.
biker		Wait a minute!     Hey!
biker		Why the hell did you cause a wreck?! I told you -- I saw the kid, you idiot. I was...
catch		One more word, and your life will change forever.
sharon		Catch!   Catch!
sharon		Are you all right? Your elbow's bleeding. I...
sharon		What's wrong?
sharon		Where are you going? Catch -- you're scaring me. Please...
sharon		Please, Catch, don't... Can't you talk to me?!
sharon		Please.   Wait.     I... Catch!
on catch		 As the traffic moves around him and the dog -- a HORN BLARES, BRAKES SCREECH, and he thrown into a storm of...
flashbacks		 That come sharper and faster than before, bits and pieces of memory outside any order: He is driving, Annie smiles at him, headlights blind him, Annie screams, the little boy in Annie's arms grins at him, BRAKES SCREAM, Annie says something to him, calmly, but he can't hear her, the headlights blind him again and BRAKES SCREAM again, and:
on sharon		 Watching him, shocked and frightened for him. She sees the traffic let up, and Catch crosses and walks toward home. She watches him go.
robby		Are you going to tell me why we're sitting outside this building again?
sharon		Watching for somebody.       Tall guy. 40s. Grey-blond hair.
robby		What's it about?
sharon		It's personal.
robby		Fine -- what am I supposed to do?
sharon		Chill.
catch		 Hi.
catch		I've been... remembering.
catch		It's awful.
catch		I'll call you.
sharon		Give me fifteen.
pindella		Oh... is there a problem?
sharon		I'm not sure.    Who am I speaking to?
pindella		I'm Dr. Pindella.
sharon		What kind of doctor?
pindella		What is this?
sharon		Do you know a Catch Lambert?
pindella		Oh.   Yes!   Is he in trouble?
sharon		I... need to talk to you.
pindella		Well, I have a patient in five minutes. But I can...
sharon		Are you a...?
pindella		I'm a psychiatrist.
sharon		And Mr. Lambert...
pindella		My relationship with Mr. Lambert is confidential.
sharon		He's your patient. He's your patient we... know all this. This is police business. I'm officer Sharon Pogue -- L.A.P.D.
pindella		Look... I want to help Mr. Lambert but I can't tell you anything that isn't public record.
sharon		In general. In general.   He's your patient, and he...
pindella		He's not my patient. He walked away from treatment. That was... nearly a year ago.
sharon		Why did he walk away?
pindella		I can't discuss that, but if you know how to reach him, I would appreciate being able to talk to him.
sharon		 You can help by just   telling me what's in the public   record. It'll take me half a   day to do a search. Can you tell    me? Just...
sharon		Can you please tell me what's in the record?
pindella		You were with him -- in the car. Your uniform threw me. Are you his friend?
sharon		More.
pindella		I can tell you he was in an accident, hospitalized, referred to me as an outpatient...
sharon		What accident?
pindella		A bus... a city bus hit his vehicle. That was a couple of years ago. It was... an awful thing. His family was in the van. His wife and child. His wife's parents...
sharon		A bus... and a van. Where?        On... the freeway?
sharon		Survivors?   Only him?      I... don't remember.
pindella		Remember?
sharon		 Yes.   I was there. I was there.
pindella		His wife's mother survived, but... she was paralyzed.
pindella		Elanora Chu.   She's still in town, I believe.
sharon		Does he... still see her?
pindella		He used to. I don't know.  I'm glad to see... he has someone else who cares about him. I know he's running from this. He left all his friends, his home, his whole life.
sharon		He says... he doesn't remember the accident.
pindella		He lost a lot of memory. I tried to help him with that. He resisted. Walked away.
sharon		I think he remembers me.
sharon		How does he live?
pindella		He received a large settlement from the city, but he...barely touches it. He was a professional musician.
sharon		Trumpet.
sharon		Catch, it's me. Can you pick up?
sharon		Why don't we... meet tomorrow? I'll be in Westwood. Can you meet me there? Westwood and Cole. About two o'clock. Okay?
catch		Shar, I'm sorry about yesterday. I...
sharon		That's okay.
catch		It's hard to explain, but it's... I'm okay now.
sharon		You don't have to explain.
catch		So... why'd we meet here?
sharon		So you're the trumpet player who was waking people up -- on my beat.
catch		I used to practice late... outside. On my roof.
sharon		On your roof? That's why we couldn't find you.
catch		I didn't know it bothered anybody until you mentioned it. You arresting me?
catch		You going to tell me where we're going?  That's okay. I mean... I'll go anywhere with you, Shar. Jaws of death. The mall on a Saturday. Just about any...
his pov		 We see an ivy-covered brick building there, with a sign that is too far away for us to read.
sharon		You can trust me, you know.
sharon		I've got you now. I'm holding on -- like before.
catch		What d'you mean?
sharon		Like I held you before.   Like I did -- at the accident.
sharon		What makes it so... unspeakable, Catch? What makes it like that?
sharon		Is it because you were driving?
sharon		I read the reports, and it wasn't your fault. It wasn't. Is it because you survived and they didn't?
sharon		Catch. Please. Hold on, and we'll go in there together...
sharon		You can talk to them. You can say goodbye or I love you or whatever...
catch		This is wrong! It's wrong!   Why are you doing this?!
sharon		To help you.
catch		I don't need your help! I don't need this. We don't need this -- we're fine...
sharon		We're not. We're not fine, Catch. Nothing is fine -- no matter how much you pretend.
sharon		You pretend that nothing happened. You walk all over the city helping people, but you're dying inside.
catch		I'm not dying! I'm not pretending! I don't remember! I don't remember any of it. So leave me alone! What good does it do? It's gone! And I'm all right this way! Why do you have to change it? I'm all right.
sharon		Then walk in there.
sharon		Walk in there, and I'll walk in with you. Walk in there and say it's real -- what happened is real. Your family died.
catch		Don't talk about that!    Don't!
sharon		 All right -- you talk about it! You tell me your family died and I say yes, I know, I'm sorry, and you say, I loved them... and I say, what an awful thing to lose a family...
catch		 Damn you, Shar. Damn you -- why won't you stop?!
sharon		So you can have a life!
catch		I have a life! We could have a life. We could get up and go to work and come home to each other and never, never talk about before. We don't need to do that! Why do we need to do that?!
sharon		Because it happened! Because it's the truth! I'm sorry. I'm so sorry it happened, but...
catch		Nothing happened! If we say it, then that's the truth, that can be the truth. Say it. Nothing happened. Say it, Shar.
sharon		Catch -- take my hand.    Please.
catch		Say it!    I'm asking you to say it.
sharon		I can't.
catch		Why not?
sharon		Because I want it too much. I want everything with you. I want all of you -- not just the part that isn't hiding and running away...
catch		Why are   you pushing so hard? Why does it   have to be your way? Why does it   have to be your truth? This is   who I am! This is the way I am!
sharon		Not anymore. It doesn't have to be this way anymore because you're not alone -- because we're the family now. We can be the family...
catch		You like to push people, don't you? You just have to push and shove and make it right for you -- for you. You push everybody, Shar. You even pushed your family away, didn't you?
sharon		I just... want to say...
catch		You already said it.   You said it all.
sharon		When you're ready, I'll be there for you. I just want to say that.
ray		Rib House after shift today? 4:30?
robby		I think I'll head home.
ray		Pogo?   Bring your friend.
sharon		No, I think I'll turn vegetarian.
ray		Gotta have that meat to keep your strength up.
sharon		How come it's not working for you?
robby		Pogo...?
sharon		Which store is it?
robby		The little market there. They came through a back window last night. Mostly vandalism...
sharon		Whoa...
skater		Sorry!
worried mother		Oh, God, thank you. Billy!
robby		Pogo?
sharon		There's something I have to do.    I need an address and phone.
robby		What's the name?
sharon		Elanora Chu.
robby		Let's do it.
sharon		I'm Sharon Pogue. I know all about the...
elanora		Elanora.
sharon		I'm sorry for... what happened.     I know about the accident.
elanora		 He told you?!
sharon		No. I found out, and... I remembered. I was there.
elanora		Oh.   Yes.
sharon		I guess he comes here a lot -- to talk to you.
elanora		He shops for me. Twice a week.
sharon		Oh. And when he comes here -- he never mentions the past, never talks about the accident?
elanora		No.
sharon		And you... let him do that?    All this time? Why?
elanora		It's what he needs.
sharon		Walking all over the city like...
elanora		Like an angel.     Yes. Sweet man.
sharon		But... you let him get so lost.
elanora		I let him find his own way through it. Why did you come here, Sharon?
sharon		Because... I want to know how to help him.
elanora		You are helping him.
sharon		I don't think so.
elanora		Why not?
sharon		He... he was paying me back, I guess, for the accident, for helping him. That's why he felt... so close to me. But...
elanora		Is that what you think?
sharon		But now he probably hates me. I...
elanora		What happened?
sharon		I took him to the cemetery, and...
elanora		The cemetery!
sharon		I thought it might help him... come back, you know? But he wouldn't even go in. He screamed at me.
elanora		 What made you take him there?
sharon		For the truth...
elanora		He knows the truth.
sharon		But he won't even say it, or...
elanora		That's his way. That's his way through all this. He made a wall -- around that whole day, that night -- other things, too. He keeps them behind the wall -- his little boy, my daughter. He can't help it. The cemetery?! Do you know how hard it is for me to go to the cemetery? Can you imagine?
elanora		That's where it stares you in the face -- the loss. And it's too much sometimes.
elanora		See? I'm still finding my way through it. And Catch -- it almost kills him to think about it or say it or drive a car or see the place where it happened or... go by the cemetery.
sharon		I was trying to help him... come back to some kind of life. I...
elanora		But he was coming back. Do you realize how much he changed in the past weeks? His apartment, his life, his music is coming back. He fell in love! He even got a job, Sharon -- for you. For the two of you. Isn't that coming back? Why do you have to rush? Everybody has to rush these days.
sharon		I was scared. I push so hard... when I'm scared.
elanora		Scared of what?
sharon		Losing him. So I did. I lost him. He won't talk to me. I... I didn't know what I was doing.
elanora		You were finding your way.    What else can we do? You think    I'm always sure what to say to   him, what not to say? I do what    I think is right and hope he   sees the love in it.
elanora		Look at you -- so worried now, so miserable. That's the love in it.
sharon		Did I... make it worse for him?
elanora		I don't know. I really don't. But I think he'll see the love in what you did.
sharon		I just came by to... wish you well. To... congratulate you and wish you well. Shit.
sharon		 dressed differently, re-wrapping the gift and then --  CUT TO:
sharon		 dressed differently, rewrapping it again and then --  CUT TO:
sharon		 sitting still in a chair, holding the gift on her lap, looking at the clock, nervous, scared, sad.
kathy		She came.
kathy		Don't say anything.   Think of your parents.
on altar		 We get our first   look at Sharon's FATHER, Carl Pogue, 62. Standing beside   his wife, a rather big, stolid guy, taken with the moment,   both he and his wife emotional over this. He wears    a hearing aid. The priest is speaking.
on sharon		 watching with a mix of feelings as the mass continues and the vows are renewed, the priest reciting the rituals.
catch		Annie. Chet. I don't... want you to think I forgot about you. It's just that I... I couldn't find you.  I woke up, and you were gone. Everything was gone. It all just... disappeared. In one minute. I couldn't remember that minute. I lost it. It took me so long to find it. I think I found it all now. I used a calculator. I did. I figured it out. You know... we get about 1400 minutes a day and so I figured it out. I was 33 years old and three months and eight days, so it was... I've got it here...
catch		It was minute number 17 million eight hundred ten thousand, two hundred... or so.
catch		That's the one I lost. And... when I lost that minute, I guess I tried to lose it all, all the memories -- because they hurt. I tried, but... I couldn't do it.
catch		Chet... you weren't feeling so good, remember? It was your birthday, and you ate too much.
catch		And, Annie, you said... you said...
annie		Slow down in the rain, all right?
catch		And I don't know if I slowed down. I don't know. I hope I did, but... I didn't always listen. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry.
catch		... You put him on your lap, and he looked at me, and I made a face. Remember? I made you smile, Chet. 
catch		I won't forget... anymore.     I love you.
photographer		All right. The whole family in this one. Just...
sharon		Where do you want me?
sharon		I'm the daughter.
photographer		Oh!   Oh, well, how about...
sharon		You both look so great.
mother		 You, too.
sharon		I just wanted to...
father		You coming to the party?
sharon		Sure.
husband		Big police officer now.
sharon		Not so big.  Nice dress.
sharon		Larry...
larry		How did you have the guts to walk into a church after breaking your word?
sharon		I have to be here. It's a chance to make things right, and I'm taking it.
larry		Why even talk go me? You got what you wanted. You laugh about it? You tell your cop friends how you...
sharon		You think I talk about it?!    You think...
sharon		Here, Lar.
sharon		I was invited. I'm here. I'm going to the party. You do what you want.
mother		Don't make him talk about... anything today.
sharon		Mom, I was going to fix his tie. His tie is crooked.
sharon		It was a nice ceremony.
mother		 Yes. We're running out of chicken, though. Nobody's eating the ham.
sharon		It's a great party, Mom.   You look happy.
sharon		Thirty-five years and still in love, huh?
mother		You think that's wrong, don't you?
sharon		Of course not...
mother		I always... I feel like apologizing to you. But I love him.
sharon		I know.
mother		And then I feel like apologizing to him for loving you. I'm the one in the middle. I'm the only one in this family who knows how to forgive anybody.
both		You look great.
kathy		Tons of makeup. On Larry, too.
sharon		Sorry about that, but... I couldn't stand him doing that to you. I took it on...
kathy		Don't worry. I'm not your mother. If he tries it again, I'm gone. I'm out of there, me and Larry Junior. He knows that.
sharon		What's up with you?
sharon		Oh. Well... let's pretend this is T.V. It's a show about a party.
sharon		 That man... is really a super hero.
sharon		Is too. And so is she. Look. See? Red tights under her dress... Oh-oh, that man gave her a drink with something in it.
sharon		With stuff to make her sleep. He's a bad guy.
larry		She drank it.
sharon		Watch. She'll fall down any minute.
larry		Hey, sport, you should go play outside.
larry		Stay away from my family.
larry		Hey, everybody, keep it down. Somebody might call the police.
sharon		What're you doing?
larry		 Once the cops leave, we can really party.
larry		Why don't you give everybody a break -- and go home?
sharon		Don't walk away. Okay?
father		What?
sharon		Is it working?     Do you need to check it?
father		It's fine.
sharon		Dad...
larry		What the hell are you doing?!
mother		Sharon, please.
sharon		Please? Please what?! Will you stop protecting him? You were always protecting him! Don't talk to your father. Don't bother your father!
sharon		I'm going to bother you for one minute, Dad. Okay? Can you handle that?
larry		Just get the hell out...
sharon		This isn't about you, Larry -- or you, either, Mom. This is between me and my father, so leave us alone for one goddam minute!
sharon		How about you, Dad. Do you want me to leave?
father		Up to you.
sharon		Dad... I'm asking. Am I welcome here?
father		Jesus -- you're here, aren't you? What d'you want?
sharon		I want to know!  Do you want me here? Do you love me, Dad? I want to know.
sharon		Do you... need to... check that again?
father		I feel like...
sharon		What, Dad?   You feel like what?
father		I feel like I don't have a daughter anymore.
sharon		Well... you do. It's a shame you're going to miss knowing her. You're going to miss all that.
sharon		I'm next.
sharon		 Hi, Mom and Dad. Congratulations.
sharon		Y'know... being in this house reminds me of something.  I was about ten, I guess, and Larry and I were playing aliens -- remember, Lar? We're making a lot  of noise, and Dad comes home from work tired and pissed off... CUT TO:
sharon		We're yelling like mad, and Dad bursts into the room and says, what the hell are you doing? And I'm scared. I'm really scared. 
her pov		 Catch is there, waiting near her car, watching her now.
catch		Sorry, Shar.   For what I said.
sharon		Me, too.
catch		Was it bad?
sharon		They don't like me in there.
catch		Then they don't deserve you in there.
sharon		That's a nice thing to say.
catch		It's not a thing to say.   It's the truth.
catch		Why do you try so hard not to cry?
sharon		It's not fair.
sharon		It's not fair. Things got better for them because of what I did. Things got better, and I'd still do it. I'd do it all over again. And it's not fair they shut me out. It's not.
catch		No. SHARON It's not fair. I was     19, and I didn't know what else    to do. I didn't know how else    to stop it. It's not fair I don't    have a family anymore.
catch		No.   It's not, Shar.    It's not.
catch		I'll drive.
****Dialogues from script :Anna_Karenina.txt****

written by		 Tom Stoppard
agafia		He needs to come in if he's to wash himself.
levin		Good girl . . . good girl, Pava.
kitchen maid		 Agafia Mishaylovna says dinner's like to spoil.
levin		. . . her father's colour.
vasili		Worth coming home for, Konstantin Dmitrich!
levin		I stayed too long in Moscow.
levin		. . . She's a beauty. That's twelve cows sired by Berkut!
agafia		So one of you is doing what the good Lord made you for.
matvey		What should I do with this?
oblonsky		Where did you find it?
matvey		In your hat. Your Excellency.
oblonsky		Yes . . . I picked it up somewhere for Daria Alexandrovna and the children.
dolly		Bonjour, Lili; bonjour, Masha; bonjour, Grisha; bonjour, Tanya.
anna		Tsk, oh . . . Stiva!
anna		. . . and Dolly found a note from the governess.
anna		Stiva wants me to come to Moscow . . . to persuade Dolly to forgive him.
karenin		I'm to be deprived of my wife so that adul- tery may be forgiven? I can't excuse him just because he's your brother.
anna		It's for Dolly's sake too.
karenin		 I have four committees today . . .
anna		 Tsk-tsk, who put this shirt on you? Never mind. I'll come and hear you read.
karenin		Tomorrow, perhaps. Thank you, Lukich-- perhaps tomorrow.
anna		Alexei, do you think nine years of mar- riage and children should count for nothing against a . . . an infatuation?
karenin		No. Very well.  But sin has a price, you may be sure of that.
dolly		You think of the children! Their lives are ruined now!
oblonsky		Oh, Dolly . . . I beg you . . .
matvey		Telegram. Should I send up the barber?
oblonsky		No, just the razor.
oblonsky		 My sister Anna's coming tomorrow. We're saved.
doorkeeper		Some man came without an appointment, Your Excellency . . . waiting outside.
oblonsky		Levin! Where did you disappear?
levin		 I'm very anxious to see you. I need your advice.
oblonsky		I've been hard at it. Sit down.
levin		Hard at what exactly?
oblonsky		Why, we're overwhelmed with work!
levin		Oh--paperwork.
oblonsky		Paperwork is the soul of Russia. Farming is only the stomach. When am I going to come and shoot some snipe?
levin		Yes. I'm in love. I've come back to propose. Have you guessed who she is?
oblonsky		 I have a suspicion. Why didn't you propose when you were here?
levin		I decided it was impossible. Kitty is of the heavens, an angel, and I am of the earth-- but then I thought and thought, and . . . there's no life for me without her! . . . Do I have a chance?
oblonsky		Of course you do. The Shcherbatskys are giving a soiree this evening. Get there early before the crowd. If I may suggest . . .
levin		Anything! What?
oblonsky		New boots.
levin		Right. Anything else?
oblonsky		No--five-thirty at l'Angleterre--I owe them more than the Hermitage, so it wouldn't be fair to withdraw my custom.  Boots, and a coat. And a proper hat.
oblonsky		It's so unfair. You marry for love, you're a good husband. Children arrive. Years depart. And all of a sudden your wife is tired, her hair is thin, her body . . . while you yourself still have your . . . vigour . . . and you find yourself distracted by a pretty woman . . .
levin		Forgive me, but I find that incomprehen- sible . . . As though I'd leave this restaurant and steal a roll from a baker's shop.
oblonsky		Well, you know, a freshly baked roll . . .
levin		But I'm talking about love, and you're talk- ing about . . . your appetite.
oblonsky		Easily confused. Now look, do you know Count Vronsky?
levin		Who? No. Why?
levin		 Who is he?
oblonsky		 You don't have to worry about him. He's one of those rich, good-looking cavalry offi- cers who've got nothing to do but make love to pretty women . . .
elderly waiter		Potage aux choux a la Russe, as the gentle- man ordered.
levin		It's what I wanted.
levin		Dolly said that? I've always thought your Dolly's a gem.
oblonsky		Oh, she is, she is . . .  I loved her to distraction.
serozha		But why?
serozha		But why?
anna		 I told you, Serozha. She's not well. I must go to see her.
serozha		But why?
anna		Now, don't make Mama cry. I'll be back before you know, and bring you a present.
serozha		Don't want a present. I want you to stay.
anna		Oh . . . my little Kutik . . .
serozha		What present?
anna		That's better.
anna		It's the first time I've left my little boy.
countess vronsky		So you are leaving your son and I am return- ing to mine. I am Countess Vronsky.
countess vronsky		But you know my name?
anna		I've heard you mentioned . . .
countess vronsky		Talked about, you mean. Ah, love!
anna		Was it love?
countess vronsky		Always. My sons are ashamed of me. But I'd rather end up wishing I hadn't than end up wishing I had--wouldn't you?
anna		I . . . I don't know . . .
levin		I'll come back.
kitty		Konstantin!
levin		I'm too early.
kitty		 No! Come up!
kitty		Look at me! I'm receiving for Papa and Maman who are late to dress. It's my first reception.
levin		Princess Ekaterina! Delighted, delighted!
kitty		 I'm so pleased you were able to be with us, Konstantin Dmitrich!
levin		 Kitty . . . you look . . . you look--
kitty		Stiva told us you were back. How long are you staying?
levin		I don't know. It depends on you.
kitty		On me?
levin		What I mean to say--I came with only one purpose--I want to--will you be my wife?
kitty		I can't. I'm sorry.
levin		Yes. It was impossible.
burisov		Burisov. Are you the brother of Nikolai Levin?
burisov		He's in Moscow, he's staying at the Unicorn in Khitrovka.
levin		How do you know?
burisov		 It's the sort of thing I know.
levin		Count Vronsky?
vronsky		Yes.
levin		It's Kostya.
levin		Nothing. I came to see you.
levin		Good evening, miss . . . madame . . .
nikolai		Don't talk to her like that. It frightens her. You sound like a magistrate.  More vodka for my brother, quick about it.
levin		I don't want anything.
nikolai		I'm all right.
levin		A colonel in the Third Department. They're watching you.
nikolai		Good. They must think I'm dangerous.
levin		Nothing.
nikolai		That's right. The day is coming. I gave up my birthright for it. You're on the wrong side of history. Not because privilege is immoral but because it's irrational.
masha		He is sick.
nikolai		Let go or I'll beat your lights out.
levin		No.
nikolai		Why not? Are you waiting to fall in love?
levin		No.
nikolai		Good. Romantic love will be the last illu- sion of the old order. You should marry one of your peasants.
levin		Yes. I damn well should!
nikolai		 The brotherhood of man.
levin		Nikolai, you have to see a doctor. Then come and stay with me at Pokrovskoe till you get your health back.
levin		If you . . . or go abroad to a spa. I'll send you more if that's what you . . .
stationmaster		The private coach will stop opposite the carpet.
guards officer		Austrian royalty on their honeymoon. I've got them for four days.
vronsky		Bad luck. What do they like? Art?
guards officer		Food.
vronsky		Here's the train.
stationmaster		I'll see to it.
major domo		Second carriage, Your Excellency. I'll see to the Countess's luggage and bring it on to the house.
anna		 You don't look ashamed.
oblonsky		 I am, I really am.
countess		Charmante, don't you think?  Wait for me in the carriage. I'll take Tosca.
vronsky		. . . You stayed longer in St. Petersburg.
countess vronsky		Long enough for you to start a little love affair, I hear.
vronsky		I can't think what you're referring to, Maman.
anna		There, Countess, you have found your son and I have found my brother.
countess vronsky		Madame Karenin has a son, too. It's the first time they have been apart, so she frets about him.
vronsky		Excuse me for not recognizing you before.
countess vronsky		We passed the time telling each other about our sons.
anna		Yes, I've been hearing all about you.
vronsky		That must have been very boring for you.
anna		Au revoir, Countess.
countess vronsky		Au revoir, my dear. Let me kiss your pretty face.
vronsky		Keep your people inside until this has been cleared up.
oblonsky		. . . the sole support of a large family, they say.
vronsky		Wait for me, Maman.
countess vronsky		 I've you to thank for that.
oblonsky		What a good fellow . . .
anna		Have you known Count Vronsky long?
oblonsky		Did you like him? He's in love with Kitty.
anna		Oh . . .  But we should be discussing you and Dolly.
oblonsky		I've said it all--on my knees--in tears . . . Now I need you to say it. I'm going to the office, so you'll have Dolly to yourself.
anna		 Don't be home late.
dolly		Kitty's coming by to see you. She's all grown-up, and a bit frightened of you--the belle of St. Petersburg society!
anna		Is that who I am?
anna		 I know, I know.
dolly		I can't bear to be with him. And he doesn't care, he's got what he wants.
anna		What he wants is you. He loves you, Dolly. You and the children are everything to him.
dolly		Are we? And there is room for a governess?
anna		That was shameful, disgraceful. But it was not love. It was the animal in man, not the soul. Stiva's remorse is from the soul.
dolly		What about me? Does his remorse make it easier for me?--
anna		I know you are suffering. But, Dolly, you must tell me . . . is there enough love left in your heart . . . enough to forgive him?
dolly		When I think of them together, I can't for- give him, no!
dolly		My fate?  But I haven't done anything! It's him WHO'S--
anna		Do you love him, Dolly?
kitty		Will you stay for the Bobrishchev's ball, Anna?
anna		Oh . . . I always feel dull at a ball.
kitty		How can you ever be dull?
oblonsky		Of course she must.
anna		. . . and God go with you.
oblonsky		 You can introduce me to your new governess.
tanya		She's old! She's a hundred!
anna		I know why you want me to come. You want everyone to be there because you're sure it's going to be your night.
kitty		How did you know?
anna		I know everything.
servant		. . . no, Your Excellency . . . He's just gone up. . . . The Princess retired early . . . Is there a message?
vronsky		No.
levin		Will you go to confession?
serafina		And you also, master. He is watching.
levin		God forgive us then, for committing the act of love.
levin		"Not according to my deserts, O Lord, but according to thy mercy"--that's a fine prayer. But I'm full of doubt. Sometimes I even doubt that God exists.
serafina		How can there be anything if God didn't make it?
levin		I don't know. One day science will tell us.
serafina		That's sinful talk if the priest heard you.
levin		Well, I won't go to confession.
serafina		 Your father built the church. You're con- fessed a while yet.
levin		What would you like?
youth		Kitty! May I have a waltz?
kitty		You may, Boris. I'll save you the third just because it's your first ball.
youth		 You're my first conquest.
kitty		There.
korsunsky		 So that your ankles may be seen.
kitty		How are you, Stiva?
oblonsky		Thanks to Anna, I am a happy man. Would you like to dance?
kitty		No, ask Anna.
prince shcherbatsky		. . . this vile, idiotic matchmaking of yours . . .
princess shcherbatsky		For goodness' sake, what have I done?
prince shcherbatsky		Levin is a thousand times better than this Petersburg fop. If he had royal blood my daughter wouldn't need him!
kitty		Is anything the matter?
kitty		 Don't ask me, Maman!
countess nordston		He'll dance the mazurka with Kitty, you'll see. I call the mazurka the now-or-never.
austrian princess		. . . we were shut up in the train for an hour!
vronsky		Dance with me.
anna		 I am not used to being spoken to like that by a man I met once at a railway station.
vronsky		I dare say, but if I'm not to dance with you, I'm getting out of this operetta and going home.
anna		Then, for Kitty's sake.
countess nordston		You're not dancing the mazurka? I won't have it.
korsunsky		. . . the lady chooses a lady and a gentleman . . . !
guard		Bologoye! Fifteen minutes.
vronsky		Can I be of service to you?
anna		I didn't know you were . . . Why are you leaving?
anna		This is wrong. If you're a good man, forget everything that happened, as I will.
vronsky		I'll never forget a single thing about you, not a word, not a gesture--
anna		That's enough!
vronsky		Take the luggage home.
anna		 Is Serozha all right?
vronsky		Did you have a good night?
anna		Yes, quite comfortable. Count Vronsky.
karenin		I have to get back to the Committee . . .
anna		I? Oh--Dolly and Stiva . . . yes, I think so . . .
vronsky		I'll announce myself.
petritsky		Vronsky! The master himself. Baroness, coffee from the new coffeepot for Count Vronsky.
baroness		I'll be off home if I'm in the way.
baroness		Ah!--Pierre, you never say such pretty things to me. We were just discussing my husband. He won't divorce me, you see. And do you know why?
vronsky		No.
baroness		Because he likes eating off my family silver.
vronsky		Ah.
baroness		I want to bring an action. Just because I'm supposed to be unfaithful, I don't see why I have to eat off Pierre's crockery. Look at it.
vronsky		It's my crockery.
petritsky		How was Moscow?
vronsky		Provincial.
serozha		 You've stopped.
anna		Sssh . . .
karenin		Time for bed!
anna		I'm writing to Dolly . . . and to Kitty.
karenin		You are . . . good.
karenin		What are they saying in Moscow about the new Statute?
anna		What new Statute?
karenin		The new Statute I carried in Council.
anna		No one mentioned it.
karenin		Ah. Really?
family doctor		Forgive me, Princess, but I must . . .
prince shcherbatsky		Am I the only one who knows what's wrong with her?
princess shcherbatsky		Oh, thank God, doctor--my friends say you're the only one who can save her!
celebrity doctor		Possibly, Princess, possibly! At your service, Your Excellencies. Where is the patient?
celebrity doctor		Come, come, Princess, we are not backward people--I handle naked bodies every day. Deep breath now . . .
prince shcherbatsky		By God. I'll challenge the scoundrel!
family doctor		It's the modern way . . .
princess shcherbatsky		 You're not a doctor!
family doctor		Her symptoms . . . loss of appetite, fast PULSE--
prince shcherbatsky		Well, whose pulse wouldn't be fast if some brute of a--
prince shcherbatsky		Don't you fret, my little Kate! You'll wake up one fine morning and say to yourself--"I feel well and happy and I'll go out for a walk with Papa!"
betsy		I want to give a small dinner before the opera. Is there anyone you would like me to ask?
anna		Yes . . . Yes, the Metropolitan Bishop of St. Petersburg.
anna		The last one was to meet a missionary, the one before was for a lecture on the union of the Greek and Roman churches.  I'm sorry--I know you're fond of her. Come on, or we'll be late.
demin		Here's the thing, Vronsky. A posting has come up and there's a promotion in it for you.
vronsky		Thank you, sir.
demin		The garrison in Tashkent.
demin		I don't mind. But your mother . . .
betsy		You didn't come to my dinner.
vronsky		I had to see my Commanding Officer.
lydia		. . . work never ceases for great men.
anna		I'm expected at the Tverskoys.
lydia		No doubt, but I'm sure Princess Betsy can wait for you, my dear.
anna		Yes. In fact, I think I won't go to Betsy's.
betsy		You're caught.
vronsky		I'm afraid I am becoming ridiculous.
lisa merkalova		Now, there's a phenomenon, look-- Anna's shadow has arrived before Anna!
anna's friend		I'm Anna's friend . . . but this making-up- one's-mind-to-it in public is not polite to a distinguished man like Karenin.
princess myagkaya		In my opinion Karenin is a fool, and Anna is the best of us.
betsy		Alexei . . . You look desperate. That's not attractive.
vronsky		I'm losing hope.
betsy		Hope of what? Persuading a virtuous woman to break her marriage vows?
vronsky		And how is Tuskevich?
betsy		That's not attractive either. Besides, I was never virtuous.
vronsky		No--you're right. She won't come. I'm going home.
vronsky		Turn round!
voices		Wasn't Nilsson glorious? One sees that she has studied Kaulbach, of course . . .
betsy		He's gone. But you're just in time for the surprise.
anna		I would prefer to try a cigarette.
anna		Thank you.
vronsky		When?
anna		Just as I was thinking your manners have improved since Moscow. You behaved badly, very badly.
vronsky		And who was responsible for that?
anna		Give me a cup of tea.
betsy		How nice--Alexei Aleksandrevich has arrived.
lisa merkalova		I'm not sure my nerves can stand another Alexei at this moment.
princess myagkaya		So the Schuzburgs asked us to dinner. The sauce was said to have cost a thousand rou- bles, and it was ghastly. We had to ask them back. I gave them a sauce that cost eighty- five kopeks and it was a triumph.
vronsky		Were you glad to see me or not?
vronsky		What do you want me to do?
anna		I want you to go to Moscow and beg Kitty to forgive you.
vronsky		No, that's not what you want. Moscow? I can do better than that. Tonight I refused a posting to Tashkent. I can change my mind, and you'll never see me again.
anna		If you have any thought for me, you will give me back my peace.
vronsky		I have no peace to give. There can be no peace for us--only misery or the greatest happiness. You are my whole life now.
betsy		Your husband is impossible!-- his opinions are all wrong but he talks so brilliantly he wins every argument.
karenin		I called to take you home.
anna		No, I'm staying. Send the carriage back for me.
karenin		Of course.
vronsky		Do you want me to go to Tashkent?
vronsky		So I'll go to Tashkent.
anna		No. I don't want you to go.
anna		Waiting up? How unlike you!
karenin		Yes, I stayed up to talk to you.
anna		What about? It's late. Where's Annushka?
karenin		I sent her off.
anna		Well, if you want to talk, but we should go to bed.
anna		Warn me? It's really rather late . . .
karenin		I wish to warn you that you may inadver- tently, by indiscretion and carelessness, give the world occasion to talk about you.
anna		I am not a committee. Please say what you want to tell me.
karenin		You and Count Vronsky attracted attention tonight.
anna		You don't like it when I don't talk to people, and you don't like it when I do.
karenin		I didn't notice anything, myself. But I saw that everyone else noticed. I consider jeal- ousy to be insulting to you and degrading to me. I have no right to inquire into your feelings. They concern only your conscience. But I'm your husband and I love you. It's my duty to remind you that we are bound together by God, and this bond can only be broken by a crime against God.
karenin		And you have a son.
karenin		Forgive me.  If I am wrong, I ask your pardon.
anna		 I don't know what you're talking about, and it's really too late for this. Excuse me, please.
anna		 Too late.
anna		Oh God forgive me. It's the end of everything--I've got nothing left now, only you. Remember that.
vronsky		Anna . . . Anna . . . how can I not remem- ber? You're my happiness.
levin		I thought that had been done.
vasili		I gave the order. What can you do with these people?
oblonsky		Ah--potage aux choux a la Russe!
levin		Of Babylon? No.
oblonsky		You're right, what do you care? You love the country--you've got it. You love agricultur- ing, and, Lord knows, you've got it. You love shooting--you've got it. You've got every- thing you want!
levin		All right, go on, then. Have you stopped stealing bread rolls?
levin		So, nothing new to tell me. How is--how are the Shcherbatskys?
oblonsky		You mean Kitty.
levin		I . . . Is she engaged now?
oblonsky		No. Vronsky went back to St. Petersburg.
levin		Oh yes, as if I had time in the summer! And I've got extra land this year at Kashin for the haymaking.
oblonsky		Kashin? That's on the Ergoshovo road, isn't it? Won't you call when Kitty is there?
levin		 Especially not then. I humiliated myself once.
levin		Her heart told her no. Did you come to shoot snipe or criticize me?
levin		For you, getting married is . . . a social engage- ment. Not for me. For me, it's the condition of personal happiness and living the right way. I'll never again be carried away by passion. I renounce it. I'll have to find another way . . .
oblonsky		Look out--here they come!
dolly		There. Oh, I'm sore with his feeding! Would you like to hold him?
kitty		I have no troubles.
dolly		That man wasn't worth the tears, believe me.
kitty		 I don't care about him. I don't even think about him. Or her. Except to hate her.
dolly		Then we'll never speak of it again.
kitty		 What has Levin got to do with it? Anyway, I'll never get married. The whole business of . . . it's become disgusting to me . . . and look what it's done for you! Why do they call it love?
dolly		Because it's love.
anna		I want you to. I don't care about it.
vronsky		You should care. You're not supposed to.
vronsky		Everybody. Doctors.
anna		You're squeamish. You a soldier! Would you faint?
vronsky		Anyway, someone might be watching.
anna		But I'm damned anyway.
vronsky		I'm not. I'm blessed.
anna		You love me.
vronsky		Yes.
anna		Only me.
anna		Apart from Frou-Frou.
vronsky		Yes.
anna		But me more than your horse?
vronsky		Yes.
anna		Are you happy?
vronsky		Yes.
anna		And you love me?
vronsky		Yes.
anna		How much?
vronsky		This much.
vronsky		Yes.
anna		This much?
vronsky		Yes.
anna		This much?
vronsky		Yes.
anna		This much? And this much? And this much?
vronsky		Yes.
anna		 And . . . this . . . much . . . ?
karenin		Countess . . . I thought you would be at Peterhof now.
lydia		I've come from there. I'm distressed that you haven't taken your usual house this year.
karenin		Anna wanted a change. She is spending the summer at Tsarskoe.
lydia		Near Princess Betsy. And . . .
karenin		Oh, is this about my wife?
alexander		Alyosha . . . a message from Maman. Her friend Princess Sorokina has a house here, and a virgin daughter, that's not part of the
demin		Gentlemen--I give you--the regiment!
alexander		I heard you turned down a promotion.
vronsky		That was Maman interfering.
alexander		Yes. And now she's come up with a princess for you.  Alexei--we're brothers, so don't take offence. Getting married puts the pack on your back--it leaves your hands free for climbing the ladder. Getting serious about a married woman is like carrying your pack in your arms.
alexander		An assignation?
vronsky		Come on, I'll introduce you.
alexander		Beautiful. A man would come to no harm. Do you think you'll win tomorrow?
vronsky		Makhotin's Gladiator is favourite, sixteen hands--Frou-Frou looks dainty beside him, but she's got heart. Haven't you, my darling?
anna		Alexei, what is it?
vronsky		I couldn't bear not to see you before the race.
anna		I'm pregnant.
vronsky		Ah . . . My love.
anna		How can we, Alexei?
vronsky		Tell Karenin everything.
anna		Do you think my husband will make you a present of me?
vronsky		Leave him.
anna		Leave him and be your mistress?
vronsky		Yes. Run away.
anna		I would never see my son again. The laws are made by husbands and fathers.
vronsky		What, then? I'll never forgive myself for your unhappiness.
karenin		How are you, young man? Your tutor doesn't seem to be in evidence. We'll have a look at your lesson books.
anna		Alexei!--you got away at last. Can you stay?
karenin		Why . . . ?
karenin		Races, surely. No, I'll come on later, and then I must get back to town.
countess vronsky		Exquisite creature . . . you really ought to be the spoil of victory today . . .
oblonsky		Princess! A bet! What do you fancy in the next?
betsy		Kusolev.
oblonsky		I'm on Vronsky. A pair of gloves?
anna		Alexei . . . !
karenin		I'm here.
anna		Stiva! What are they saying?
oblonsky		Vronsky's unhurt--but the horse . . .
officer		Her back's broken!
karenin		I'm asking you . . . if you wish to go . . .
betsy		I'll bring her home, Alexei.
karenin		 Excuse me, Princess, but Anna is not well and I want her to come with me.
karenin		You know . . . they say the Emperor dis- approves of the races . . . the danger of injury . . . but I . . .
anna		What?
karenin		I'm saying there is a value in manly sport, for the military--
karenin		In my opinion, it's not the sport itself that's wrong, it's the spectacle, it's making a cruel spectacle out of--
anna		What are you talking about?
karenin		I have to tell you--
anna		Yes.
karenin		I have to tell you, you behaved improperly today.
anna		And how was that?
karenin		By making plain your feelings when one of the riders fell. Your conduct was improper. It must not occur again. I have said it before.
anna		No, you were not mistaken. I love him. I am his mistress. I can't bear you, I'm afraid of you, I hate you. Do what you like to me.
karenin		Wait, please. Move away.
anna		Are you hurt?
vronsky		What's happened?
anna		I told him I'm your mistress.
major domo		Their Excellencies Minister Karenin and Madame Karenin!
betsy		Alexei Aleksandrevich . . . congratulations. You're the only man my husband would do this for.
anna		 Tell me your latest find for your library.
prince tverskoy		Not in front of the Princess.
betsy		I can tell you're happy. You've put on a little weight.
anna		Both true.
karenin		Time for bed!
anna		Alexei . . . I can't . . . I'm sorry . . . But I'm his wife now.  I am having his child.
karenin		Tell me what I did to deserve this.
levin		How many mowers is it, Theodore?
theodore		Forty-two, master. In your father's time it was work for two days for thirty men . . .  . . . though he never picked up a scythe himself.
theodore		They like what they're used to.
levin		It settles me.
theodore		How is that, master?
levin		When I'm mowing, I don't ask myself why I'm here.
theodore		You're here to be master, Konstantin Dmi- trich, to be your father's son, and father to a son who will be master after you, as it has always been by the grace of God.
levin		My father owned you, Theodore. My grand- father owned your father. Owned you like chattels, to be bought and sold. Was that by the grace of God?
theodore		It was. Those were good times when your father had the keeping of us. That's my youngest you were looking at there. His young life is perilous now since the Free- dom came and work must be found.
theodore		 At his wife too, I dare say.
levin		They look happier than I've ever been. Is it living simply that I'm looking for?
vronsky		He's some kind of prince at home. Exhaust- ing. Where is Tuskevitch this evening?
betsy		Why ask me?
makhotin		Lucky woman. Give her my respects, and to Karenin if you see him.
betsy		Don't. Would you compromise me? And Lisa?
stremov		 I only say that a man who can't govern his wife has perhaps gone as far as he can go in government.
kapitonich		Good evening, Your Excellency.
vronsky		I am expected.
vronsky		It's punishment enough that I'm on escort duty, without . . .
anna		Yes--I'm sorry--it's my demon, I can't help it.
vronsky		You wrote that you were ill.
anna		Did I? Well, I am!  But don't worry! It won't be for long, I'll soon be out of your way--soon!
vronsky		Stop.
anna		No, it's true. I was told it in a dream.
anna		Yes, and I'm only going to die having your baby.
vronsky		That's all nonsense!
anna		Tell me it is, tell me it is. You love me. Only me.
vronsky		Your note said your husband would be out.
anna		He was late. Serves him right. And you. Why do you call him my husband? He isn't my husband--he's a clock, a wooden doll--
vronsky		But it was awkward . . . a matter of your honour. You made an agreement.
anna		Do you think of my honour when you're sharing whores with your Hindoo!
vronsky		Your demon again!
vronsky		Anna . . .
anna		Put your hand there. There! Did you feel him move!
stremov		I must respectfully ask Minister Karenin whether his proposals for the regulation of these colourful Gypsy tribes, of these schol- arly God-fearing Jews, and of--but I'm afraid I have lost the Minister's attention . . .
kapitonich		Only Madame, Your Excellency.
anna		I wanted to see him because . . .
karenin		I do not wish to be told why a woman wants to see her lover.
anna		What are you . . . ?
karenin		I want his letters.
anna		 Alexei . . . please . . . leave me Serozha . . . !
karenin		Do you think I would let you have my son? You are depraved, a woman without honour. I thank God the curse of love is lifted from me.
oblonsky		Levin! What . . . ?
levin		I need your advice . . .
countess nordston		Well, is he coming?
levin		Am I late? Who is here?
oblonsky		Of course you're late! Come and meet . . . Countess Nordston.
prince shcherbatsky		Come into the fold . . .
dolly		Kitty is here.
kitty		Konsantin . . . what a long time since we saw each other.
levin		Since you saw me, but I saw you not so long ago.
kitty		When?
levin		You were driving to Ergoshovo . . . I was at Kashin for the haymaking.
kitty		Oh, but why didn't you . . . ?
kitty		I hope not--I was young and silly in those days.
levin		Months and months ago!
kitty		And you haven't changed.
levin		No. I haven't.
oblonsky		Permit me to announce--soup Marie Lou- ise, carp with asparagus, and roast beef! I went to the market in person!
karenin		I've been on tour in the regions, a govern- ment commission . . . I'm sorry--I have come to tell you our connection must be severed. I'm going to divorce your sister.
oblonsky		Divorce? Dear me, what are you talking about? Don't be in a hurry. Stay to dinner and later talk it over with Dolly--
karenin		Prince Oblonsky, everything is over between our families.
oblonsky		 Alexei . . . divorce is one thing but dinner is quite another.
princess shcherbatsky		You Petersburgers think yourselves so de bon ton compared with dull, old-fashioned
oblonsky		Well, what's this government commission, Karenin . . . ?
karenin		What was the challenge about?
princess shcherbatsky		Pryachnikov's wife, naturally.
prince shcherbatsky		It was a matter of honour, defending a woman's honour . . .
karenin		It sounds like barbarism to me . . . And what if the lover had killed the husband?-- would that have preserved the wife's honour too?
countess nordston		Still, not many of us can say that our lover died for love!
countess nordston		Would you die for love, Konstantin Dmitrich?
levin		I would. But not for my neighbour's wife.
countess nordston		Ah, an idealist!
karenin		I tried to save her. She chose ruin.
dolly		Alexei Aleksandrevich--look at me. You will have no peace of mind until you forgive her. It was Anna who taught me that.
karenin		I do not wish to forgive. I am not a cruel man. I have never hated anyone. But I hate her with all my soul for all the wrong she has done me.
oblonsky		It's your turn to play us something, Countess.
levin		Since we last met, there is something I have often wanted to ask you.
kitty		What is that?
kitty		Do Not . . .
levin		I know what it says.
karenin		Die, then.
karenin		How is your mistress?
kapitonich		Safely delivered of a daughter, Your Excellency.
karenin		So . . . she is well?
kapitonich		The mistress is very poorly. The doctor . . .
vronsky		She's dying. Please let me stay.
doctor		Thank God! She talks only of you.
anna		Why doesn't he come? He is kind. He will forgive me.
midwife		He's here--look--look--can't you see him?
anna		I want Alexei! Why doesn't he come? Give me some water. No, I mustn't, it's not good for my little girl. Or let her have a nurse. Yes--don't bring her here, because Alexei is coming and it will hurt him to see her.
doctor		 More ice.
anna		Oh, what nonsense. I must be asleep, that's what it is. You think he won't forgive me but you don't know him. No one knows him except me. I'm not afraid of him now.
anna		Take your hands away from your face. Look at my husband. He's a saint! Take his hand. Alexei--take his hands away.
vronsky		Whatever you think of me, please believe me, I love her--I could not have done other- wise than what I . . . what I did.
karenin		But you must leave now. I promise to send for you if she asks for you. I don't know what happened. I forgive you. I forgive Anna. My soul is filled with joy. I will remain with her and look after her for ever.
countess vronsky		Look at you. You look like what you are. A laughingstock. I fancy you are to be asked to leave the regiment.
vronsky		I would like you to go, Maman.
countess vronsky		I will go when I'm ready to go. A little affair with a married woman puts a finish- ing touch to a young man's education--but this morbid, selfish obsession . . . ! You have publicly humiliated a man who has devoted his life to Russia, and it will not be forgot- ten. You'd better come back to Moscow with me. You're finished here.
vronsky		In Petersburg?  I'm finished here.
levin		. . . no, I'll go to her and tell her it's not too late to stop this business! Better now than when we're married and she realises she doesn't love me!
oblonsky		But she does love you!
levin		How can she? I mean, look at me! Suppose she's only marrying me to get married? Suppose she's still in love with Vronsky?
matvey		Your coat, sir.
princess shcherbatsky		Konstantin!--what-- ?
levin		I have to talk to Kitty.
princess shcherbatsky		You're not allowed to see her!
kitty		No. I don't understand at all! What's the matter with you?
levin		You can't love me. Think it over! Let people say what they like!
levin		Yes. If you don't love me.
kitty		But I do love you!
levin		Do you? Well, I love you!
kitty		Oh, Konstantin!
betsy		. . . and there was her husband wearing her best ballgown, rouge all over his face . . . ma chere, le scandale! . . . But I'd better tell you some regimental news . . .
karenin		Who is here?
footman		Princess Elisabeth Federovna Tverskaya, Your Excellency.
karenin		Please excuse me.
anna		No--stay.
karenin		You look feverish.
betsy		We have been talking too much--so I'm going.
anna		Princess Betsy came to tell me . . .
betsy		Goodbye, my treasure.
karenin		I agree with you. As he is going away, there is no need for Count Vronsky to come here.
karenin		But it is for you to decide.
anna		Yes, and I decided.
karenin		Then I am very glad that--
anna		That we agree, so perhaps we can stop talk- ing about it.
karenin		Of course. Is there anything I can do for you?
anna		Yes, can you please please please stop crack- ing your knuckles.  I'm a bad woman. But I can't breathe. Your kindness which I can't repay, and your FORGIVENESS--
karenin		You begged me for my forgiveness.
anna		But I didn't die and now I have to live with it! If only you would have gone on hating me.
anna		 Not to say goodbye.
karenin		I can't hear.
anna		Not to say goodbye.
karenin		 You would be lost. Irretrievably lost. You would have no position. And worse if we divorce. You would be the guilty party. That means you cannot legally remarry. Your union with Count Vronsky would be illegitimate, and so would your daughter who now has the protection of my name. And that is what you want! It would be a sin to help you destroy yourself.
anna		You forget something. Count Vronsky and I love each other.
karenin		And this love sanctifies a criminal folly?
karenin		 I see. And Serozha . . . ?
anna		I would die for him, but I won't live like this for him. When he knows about love, he'll forgive me.
karenin		Then I must choose the smaller sin. Vronsky robbed me of my cloak and I will give him my coat. I will give you grounds to divorce me, and I'll accept the scandal, the humilia- tion and the consequences to my career.
anna		No . . . I can't . . .
karenin		You may write to him but I would prefer you not to see him until you have left this house.
vronsky		You look like a boy. But so pale. We'll go south . . . to the sea air and sunshine . . .
slyudin		. . . and Madame Odette in person, so to speak, Your Excellency, with your permission . . .
karenin		Madame Odette . . . ?
shopkeeper		Excuse the liberty, Your Excellency . . . it's for a bonnet and some ribbons Her Excel- lency has overlooked. If you wish us to address ourselves to Her Excellency, please be so good as to tell us where we might . . .
lydia		I have forced my way in! I have heard!
karenin		Countess, every shopkeeper has heard.
lydia		My dear friend! Don't give way to sorrow. Our Lord Jesus Christ has you in his care.
karenin		No, I'm done for. I don't understand any- thing. All day long I'm being asked to make decisions about bills and servants, the kitchen, Serozha's clothes . . .
lydia		I understand. I understand everything. I am going to act. The household arrangements you can leave to me. I will come every day. I will be a second mother to Serozha.
levin		This is Agafia, and Vasili, the steward . . . My wife, Ekaterina Alexandrovna Levin.
kitty		I am very pleased to meet you both.
levin		And that was Kuzma. Come inside!
levin		Is it all right?
kitty		No--I want to see everything.
levin		A moment.
levin		It's me, Konstantin.
nikolai		Yes, good. The doctor here is useless--get me a doctor from Moscow.
levin		Where did you go? I asked for you every- where, when I was getting married.
masha		 I'm sorry . . . I couldn't leave him. I know I've done wrong.
agafia		I couldn't go against Nikolai Dmitrich's orders . . .
levin		Yes--yes . . . She's going.
levin		I will nurse him with Agafia . . . The woman will find somewhere in the village. You won't see her. She knows it's impossible for you to meet her. It is a torment to me that I have brought you under the same roof
kitty		Good. A clean nightshirt and sheets. A towel and a clean pail of warm water. Ask Agafia for vinegar, and to prepare a bed somewhere for Masha. Wait.
kitty		I'm not looking.
nikolai		 I'm going . . .
levin		Thank you, Father . . . and how much . . . ?
kitty		You're such an expert on love, Kostya . . . why didn't you know it when you saw it?
lydia		Alexei, they're back! Here in St. Petersburg! She has written to me.
karenin		To you? . . . I think I don't have the right to refuse . . . It's the boy's birthday . . .
lydia		My friend . . . you would be blowing on the embers of a fire which must be allowed to die . . . Let me write to her.
anna		I'm here to see Sergei Alexeyich.
anna		I have brought something for Sergei Alexeyich.
kapitonich		He is not up yet. Would you wish to wait? Who shall I say . . . ?
kapitonich		Please allow me!
anna		I've come to see Sergei Alexeyich.
kapitonich		He's been moved to the small sitting room.
kapitonich		I'll just look in.
serozha		Mama.
anna		Oh, my dear little boy.
serozha		I knew you would come. Today is my birthday.
anna		I won't cry. It's time for you to get dressed. And I almost forgot your present, look . . . open it . . .
serozha		You don't want that . . . Let me see.
korney		It's your fault for letting her in!--you should be sacked.
kapitonich		Oh yes, you would have sent her packing! Ten years I've been keeping the door and the mistress was always kind to me. You should stick to stealing the master's clothes.
lukich		I've had enough of this--it's my job to get the boy out of bed before His Excellency comes . . .
serozha		Don't go!--he's not coming yet.
anna		Yes, I must, and you must love Papa-- he's better than I am. When you're grown-up . . .
serozha		No one in the whole world is better than you.
anna		Where's Anya?
annushka		She's still asleep. Should I take your coat?
anna		I'm not sleeping.
annushka		I can send out for something.
vronsky		Why are you in the dark?
anna		To where? To whom?
vronsky		What's the matter?
anna		I didn't know what happened to you.
vronsky		But I told you yesterday . . . My brother . . .
anna		Does it take all day for you to meet your brother? Does he need you more than I do?
vronsky		What's happened?
yashvin		It's wonderful to have you both returned.
anna		How good you are to come. You're the very first person to call on me since our return.
yashvin		But perhaps you'll meet at the opera tonight?
anna		I would love to be there if I could get a box.
yashvin		 Madame, your box is number four! You'll find me there with Princess Myagkaya. Will you come, Vronsky?
anna		I see why . . . Alexei is so fond of you.
vronsky		You know you can't go to the theatre?
anna		Annushka!
vronsky		For heaven's sake--
anna		A bath. I'll come in and choose a dress.
vronsky		Anna--I implore you--don't you know . . . ?
anna		I'm not ashamed of who I am or what I've done: are you ashamed for me? Why do you keep a room at the hotel? Aren't we together? Have you changed towards me?
vronsky		It's because I love you and care about you.
vronsky		That would make it worse.
anna		You're afraid. Well, I'm not.
princess myagkaya		Anna . . . !
princess myagkaya		Should we visit or stay put?
anna		Stay put.
vronsky		You'll come up to see us afterwards . . . ?
alexander		Talk to Varya.
vronsky		Will you call on Anna?
varya		Oh, Alexei . . . I'm fond of you . . . but . . .
vronsky		For God's sake, Anna isn't a criminal!
varya		I'd call on her if she'd only broken the law. But she broke the rules.
princess myagkaya		Who has made the decor? Haven't we got a programme? Colonel, would you be so kind . . . ?
yashvin		Of course.
anna		Thank you, how very . . .
prince tverskoy		Catullus, printed in Venice, 1501 . . . remarkable.
house manager		 A thousand apologies, Princess, but . . .
vronsky		Captain Makhotin . . .
wife		Fetch my cloak!
wife		What are we coming to?
betsy		 Yes, why don't you? Rescue her and put your seal on the fiasco.
vronsky		As far as I'm concerned, she's my wife.
betsy		But, as you saw, she isn't.
vronsky		We're going to Moscow, and then to my place in the country.
betsy		That sounds like a good idea.
vronsky		But for a day or two, Anna will be at home, at my flat.
anna		. . . you had an excellent night! Does your mother want you to marry the widow or the child?
vronsky		Either one.
anna		Don't make a joke of it. If you loved me, you would have locked me in to stop me going.
anna		Go to bed.
anna		I won't sleep.
vronsky		I know how to make you sleep.
anna		I understand.
dolly		No, no--you don't. Kitty and her husband are with us. She's in Moscow to have the baby.
anna		Kitty . . . ? Oh, tell her how pleased I am . . . !
dolly		Perhaps I'll wait a year or two.  Oh . . . love!
anna		Yes . . . love! Don't you disapprove of me for what I've done?
dolly		No. I wish I'd done the same. But no one asked me! Well . . . I wouldn't have been brave enough.  Stiva, you know . . . he doesn't change . . . like all men, I suppose.
annushka		Madame . . . Madame . . .
anna		What time is it? Is Anya up?
anna		I'm all right. It's all right.  Get them to bring up all our trunks and travel cases. We've been here long enough.
anna		I had an inspiration. Why do we have to wait here? Why can't we wait in the coun- try? I don't want to hear any more about a divorce, or think about it.
vronsky		Good! I'm bored here. When should we go?
anna		If I bore you here, I'll bore you in the country.
vronsky		I didn't say you bore me. Moscow bores me. When should we go? . . . Tomorrow?
vronsky		The day after, then.
anna		If you like.
vronsky		No, wait. That's Sunday. I have to see Maman.
anna		That's twenty minutes away in the train-- you could go to see her tomorrow--or was it that you wanted to spend Sunday with Princess Sorokina?
vronsky		Please don't spoil everything. I can't see Maman tomorrow because she won't have read the papers she has to sign. Oh, and then there's the bank . . . But we can leave on Tuesday.
anna		In that case, let's not bother. I'll leave on Sunday or not at all.
vronsky		That's absurd!
vronsky		Anna . . . Anna . . .
anna		You've stopped loving me. You've given up everything for me, and it's turned you against me. Why lie about it?
vronsky		Stop. I put off our departure for a day or two, and you tell me I don't love you.
anna		Because I've been living off your love and there's none left, so this is over! Finished.
anna		I'm sorry. I don't mind when we go.
vronsky		I'll telegraph Maman. We'll go on Sunday. I'll do anything you want.
vronsky		I don't want to. I love you.
anna		Why?
vronsky		You can't ask why about love.
vronsky		So--will you be all packed? I'll be out today making the arrangements.
anna		Is that your way of telling me you'll be at your mother's with that simpering little princess?
anna		Well, I know what that means.
vronsky		My God, this is unendurable.
anna		Thank you, but if I'm not fit to dine in soci- ety, I won't eat with the band. Who was the telegram from?
vronsky		I didn't show it to you, because Stiva keeps telegraphing what we already know. Kare- nin promises nothing, but will consider . . .
anna		I told you I don't care about the divorce, so why hide the telegram? What else do you hide from me?
anna		Why do you care about the divorce? What has it got to do with us loving each other?
vronsky		Until we're married, our daughter is legally Karenin's. I care about it because we need to be free to marry.
anna		You're perfectly free to marry anyone your mother wants.
vronsky		But we aren't talking about--
anna		Yes, we are, and, by the way, compared to your mother I'm the Virgin Mary.
vronsky		Is there anything you wish to say to me?
anna		So it's the child.
vronsky		She brought papers from Maman.
anna		Unpack everything. We're not going.
annushka		Anna Arkadyeva . . .
anna		When Count Vronsky comes back, tell him . . . I don't want to be disturbed.
anna		Count Vronsky . . . ?
annushka		He went out early, to the stables, he said.
anna		Oh, Annushka . . . I should have died. Do you remember?
annushka		Don't take it to heart, Anna Arkadyeva . . .
anna		I've made him hate me.
michael		Count Vronsky had already left, Your Excel- lency. He took a cab to the station . . . to the Countess.
anna		Are you waiting for the Princess Sorokina?
maidservant		Look at that lace on her . . .
levin		I'll be buying in feed before winter's over.
theodore		 Well, you don't press people hard, but you live rightly, for your soul, not your belly.
levin		My soul! What's that? I know what my belly is. How do we know what's rightly? I believe in reason.
levin		 No.
theodore		You're a great one for reasoning, Konstantin Dmitrich, but what's rightly is outside your mathematic--that's what's rightly about it!
levin		Where's Ekaterina Alexandrovna?
agafia		It's all right, the mistress is giving Mitya his bath.
kitty		And what was that?
levin		He smiled at me.
kitty		 He's very advanced for his age.
****Dialogues from script :Annie_Hall.txt****

annie hall		 written by Woody Allen Marshall Brickman   Why are you depressed, Alvy?
teacher		 Now, there was a model boy!
alvy		No, I cannot.  You keep bringing it up, but I don't wanna live in a city where the only cultural advantage is that you can make a right turn on a red light.
rob		 Right, Max, forget it.  Aren't you gonna be late for meeting Annie?
alvy		Alvy Singer. It was nice nice ... Thanks very much ... for everything.
annie		 H'h, that's a polite word for what you are.
alvy		 Probably on their first date, right?
alvy		Probably met by answering an ad in the New York Review of Books.  "Thirtyish academic wishes to meet woman who's interested in Mozart, James Joyce and sodomy."  Whatta you mean, our sexual problem?
alvy		Alvy ... Alvy Singer.  I'm a comedian.
alvy		 Excuse me, I'm not essentially a political comedian at all.
annie		Stop it!  Don't ... don't do that!  There.
younger annie		 Oh, right.  Right, yeah, I think I know exactly what you mean, when you say "religious."
alvy		What-
robin		My head is throbbing.
alvy		Oh, you got a headache!
robin		I have a headache.
alvy		Bad?
robin		Oswald and ghosts.
alvy		Jesus!
rob		Max, my serve is gonna send yuh to the showers-
alvy		Right, right, so g-get back to what we were discussing, the failure of the country to get behind New York City is-is anti-Semitism.
alvy		No, no thanks.  Hey, don't-
annie		Well, where is it?  I-
alvy		Do I drive?  Uh, no, I gotta-I gotta problem with driving.
annie		 Well ...
alvy		Interesting poetess whose tragic suicide was misinterpreted as romantic, by the college-girl mentality.
alvy		Neat?
annie		 Yeah, right, Duane-and over there is Grammy Hall, and that's Sadie.
annie		Narcolepsy, right, right.  Right.  So, anyway, so ...  he's dead.  Yeah.  Oh, dear.  Well, terrible, huh, wouldn't you say?  I mean, that's pretty unfortunate.
alvy		No, I know, but ... but, you know, I'm all perspired and everything.
alvy		Me?  No, no, no, 'cause I never shower in a public place.
alvy		Fifteen years, yeah.
alvy		God bless.
annie		 Yeah, well ... you-She hates Jews.  She thinks that they just make money, but let me tell yuh, I mean, she's the one yeah, is she ever.  I'm tellin' yuh.
annie		 Yeah, yeah, I sorta dabble around, you know.
annie		Well, I-I-I would-I would like to take a serious photography course soon.
alvy		Yeah, I meet a lotta jerks, too.
annie		 gonna sing.  Yeah.
alvy		You're gonna sing?  Do you sing?  Well, no, it isn't  Oh, no, no, no, no, no!  No, I'm interested!
annie		 Oh, no-I mean, I'm just a-auditioning sort of at club.  I don't-
alvy		 No, so help me.
annie		 -it's my first time.
alvy		That's okay, 'cause I know exactly what that's like.  Listen-
annie		 Yeah.
alvy		 -you're gonna like night clubs, they're really a lotta fun.
alvy		No, I'm not gonna letcha.  You have a great voice.
annie		Really, do you think so, really?
alvy		Yeah!
annie		Yeah?
alvy		It's terrific.
annie		 Yeah, you know something?  I never even took a lesson, either.
annie		What?
alvy		Gimme a kiss.
annie		Really?
alvy		Yeah, why not, because we're just gonna go home later, right?
annie		Yeah.
alvy		And-and uh, there's gonna be all that tension.  You know, we never kissed before and I'll never know when to make the right move or anything.  So we'll kiss now we'll get it over with and then we'll go eat. Okay?
annie		Oh, all right.
annie		Okay.
annie		M'm, that was so nice.  That was nice.
alvy		As Balzac said ...
annie		H'm?
alvy		"There goes another novel."  Jesus, you were great.
annie		Oh, yeah?
alvy		Yeah.
annie		Yeah?
alvy		Yeah, I'm-I'm-I'm a wreck.
annie		No.  You're a wreck.
alvy		Really.  I mean it.  I-I'll never play the piano again.
annie		 You're really nuts.  I don't know, you really thought it was good?  Tell me.
alvy		Good?  I was-
annie		 No.
alvy		No, that was the most fun I've ever had without laughing.
annie		 Here, you want some?
alvy		No, no, I-I-i, uh, I don't use any major hallucinogenics because I took a puff like five years ago at a party and
annie		Yeah?
alvy		-tried to take my pants off over my head ...  ...  my ear.
annie		What?  What?
alvy		Hey?
annie		H'm?
alvy		I-I-I'm gonna buy you these books, I think, because I-I think you should read them.  You know, instead of that cat book.
annie		 that's pretty serious stuff there.
alvy		Yeah, 'cause I-I'm, you know, I'm, I'm obsessed with-with, uh, with death, I think.  Big-
annie		 Yeah?
alvy		-big subject with me, yeah.
alvy		 I've a very pessimistic view of life. You should know this about me if we're gonna go out, you know. I-I-I feel that life is-is divided up into the horrible and the miserable.
annie		M'hm.
alvy		Those are the two categories ...
annie		M'hm.
alvy		I don't-don't know how they get through life.  It's amazing to me.
annie		M'hm.
alvy		You know, and the miserable is everyone else.  That's-that's all.  So-so when you go through life you should be thankful that you're miserable, because that's- You're very lucky ... to be ...  ... to be miserable.
annie		U-huh.
alvy		Look, look at that guy.
annie		M'hm.
alvy		There's-there's-there's-there's Mr. When-in-the-Pink, Mr. Miami Beach, there, you know?  He's the latest! just came back from the gin-rummy farm last night. He placed third.
annie		 M'hm.  Yeah.  Yeah.
annie		Yeah.
annie		Oh! Italian, right?
annie		 Oh, yeah.
alvy		You- Do you love me?
annie		Do I love you?
alvy		That's the key question.
annie		Yeah.
alvy		I know you've only known me a short while.
alvy		I-uh, love is, uh, is too weak a word for what...
annie		Yeah.
alvy		- I ... I love you.  I-I have to invent- Of course I love you.
annie		Yeah.
annie		I dunno.
alvy		Whatta you mean?  You're not gonna give up your own apartment, are you?
annie		 Of course.
alvy		Yeah, bu-bu-but why?
annie		Well, I mean, I'm moving in with you, that's why.
alvy		Yeah, but you-you got a nice apartment.
annie		I have a tiny apartment.
alvy		Yeah, I know it's small.
alvy		 ... rapidly growing field.
annie		You don't want me to live with you?
alvy		No-what, what ...? I ... we live together, we sleep together, we eat together.  Jesus, you don't want it to be like we're married, do yuh?
annie		 How is it any different?
alvy		Me, no.  You ... I-I-you know, if I have grass or alcohol or anything I get unbearably wonderful.  I get too, too wonderful for words.  You know, I don't-I don't know why you have to, uh, get high every time we make love.
alvy		 Is it my imagination or are you just going through the motions?
alvy		Are yuh?
mom hall		Now, don't let it be so long, now.
alvy		Next thing you know he'll find you keen and peachy, you know?  Next thing you know he's got his hand on your ass!
alvy		Well, listen, that's, a nice bi-it's a biblical name.  Right?  W-What does he call you?  Bathsheba?
alvy		You cried?  I've never once cried. Fantastic ...
annie		 Yeah.
alvy		I whine. I-I-I sit and I whine.
annie		In-in ... Alvy, in my dream Frank Sinatra is holding his pillow across my face and I can't breathe.
annie		Yeah, and he's strangling me ...
alvy		Yeah?
annie		... and I keep, you know, it's-
alvy		Yeah, but you said, "Will it change my wife"!
annie		No, I didn't.  I said, "Will it change my life," Alvy.
alvy		You said, "Will it change. . ." Wife. Will it change ...
annie		 Life.  I said, "life."
annie		And, Alvy ... and then I told her about how I didn't think you'd ever really take me seriously, because you don't think that I'm smart enough.
alvy		 Why do you always bring that up?  Because I encourage you to take adult-education courses?  I think it's a wonderful thing. You meet wonderful, interesting professors'.
alvy		That's fine.  That's fine.  That's great!  Is it-is it something that I did?
alvy		 Don't go any further.  Now, with your wife in bed, d-d-does she need some kind o' artificial stimulation like-like marijuana?
young woman		Yeah.
alvy		Yeah!  So ... so h-h-how do you account for it?
young woman		Yeah.
wicked queen		I don't get a period!  I'm a cartoon character.  Can't I be upset once in a while?
female reporter		I think there are more people here to see the Maharishi than there were to see the Dylan concert.  I covered the Dylan concert ... which gave me chills. Especially when he sang "She takes just like a woman And she makes love just like a woman Yes, she does And she aches just like a woman But she breaks just like a little girl."  Up to that I guess the most charismatic event I covered was Mick's Birthday when the Stones played Madison Square Garden.
reporter		The only word for this is trans-plendid. It's trans-plendid.
reporter		He's God!  I mean, this man is God!  He's got millions of followers who would crawl all the way across the world just to touch the hem of his garment.
reporter		Yeah.
reporter		It's unbelievably trans-plendid!  I was at the Stones concert in Altamount when they killed that guy, remember?
alvy		Yeah, were yuh?  I was-I was at an Alice Cooper thing where six people were rushed to the hospital with bad vibes.
reporter		 I hope you don't mind that I took so long to finish.
alvy		 I'm startin' it-I'm startin' to get some feeling back in my jaw now.
reporter		Oh, sex with you is really a kafkaesque experience.
reporter		I mean that as a compliment.
reporter		Who said that?
annie		 Oh.
alvy		Are you okay?  What's the matter?  Are you all right?  What-
annie		There's a spider in the bathroom.
alvy		That's what you got me here for at three o'clock in the morning, 'cause there's a spider in the bathroom?
annie		My God, I mean, you know how I am about insects.
alvy		 Oooh.
annie		-I can't sleep with a live thing crawling around in the bathroom.
alvy		Kill it!  For Go- What's wrong with you? Don't you have a can of Raid in the house?
annie		 No.
alvy		 I told you a thousand times you should always keep, uh, a lotta insect spray. You never know who's gonna crawl over.
alvy		Jesus.  All right, gimme a magazine. I- 'cause I'm a little tired.  You know, you, you joke with-about me, you make fun of me, but I'm prepared for anything.  An emergency, a tidal wave, an earthquake.  Hey, what is this? What?  Did you go to a rock concert?
annie		Yeah.
annie		It was just great!
alvy		 Oh, humdinger.  When- Well, I got a wonderful idea.  Why don'tcha get the guy who took you to the rock concert, we'll call him and he can come over and kill the spider.  You know, it's a-
alvy		 What is this?  What are you, since when do you read the "National Review"? What are you turning in to?
annie		 Well, I like to try to get all points of view.
annie		 Alvy, you're a little hostile, you know that?  Not only that, you look thin and tired.
alvy		Well, I was in be- It's three o'clock in the morning.  You, uh, you got me outta bed, I ran over here, I couldn't get a taxi cab.  You said it was an emergency, and I didn't ge- I ran up the stairs.  Hell - I was a lot more attractive when the evening began. Look, uh, tell- Whatta you- Are you going with a right-wing rock-and roll star?  Is that possible?
annie		 Would you like a glass of chocolate milk?
alvy		Hey, what am I-your son?  Whatta you mean? I-I came over TV --_
annie		 I got the good chocolate, Alvy.
alvy		Yeah, where is the spider?
annie		It really is lovely.  It's in the bathroom.
alvy		Is he in the bathroom?
alvy		 Darling, darling, I've been killing spiders since I was thirty, okay?
annie		 Oh.  What?
annie		Yeah?
alvy		Two ... Yeah.  Lotta, lotta trouble. There's two of 'em.
annie		Two?
alvy		 Yep.  I didn't think it was that big, but it's a major spider.  You got a broom or something with a-
alvy		 -snow shovel or anything or something.
annie		 I think I left it there, I'm sorry.
alvy		 Okay, let me have this.
annie		Well, what are you doing ... what are you doing with-
alvy		Honey, there's a spider in your bathroom the size of a Buick.
annie		Well, okay.  Oooh.
annie		 It's for my complexion.
alvy		Whatta-whatta yuh joining a minstrel show? Geez.  -whatta you sad about?  You- What'd you want me to do?  Capture 'em and rehabilitate 'em?
annie		 Oh, don't go, okay?  Please.
alvy		 Whatta you mean, don't go?  Whatta-whatta -what's the matter?  Whatta you expecting -termites?  What's the matter?
annie		 Oh, uh, I don't know.  I miss you.  Tsch.
alvy		Oh, Jesus, really?
annie		 Oh!  Alvy?
annie		Was there somebody in your room when I called you?
alvy		W-w-whatta you mean?
annie		I mean was there another- I thought I heard a voice.
alvy		Oh, I had the radio on.
annie		Yeah?
alvy		I'm sorry.  I had the television set ... I had the television-
annie		Yeah.
annie		Alvy, let's never break up again.  I don't wanna be apart.
annie		Living together hasn't been so bad, has it?
alvy		It's all right for me, it's been terrific, you know?  Better than either one of my marriages.  See, 'cause. . . 'cause there's just something different about you.  I don't know what it is, but it's great.
alvy		Tsch, why don't we get ... why don't we get Rob, and the three of us'll drive into Brooklyn, you know, and we show you the old neighborhood.
annie		Okay, okay.  Okay.
alvy		That'd be fun for yuh.  Don't you think-
annie		Yeah.
annie		-me, my God, it's a great day!
rob		 Yeah, watch the road!
annie		 Hey, you know, I never even visited Brooklyn before.
rob		I can't wait to see the old neighborhood.
alvy		Yeah, the neighborhood's gonna be great.
rob		We can show her the schoolyard.
alvy		Right.  I was a great athlete.  Tell her, Max, I was the best, I was all schoolyard.
annie		 Holy cow!
rob		You're lucky, Max-where I used to live is now a pornographic equipment store.
rob		What kind of good memories, Max? Your mother and father fighting all the time.
alvy's father		You fired the cleaning woman?
alvy's mother		She was stealing.
alvy's father		But she's colored.
alvy's mother		SO?
alvy's father		So the colored have enough trouble.
alvy's mother		She was going through my pocketbook!
alvy's father		They're persecuted enough!
alvy's mother		Who's persecuting?  She stole!
alvy's father		All right-so we can afford it.
alvy's mother		How can we afford it?  On your pay? What if she steals more?
alvy's father		She's a colored woman, from Harlem! She has no money!  She's got a right to steal from us!  After all, who is she gonna steal from if not us?
adult alvy		 You're both crazy!
rob		They can't hear you, Max.
alvy's mother		Leo ... I married a fool!
rob		 Hey, Max!  Who's that?
alvy		It-it-it's the welcome-home party in nineteen forty-five, for my cousin Herbie.
adult alvy		 -father's friend.  He was always bothering me when I was a kid.
joey		Joey Nichols.  That's me.  Joey Five Cents!
young alvy		 What an asshole!
alvy's mother		I was always the sister with good common sense.  But Tessie was always the one with personality.  When she was younger, they all wanted to marry Tessie.
adult alvy		 Do you believe that, Max?  Tessie Moskowitz had the personality.  She's the life of the ghetto, no doubt.
alvy's mother		 She was once a great beauty.
tessie		 I was a great beauty.
rob		Uh, how did this personality come about?
tessie		 I was very charming.
rob		There were many men interested in you?
tessie		 Oh, I was quite a lively dancer.
rob		 That's pretty hard to believe.
annie		Well, I had a really good day, you know that?  It was just a real fine way to spend my birthday.
alvy		Yeah, but no presents till midnight.
annie		 Oh, darn it.
annie		 Huh?
alvy		Happy birthday.
annie		What is this? Is this a...Present?  Are you kidding?
alvy		Yeah, hey, why don't yuh try it on?
annie		 Uh huh.  Yeah.  Forget it.
annie		 What... huh?
alvy		 Yeah, I know.  Just-just put on the watch, and-and ... that thing, and we'll just ...
annie		 Thank you.
alvy		 You were-you were sensational.  I mean, I-you know, I-I told yuh that if yuh stuck to it, you would be great, and-and, you know, I-I-you-you were sensational.
annie		Well, hi!
tony		Uh, we just wanted to stop by and say that we really enjoyed your sets.
annie		 Oh, yeah, really, oh!
tony		I though it was ... very musical, and I liked it a lot.
annie		Oh, neat ... oh, that's very nice, gosh, thanks a lot.
annie		 No, no, no, not at all.
tony		No, I don't-I don't know, but I-I know your work.  I'm a big fan of yours.
tony		 This is, uh, Shawn, and, uh ... Bob and Petronia.
annie		Hi.
annie		 Hi, hi, Bob ...
tony		And we could just sit and talk ... nothing. Uh, not a big deal, it's just relax, just be very mellow.
annie		What thing?
alvy		 Don't you remember we-we-we discussed that thing that we were-
annie		Hey-
tony		It was a wonderful set.
annie		 That day in Brooklyn was the last day I remember really having a great time.
alvy's psychiatrist		How often do you sleep together?
annie		But the thing is-I mean, since our discussions here, I feel I have a right to my own feelings.  I think you woulda been happy because ... uh, uh, I really asserted myself.
annie		 Sometimes I think-sometimes I think I should just live with a woman.
annie		Yeah.  Come on.  It'd be fun.
alvy		Really?  And what is the kick of it? Because I never ...
voices		 We wish you a Merry Christmas, We wish you a Merry Christmas, We wish you a Merry Christmas, And a -Happy New Year.
annie		 You know, I can't get over that this is really Beverly Hills.
alvy		-Spanish, next to Tudor, next to Japanese.
annie		You know, it was snowing-it was snowing and really gray in New York yesterday.
rob		 A little bigger.
rob		Max, I've got a hit series.
alvy		 Is there booing on there?
alvy		 If you could-if you could just give me something to get me through the next two hours, you know I-I have to go out to Burbank ... and give out an award on a TV show.
alvy		 Oh, jesus, now I don't get to do the TV show?
annie		Yeah.  Listen, Doctor, I'm worried.
alvy		I'll handle it.  I'll handle it.  Hi.
rob		 Hi.  How do you do.
alvy		Yeah, he's crazy.
annie		I don't know, this is strange to me, you know.
tony		just ... that's all you need.  You can come and stay here.
annie		Oh.
tony		It could be freezing, it could be raining.
tony		And here, you just-
annie		Oh, good.  Okay.
alvy		Yeah. He may- Listen, Harvard makes mistakes too, you know.  Kissinger taught there.
alvy		 I'm gonna...I'm gonna have the alfalfa sprouts and, uh, a plate of mashed yeast.
alvy		 Jesus.  So whatta yuh saying?  That you're not comin' back to New York with me?
annie		Oh!
alvy		 Awards! They do nothing but give out awards!  I can't believe it.  Greatest, greatest fascist dictator, Adolf Hitler!
officer		Don't give me your life story  -just pick up the license.
alvy's voice		 ... we had lunch sometime after that, and, uh, just, uh, kicked around old times.
****Dialogues from script :Anniversary_Party.txt****

joe		Go where?
joe		America, could you just...
steven		Okay, let's just take a deep breath, let your ribs expand and relax.  And reach up and into downward dog.
sally		Hello, hi, hi...and?  Thank God.
sally		No luck.
joe		Oh, well, we'll just have to try again. Sound like a plan?
sally		Happy anniversary, baby.
joe		Happy anniversary.
steven		And change sides...
america		 Mr. Joe, we have to have the house.  If you please now...
joe		It's yours.
joe		I love you.  Most beautiful woman in the world.
sally		Hardly...
joe		Accept a compliment.
sally		I think you're the most beautiful woman in the world.
joe		What did you get me?
sally		In the morning, after everyone's gone and there's just us.
joe		Kiss my eyes.
sally		My wrists.
joe		Kiss the back of my knees.
sally		Through the sweats or not?
joe		Not.
sally		What?
joe		You didn't kiss anyone else's knees, did you?
sally		No.  Did you?
joe		 No.  I missed that.
sally		I missed all of you.  We're okay, aren't we?
joe		We're great.
sally		I mean, you're really back.
joe		For good.
sally		Well, it might be Clair.  They're threatening not to come...
joe		What?
sally		They can't find a sitter...  It's Skye Davidson.  She needs directions to the house.  You invited Skye fucking Davidson to our anniversary party?
joe		Okay.  I'm sorry, look, I meant to tell you.  It was the only chance I had to meet her.
sally		You invited her to our anniversary party? I didn't even invite my mother.
joe		She goes on location tomorrow.  Sally, I'm sorry.  Look, I can't keep her on hold.
sally		 No, no of course not.  It's Skye fucking Davidson, for fuck's sake.
joe		 You want me to uninvite her?
sally		No, no of course not.  How old is she? Twenty-fucking-two?
joe		 You read the book again?  Well, no, the ending to chapter six...it's just that it's not filmic. We tried it in an earlier draft, but, it just wasn't filmic... Well, sure, we can absolutely look at that again.  If you're coming from Laurel, you want to take Sunset west, we're just past Will Rogers State Park.  Three blocks west of that, you want to hang right.  It's about three quarters of a mile up a big white thing on the left.
sally		 I'm going to throw up.
sally		 Really?
joe		Who the fuck can be here at this time? It's not even seven!
sally		Oh Jesus, who else is always early for Christ's sake?
joe		I'll say as little as possible.
sally		I love you.
judy		I know we're early, we're so early. Sorry.
jerry		You have to sign your taxes anyway.
sally		 We have to sign our taxes.
joe		 You can never be too early or too thin.
jerry		Happy anniversary, buddy!  Six months ago, who would have thunk it?
joe		 Well, not me, to be honest.
jerry		 Don't fuck up again.  It's got a ripple effect.  Sally suffers, we all suffer.
judy		 We have a gift?
joe		Thanks, I'll take that.  Champagne?
judy		Lovely.
jerry		 We closed.
sally		Fantastic.  Out here.
judy		 The house looks beautiful, are those hydrangeas?
jerry		Joe officially owns No. 4, Cheyenne Walk, Chelsea, London, England.  No small doing.
sally		I love you, you're a genius.
jerry		I suppose.  Sally, that's quite a gift. I'm not sure it's in your best interest.
sally		I adore him.
jerry		The realtor'll be here tomorrow in the morning.  The house had to go on the market to insure the loan on the London flat.
sally		I know.  I know that.  Don't spoil it.
jerry		What you earn has to double in order to cover expenses in London, it's an outrageously expensive city.
sally		We've only been over this how many times?
jerry		You only made half your quote this year.
sally		Well, you're a tower of support.
jerry		I worry because you don't.  It's my job. I'm feeling guilty.  I would've liked it if you waited until the two of you were on more solid ground.
sally		 We couldn't be on more solid ground.
jerry		Whatever you say.  Listen, I love you.
sally		 And Joe's huge in Europe.  He's like a rock star in London.  His novels sell millions.
jerry		Not millions.
sally		He's directing now.
jerry		They're paying him scale.
sally		He gets huge advances on his novels. He's going back to that.  You know how he hates it here.
jerry		There's still time to undo this.
sally		 We'll be fine.
jerry		 Did you invite them?
sally		The Roses?  And of course they said yes.
jerry		That was the plan.  And you're thrilled to have them.
sally		Whatever you say.
jerry		Did you tell Joe to behave?
sally		Yes.
jerry		Did he promise?
sally		Scout's honor.
jerry		Before I forget.  Put it on the bookshelf.
sally		You're out of your mind.
jerry		Just do what I say, alright?
sally		How much bowing and scraping do you want us to do?
jerry		Beats a lawsuit.
joe		 I love gifts.  What did you guys get us?
judy		 Nothing that can't be exchanged.
joe		Oh.  Well.  Good.
judy		Congratulations on the deal.  How exciting.  Is Sally doing Sally?  I mean it's Sally.  The character that's based on Sally.  The character that's based on Sally in the book.
joe		The novel.  No, Skye Davidson is playing the lead.
judy		Oh my God, I'm a huge Skye Davidson fan. She's very beautiful.
joe		Yes, she is.
judy		 But I am right, yes?  She's based on Sally.
joe		It's a novel.
judy		Still.  Well.  Let's drop it.
joe		Yes.
judy		I'm not much of a reader, but I do love autobiographies, even biographies sometimes.  Mostly non-fiction.  Did you read the new Styron?
joe		No.
judy		It's very good.  I understand you won the Booker Prize.
joe		Yes I did.
judy		 Is your script much like the novel? Jerry says it's very good.  But you know, you read the novel, and then you see the movie - and most of the time you say, "what's this?" You know?  I sometimes think we're better off not reading the novel at all.  Because, we come with expectations... and of course, we know where we're going.  Don't you find?
joe		Don't I find what?
judy		I don't know why Joe, we've known each other how long...
joe		Not long.
judy		 Don't be silly.
joe		Joking.
judy		Yes I know.  I started to say... I started to say Joe that --
joe		Do I put you off?
judy		You manage to throw me off balance.  I adore you.
joe		And I you.
judy		But I'm always afraid I'll say something stupid.
joe		Ah.
judy		And so I always manage to, do you see? Like the book/script thing, do you see?
joe		Mmm hmmm.
sally		You know Jerry.
cal		Yes, of course.
sophia		I'm the wife.  We've met.
jerry		 You, I know.
sally		 Hey, beautiful girl.
sophia		 Jack?  Jack, you promised.
jack		 Happy anniversary to you.  We're glad Joe came home.  Don't split up again.  Cause we like the food.
joe		 Jack.  Did you compose that yourself?
cal		Absolutely.
joe		Had a little help?
cal		Absolutely not.
joe		It has your ring.
cal		I'm not that good.
jerry		Cal, my wife Judy.
judy		Nice to meet you.
cal		I think we've met, actually.  No?  At another one of these things?
judy		No, I don't think so.
jerry		 Congratulations on the Academy Award. Great performance.  Really warranted.
sophia		He thought so.
jerry		Sally always manages to get robbed.
sally		 Enough about me.
sophia		Evie has a little something for you.
evie		 I don't think so.
sally		Since when are you so shy?
evie		 Never.
sophia		 Honey, we have gifts for you and all sorts of surprises.  Where is America?  I know she's here somewhere.
joe		I'll take them.
sophia		No, I have a little talking to do with America.  Privately.  I'll find her.
sally		 In the kitchen.
joe		Who'd like to go and find Otis?
evie		Me!
jack		I guess.
judy		The infamous dog?
joe		He's the best dog in the world.  They're both coming tonight.  Not my idea.
judy		Ours.
joe		It's Jerry's worst idea.
cal		What's that?
joe		The neighbors from hell.  The kind that lay in wait.  I'd rather move actually. Wouldn't I?  Wouldn't I?
sally		 Yes.
joe		 Okay.  Last one to find Otis is a smelly old bum.
joe		Well, hello you two.  These are the people who live next door. Say hello.
jack		Uh, uh.
joe		He'll run next door into their backyard and he'll bark and bark and bark and eat their pitbull for his dinner.  Is it a pitbull?
ryan		 No, actually.
joe		 Oh whatever.  We don't want that to happen, do we?
jack		No?
ryan		It's a rottweiler, actually.  I don't think our rottweiler is in any danger, Jack.
joe		Well, Jack and I are very relieved.
ryan		I thought this was a party.  Are we going to talk about the dog thing?
monica		Please, Ryan.
joe		 No, he's absolutely right.  You're absolutely right, Ryan.  Dog talk must be banned.  Canine conversations are completely discouraged... it's really good of you to join us.  Can I get you a drink?
ryan		Not for me, thanks.
monica		 Something soft.
joe		Right away.  Are you sure you wouldn't like something soft, Ryan?
ryan		I'm sure, yes.
sally		Hi.  Monica and Ryan?
monica		Sally?
sally		Yes.  And you've met Joe.
ryan		Yes.
sally		 Well, so glad you decided to come.
monica		We could hardly say no.
sally		Oh?
ryan		At 4:30 today he barked for a solid fifteen minutes.  I have it on tape.
sally		You're keeping a record, are you?
ryan		It's just very distracting when you're trying to work.
monica		Ryan.
ryan		 I'm sure you understand.
sally		Well the neighborhood is full of dogs, and it's not always Otis.
ryan		Well today it was Otis.  And you should keep him away from our yard.  Because Sheila will defend herself.
monica		Ryan!
sally		 Are you working on a new book?
ryan		 Well, yes, actually.
monica		He always has two or three going...
sally		Really?  Joe can't manage more than one at a time.  With huge gaps in between.
mac		You lose this?
joe		 Ah there's our snookums now.
ryan		Yes, well, but I haven't won a Booker either.  Or the Whitebread.
mac		The gate was open.
sally		Well, not yet.  The gate was open?
joe		It's taken care of.
monica		I think Ryan needs a new publisher.  I think he's outgrown him.  They're just not doing their job.
sally		Hors d'oeuvres or something?
monica		Yes, great!  It's a beautiful house.
sally		Thank you.  I understand you're an interior decorator.
monica		Yes.
sally		I so wish I'd known.
monica		Well, whoever did this is amazing.
sally		I did it.
joe		 Otis is home.
clair		 Where can I put these?
sally		Of course.
mac		She already has.
clair		It's alright, isn't it?
sally		Of course it's alright.
mac		Clair is a hovering mother.
clair		I'm not.
sally		This is Monica and Ryan.  Mac and Clair.
clair		 So nice...
monica		And for us... Truly.
clair		Well...
monica		You will never know.
clair		 I have a four-thirty call.  AM.  So we may have to leave early.
sally		Why didn't you bring him?
clair		What?
sally		Why didn't you bring him?
clair		 He's allergic.
sally		Oh.
clair		To dander.  Otis.
sally		Oh.
clair		Didn't I say?
sally		Well, probably.
clair		They can tell from the eyelashes, you know?  He's got eyelashes yay long.  They must be a foot long.  The older you are when you have a baby, the more likely this stuff is to crop up.
sally		 Oh.
clair		So they tell me.  Not soon enough, of course.  How are you, Sal?  You look fantastic. It changes your life, you know.  A baby. It puts everything in perspective, doesn't it.  Doesn't it, Mac?  You can't be the center of your own world, anymore.
mac		 Wow!  Look who's here before me!  My leading man is on time for once.
cal		 Those who can't direct.
mac		Fuck you.
cal		Are those our dailies?  You're totally outrageous.  It's their anniversary.  Is nothing sacred!  Well...so...how am I?
mac		 Oh man, you are so fucking funny in the kitchen scene.
cal		I liked the third take, the accidental disaster with the silverware.
mac		Nothing you do is accidental...
gina		 I'm the hired help.
joe		 Fuck you.
gina		I never put myself in harm's way.
joe		Anymore.
gina		No, not anymore.  Happy anniversary, scout.
sophia		Oh my God!  America told me your neighbors are coming?
sally		And here they are!
sophia		And she was saying how happy you were to finally have them over.  Because you're both, so, what - introspective?  And you should have done it ages ago.  I'm Sophia Gold.  Come meet my husband, Cal.
monica		Cal Gold?
sophia		The very one.  And you are...
sally		Monica and Ryan.
ryan		Rose.
sophia		Sorry?
ryan		Ryan Rose.
sophia		Yes.
sally		He's a novelist.
sophia		Ah.
sally		Like Joe.
sophia		Hmm.  Where are my kids?
sally		In the guest room.  I've laid out a paint table for them.
sophia		I hope they're watercolors!
sally		Nevermind.
sophia		 Would you like to meet my husband?
monica		I'd be thrilled.
sophia		Then he'll be thrilled.
joe		 She's such pure evil.
sally		Thanks for coming.
gina		Happy anniversary.  You're a good match, you two.  Can you help me with this stuff?
joe		 That for us?
gina		What a nose.  You missed your calling.
joe		Can I open it?
gina		 Sally?
joe		Please?
sally		He's impossible.  Go on then.
joe		I love you,  Gina Taylor.
sophia		You look so well, Clair.  A wraith.
clair		 You think so!?  I've been working out a lot since the baby. And I've been working.  And that takes it's toll, you know.
sophia		I'm glad that's all over for me.
clair		Don't you miss it?
sophia		Never.
clair		Really.
sophia		Not for a second.  Cal can have all that.
clair		Really?
sophia		So where is young Jonah?
clair		With a sitter.  We have a sensational sitter.  Jonah's really comfortable with her.  You know, a second mom sort of. Like part of the family.  Amazing with kids.
sophia		What is that thing?
clair		So this sitter can always reach me.  I'm still not used to leaving him.
sophia		You should have brought him.
clair		 Dander.  He's allergic.  Otis.
sophia		Oh.  Do you have any pictures?
clair		Pictures.  They're always in my tote.  I left my tote in the damn trailer.  But! He's Mac all over again.  Imagine Mac shrunk to two-and-a-half feet.  The fact is they probably didn't even need me for this birth.
sophia		Are you the funniest person I know, or what?
clair		I can't think how you gave it all up, Soph.
clair		It sounds hysterical, but Otis just rubbed up against me and I'd kind of like to change into something of yours.  You know it could be disaster.  He's so allergic.  It's terrifying.
sally		Borrow whatever you like.
clair		I'll change back before we leave.
sally		 Are you alright, Clair?
clair		I'm fine.  I'm fine.  Well, I'm a little stressed.  And I've been taking pills to get my weight down since the baby.
sally		I'd say it was down.
clair		And the doctor said they might make me a little jumpy.  I've got a ghastly headache, actually.
sally		You want a Tylenol, or something?
clair		I'd love a Xanex.  Sally, please don't tell Sophia that I'm not breast feeding.
sally		Why would she care?
clair		You know Sophia.  She's so damned judgemental.  And she's so damned... perfect.  And so fucking... serene.  Just fucking don't tell her.  Because you know Mac thinks she's God.  And I can feel him comparing.
sally		You need to knock off the pills, Clair.
clair		Just don't fucking tell her.
sally		It's not going to come up.
joe		 Panes!  How are you?
panes		Oh, you know, I am.
joe		Has she called?
panes		She'll never call again.  She called last week to tell me she'll never call again. Where's Sally?
panes		It's a machine gun.  I thought I'd kill myself.
sally		Are you lovesick?
panes		Suicidal.  It's much less codependent.
sally		Will champagne help?
panes		Not enough.
sally		Panes is here!
panes		 Oh great.
everyone		Panes!
skye		Hi.
joe		 Skye!
skye		You're Joe, aren't you?  I recognized you from the book jacket.
joe		How do you do, Skye?
skye		Oh, I love that.  I'm just great.  I'm so happy to be here. And I apologize for invading you.  And I'm so happy you asked me to.  I'm so touched.  I know how private you and Sally are.
joe		 Yeah, well, it's just us and a few hundred of our closest friends.
skye		 When I read your work I felt that you knew me.  Women must tell you that.  And this one in particular speaks to me, do you know?  I am Genna.  How many women must tell you that.  And the script is wonderful.  Wonderful and lean and visual...
joe		I'm so happy you like it.  I'm so relieved you said yes, and I'm really, um, what, thrilled, yes actually, to finally meet you.
skye		You're going to be a remarkable director, a brilliant director.
joe		 I think you're my first Goddess.
panes		She's even better looking in the flesh.
sally		Really?  I need a drink.  Come hide with me.
sally		Oh, Jesus, Panes.  I can't, I can't believe that bitch is in my house.
panes		You don't know she's a bitch.
sally		She's all over him, are you blind?
panes		It could be worse.
sally		How?
panes		She could be playing the role in Joe's movie that should be yours.
sally		Fuck you, Panes.
panes		You see, that's worse.
sally		I just wanted tonight to be with the people we love.
panes		Like your business managers?
sally		They're not just our business managers, Panes.
panes		Oh, okay, forgive me.  Your neighbors are here, for fuck's sake.
sally		Exactly what I mean.  It's all ruined.
panes		It's not ruined, for fuck's sake.  It's one of your parties.
sally		I don't want it to be just one of our parties.
panes		"How are you really doing, Panes?" "Lousy, thank you, I'm falling apart."
sally		Like the last time.
panes		No.  No, not like the last time.  She was the rest of my life.
sally		Like the last time.
panes		I wasn't finished.
sally		Okay.
panes		"We can't stand seeing you like this, Panes.  I hate you being alone.  Why don't you stay with us for a while?" "I'd love to, thanks."
sally		It's our anniversary, Panes.
panes		I didn't hear me say tonight.
sally		We're just feeling our way back.
panes		"Otherwise, we'd insist on your being here."
sally		You know it's true.
skye		 Oh my God, sorry.  I'm interrupting.
sally		I'll be right out.
panes		 Come on in.
skye		I'm in the same room with Sally Nash.  Oh my God.  You're my icon.  I've been watching your films since I was a little girl.  Like, four years ago I followed you all around the Beverly Center - at least half a day, working up the courage to introduce myself.
sally		I don't think I ever spent half a day in the Beverly Center.
skye		Whatever, do you remember?  I've seen all your movies.  When I was in rehab, the second time, they wouldn't even let us see your drug addict movie.  They said you were too real.  I worship you.  And I couldn't be more flattered, because I know the part I'm playing in Joe's movie is based on you as a young woman.
panes		Not at all.
skye		Oh my god.  I've been so rude.  I'm Skye Davidson.  Has anyone ever told you, you look like Peter Sellers?
panes		No, never.
sally		 Everyday.
panes		I'm Levi Panes.  Will you excuse us, Skye?  It's time for Sally's meds.
sally		It's nice to meet you... again.
skye		 Oh my God, she remembers me!
sally		 Thank you, thank you, thank you.
clair		 My God, your wardrobe is incredible.  It took me forever to decide.  Oh, and I found Dr. X, thank you.  You saved my life.
sally		 Shit!
panes		 I'd cut off her red wine if I were you.
sally		Shit.  It's my Galiano.
panes		What does that mean?
sally		About five thousand dollars.  With my discount.
gina		 Directing suits you.
joe		I'm not so sure.  Look again in three months.
gina		It must be nice having so many strangers kiss your ass all of a sudden.
joe		Ow!  Gina, you obviously need to get fucked.
gina		Just did.  Jealous?
joe		When does he graduate high school?
gina		 Oh, very jealous.
joe		Shit, I forgot to call her back.  She's off on a trip somewhere.  Oh God, my grandad's flat in London's been sold.
gina		In Cheyene Walk?  Lucy's going to have a meltdown.  Oh, I'm so sorry.
joe		I should have damn well bought it.  Well, we can't afford it.  The movie's going to eat up a year of my life and I'm getting paid next to nothing.  Do you know how much Skye Davidson's getting?  Four million.
gina		Yeah, but I hear she gives a mean blow job.
joe		You really need to be fucked.
sally		So how are you really doing, Panes?
panes		Why don't you go fuck yourself?
sally		 No.  Really.  For real.  Really.
panes		I'm worried about your Galiano.
sally		 You're a shit.
panes		No, really, five thousand with your discount.
sally		Yes.  Fine.
panes		That's it?  Yes.  Fine?
sally		I don't want to talk about it.
panes		Why not?
sally		I never like to talk about my work.
panes		Alright.  Well, that's something new.
sally		No.  Not something new.
panes		Well, something's wrong.
sally		Nothing's wrong.  It's great, okay? Having the time of my life.  Mac's a fantastic director.  And what can anyone say about Cal that hasn't been said.  And it's great working with friends, blah blah blah.
panes		 Um.  Happy for you.
sally		Thanks.
panes		So tell me, how's it going?
sally		Oh you know.  No doubts.  No second thoughts.  Am I a monster?
panes		You're my best friend.
sally		That's not an answer, is it?
panes		Yes, you're a monster.
sally		 Thank you, Panes.
panes		You don't need to thank me.
sally		 We're going to have to go back out there.
panes		I guess.
jeffrey		Let me.  I'm Jeffrey.
monica		Monica.
jeffrey		And you know our friends, how?
monica		We live next door.
jeffrey		Oh.  You're them.
monica		Excuse me?
jeffrey		We've heard lots about you.
monica		 You have?
judy		 Hi.
ryan		Hi.  A little close in there.
judy		Yup.
monica		Your Eames table is incredible.  And the B&B.  I just put that in a client's home, actually, but in red.
joe		You're an interior decorator, right?
monica		 Sally did all this herself?
joe		In fits and starts -- and then, later, of course, she had to accommodate me.  So things shifted a little bit then, became more eclectic.  And it keeps changing.
monica		 Mmm.  It says something about the two of you maybe.
joe		Yeah, we're in a constant state of flux.  I see you've moved up from the soft stuff.
monica		Oh, yes.  You know Ryan's been sober eight years.  And it's difficult if I... you know.  It's better if I don't.
joe		Uh-huh.
monica		I'm a little nervous, so...
joe		Oh.
monica		A little out of my element.
joe		No you're not.
monica		Well, yes.  Yes, in fact.  A little on the outside, yes.  And there's been all this friction.
joe		Hm.
monica		I don't know why, but these misunderstandings have a way of escalating.
joe		Very well put.
monica		I think a lot of this could have been avoided if Sally made more of an effort.
joe		What?
monica		But you're very private people.  You know, there's a kind of elitism...
joe		 Elitism?
monica		The wrong word, maybe.  Delete that. And, you know, the dog barks incessantly.
joe		And you know, he really does not.
monica		And Ryan works at home.
joe		And your phone calls are nasty and abusive.  And I've come this close to suing you for harassment.  And you're only here because we're supposed to be sucking up to you.
monica		Well, that's what Ryan thought.  I was more generous, actually.
joe		Oh shit.  I'm sorry.  I'm a total fucking maniac.  Delete all that, okay?  I spoke for myself, this needn't rub off on my wife.  Oh shit.  I get pissy sometimes. Much worse than Otis.  Otis doesn't bite. It's just, I really love my dog and he doesn't really bark a lot. We live in a canyon.  We hear dogs barking at night, too.  And it's not Otis.
monica		Alright.
joe		Easy tiger.
monica		Alright.  Please don't tell Ryan I'm drinking.
joe		Scout's honor.
monica		 I'll be your best friend.
joe		We're way past inappropriate.
monica		 I'll treasure this.
joe		I need to leave you now.
monica		I will treasure this.
joe		 Sally!!!!
sally		Panes?
panes		From Jewish Folk Poetry, a song cycle...
mac		What?
sally		Trust him.
panes		It's Shostakovich.
sally		Sandy...
sanford		The Wind Up Bird Chronicle.
sally		 Ryan?
ryan		 I didn't know you had this.
sally		Oh.  Well, yes.  It's extraordinary.  You think you could sign it for us?
ryan		Absolutely.  You always wonder where your books end up.  Why don't we use it?
judy		Good idea.
ryan		There's not a chance in hell anyone will get it...
mac		Down by Law.
sophia		Who's not going to get that in fifteen seconds.
joe		Can we... one at a time?  Hold it down, and one at a time.  You're last, Cal.
cal		Why last?
monica		The Katzenjammer Kids.
joe		Alright.  Good.  Fine, I vote for that.
monica		With a "Z."  K. A. T. Z.
gina		When the Pawn Hits the Conflicts He Thinks Like a King What He Knows...
skye		Utopia Parkway...
joe		Who's keeping time?
sally		 It's alright.  Be our guests.
joe		 You darling.
panes		 What is it?
joe		Come on, Panes...
jerry		Go!
jeffrey		What the hell is that?
sally		What is it Panes?
sophia		Two words.
judy		Funny.
sanford		Funnies?
ryan		The Katzenjammer Kids.
jerry		 It's only just started.  Great.  The husband's on the other fucking team.
mac		Go.
jerry		Hey!  Would you?
mac		It was fifteen seconds.
jerry		I don't think so.
mac		Are you always this much fun?
sally		 Take your time, Jer.
jerry		I'm ready.
cal		Song.
gina		Cycle.
cal		Two words.  Second word.
team		Think.  Pain.
cal		 Ponder.
jerry		Come on, folks.
cal		First word.
team		To, the, but, or...
mac		Thirty seconds.
joe		Jer.  Over here.  Over here.
team		Second word.
skye		 From Jewish Folk Poetry.
jerry		Time.  Hey!  Time.  Judy!  Time you guys. Hey!!
judy		 Ya Vhol.  What are you, a fucking Nazi?
jerry		Well it's fucking time.
mac		Time.
sally's team		 Quote.  Play.
sophia		Oh shit.  It's one of Cal's.  Obscure Shakespeare, folks.
sally's team		 Ten...twenty...thirty...seven, eight. Thirty-eighth word...thirty-seventh word.
sally		 I didn't say a word.
mac		Time!
jerry		What was it?  What the fuck was it?
sally		 Ryan's novel.
jerry		Ryan's novel?
judy		Ryan's novel, Jerry.
america		 Dinner!
sally		Still champions.
joe		Panes is not on your team anymore.
panes		What did I do?
sally		Panes is not on my team anymore.  I'll have Panes if I like.
america		Dinner.
sally		Dinner.
joe		It's an unfair advantage.
sally		You've got Cal.  You've got Gina.  You've got Skye?  We're the leftovers.
joe		Okay, knock it off.
sally		Truce?
joe		Truce.
sally		Dinner.  Don't be angry.
joe		 I'm not fucking angry, for God's sake.
astrid		 So who won?
sally		 A triumph.  When did you get here?
astrid		Ten, fifteen minutes ago.
sally		Why didn't you come in?
astrid		I hate the sight of blood.  You guys don't take prisoners.
skye		 Oh how sweet.
astrid		She's insanely jealous.
clair		That's revolting, Astrid.
panes		Is there space here?
skye		Yes.
panes		Do you need anything else?
skye		No, no thanks.
panes		 I was impressed.
skye		Oh?
panes		The charades.
skye		Thank you.
panes		That was my clue.
skye		Oh?
panes		The Shostakovich.
skye		Really??
panes		 Oh yes, indeed.  That was my clue, you see.
joe		I hate the idea of some one else living in it.
joe		The dumb waiter was our...
gina		Escape hatch.
joe		 Escape hatch.  And Dad was having a go about the garden.  Something was misplanted...
sally		Not properly watered.
joe		Whatever!  You know how he gets.  Well, he went absolutely bonkers.  Lucy and I were frantically trying to scramble into the dumb waiter and I didn't fit any more. It was almost fatal.  And that, my dear friends, is the day...
gina		You're not a man, Joe.  You're a boy.
joe		 So?
gina		 I love you, Joe Therrian.
sally		 Me too.
astrid		You're not upset that I brought the dog?
sally		Would it make a difference?
astrid		Anouk isn't like a dog, really.  More like a small person.  So is there anyone here for me?  No one looks new.  Who's that?
sally		You don't want that.  It's married and it's the neighbor.
astrid		Oh I think he's cute.  How's the marriage part working out?
sally		You're fucking desperate.
astrid		Like you didn't know.  Who invited the bimbo?
sally		One guess.
sophia		 Part of our gift.  Honey!!
cal		 Here, here.
skye		I wasn't prepared to say anything.  I'm honored to be a part of tonight.  To be in the same room, with my favorite living actress...
sam		 Still living.
skye		And my favorite novelist.  And all their amazing --
sam		 And talented.
skye		Friends.  And talented friends.  This room is so filled with love..
astrid		 And the winner is...
panes		Let the woman speak.
skye		And I brought a gift of love.  A gift that is love.
sally		 What are they?
joe		 Dolphins.  Great.
sally		It's ecstasy, Sal.
skye		I think there are sixteen there.
joe		 This is an amazing present.  What a sweetheart you are.
sally		 What a sweetheart you are.
astrid		 You sleepy baby?
joe		I think we should all take it tonight. Everyone's staying, stays.  No driving. That's the rule.  I love you Sally-Mae. You're going to have a fabulous time.
sally		I'm worried about my spine.  I'm very worried about my brain and my spine.
sophia		 Oh honey, you're gonna love it.
joe		 Sophia's going to do it, Panes is going to do it, trust me.
cal		 America, America God shed his light on me.
monica		 I want to try it, Ryan.
monica		I love it here.  Don't you love it here, Ryan?  I love it here.  And I love tonight.  And I love these people.  And this feels utterly fantastic, Ryan.  Utterly fantastic.
ryan		You know what Sally Therrian was saying about your spine and your brain?  She didn't pull that out of thin air.  It causes brain damage.  You'd better drink a lot of water.
monica		Do you want to go home, Ryan?
ryan		Yes.
monica		I think you should then.  You should look in on Sheila.
ryan		I'm not going to leave you alone.
monica		They're really nice people, Ryan. They're like us...
ryan		They're nothing like us.
monica		I think you need to speak for yourself, Ryan.  But I think you're really nice people...
ryan		Are you making an ass of yourself?
monica		There's only you, Ryan.  You know what, Ryan?  You're beautiful.  I love you so much... You need...
ryan		I don't need a drug.
monica		You need a good review and you'll be fine.  The whole color of the world will change, mark my words.
ryan		Ready to go?
monica		I'm going to go get my swimsuit.  I do know, Ryan, this is non addictive so you mustn't worry.  Ryan, you're a great man.
clair		This water is great!
jerry		 Wanna dive for a baton?
judy		Okay, I'm about to throw five colored batons in the water.  Then I'm going to count to three, and then you may start diving.  I'm playing too.  The red one is ten extra points.  Ready?  One, two, three, go!!
mac		You got your DP?
joe		What?  Oh yeah, the camera man?  They gave me a list.
mac		And you got Skye Davidson.  Pretty big leagues for a first timer.  Do you even like movies?
joe		Not particularly.  Weird, isn't it?  God I'm rally up.  Do you feel anything yet, Mac?
mac		Kind of.  Hey, look - John Seale, Oliver Stapelton, Darius Khonji - they're friends.  And great DP's I could give them a call for you.
joe		Thanks, Mac.  I really love you, you know.
mac		Hey, I'm happy for you, buddy.  Anything I can do.
joe		 How's your film going?
cal		It's going.  It's going.
joe		And how's the diva doing?
mac		Well, you know...good days, bad days.
joe		I meant Sally.
mac		I meant Sally.
joe		 Oh.  You're serious.
mac		 Let me tell you something.  Directing's the best preparation possible for fatherhood.  The sleep depravation alone.
joe		Oh don't.  Everyone says that.
sally		 Isn't this a fabulous picture?
sophia		Yes.
sally		She's such a great photographer.
sophia		Hm.
sally		So where should I put it?
sophia		I thought it was okay where it was.
sally		It's much more personal in here.
sophia		A notch above the storage room.
sally		We're always in here.  She really gets him, doesn't she?
sophia		The both of you.
sally		But she really gets to the heart of Joe, doesn't she?  She's a genius.
sophia		So how much do you hate her?
sally		Big time.
sophia		Well, I don't trust her.  I never have.
sally		She took our wedding photos, for chrissakes.  You don't trust anyone.
sophia		 I trust you.
sally		Oh Soph...
sophia		You'll hate it in London.  It's wet and miserable.  A medical hellhole Sally. It's socialized.  Beds in the corridors. Terrible plumbing.
sally		And the food sucks, I know.
sophia		You are not having your baby in London. You're going to have your baby at Cedars in Beverly Hills, America, delivered by Dr. Milton Cohen.  Period. And you're getting that epidural right away, don't let anyone talk you into any of that Lamase bullshit.  There's no excuse for pain like that.
sally		Sophia!  I'm not even pregnant!
sophia		Well good.  Thank God.
sally		Let's go in the kitchen and spy on everyone.
sophia		Oh honey, let's.
sally		 What do you mean, thank God?
sophia		Well, are you sure about this baby thing? It's not the ticking clock shit, is it?
sally		No, no, not at all... I mean I've still got plenty of time.  Don't I?  I mean I still have a good six years, whatever. We could have three kids yet, if we wanted.  And I know I've always said I never wanted kids, and I didn't... but this year, I really, truly, feel ready...
sophia		Honey, I'm not worried about you.  You are going to be a fantastic mom.  Not an issue.  I pressed you, remember?  Joe, on the other hand, is a different story.
sally		 Oh Soph, Joe loves kids.  Joe wants kids. Joe thinks he needs kids.
sophia		He wants playmates.  Oh he's a sweetheart, Sal, you know I love him. But he's not going to be a good father. He's just not parenting material.
sally		Hey, let's sit down.  I bet the rug feels really nice against your skin.
sophia		Don't try and change the subject.  Oh God, it feels great!  He's just a little narcissistic, irresponsible and unreliable.
sally		And Cal's this massive adult?
sophia		Cal knows who he is.  Did you notice how happy Joe was when the drugs came out tonight?
sally		You weren't exactly horrified.
sophia		 I don't have a drug problem.
sally		Neither does Joe.
sophia		His sister does.  Big time.  And the New York Times says addiction is genetic -- I'll e-mail you the article.
sally		 We're fine.  We're great.  We're having a baby and we're moving to London.
sophia		 Well, you weren't fine last summer when you went Sylvia Plath on me in Connecticut.
sally		Not nice.  Not kind.
sophia		Ha!  Not half so not kind as your husband was in his portrayal of you in his novel.
sally		Why are you doing this?
sophia		His image of you is a possessive, fragile neurotic.
sally		 But I am a possessive, fragile neurotic.
sophia		 No you are not.  You're Sally Nash. Listen to me, you're Sally Nash.  You're my best friend and I love you more than anyone, and you're not going to move to London to have the offspring of a sexually ambivalent man-child.  "Oh now I'm a novelist, oh now I'm a director..." English prick bastard Joe Therrian who's probably going to leave you for Skye Davidson anyway.
joe		Isn't Skye amazing?
cal		She's got great tits.
joe		She's a constant surprise.
cal		And you've only just met.
joe		Yeah, I know... But she's only twenty seven and...  The wisdom.  She's an old soul.  She knew that Shostakovich thing.  Did you notice?
cal		Absolutely.  And she's got great tits.
joe		Yeah, God she really does have great tits, great tits.  i can't wait to work with her.
cal		The camera loves her.  A great actress.
joe		With great tits.  I'm going to ask her if I can touch them.
clair		Has anyone seen Mac?
joe		 I saw him wandering over there, I think. How're you feeling, Clair?
clair		I'm so good.
cal		Poor Mac.  It's been a bit of a struggle. I'm sure Sally's told you.
joe		No, what?
cal		The movie.
joe		Oh, she's really enjoying it.  I think. Is Mac okay?
cal		I don't know what's going on.  I don't care to guess.  Mac's really unhappy. She isn't there, that's all.  She's no idea what she's playing, not a clue.
joe		Who, Sally?
cal		And, you know it isn't rocket science, this script.  She can barely get the lines out.  There was a scene last week - she sobbed, through every take.  I know crying's easy for her but it's a fucking comedy, Joe.  Something's gone.  You know, that thing that was Sally - that always surprised you.  It's gone.  I think she's scared.  And that's death.
joe		I still think she sails above the rest. I mean not like her early films.  But those were all such great directors.
cal		Mac's a pretty great director, Joe.  He's a woman's director.  And nothing's happening.  Course he won't fire her, because of the friendship... But it was discussed.  He had to battle his studio to get her in the first place.
joe		What?
cal		Hey, listen, I love her.  She's Sophia's best friend.  Make sure she gets the epidural.  Forget that natural childbirth shit. Everything's going to be what it's supposed to be.  "Life is but a walking shadow.  A poor player who struts and frets his hour upon the stage and then is heard no more..." And speaking of me, the role of Leo in your film?
joe		 Leo?
cal		Any thoughts on casting yet?
joe		 Leo?  It was out to Jude Law.  Jude passed.
cal		Well, I can't make any promises, and of course I haven't read the script but I loved the novel...when are you shooting?
joe		October-ish.
cal		I have a small window of time.
joe		Leo.  Leo's twenty-eight, Cal.
cal		Scratch the two, write in a four.
joe		Scratch the two, write in a four.
cal		You've got a lot of fucking gall.  Thirty nine.
joe		Five years ago, I was at the party, remember?
mac		 No, it's not... Fuck fuck fuck fuck.
sally		 Well...wow...
clair		Mac?  Oh there you are.  What are you doing, honey?  No more work.  Don't you feel breezy.
mac		I'm in mourning.
clair		You can cut around it, whatever it is. You always do.
mac		Not this time.
clair		It's always not this time.  If you can do it around me, you can do it around anyone.
mac		 You don't have any clothes on.
clair		How nice for everybody.  Come swimming. The water's glorious.  You'll fix it.  You'll come up with one of your brilliant ideas.
mac		Or I won't.  I can't help her.  I'm out of my depth.
clair		Things always look much worse in the morning.
mac		I don't know how to make her funny.
clair		You're coming swimming in the pool, and in a few minutes you won't even remember what it's about.  You won't care who's in your damn movie.
mac		 What what's about?
clair		I...wait, what are you talking about?
joe		Are you okay?
monica		I don't think so.  I feel.  I feel a bit funny.
joe		Let's go for a walk.
monica		I've never done this before.
joe		Oh?  It's easy.  You just put one foot in front of the other... That's a good girl.
monica		I'm a little in the puke zone.
joe		 Would you like a lolly?
monica		What am I, five?
joe		You're never too old for a lolly.  I'm having one.
monica		 Okay.
joe		Lemon or raspberry?
monica		Lemon.
joe		Lemon it is.
monica		 Ryan's really angry with me.
joe		I think he's really angry with me too.
monica		 He was really nicer when he drank.
joe		I'm sorry.
monica		Eight years, though.  That's quite an accomplishment.
joe		That's a lot of those.
monica		Medallions.
joe		A lot of cakes.
monica		Yes.
joe		And he doesn't smoke?
monica		He has to find non-smoker's meetings that used to be almost impossible, you know? It's gotten much better.
joe		How long have you been married?
monica		Nine...nine, yes?  Nine years, just about.
joe		You must have been a baby.
monica		Oh yes.  Nineteen...just.  I'm cold.
joe		Come here.
monica		 That's very nice.
joe		I like you.
monica		I'm so glad.  You know, I recognize that passage in your book.  The bit about us running into each other in the movie theatre.
joe		Sorry?
monica		I know you changed it to a bookstore. And the color of my hair.  But the moment was exactly the same.  The same, you know, dynamic.  And almost verbatim, wasn't it?
joe		 No, nothing at all.
monica		I think it's great that I made an impression at all, you know.
joe		Oh for fuck's sake.  Nobody uses that gate.
monica		 I'm sorry.
sally		 There's a goddamn sign on the gate.
monica		I'm so sorry.
sally		You fucking cow, can't you read?!
monica		 I...
sally		How long ago was it?
joe		Stop being such a bitch, Sal.
monica		I'm so sorry.
joe		It was a mistake.  This isn't a plot to do in Otis.
sally		Don't be so sure.
joe		Listen to yourself...  What's wrong with you?
sally		 She left the fucking gate open.
joe		Well he can't have gone far.
sally		Can't have gone far?  He's like a greyhound.  He could be miles away.
joe		He'll find his way back.
sally		There are fucking coyotes out there.
joe		 Sally, calm down.  We're not going to find him any quicker by you being hysterical.
sally		Fuck you.
joe		Or shitty!!  Otis!!
ryan		How long have you worked for the Therrians?
america		 A long time.
ryan		So you were here when they were doing the work on the boundary fence?
america		Oh yes.
ryan		Did you know the contractor?
america		Very well.
ryan		Was it a contractor?
america		It's the way they do things.
ryan		To code?
america		You should talk to Mr. Joe.
monica		Ryan, you've got to come!  You've got to help me find the dog!  I let their dog out.  We need to find the dog.
ryan		You're not serious.
monica		I left the gate open and Otis got out! He could get hit by a car!
ryan		God willing.
monica		We have to find the dog, Ryan.
ryan		Why?
monica		 Because, God help you if something happens to that dog?
ryan		Excuse me?
monica		All the ugly phone calls?  We're not the only people with a tape recorder, Ryan.  They've gone to the canyon, we should go towards the PCH.
panes		Otis!!  Shostakovich identified with the Jew.  He felt persecuted, hunted, crushed under the thumb of Stalinist imperialism.
skye		Not to mention Andrew Zhdanov... Otis, come!!
panes		Andre Zhdanov?  How the hell do you know about Andre Zhdanov?
skye		Who doesn't know about the infamous composer's conference of 1948 where Zhdanov persecuted the leaders of Soviet Music - Shostakovich, Prokofieve, and Myaskovsky.
panes		I'll tell you who doesn't know, cute girls don't know.
skye		Do Peter Sellers again.
panes		 Otis you crazy dog!  Otis are you in this God forsaken Canyon?  My people are very hungry.
skye		I just did a movie about Bob Yar, I played Gittle, the Jewish milkmaid who gets shot in the head, and they used Shostakovich's 13th Symphony.
panes		Set to the poem of Yetveshenko!
skye		Exactly!  So I dug it, and I did a lot of research.
panes		Do you really, you really, like Shostakovich?
skye		Yeah.
panes		Would you, like, marry him?
skye		If he were still alive, maybe.
panes		How about someone who really really liked Shostakovich?
skye		 Are you asking me to marry you?
panes		No, I'm just testing to see how deeply perverted and impulsive you are.
skye		 Very.
panes		Oh good, I'm worse... Are you really twenty-two?
skye		Who told you that?  No.  I'm twenty...  Five.
sally		Otis!!!!
joe		 Otis!!!!
sally		Otis, good boy, come here.  Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god.
joe		This is a nightmare.  We should have kept him upstairs.
sally		It was done.  When Sophia put the kids to bed, America brought Otis in the room and closed the door.  It was done.
joe		Well someone clearly let him out before Monica opened the gate.
sally		Oh fuck you, and fuck Monica while you're at it.  But I guess that's what I interrupted.
joe		Jesus, Sally.  You are a medical miracle. The only person who's ever taken ecstacy and become angrier.
sally		Yeah, let's talk about that.  You seem to be rather an expert.  I don't remember in the last five months of counselling your ever mentioning ecstacy or going to rage parties.
joe		Rave parties?!  That's so typical - you would think it was called rage.  Perfect!
sally		What else don't I know about, Joe?  Let's get really clear here.
joe		Sally, so I took a few pills.  I went out dancing.  I tried to forget how upset I was about splitting up with you.  I haven't lied to you.  I told you about the people I've slept with.  I just didn't mention the few occasions I took drugs because you're so fucking judgmental I knew I'd never hear the end of it, and you have so little faith and so little trust in me.  Sally, we're back, I love you.  Trust that.  Please let's not do this.
sally		Otis!  Come!  Good boy!  Come!
joe		Otis!
sally		I'm not sure we understand that word in the same way.
joe		Love?
sally		You walked out on a five year marriage.
joe		That hasn't the first fucking thing to do with love.  It's whether we can live together... like this!  All the time.
sally		It's not like this all the time.
joe		DO I want anyone else?  No.  Do I want to be with you for the rest of my natural life?  I'm trying.
sally		And how hard it hit?
joe		Just stop right there, Sally.  We've been through this.
sally		You've been through it.  That's how you love people.  When it's easy for you, when it's convenient for you.
joe		Sally, first of all, you're talking bullshit.  And second...
sally		You want to talk about bullshit?  Lucy called you three times this week.  She's a fucking mess, Joe.  Your sister is a fucking mess.  She needs you.  I talk to her more than you do.
joe		That is not true.
sally		It is true.  You know how you love, Joe? You dedicate a book to someone.
joe		Every novel I've had published in every language I've dedicated to Lucy.
sally		Right.  And when was the last time you spoke to her?
joe		It's a novel.
sally		About me!
joe		Who the fuck do you think you are?  The part of Genna is not just about you. It's about every woman I've ever loved in my entire life.  Including my mother. The character is also clearly in her early twenties, Sally.
sally		What are you saying?
joe		Hello?  Last birthday was?
sally		I don't look my age, Joe.
joe		Sally, I have never considered you for this part because you are too old to play it.  And you are out of touch with reality if you think differently.
sally		It's a shit novel anyway.
joe		Well there you go.  I let you off the hook.  You're one goddamn lucky actress.
sally		Not really.  I mean your books have always been pop, but this is the shallowest of the bunch.  That's what all our friends think, anyway.
joe		Okay.  If we could've, by some miracle, stripped ten years off your face, still couldn't have got the thing made. Because I don't mean anything as a director, and your name doesn't mean fuck all anymore.  And the people that can hire you are afraid to, because they think you're phoning it in.  That you don't have... Oh Christ, Sally.
sally		Who?  Who?  Who thinks that?
joe		Your director and your co-star of your current movie.  Don't dish if you can't take it, Sally.
sally		Mac?  Mac says it?  Cal?
joe		Sally, for Christ's sake.
sally		Anyone else?
joe		This is insanity.  Sally...
sally		Don't.
joe		Don't push me away.
sally		I had an abortion two weeks ago.
joe		Don't do this.
sally		I found out I was pregnant and it scared the shit out of me.
joe		 Don't do this!
sally		I told you when we met I never wanted children.  I don't want kids in my life. We talked about it.  You weren't listening.
joe		You changed your mind.
sally		I wanted you back.
joe		What?!  You aborted our child?!
sally		I'm a monster.  Exactly.
joe		You're not ready.
sally		Don't make allowances.  I'll never be ready.  Some people just shouldn't have children.  I'd be a terrible fucking mother, Joe.  I did want it for us.  But I couldn't do it.  I don't really think I can do it.
joe		I wasn't part of that picture at all, was I?  I wasn't part of that decision.  Did I occur to you at all?  It's a fucking farce.  It's a fucking farce.  How long did you think you could keep it going. You're amazing.  Do you have any idea what you've done to us?
sally		Yes.
joe		I'll never forgive you.
sally		I know.
joe		I have no idea who you are.
clair		Oh my God.  Honey???
jerry		He's okay, Clair.  You wanna give him a little room?
mac		 Thanks, buddy.
clair		Honey?
mac		I'm fine, babe.
jerry		Give him a minute, Clair.
mac		 Thanks, buddy.
jerry		Anytime, sport.
mac		 Yeah, thanks pal.
clair		 Honey?
mac		I'm fine, babe.  I'm gonna take a little walk.  I need a minute.  Let's forget it. My life didn't pass in front of my eyes. So, it probably wasn't that close.
jerry		Probably not.
mac		 So, you've got lifeguard papers, or what?
judy		There's a test, you know.
jerry		 Forget it, Judy.
clair		 Honey?
mac		I'll be fine.  Really babe.  Give me a minute.
man's voice		Joe, Joe!  It's your Dad!  Pick up, Joe...
gina		 Yes I will.  Take care, Harry.  Bye.
judy		Are you my big brave boy?  Are you my brave hero?
jerry		You're crazy baby.  I love you.
judy		Are you my big hard hero?
jerry		Do you want me to save you?  Do you want me to save you?
judy		Oh yeah...
jerry		Oh yeah... I'm gonna save you.
judy		Oh yeah?
jerry		Let me heal you, baby.
judy		 Oh Jesus oh Jesus oh Jesus.
jerry		Oh yeah.
sophia		...no, no, start again.
clair		I've lost my husband and my beeper.  Have either of you seen either of them?
joe		What is it?
gina		Let's go upstairs, okay?
sally		 Is it Otis?
skye		What happened?
joe		The suspense is killing me.
gina		Harry called.
joe		 And?
gina		 Lucy overdosed.
joe		 But she's alright.
gina		She's in ICU.
joe		 Stupid tart.
gina		She left a note.
joe		 Fuck you.
gina		You need to call your dad.
joe		Leave us alone right now.
gina		I've booked you a flight and packed you a bag.  You just need to get into a car and go.
sally		Would you leave us alone right now?
gina		I love her too, Joe.
joe		Alright, good.  Thanks for your trouble. So will you leave Sally and me alone right now?
sally		 Everybody hates the messenger.
joe		 I don't want you to go.
sally		I'll be with you.
joe		I don't want to go tonight.
sally		You don't have to.
joe		 Stupid tart.
mac		How's he doing?
sally		Not good.
gina		He's gonna miss his flight.
sally		Yeah.
gina		Is he not going?  I booked a flight.
sally		He's not going tonight.
gina		I told his father he'd be on that flight.
sally		Well you could tell him otherwise.  It was good of you to be all this help.  But he doesn't want to go tonight.
gina		Jesus, Sally.  I'm not the enemy.
sally		And you're not the wife.
gina		It's not a contest.
sally		Damn straight.
cal		Should I go up?
sally		I don't think so.
cal		You want us to stay?
sally		Maybe not.
mac		So much for ecstacy, right?
sophia		Let's get the kids.
clair		Oh my God, the sitter.
sally		 Oh Clair, you're so... You know.  You just put things in perspective.
joe		 Hey, Dad...
sophia		I'm going to be home all weekend, call if you need anything.
cal		Hang in.
sally		 Oh perfect!
jerry		I call that a perfect day.
judy		A perfect night.
jerry		Damn near.  And a damn near perfect drug.
judy		Hm.  We should do it again.
jerry		Just every once in a blue moon, you know.
judy		Hm.  You think we should ask them for their landscaper?
jerry		Hm.  Do you like fucking out of doors?
judy		Not as a rule.
jerry		 They didn't sign their goddamn tax returns!
gina		 Take good care of it.
sally		Count on it.
ryan		 Jesus Christ, it's a fucking dog!
monica		 Don't go in, Ryan.
ryan		What?
monica		Let's just go home, okay?
panes		Coffee?
joe		Sure.
panes		I'll do it.
sally		You don't need to do that.
skye		I don't mind...
sally		Relax.  You've done enough.
joe		Can I come in?
sally		Sure.
oe		My plane leaves in a few hours.
sally		Okay.  Do you want me to come with you?
joe		 No.
sally		Okay.
joe		 Pretty much a disaster, tonight, wasn't it?
sally		I guess.
joe		Life gets messy.  Ugly messy.  But I don't understand you.  And I don't think I ever understood Lucy.  I don't understand throwing it away.  How do you throw all that away?  Any of it.  I want it all.  You guys want guarantees?  I want the possibilities.  And all kinds of crap comes with that.  A lot of bad shit. And I think that's okay with me because, because of the rest of the stuff.  All the good shit.  All the surprises.  It's a fucking miracle when you come down to it.  I'll never love anybody else, you know.
sally		 Me too.
joe		That's under lock and key.
sally		Me too.
joe		Happy anniversary.
sally		It's a Calder.
joe		I know.
sally		He's my favorite.
joe		I know.  It's for the baby's crib.
sally		Ah...
joe		Oh, Sally Mae...
sally		I know.
joe		Will you make love with me?
sally		Sure.
****Dialogues from script :Anonymous.txt****

1		pg. 2
prologue		Soul of the Age! The applause, delight, the wonder of our stage! Our Shakespeare, rise...  He was born the son of a glove-maker, and at some unknown time, armed with but an elementary school education, he went to London where, the story goes, he became an actor and eventually a playwright.
2		pg. 3
3		pg. 4
pole		Break it down!
pole		Jonson!   Jonson!!    Show yourself!
4		pg. 5
5		pg. 6
interrogator		You are Benjamin Jonson, playwright? Son of William Jonson, glass-blower, son of James Jonson brick-layer?
jonson		I'm a writer, aren't I?   Of course I've bloody well been--
6		pg. 7
figure		Ask him about the plays.
jonson		 Which would you prefer, my lord? A pastoral? An historical? An historical-pastoral, or an hysterical historical pastoral--
interrogator		We are not interested in your plays, Jonson. We are interested in the plays given to you by Edward de Vere, Earl of Oxford.
jonson		I'm sorry my lord, but I am not sure I know whereof you speak. I have had the honor of meeting his lordship--
7		pg. 8
interrogator		Where are the plays?
oxford		 Well, it's certainly... big.
8		pg. 9
southampton		I promise you, Edward, you've seen nothing like it before! Nothing!
oxford		Bricklayers and whores watching Aristophones?   You're quite right, Henry, not only have I never witnessed it, I'm not sure I care to.
southampton		 You're an elitist, you know that, Edward?
oxford		There won't be puppets, will there?
usher		My lords...
southampton		The stage-craft is quite spectacular. Far more elaborate than anything I've seen at court. I've witnessed be- headings that god as my witness look as real as at the Tower, cannons fired in battle...
9		pg. 10
southampton		...and last week, they had some sort of a device to hoist cherubs into the air and fly over the entire audience!
oxford		An ap mekhanes thes. Deus ex machina. Machine of the Gods.
10		pg. 11
shakespeare		And whither were you riding now, signior?
shakespeare		O, pardon me, sir, twenty places more; your hot-house, your pig-house, or your whore-house!
nashe		 He's got a wit, does Jonson.
marlowe		That might be so, but like a grain of wheat hid in a bushel of chaff: you shall seek all day ere you find it, and when you have it, it's not worth the search!
11		pg. 12
woman		Ale!   Ale!!
dekker		Marlowe-- spot me a few pence, will you? Henslowe still owes me for "Shoemaker's Holiday".
marlowe		 That would be because no one saw "Shoemaker's Holiday".
dekker		Ale here!
nashe		Kit... Isn't that one of your unrequited loves in the box over there?
marlowe		 But with whom? Tell me not he prefers the company of such old grey men as that!
nashe		I think-- yes, by the beard, that's the Earl of Oxford. Old Tom Hooker used to play for him. Had his own acting troupe for private Court performances and the like.
dekker		I wonder if he needs any material?
marlowe		Certainly not any of yours.
nashe		No, no-- that was years ago. Had a falling out with the Queen, I heard. He's more of a recluse than a patron these days.
12		pg. 13
shakespeare		Who, he, the noble there? Why, he's a gull, a fool, no salt in him i' the earth; man, he looks like a fresh salmon kept in a tub!
a groundling		Oi!   So that's what I been smelling!
shakespeare		He has his skin tann'd in civet, to make his complexion strong, and the sweetness of his youth lasting in the sense of his sweet lady. And, sadly, the poor man's brain is lighter than his feather...
13		pg. 14
shakespeare		Ale? Me? Drink during a performance? I am a professional sir!  A complete and--
14		pg. 15
pole		This play has been declared seditious and illegal by Lord William Cecil!
a groundling		Why don't you disperse William Cecil's arse!
pole		Arrest that man!
southampton		Damn it all.    Well! Off to Essex's then?
jonson		 Seditious? Seditious?! It's a comedy for god's sake! There's nothing seditious about--
pole		Oi, is that right, is it?    And you know this because?
jonson		Because I wrote the bloody thing!      And- -
pole		Arrest him as well!
15		pg. 16
jonson		 And your carbuncled father!
essex		...and how do the Cecils spend their time and energy? Shutting a theater! A theater, for god's sake? It's madness! No wonder the mob hates them so!
oxford		Out!
16		pg. 17
southampton		Hmm? I'm not sure, two thousand, maybe more.
oxford		And how many performances are there of a play like that?
southampton		Five or six I suppose.
essex		By the--!
oxford		 So! Ten thousand souls. All listening to the writings of one man-- the ideas of one man. That's power, Robert. And if there is one thing the Cecils understand, it's power.
essex		 And when did words ever win a kingdom? I think I'll keep my sword, thank you very much.
essex		 Henry... Some of my men have... intercepted... some of William Cecil's recent correspondence with King James of Scotland...
17		pg. 18
southampton		To James?   Elizabeth would never agree to-
essex		Elizabeth is old. Ill. Not of her old mind. Sometimes she doesn't even recognize me. And yet, still she refuses to name an heir.
southampton		But a Scotsman? On the Tudor throne?
essex		You are not in the Privy Council. Elizabeth does everything the Cecils wish of her. Everything!
18		pg. 19
southampton		You know you need not ask. I stand with you, as I always have.
oxford		Essex played rather poorly, didn't he?
southampton		 You heard?
19		pg. 20
oxford		I would have you deny him.
southampton		The son of the Queen?
oxford		That is rumor only, Henry--
southampton		Rumor? My god, all you have to do is look at Essex to see the Queen's reflection. Everyone thinks he's her son, everyone! And I for one would rather bow to a Tudor, bastard though he may be, than a Scotsman!
oxford		I desire nothing more than to see the next king be the rightful king. But what Essex contemplates will surely lead to Civil War.  No. If this is to be done, it must be done carefully, skillfully.
southampton		As I heard it, Elizabeth exiled you from her presence for the last twenty years because of your "skill" at Court politics.
oxford		I only have your interests in mind, Henry. For as you so rightly point out, my interests are already lost.
southampton		I know. Forgive me. You know how I feel about you. You have been a great friend to me ever since my father died. I promise you that I will do nothing rash without consulting you first.
20		pg. 21
oxford		Henry! Will you do me one thing more? Deliver a gift for me? A rather... elaborate gift?
southampton		Sir Robert.
robert cecil		My lord of Southampton.  Have you seen Essex?
southampton		I believe he is still in the viewing chamber with her majesty...
robert cecil		 Alone?
21		pg. 22
southampton		 With your father in London dealing with all the troubles in Ireland, who else should the Queen turn to but Essex?
footman		By the grace of god, her majesty, Elizabeth, Queen of England, Wales and Ireland!
essex		 Ah-- Majesty, I've been told my lord of Southampton has a gift for you.
elizabeth		 A gift?
southampton		Yes, your grace, though not from me.
22		pg. 23
elizabeth		Are you this gift, my precious little man?
dwarf		No, no, my most majestic majesty. I am a free man. My gift is a play, majesty.
elizabeth		A play?
robert cecil		 Plays are the work of the devil, born from a cesspool of plague, whoredom, thievery, fornication, and heresy. You may tell your master that her majesty--
essex		 --Will gladly accept your gift.
elizabeth		 Comedy? Or tragedy?
dwarf		Comedy, majesty.
elizabeth		 23 pg. 24
dwarf		By... Anonymous, your majesty...
elizabeth		Anonymous...?  Oh, but I do so admire his verse...
24		pg. 25
25		pg. 26
26		pg. 27
young elizabeth		Lovely.    Lovely!
boy oxford		I did indeed, your majesty.
young elizabeth		You sport with me.  Compose something.
boy oxford		Now?
27		pg. 28
young elizabeth		Yes.   Now.
boy oxford		On what subject, your grace?
young elizabeth		 Truth...
boy oxford		 For... Truth... is Truth... Though... never so old... and time cannot make that false, which once was true.
young elizabeth		 My lord of Oxford. It seems you have added a poet to your family's long line of warriors.
boy oxford		Madam, I am as accomplished with the sword and the musket as I am with verse.
young elizabeth		 Are you indeed?
boy oxford		 It is my only desire to one day be your majesty's most trusted servant in matters both of war and state, if you will but have me.
young elizabeth		 Why, Lord Cecil, it seems we may very well have found your replacement.
william cecil		We hope not too soon, majesty, we hope not too soon.
28		pg. 29
young elizabeth		 And how liked you our young lord's play, William?
william cecil		That is God's decision, your majesty. Not mine.
young elizabeth		Well, if plays are indeed such a sin, I pray I do not find my salvation until very late in life.
jonson		And who are you?
jonson		My lord...
30		pg. 31
oxford		The Tudor rose. The most beautiful of flowers, don't you think?
jonson		It looks to me to have quite a number of thorns, my lord.
oxford		So it does.   So it does.
jonson		I am told, my lord, that I owe my freedom to you.
oxford		That is true. And it was quite hard to come by. One does not cross my father-in-law lightly.
jonson		 My lord-- I'm sorry, does that mean my release is not officially sanctioned?
oxford		Don't be an idiot Jonson, of course it wasn't.  But you are free, are you not?
31		pg. 32
oxford		I enjoyed your little comedy last week, Jonson. You have potential, great potential.
jonson		Thank you, my lord.
oxford		But it's politics did seem to have quite an effect on the Tower. My father-in-law's men felt it quite seditious.
jonson		Politics? My play had nothing to do with politics! It was just a simple comedy--
oxford		That showed your betters as fools who go through life barely managing to get food from plate to mouth, were it not for the cleverness of their servants.  All art is political, Jonson. Otherwise it would just be decoration. And all artists have something to say, otherwise... they'd make shoes. And you're not a cobbler, are you, Jonson?
jonson		A play, my lord?
oxford		One you shall stage Bankside.
jonson		Stage?
32		pg. 33
oxford		Under your name.
jonson		My name, my lord?
oxford		I can't very well use my name, can I? I'm the seventeenth Earl of Oxford. The Lord Great Chamberlain of England, Viscount Bolebec, Lord Escales, Sandford and Badlesmere, etc, etc. No. I have a... reputation to protect. In my world, one does not write plays, Jonson. People like you do.
jonson		Yes. My lord. You wrote an entire play, my lord. I know how difficult--
oxford		Not a play, Jonson, I've written many. No doubt, many more than you yourself. A good number performed at Court years ago, others never seen by a living soul.
jonson		And you want... me to apply my name to this play?
oxford		No. I mean you to put your name to all of them.
jonson		All of them?
oxford		Well don't look like I just gutted your pet dog, Jonson. I mean to make you the most popular-- and therefore the most monetarily successful-- playwright in all of London.
33		pg. 34
jonson		My lord-- I really--
francesco		That is for your trouble, Signor Jonson. And your silence. If I hear you break that silence, then... not so good for Signor Jonson.
jonson		Hello?   My lord?! I--
william cecil		So! I am gone for three days, and you somehow manage to let her spend all of them solely in the company of the Earl of Essex...
34		pg. 35
robert cecil		He is an Earl, father. I cannot deny him--
william cecil		Of course not! You don't deny him anything. You find excuses. She is unwell, she is reading, she is seeing the Ambassador from Russia. For God's sake, use your imagination, Robert. Whatever will you do when I am gone?  We will have to deal with Essex soon. His ambitions are becoming a nuisance.
william cecil		Now tell me about the play.
robert cecil		It-- it was an anonymous gift. Essex insisted it be performed, just to spite me in front of Court...
william cecil		Of course he did.  But what was it about?
robert cecil		About? Some nonsense about fairies and cherubs.
william cecil		...And dancing asses?
35		pg. 36
robert cecil		Father...    It was just a play...
william cecil		And do you know how long it took me to banish them from her presence? She adores them! Adores them! And Edward knows it.  Mark my words, Robert, he has done this for a purpose.
robert cecil		Purpose?    What purpose?
william cecil		 But through your carelessness I must now deal not only with Essex, but Edward as well. For whether in shadow or in person, Edward has returned to Court!
young anne		I am sorry for your loss, my lord. The realm lost a great lord with your father's death. We hope you will be happy in our house--
young oxford		 No.    Only until I reach my maturity.
william cecil		Because the Queen has bade it so. 
37		pg. 38
young oxford		Monsieur. Ca me fait plaisir de vous connaitre.
william cecil		Nine to ten is Greek with Mister Simmons.
young oxford		 Dalon, an d'ego, hoti mathamata ge esti ha trafo psychas.
young oxford		 No.   Plato.
william cecil		 And you know your uncle, Mister Golding, who has petitioned me to allow you to assist him in his translations of ancient Latin texts into English.
young oxford		 Continetne, ut spero, Ovidii Metamorphose? Mihi honori erit, patrue
william cecil		Then cosmography with Doctor Richards. Two to three is geography and history, and four to five fencing.
38		pg. 39
young oxford		 And composition? Poetry?
william cecil		This is a Puritan home, your grace. We believe such activities to be the worship of false idols, and therefore a sin before the eyes of God.
young oxford		A sin? But surely there must be room for beauty and art in life, my lord.
william cecil		Not in this household.
young oxford		You were losing anyway.
39		pg. 40
young oxford		Really?
40		pg. 41
wider		 Young Oxford CHARGES the tapestry, sword in hand.     He THRUSTS the sword THROUGH the tapestry.  The man screams in agony as he falls. He doesn't just die, but screams and screams and screams.  Young Oxford steps back-- half in horror... half in triumph. The SOUND of APPLAUSE takes us to:
shakespeare		Is it any good?
jonson		How in blazes should I know?
shakespeare		You haven't even read it?
jonson		I read a line or two-- I promised Henslowe I'd finish "Eastward Ho" by Saturday.
shakespeare		And you say he's a nobleman?
41		pg. 42
jonson		I tell you Will-- I came to London to become a great poet, to, to, be the conscience of our times, the soul of our age! To change the world, not to become someone else's--
shakespeare		 Change the world? With rhyme?
jonson		Yes, why not? Why can't a man change the world with words?
shakespeare		You know, it's actually not half bad...
42		pg. 43
jonson		Not half--?! You're an actor, what in God's name do you know about writing?! He's an amateur, Will, a complete and utter amateur. Last week gardening, this week playwrighting, next week hawking.  No. I won't do it. It would be an affront against the Muses...
shakespeare		 How much money did you say he gave you?
jonson		What, you think my name can be bought, if the number's great enough, do you?
shakespeare		No, not at all... I think we should keep your good name quite intact, thank you very much.
43		pg. 44
elizabeth		Ireland?
william cecil		There are rumors of his sending financial aid, and even troops. We must act quickly.  We must replace the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and send additional troops immediately, majesty.
elizabeth		Replace?   With whom?
william cecil		I would recommend the Earl of Essex, your majesty.
elizabeth		Essex?  To Ireland?  For how long?
william cecil		As long as the present crisis warrants, majesty.
elizabeth		Impossible. He cannot be spared. We feel his counsel is of greater import with each passing day.
william cecil		I only recommend we send your most able subjects where they are most needed, majesty. 
44		pg. 45
elizabeth		But Essex?
william cecil		Essex's martial abilities are, in my opinion, the only antidote to the plague of Philip.  Though, Essex would not, unfortunately, be able to remain in the Privy Council if he is in Ireland...
elizabeth		And who would you advise to replace him?
william cecil		Sir Robert Cecil.
elizabeth		Your son?
william cecil		He is my own advisor first, my son second, majesty. His counsel has been invaluable to me, and no doubt will be to you as well.
elizabeth		Yes, yes, yes. We will send Essex to Ireland and place Robert on my Privy Council.
45		pg. 46
william cecil		By your own hand!
young oxford		He was stealing my poems.
william cecil		He was doing my bidding!
young oxford		Yours?
william cecil		Of course. As soon as Robert informed me that you were disobeying my express--
young oxford		Robert?   Robert told--
william cecil		Enough! Thou shalt not worship false idols in my household! Your everlasting soul hangs in the balance. Not poems. Your soul!
young oxford		My poems are my soul!
william cecil		You have placed me in a grave position, Edward. 
46		pg. 47
young oxford		Sir. For the last three years you have managed to seize much of my inheritance--
william cecil		Hold your tongue, Edward, before you make a claim you cannot retract! I have been legally reimbursed for your education and living expenses.
young oxford		And now you suggest you be "reimbursed" the rest of my once considerable estates through your daughter's bed?
william cecil		No. This is how I suggest you keep your noble head from the executioner's block.
47		pg. 48
bishop		...and in the fear of god, duly considering the causes for which matrimony was ordained. One was the procreation of children...
48		pg. 49
nashe		"Henry V" by... No one?
marlowe		And why would any of you admit to trying to better me in a historical drama? Comedy, yes, tragedy, perhaps. But never will one of you best me in historicals.
49		pg. 50
50		pg. 51
51		pg. 52
52		pg. 53
southampton		William Cecil's convinced the Queen that only Essex can save Ireland from the Revolt.
oxford		Henry--
southampton		I ask for your blessing, Edward.
oxford		I can't give it to you.
nashe		I for one wish to see this anonymous colleague of ours.  Playwright! Playwright!!
southampton		If he is to be my king, then it is my sacred duty to be with him in battle.
53		pg. 54
oxford		Henry-- Henry!!
shakespeare		I, I... It's been... I, I, want to... thank my actors, whose great acting brought... my words... to life due to their most finest acting. Ah... Thank you.
oxford		An actor for god's sake?
jonson		My lord, I thought that--
54		pg. 55
oxford		You presumed to think? On my behalf? Whatever made you believe you had that prerogative?
jonson		My lord, your voice is completely different than mine. My, my, my characters are--
oxford		Voice? You have no voice! That's why I chose you!  You at least kept my name from him?
jonson		 All, my lord? Is that possible?
oxford		Of course it is!
anne		Who was that man?    I've seen him before.
oxford		 Dowry?
anne		She cannot go into marriage without a dowry that is becoming to the daughter of the Earl Oxford.
oxford		I can give her Brooke House and a hundred pounds.
bridget		A hundred pounds? Father?     Mother!
oxford		That is all we have to give at the moment.
anne		 Edward. Edward! Speak to me! Our family is in financial ruins, and, and you, you play the flute while Rome burns!
56		pg. 57
oxford		Nero fiddled whilst Rome burned.
anne		For god's sake, who cares Edward? When your own daughter can't even have a suitable dowry?
oxford		Anne-- If you could have seen them-- the mob... They, they didn't just sit there like the reptilia of court, faces motionless, fangs momentarily retracted. No! They, they jumped on stage, they fought the French! A butcher-- he actually broke his arm! He was so--
anne		Stop!   Stop it at once!!
oxford		The voices, Anne... The voices. I, I can't stop them... They, they come when I sleep, when I wake, when I sup, when I, I, I walk down a hall! The sweet longings of a maiden, the, the surging ambitions of a courtier, the foul designs of a murderer, the wretched pleas of his victims.    Only- - only when I put their words-- their voices-- to parchment are they cast loose, freed... Only then is my mind... quieted... at peace.
57		pg. 58
anne		Art thou possessed?
oxford		I... don't know.
shakespeare		"From ancient grudge break to new mutiny, Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean."  Incredible!! The whole bloody thing in verse?!
jonson		 It's really not that difficult, if you try.
shakespeare		And have you ever tried?
58		pg. 59
jonson		You can't play Romeo.
shakespeare		 Ben-- Ben! I'm an actor, every inch of me, down to my very toes... I want- - no, I need, crave-- to act. I can't just idle the day by with--
jonson		So bloody well act like a writer! And for God's sake, keep off the stage. Writers don't have time to act.
59		pg. 60
young elizabeth		My lord of Oxford.
oxford		Did he?
young elizabeth		Rash, yet brave. A boy-- and yet a man. Fair on the eyes, fairer to the ear...
61		pg. 62
young oxford		If I had known my absence would cause your grace so much... longing, I would have returned much-- much-- sooner.
young elizabeth		Your wife must be much pleased by your presence once more at her side...
young oxford		If she is, it is but a small comfort to me. I am returned only under my father-in-law's insistence.
young elizabeth		 Cecil had told me your match was one of love.
young oxford		And so he would wish.  But how could one ever love the moon, after having first seen the sun?
62		pg. 63
bessie		My lord. Her majesty went riding with the Earl of Oxford.
young elizabeth		And which country did you like the most on your travels, my lord?
young oxford		I think Italy, your grace.
63		pg. 64
young elizabeth		And why is that? The weather?       The food?
young oxford		No their theater, which they call la Commedia dell'arte. And, of course, the women.
young elizabeth		The women?
young oxford		They were more... clear with their desires than our English ladies. When they want something, they take it. They do not wait to be taken...
young elizabeth		I can't decide. Are you Prince Hal...? Or Romeo? No. Benedick, maybe...? No-- 
64		pg. 65
young oxford		 Puck?
young elizabeth		Yes, Puck!
young oxford		Ah, but Puck would never fight for you in the Netherlands...
young elizabeth		 The Netherlands?
young oxford		Well, why not? It's an open secret on the continent that you support the rebels against Spain-- and that you are commissioning Englishmen to help their cause. Spain's loss is England's gain, is it not?
young elizabeth		Is this why you bedded me? For a commission?
young oxford		No.   No-- of course not--    I--
young elizabeth		Leave me.    Leave at once!
young oxford		Bess--
young elizabeth		How dare you! How dare you!! I command you to leave my presence.
65		pg. 66
young oxford		O Mistress mine, where are you roaming? O stay and hear... your true-love's coming, That can--  --kiss both high and low...
young elizabeth		 You will stay in England... And in... my chambers...
66		pg. 67
marlowe		 Do what?
nashe		 A play in iambic, in iambic pen...in- bic-pentameter. It's not that hard.
jonson		Think you so? Have you ever tried?
nashe		Of course not. But I could if I wanted...
dekker		It wasn't all in verse.
nashe		Ha!   See!   Even easier!
shakespeare		 Billy!!!
67		pg. 68
nashe		A fortnight?
dekker		The maids love the romantic tragedies.
marlowe		Precisely why I avoid them.
nashe		Aw, well. No worries. A one-trick pony. He'll never be able to do it again.
68		pg. 69
a playbill		 in front of the theater announcing "William Shakespeare's Hamlet". Shakespeare's name is now above the title. We HEAR the audience howl with LAUGHTER as--
69		pg. 70
groundling		Not a day too soon for old Cecil!!
70		pg. 71
71		pg. 72
on stage		 some of the audience members grab Shakespeare, and pull him on their shoulders, carrying him triumphantly out of the theater.  CUT TO:
pole		 William Cecil was murdered?
marlowe		Not literally, of course. He was a character, a fictional character. But the metaphor was clear for anyone to see. And see, they did.
pole		That is not for me to decide...
72		pg. 73
robert cecil		Not only in front of Court! But the entire City as well! We must arrest this Shakespeare and-
william cecil		No, Robert, think. If he is really as popular as you say, we would only anger the mob. No. We must strike at Edward directly.
robert cecil		But we cannot maintain our authority if the mob thinks us laughing stocks--
william cecil		 Our authority comes from Elizabeth and from God! Elizabeth! Elizabeth is the key to all.
73		pg. 74
william cecil		James knows of the Queen's affection for Essex... and the rumors of his birth. He is justly concerned.  You will reply to him.
robert cecil		I will reply to him?
william cecil		I am dying, Robert--  We both know this to be true. And I will not witness the next coronation.
william cecil		Help me to my bed, my son.  If we are to secure your place at the side of the next king, you must get that king his throne, not I.
74		pg. 75
robert cecil		 Edward?
william cecil		He uses the tools at his disposal, as we use the tools at ours. But ours will win... as they always have.
robert cecil		 I-- I don't understand, father.    What does Edward--
william cecil		Edward seeks what we seek.   To choose the next King.
william cecil		Are you certain?
bessie		Two cycles have passed, my lord.
young elizabeth		I wish to marry him...
william cecil		Marry him, your grace? He is already married.
young elizabeth		I can do what I will.
william cecil		Can you?
young elizabeth		I love him...
william cecil		Would you risk your throne for him? Would you risk England for him?
76		pg. 77
young elizabeth		And Edward?
william cecil		He must never know.
young oxford		What have you done?
william cecil		I am praying.
young oxford		 She won't see me! I've gone to her chambers three times, and she will not receive me. And now she's gone!
william cecil		She's on Progress.
young oxford		Where?   Where did she go?
77		pg. 78
william cecil		The Queen does not ask for my advice about matters of the heart, Edward. If she had, she hardly would have chosen you for her pleasure.  He has a point.  WILLIAM CECIL  And make me a grandson, an heir!  Off Young Oxford's pained expression.  CUT TO:
78		pg. 79
jonson		 Perhaps they haven't noticed..
marlowe		I made sure they did...
jonson		You informed on one of your own?   To the Tower?
marlowe		Watch who you judge, Ben, for as God is my witness, you may well find yourself doing the same before you meet your maker. We do what we have to, to survive, and survive well, in this life. All of us. And Will is definitely not one of us. You know he's illiterate, don't you?
jonson		Why are you here, Kit?
79		pg. 80
jonson		You've had too much to drink, Kit. You're beginning to sound like one of your plays.
marlowe		Ben! Tell me. We can go to him together. Guarantee his anonymity... for a price.
jonson		You reported on me as well, didn't you, Kit? Last year. That's why I was arrested, wasn't it? Because you went to the Tower?
marlowe		 Ben, Ben... I had nothing to do with that.
80		pg. 81
essex		 If the Rebels have stripped the northern borders... Then we must march south... and take Cahir Castle...
general		 My lord. `Tis a well-defended fortress.    Two thousand men at least. We cannot--
essex		So what would you have me do? Spend the entire spring encamped? I am sent to Ireland to end this infernal rebellion, not idle my days with--
southampton		Robert!
81		pg. 82
beaulieu		Point!
oxford		 Bien. Faisons du travail... le Coup droit d'autorit?
beaulie		Mais oui, mon seigneur.
oxford		Bien.    En garde!
82		pg. 83
francesco		Signor?    Signor?!
oxford		Beaulieu-- he, he tried to kill me...
jonson		 What's all that, then?
man		A body...
bear baiter		Sampson! Sired by the great Arthur himself! No dog's yet been bred that can take him down!
shakespeare		I need more money.
jonson		More--? You already make more than any playwright Bankside.
84		pg. 85
bear baiter		But then here, good friends, I bring you a pack of dogs so fierce, so dangerous, that Medusa herself would shrink in fear!
shakespeare		I'm going to build my own theater, Ben, one that fits the scale of my work--
jonson		Your work?
bear baiter		Not a one has had a morsel of food in a week! Bred by the great John Sinclow!
a man		Fourpence on three dogs!
shakespeare		They insist only a gentleman can own the land.
another man		A shilling on four!
shakespeare		The bribes are outrageous, but I found some one who will make me a coat-of-arms, and change the Stratford lists for me.
jonson		Impossible.
another man		Eight shillings on six dogs!   Eight shillings on six dogs!
jonson		I'll take that bet!!   Eight shillings on the bear, six dogs!
another man		Done!
shakespeare		Bad bet, that.
jonson		 You'll have to make do with what you've got. I won't be your beggar.
85		pg. 86
shakespeare		This isn't a request, Ben.   I'll have more money.
jonson		Or what? You'll slit my throat like you did Kit's?
man		Release the dogs!   Release the dogs!
jonson		I know he went to see you last night, Will. And I know he was planning to expose you if you didn't agree to his terms.
shakespeare		 You're mad, Ben. Kit was my friend.
jonson		Be careful, Will. You kill me off too, and you won't have any good plays to act in after this is all done.
shakespeare		I'll have my guineas, Ben. One way or another, I'll have my guineas.
cut to:		 86 pg. 87
shakespeare		 Wears a beard and fake nose. He tries to stay hidden so Jonson doesn't see him. We are:
oxford		So! You are the famous Shakespeare whose labors I have enjoyed so much. I am at your service, sir.
87		pg. 88
shakespeare		My lord-- I- I need more money.
oxford		 I beg your pardon?
shakespeare		My expenses have, ah, aggrandized... since this all began.
oxford		"Aggrandized"?
shakespeare		And if, if your lordship doesn't agree to an increase in my, ah, fee, I shall be forced to make certain... facts public.
francesco		Have you any idea to whom you are speaking?
shakespeare		I am addressing the writer of Hamlet... of Juliet and her Romeo.   Am I not?
francesco		Out. Get out! How dare you insult my master in--
oxford		Wait!  How much?
shakespeare		Four hundred pounds. A year.
francesco		A year?
oxford		Pay him.
88		pg. 89
francesco		Forgive me for speaking of things above my place or understanding, signor. But... Is this wise? They have already tried to kill you once.
oxford		Wisdom, Francesco, is a quality I have unfortunately never possessed...
bessie		Edward... You know she would be furious if she found out about this...
89		pg. 90
young oxford		No.   She abandoned me.
bessie		You don't know, do you?
william cecil		I cannot be certain, majesty, when the... relationship began.
90		pg. 91
william cecil		But sometime soon after your return to Court.
young elizabeth		You're sure?
william cecil		They-- they haven't been very discreet, majesty. I presume he wanted you to know. To... to hurt you.
young elizabeth		Arrest them.    Arrest them both!
william cecil		Your whore gave birth last week.
91		pg. 92
young oxford		Banished...?
william cecil		No. You have the freedom of the kingdom. Just not of the Court.  Those are her terms. Here are mine. You will go back to my daughter. You will make some effort to make her happy and you will finally act according to your station in life, and accept the responsibilities of your great title.
young oxford		My lord!     I, too, have a condition.
william cecil		I don't know if the whore has even delivered the--
young oxford		No.   The other one.
william cecil		The other one?  Who told you?
92		pg. 93
young oxford		I will go back to your daughter. I will make you as many grandchildren as she can bare...
william cecil		There is no record of his true birth, no trail that leads to you, or the... mother. His foster parents never knew the truth, and both are now dead...
young oxford		The name?
william cecil		Make even a hint of this to the child, or anyone else, and this agreement is void, and I'll see your head on the block within a fortnight. And the boy's as well.
young oxford		 It's a boy...?
boy		Hello...
young oxford		Hello.
93		pg. 94
boy		My lord...
young oxford		They tell me one day you're to be an Earl as well.
boy		I shall be the Earl of Southampton.
young oxford		 Well then, we shall be Earls together, shan't we?
94		pg. 95
elizabeth		We wish to recall Essex from Ireland...
robert cecil		A wise decision, your majesty. If nothing else, it will give him an opportunity to respond to all these rumors.
elizabeth		Rumors?
robert cecil		I'm sorry, majesty, I thought you'd heard.
elizabeth		Heard what?
robert cecil		Essex is in negotiations with Philip of Spain...
elizabeth		Peace is at hand. We know this.
robert cecil		Majesty-- it is said that Essex has promised Phillip all of Catholic Ireland in return for...
95		pg. 96
elizabeth		In return for what?
robert cecil		Spain's support of Essex's claim to the throne of England...
elizabeth		Bring him to me, William.   Bring him to me at once!
robert cecil		 Robert, majesty.
96		pg. 97
messenger		My lord...
southampton		She can't believe this...
essex		Oh, can't she?
southampton		It's Robert Cecil. He failed to kill you, now he tries to kill your name.
essex		We leave with the tide!
shakespeare		Well, I've got it!
nashe		It's quite... colorful.
97		pg. 98
dekker		What in blazes is it?
shakespeare		My coat-of-arms! It cost a bloody fortune, but, by god, you can call me gentleman now!
dekker		I can't quite make out the motto... Non sanz... Non...
shakespeare		"Non sanz droict".
nashe		Not without--
jonson		Right!? Not without right?  You went to him, didn't you? You lying knave-- you went to him!
shakespeare		 Ben.   Ben! Let me buy you a--
jonson		What? You've already killed off one competitor. Now you want another dead as well?
shakespeare		I don't know what you mean.   Ben, we should really--
jonson		I swore to him I wouldn't tell you his name. Swore it! Do you have any idea what he might do to me? Do you? 
98		pg. 99
shakespeare		Ben-- you've had too much to drink.
jonson		Unhand me!
shakespeare		You haven't got any ink.
99		pg. 100
essex		 Wait for me.
essex		Majesty, I, I...
elizabeth		Get out!   Out!!!
100		pg. 101
elizabeth		Who in God's name does he think he is? Abandoning his post without my leave!
robert cecil		No. Unfortunately for us, your majesty, he is quite sane. He simply believes he is your royal equal.
oxford		I am Edward, Earl of Oxford.
southampton		Edward!   Edward! Thank god you're here.
101		pg. 102
oxford		 Nothing.  Oxford continues towards the door. Southampton follows, his concern for Oxford's wound noticeable.
essex		She won't accept my letters. I cannot get to her. Cecil plans to arrest me any day. I know it.  But that won't be as easy as he thinks.
oxford		Fight him in London, and you only validate every rumor and lie Cecil has ever told about you.
essex		Then what do you suggest I do? Let myself be arrested so I can be tried and executed for crimes I did not commit?
oxford		No. I will go to Elizabeth, myself, alone--
essex		How? Cecil won't let her see a letter without reading it first.
oxford		I won't send her a letter.   I will send her a book.
102		pg. 103
essex		And the mob?    How will I--
oxford		Leave that to me.
francesco		 Hold your tongue, whore, and get out!
whore		Oi.   `Oo's going to pay me then?
103		pg. 104
oxford		You shall begin rehearsals immediately. But it is not to be performed until I tell you. And you may only have a day's notice.
shakespeare		That will be expensive-- keeping all the actors ready. Having the props made but not--
oxford		Oh, and congratulations. You've had an epic poem published today.
shakespeare		 Published? You mean like in a book?
105		pg. 106
elizabeth		 You find me disgusting, don't you? Repugnant. Wrinkled?
robert cecil		You, you are the sun, majesty.   The glory of--
elizabeth		Liar!
106		pg. 107
robert cecil		 Which one, your majesty?
elizabeth		His.   Mine.   He still lives?
107		pg. 108
robert cecil		 Yes... your majesty.
elizabeth		Who?
robert cecil		His grace, the Earl of... Southampton, your majesty.
cecil		Majesty... You are not having doubts about James of Scotland succeeding you, are you?
elizabeth		James?! He is the son of Mary! She plotted and schemed to steal the throne from under me! No son of hers will rule while a yet Tudor lives!
108		pg. 109
spencer		Good part, that...
109		pg. 110
burbage		It's only the one performance.   Go on!
jonson		 Burbage. Wonderful theater. Wonderful! The best Bankside! But only one performance? Is it that bad?
burbage		Hardly, it's Will's new play. Richard the Third. We've been hired to perform it free to the public.
jonson		Free?
burbage		Aye. Some anonymous nobleman paid for everything. God knows Will never would.   Been rehearsing all week, just found out this morning, we go up next Monday.
jonson		 No need to.
burbage		Sorry, Ben...
110		pg. 111
man		 You doin' tomorrow?
woman		You askin?
man		Managed to get two tickets to Shakespeare's latest. Cost me a fortune.
passing man		Ballocks, did it! They're giving them away free.
spencer		Best villain in the history of theater, Richard the Third. No doubt.
heminge		Come on.    Better than Mephistopheles?
spencer		No doubt! Your Marlowe-- god rest his soul-- is fine for your everyday scalawag, and your Jonson won't even try the hard drama. No, this is Shakespeare, for god's sake! The man knows drama. I tell you, not even the Greeks compare!  To Shakespeare! And villainy!
111		pg. 112
all		To Shakespeare! And villainy!  Jonson gets up, furious, and exits, quite drunk.     The actors don't even notice him.
whore		Fancy a tumble? Only sixpence!
pole		I haven't got all day, man.
jonson		I... There is a-- there is a play to be performed... on Monday.
pole		There's many plays to be performed next Monday, isn't there?
jonson		Yes, my lord, but this one is to be performed one performance, and one performance only. On Monday. All Bankside is talking of it.  The History of King Richard the Third. By William Shakespeare.
112		pg. 113
pole		I know who Richard the Third was.
jonson		Yes. Of course you do. But in William Shakespeare's version, he is played as a hunch-back.
113		pg. 114
burbage		We have to turn `em away by the hundreds! Look! Never seen anything quite like it!  And both men look out the curtains to the crowd outside.  The theater is full to the last seat. The people are crammed together like sardines.
nashe		So! I heard the Earl of Essex paid for this whole performance! Man's never even been to the theater, and still he's heard of Will--
dekker		Essex!? Impossible. My cousin's one of his men-at-arms. Hasn't been paid in weeks. They're all just sitting there, waiting.
jonson		Waiting?     Waiting for what?
dekker		Wants to have an audience with the Queen. As if Cecil would ever let Essex near her now.
nashe		By the mass, Cecil in favor, Essex out! Who can keep up with it all!?  114 pg. 115
dekker		 Tired of politics are you? Seems you picked the wrong day to come to the theater, then...
115		pg. 116
116		pg. 117
essex		Edward knows what he is doing...      Does he not?
southampton		He promised us a mob. They'll be here.
117		pg. 118
francesco		A pox on Cecil!
nashe		Why is Oxford's man with the Groundlings?
francesco		Down with Cecil!
118		pg. 119
jonson		This is what Essex is waiting for--  Oxford is bringing him a mob.
nashe		Why would Oxford--
jonson		I don't know, I don't know! But, the Tower-- Cecil, he already knows. He knows!  I-- I have to warn them!
various groundlings		Up with Essex! Essex! Death to Cecil!
shakespeare		We must close the play. Now!!
burbage		Close the...? Are you off your head?
119		pg. 120
francesco		To Essex House! To Essex House! Death to Cecil! Traitor!
man		To Essex!   And then to the Queen!  Ess-ex! Ess-ex!
officer		Fire!
southampton		They should be here by now...
essex		We go as we are! Now!!
francesco		Signor Jonson! We are betrayed!    Run! Run!
essex		To the Queen! To the Queen!
pole		Take your aim!
122		pg. 123
southampton		It's a trap!
essex		Spread out!
pole		Fire!!
pole		Re-load!
robert cecil		Majesty! You must away! Essex is in armed revolt! He's come to usurp you!
elizabeth		 Essex? I-- Edward is--
123		pg. 124
robert cecil		You must flee! Quickly! Majesty! He means to kill you and take your throne for himself!  It takes only an instant for that to sink in. She looks enraged. And then she turns with a flurry, and heads back the way she came. The guards that were with Robert Cecil follow her.
oxford		He wanted his grandson to be an Earl.
robert cecil		No, Edward.   He wanted his grandson to be a king.
oxford		You lie...
robert cecil		Do I?  125 pg. 126
oxford		Elizabeth would never have--
robert cecil		What?  Slept with her son?  You could have been a king, Edward. And your son after you. Except for the fact that... you were you.
robert cecil		I want a fair trial for Southampton... Evidence, witnesses, no false confessions. It must be above reproach. Though with a guilty verdict of course. Oh, and Pole--  126 pg. 127
anne		Sentence has been passed.
essex		Strike true.
127		pg. 128
elizabeth		Leave us.    All of you.
robert cecil		Majesty, I--
elizabeth		Leave us!
128		pg. 129
oxford		I thank your majesty for seeing me.
elizabeth		You cannot have him.
oxford		He is our son.
elizabeth		Who did commit High Treason!
oxford		They only wished for a place in government equal to their station. Equal to their birth.
elizabeth		You caused this! Your play, your words, caused my people to mob against me! Do you think I wasn't aware of your plot with this man Shakespeare, that I wouldn't recognize your voice? It should be your head on the block next week, not Southampton's!
oxford		Then take my head. In our son's stead.
elizabeth		Cecil?  He has kept me my throne!  Yet here I remain... Because of the Cecils.
oxford		We would have protected you--
129		pg. 130
elizabeth		You would have protected me? You? My "loyal" Earls?  Only the Cecils could I trust! Commoners! They could never claim my throne. Never! Their wealth, their power, their survival, all depended on me. Me and no other!
oxford		Let our child live...
elizabeth		 All Englishmen are my children!
oxford		He will never learn of it from me.
elizabeth		He must never know... Never.  Take him.
oxford		But only after my death! Only then! When all is complete. After James is crowned king, his crown safe, only then can you claim your son... our son.  130 pg. 131
elizabeth		Treason... that is all that has come from you... your son... Your plays... None will be claimed by you. None.
131		pg. 132
shakespeare		The line won't get a laugh that way. You must accent the word sirrah--
132		pg. 133
shakespeare		Ben!
jonson		A command performance for our new king! Even in bloody Scotland they've heard of bloody Will Shakespeare, have they? Fraud. Charlatan. Counterfeiter of wit! Murderer!
shakespeare		Ben, please...
133		pg. 134
anne		 What is this man doing in my house?
jonson		It was your husband who sent for me, madam.
anne		And I am dismissing you--
second doctor		Are you Jonson?
jonson		Excuse me, your grace.
oxford		Thank you, doctor.
134		pg. 135
135		pg. 136
jonson		 I find... your words... the most wondrous ever heard on our stage.    On any stage... Ever.
oxford		Promise me... promise me, Jonson, that you will keep our secret safe. That you won't expose Shakespeare...
jonson		My lord?
oxford		I have seen it in your face... He vexes you. How could he not? But he is not your burden. He is mine.
jonson		I am not worthy of this charge, my lord. I... I betrayed you... I told them of your--
oxford		I have made it my life to know the character of men, Jonson. I know you. You may have betrayed me, but you will never betray my words...
136		pg. 137
front page		 Which reads "DEDICATION", then more words, starting with:  "To the Earl of Southampton"
anne		Get out! You, your friends, your blasphemous theaters, have brought nothing but ruin and dishonor to this family.
jonson		Ruin? Dishonor? Madam. You, your family, me, even Elizabeth herself shall be remembered solely because we had the honor to live whilst your husband put ink to paper.
cecil		I can make all this go away, Jonson... To be but a dream. Like one of your plays... Or, I can bring you so much pain-- pain that were you given a thousand years, and a thousand quills, you could never justly describe...
138		pg. 139
jonson		They were destroyed...   burned...   by your own men...
interrogator		He's lying...
jonson		My lord? Why would I lie? Is there a man alive who has reason to hate him more than I?
cecil		Let him go!   He tells the truth.
jonson		 I am afraid that this is not possible, my lord.
139		pg. 140
140		pg. 141
prologue		Let us, ciphers to this great accompt, on your imaginary forces work.
robert cecil		Of course, your majesty...
prologue		Robert Cecil remained the most powerful man in the Court of King James, though he could not prevent the public theaters from becoming ever more popular. William Shakespeare, however, spent the remaining years of his life not in the playhouses of London, but in the small town of his birth, Stratford upon Avon, as a businessman and grain merchant. 
141		pg. 142
****Dialogues from script :Antitrust.txt****

voice		Wow. That's hard. I'd have to say it's the day we launched Outpost
daryl		Gary always makes sure we've got the coolest stuff to drink.
mitch		Big companies are s'posed to be impersonal.
donny		It bums me out when the media say we're cultish, or whatever. Why? 'Cause we care about each other?
mitch		'Love you too, bro.
terry		How Gary gets this superbad rap.
gary		A kid working in his garage can create the next Outpost, the new IBM. All it takes is a great idea.
gary		That's why nobody can have a monopoly in a business built on ideas.
larry		Can we go?
larry		'Starting to get nauseated.
brian		Do you mind?
alice		Is it over?
larry		They still have to give 'em refreshments laced with mind-altering drugs.
alice		You are a fanatic.
larry		'Gonna wait outside.
alice		"Make" him?
larry		 You know what I mean.
larry		I'm just screwed.
alice		 You know what he's like. He just wants to work on stuff that's cool.
larry		You don't wanna move, do you?
alice		I can paint anywhere.
alice		I'd like to stay here, yeah. And I kind of think he should be with Teddy.
alice		Maybe you shouldn't push it so hard. About Outpost. No offense, you sound insane.
larry		I can't help it. I feel like they'd do anything to keep their --
alice		Anything? That's not even credible. If he wants to go up there? To check it out? I think you should encourage him.  It's his life. But everybody's treating him like this -- valuable object. You're hurting your own case.
brian		He's my god. I hear he actually calls recruits sometimes. Or is that an Urban Legend?
redmond		Gary's running the biggest software company in the world, Brian. He's being harassed by the Justice Department, and he's got a new baby.
danny		Milo? I'm Danny.
milo		Oh hi.
danny		Gary would like to speak to you?
milo		...Hello?
milo		You would? Wow. When would we come?  'Think he hung up.
alice		But how does he know that's what you guys're working on?
milo		All the companies know. The faculties tell 'em. At the target schools.
larry		In exchange for endowments. They should just drop the pretense and name the schools after 'em.
brian		 I can't believe you refused a ticket!
teddy		My parents're already freaked-out I'm staying here. 50 miles from Chinatown.
brian		Well maybe if you told 'em how much money you'd be making --  You're going up there. Right?
larry		I think you should go.
milo		 You do?
larry		I mean, it's your life.
milo		I think I kind of lost it. I was just so thrilled to be talking to the richest, most powerful... 'Didn't know I even cared about that stuff.
alice		C'mon, how often do you talk to somebody who's been on the cover of Time. Three of four times.
milo		A lot of what Larry says is true. They just clone stuff, or reverse engineer it, and everybody gets stuck with their inferior version cause they --
alice		Then you've gotta ask him about that.
alice		It's important.
milo		If he's really a bully, he won't cop to it, anyway.
alice		Bully? Are we talking about Gary Boyd? Or your dad.
milo		When I was a kid? And he was moving us all over the place? I spent all my time writing stuff on Outpost 1.0. I thought Gary Boyd was the greatest.
alice		But he's not quite the same guy anymore. Don't get your hopes too high?
danny		'Couldn't convince Teddy to come?
milo		He's pretty tight with his family.
danny		We could move 'em up here.
milo		He just likes to write code. He's bummed there's so much secrecy and competition, everybody trying to own everything.
redmond		Who do you mean by "everybody."
milo		So -- how far are we from the campus?
redmond		Oh we're not going to the campus.
milo		Who's that?
danny		I think they call him the "Houseman." 'Cause "guard" sounds too weird.
danny		Don't be nervous. The house is the weirdest thing about him.
redmond		It's like he knows everybody expects him to be this worldly, colorful zillionaire. But he's just a guy who likes software.
houseman		Have a seat. He won't be long.
phil		We tried the big vaporware number, Gary, it's no-sale.
randy		Can we buy into their IPO? Or is that a Justice Dept. problem?
phil		There is no public offering. The guy who wrote it joined some freakazoid cult in San Luis Obispo. 'Wrote this just to run their web site.
gary		Milo? Excuse the tie. I was on TV.
milo		...That's okay.
gary		The house knows the paintings I like, it knows my favorite music. Same for anybody else who's in the system.
milo		Cool!
gary		Would you like a Coke or something?
milo		 Oh. No thanks.
gary		When we started, I just hired my smart friends. That was great. We got a little bigger, I had to hire smart strangers. Much harder.
gary		Now I don't get to hire anybody. But I know you're the guy to write Skywire.
milo		You know a lot about art, I guess.
gary		There's a rumor going around, maybe you've heard it.
gary		There's more to life than computers? I'm looking into it.
gary		'Once I start looking into something.
gary		I've only shown this to three other people. I bought 200, we've launched 12 so far. I keep the coordinates in this room.  It's left over from SDI. Reagan's Star Wars technology? They orbit 426 miles up.
milo		Low enough to relay internet traffic.
gary		 Among other things... We know convergence is the real super-highway: all the PC's, TV's, phones, etc. linked together. Why cram it into a cable if you can use the whole sky?
milo		 Skywire.
gary		The content filer has t'be written into the media files so bits coming off the satellite can be read by multiplatforms. Really, omniplatforms. Including whatever new hardware emerges.
milo		It needs a more object-oriented language. This doesn't scale, does it?
gary		You'd have to start practically from scratch. But this is all you'd be working on. No marketing meetings, no product seminars. We can't waste the time. Half the Valley's working on convergence. So're media conglomerates, cable companies, phone companies. 'Can't finish second, Milo. There is no second... Now what would you like to ask me?
milo		...Ask you?
gary		I know what people say, and not just the Justice Department. We clone ideas, inflict our second-rate versions on the world, we haven't
gary		Do I think that's fair? No. I'd put some of our apps up against anybody's. But is there some truth to it?
gary		When you get to a certain age, you start wondering. About your legacy. I doubt you even remember Outpost
milo		I do!
gary		 But somehow got away.
milo		If my dad'd leveled with me like that even once... The weird thing is, my fantasy he could somehow be like the old Gary? It's his fantasy, too.
alice		I think that's great, Milo. I do.
milo		...But?
alice		Didn't you visit the campus?
milo		I forgot. That's why you have to help me decide.
alice		No way. You have this -- destiny.
milo		C'mon, I wouldn't have a destiny without you. My destiny would be
alice		Don't bring that up. Like a different girlfriend would'd've let you die?
milo		 You saved my life in alot of ways.
alice		It's not just Gary that makes you wanna go there? 'Cause it's a big place. You might not even see him again.
milo		I know.
milo		When's Brian coming for the TV?
alice		Prob'ly waiting by the phone for Outpost to call. We'll leave it for him?
alice		'Give you guys some time alone.
milo		...You got my E-mail?
teddy		And your phone messages. You wanna do what you do, it's not a crime.
milo		Is that how Larry feels?
teddy		Uh. Not exactly.
milo		Wanted to say goodbye to him...
teddy		Hey, we got seed money for the startup! A million-five!
teddy		We rented a loft in Sunnyvale.  You know what's the bad part? We can't talk about work anymore. We're competitors! The venture capitalists made us sign like 100 confidentiality forms.
milo		Outpost made me sign 1,000. 'Guess we'll find out what else we have to talk about. Life stuff.
milo		Guess what? They got their --
alice		Milo, this is Mr. Barton from the Justice Department.  Sorry about the glass.
barton		Don't worry, Milo. I'm here as a friend. Or maybe a supplicant.
milo		Right... What's that mean again?
barton		Beggar. We're at a disadvantage with Outpost. Our experts aren't as smart as theirs. Sometimes we can't tell which technologies pose the threat of a monopoly. We need a really smart guy to help us pick our fights. I'm taking a shot in the dark, here. I can offer you 32,000 a year, a Buick. I'm hoping you've got a feeling it's the right thing to do.
milo		 It's just -- I kind of feel the need to do something with my ability. Create something...
barton		Like I said: shot in the dark.
barton		If you see something there that rubs you the wrong way? Do the right thing.
milo		That took some fun out of --
alice		We're not gonna let it.
cnn voice		-- ingested the fatal mixture of sedatives crushed in apple sauce. According to the cult's eerily professional website, it was "time to move on..."
redmond		There're 20 buildings, I mean not counting the Gyms, the Day Care, etc.
redmond		Gary's put millions in there. And the people with kids? They're not hotshot geeks, they're just payroll clerks or whatever.
redmond		You'll see alot of that: Department of Justice goons snooping around.
redmond		So how'd you like the house?
milo		His Snapples were in alphabetical order.
redmond		 'Guess he needs to micro-manage something.
receptionist		Milo, I'm Judith. Welcome!
redmond		Everybody has the same office, there's no dumbass corporate hierarchy.
desi		Get out while you can, dude!
redmond		Desi, Milo.
desi		The guy who was at Gary's house?
redmond		Best bomb shelters in America, accessible from every building. You gotta figure we're a major target, right?
redmond		Whoa. Lisa actually looked at you.
redmond		Every geek here's got a thing for Lisa. But that's about the biggest reaction she's had to anybody.
milo		 She's a programmer?
redmond		Heavy graphical background, doing design-interface for Skywire apps.  You'll be working with her.
milo		I've got a girlfriend, remember?
redmond		Right. That's rare around here. You know how nuns' re-married to Jesus? 'Posties are married to Outpost.
redmond		Here's your world.  Copy of Gary's book, also the audio version, narrated by Gary.
shrot		Unauthorized entries sound like this.
shrot		If you see a tailgater, report him.
milo		Tailgater?
shrot		 You see somebody wandering around without ID, it's your duty to challenge him. I don't give a shit if you're a stock-option billionaire. If you don't challenge, I'll have your butt.
milo		He seems a little -- tense.
redmond		Geeks pull his chain cause he's non- tech. Ex-cop or something. They moon cameras, or use ATM's as swipe cards. The cameras're our real security so he's a little demoralized.
milo		What're they building?
redmond		#21. Way behind schedule. It's top- secret, but everybody knows it's a digital broadcast space. They see the dishes on top, the fiber optics going in.
milo		Gary's not into fiber optics. He's betting everything on the satellites.
redmond		You wanna survive in the software business, you cover your bets... I gotta say, this is the weirdest car anybody ever requested.
redmond		Oh, right. Your girlfriend's an artist.
redmond		I phoned her at your hotel, told her about our corporate housing options. She sounds neat.
milo		...She is.  She is!
redmond		'Might be some friction on the domestic front. You're expected you to put in ridiculous hours. People've accused us of breaking up relationships to get their undivided attention.
redmond		Your counselor'll fill you in on everything else. That's who you'll be working with almost daily.
voice		Busy?
milo		No! Just waiting for my counselor to come by and introduce himself.
gary		Okay. I'm Gary.
gary		'Think I should buy some originals?
milo		...Do I?
gary		Somebody said I'm just another Philistine. With reproductions.
milo		That's insane. You're ahead of your time.
gary		That's what I told her. My wife.
gary		'Thinks I'll be less of a control freak if I have a hobby. 'Just gives me something else to obsess about...
gary		Anything we can salvage from the old code before you start fresh?
milo		Uh, might be one or two things.
geek 1		He's been in there like an hour.
geek 2		Shit.
milo		Could work with a new switch. There may be a few more things hidden.
gary		Don't spend too much time searching. You ever vetted somebody's old code before?  In a tree.
alice		...The corporate condos were as romantic as they sound.
milo		You know he's never been anybody's counselor before?
alice		Milo! What about --?
milo		Oh, It's great. It's great!  'Think I should tell him I learned everything using 1.0? Maybe I could show him one of my early programs.
doj agent		"Infotek's urgent need to license Outpost Office is such that we can use it as a tool in the current negotiation."  When you wrote the word "tool," what'd you mean by it?
gary		I don't remember.
doj agent		What d'you think you meant by it?
gary		I'm confused. Am I supposed to speculate under oath?
other agent		Since you didn't have an answer to that question, Mr. Boyd --
gary		 Didn't I? Have an answer? "I don't remember."
doj agent		Did you wanna take a break, Mr. Boyd?
phil		Your protege's moving so fast we can barely keep up with him.
gary		This is good. Who did it?
phil		'Start-up not 50 miles from here. Kid's on Prozac.
gary		Maybe we should all get on it.
gary		How's it going?
milo		Maybe I'm going too fast.
gary		 Too fast? At least four companies're on the verge of workable convergence systems, Milo, they --
gary		Even when I had a hand in every aspect of the company I knew the one thing you can never control is somebody's creative process.
milo		It's okay. Really.
gary		 Take a look at this. Slightly different approach.
milo		You did this -- overnight?
gary		You're making me young again.
news voice		...A graduate of MIT, he was on the antidepressant Prozac, and had been warned not to drink and drive. 
lisa		Milo?
milo		Lisa.
lisa		You know my name.
milo		You know mine.
lisa		You're famous around here.
milo		 I'm getting a teacher's pet rep.
lisa		I wouldn't worry about it. You've gotta figure most people around here were their teachers' pets.
milo		...Were you?
lisa		We moved around so much I barely knew my teachers.
milo		Me too! Were you an Army brat or something?
lisa		...Something like that. Yeah.
milo		Didn't mean to pry. I just have this theory. Some of us who got to good at this? We were -- escaping something.
milo		Did I say something?
lisa		No, I know what you mean. I used to spend my life wishing people could be like computers. Least they make sense. Sometimes you think they've betrayed you. Like a person would. But then you see, no, you just missed a step. You can go back and make it all work.
milo		I used to wish that. All the time.
milo		 What've you got there?
lisa		Graphical interfaces. For Skywire? I'm s'posed to coordinate with you.
milo		Show me.
milo		Cool!
lisa		Yeah? I ran it for lots of platforms, ranging from the narrowest bandwidth to --
milo		...Sh-Show me the next one.
secretary		Have a seat. He's with someone, but I know he wants to see you.
lawyer		Because we bundled it, the judge is threatening to enjoin the whole --
gary		I'm confused, Ted.
gary		Didn't you tell me they'd be Chapter 12 by the time they could hope to enjoin? I'm very confused, because you said they'd be ready to settle.
secretary		Go on in.  He's always happy to see you.
gary		Milo. What's up?
milo		Well -- you sent for me.
gary		Right... Right.
milo		You really wrote this just today?
gary		 What're you implying.
milo		 Nothing!
gary		Everything I do is under scrutiny. The questions they ask, trying to make anything strategic look sordid.  I'm confused. Doesn't everybody in business try to get ahead?
milo		 I'm sure.
gary		The purpose of this company isn't to destroy our competitors any more than the purpose of living is to breath. But the software business is binary: you're a zero or a one. Being obsessive isn't a crime. It's a character trait.
gary		It scales, don't you think?
milo		Definitely.
alice		This feels fairly grown up, I'd say.
milo		To our new life.  ...What's wrong?
alice		That's what I need to ask you.  You know you can't keep anything from me.
milo		He gave me some new code-fixes this morning. I said, "Did you really do this just today?" Cause I was impressed. He said "What're you implying?"
milo		It's the way he said it. Just the way my dad did, when he was caught in a lie. That's how you knew you were onto something ugly.
alice		 What would it mean, anyway? If he didn't write it?
milo		That's what I'm asking myself. Does he have some genius stowed away? Why not let him write Skywire.  'Not saying it makes sense.
alice		Milo!
milo		I'm so stupid.
alice		He's your boss. He's not your --
milo		 I know, I know.
alice		If you can't deal with him on that basis, you better get a new counselor.
milo		 Isn't that -- extreme?
alice		What's extreme is what that ER doctor said when he pumped your stomach. Eat another sesame seed and that's it.
alice		I mean, if one little comment from Gary is gonna upset you this much --
milo		You're right. It's -- a working relationship. Don't know what I was expecting.
alice		C'mon. Let's do the toast?
lisa		Did you wanna be alone?
milo		No. Please.
lisa		They just pushed up the schedule on Skywire apps. How fast are you going?
milo		"There is no second place." Plus every time I get jammed-up, Gary has an inspiration.  Is it like that with your counselor?
lisa		Mine's not the CEO. He barely remembers to take a shower.
milo		Right, right. But does he ever just, like, hand you code?
lisa		Maybe once. I re-wrote it, anyway.
milo		 You're compulsive.
lisa		Mmm-more like -- I have a little trouble. Trusting people.
milo		Why's that?
lisa		Long story. Not that interesting.
milo		So, when you were talking about wishing people were more like computers. Was that then? Or now?
lisa		Then and now.  But not right now.
voice		Milo!
brian		Just dropped off a resume. Almost got in the front door.
milo		You're living here?
brian		'Thought if I relocated it could help my case. I'm writing programs for the local public access station. Where any whack-job with 100 bucks gets his own show? God, does it suck.  Can you help me?
milo		Sure, I'll see what I can do.
brian		Well I parked illegally. See y'later?
milo		 I have a girlfriend.
lisa		That's great. I -- didn't know.
milo		She saved my life.
teddy		But these, like, White Supremacists trashed my office, last week.
milo		What?!
teddy		They're in the neighborhood. They usually hassle Vietnamese grocers.
milo		Jesus, Teddy.
teddy		I'm cool. They didn't touch the machine. Or my disks. Probably didn't know what they were. So, you a Moonie yet?  Milo?
milo		I met this girl.
teddy		What? Come on. Is it serious?
milo		I don't know.
teddy		Did you tell Alice?
milo		No! I keep thinking it'll go away. But there's this -- connection. She's been hacking since she was little, she had to move around a lot. Plus I see her every day, we're working on the same program. She's -- beautiful.
teddy		A beautiful geek? I don't wanna sound paranoid, or like a pig, but what're the chances?
milo		What d'you mean?
teddy		I dunno. I guess Larry's got me totally suspicious of that place.
milo		What does that mean?
teddy		Milo, geeks don't have two girlfriends. Most don't have one.
milo		I didn't plan this.
phil		There may be a little less trust after your outburst.
phil		Hasn't affected his work, though.
gary		Nothing does. Still. I want him to like me.
milo		...What's wrong?
milo		What!
alice		Teddy was killed last night.
milo		What're you -- what?
alice		It was a hate crime.
alice		I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
nelson		They trashed his hard disk, all his back-ups. Nothing's left.
milo		They caught the guys?
nelson		It's an airtight case. They found the weapon with Teddy's blood on it and their fingerprints. They'd been arrested twice for beating-up Asians. How come they weren't in jail?
milo		He told me about the break-in. He didn't seem to take it that seriously.
nelson		You guys don't take anything seriously do you? That's not on a hard drive?
alice		Nelson? Your mom wants you. It's time to go to scatter the ashes.
milo		I didn't know he was working with fiber optics.
alice		We gotta go too, honey.
milo		I know you lost all his work. Maybe I could come down here and --
larry		You are naive. Look at your employment contract: you can't work anywhere else in this field for at least few years.  Not that I don't miss you.
milo		Just thought his work should go on.
larry		He was on the verge of something, too. He was gonna show us the next day. He said "The answer's not in the box, it's in the band." Know what it means?
milo		It's only meaningful when you've got 40,000 lines of code to back it up.
larry		Man, could he write code. Totally elegant. He had his own style.
milo		Those really weird, short lines.
larry		Take good care of this guy.
lisa		You okay?
gary		I heard what happened.
milo		Were the flags for Teddy?
gary		Had you talked to him much lately?
milo		Just once. 'Guess I was worried we didn't have anything to talk about, since work was off-limits. Non- disclosure.
gary		Did you?
milo		Talk about work? Never!
gary		I meant did you find other stuff to --
milo		Oh. Yeah.
gary		You've been coming in early.
milo		It helps. Alice said it would help. To focus on something.  'Don't know what I'd do without her.
alice		You okay?  I miss him, too.
gary		Milo?
milo		Wow. You must have 20,000 lines of code there...
gary		34,000. But they're real short lines. 'Just came out that way.
gary		Been thinking about the push mechanism in the handler. And it came over me: it's in the wrong place.
milo		 The wrong place?
gary		The answer's not in the box. It's in the band.
milo		Gotta go home. 'Think I ate something.
milo		Alice? Alice!
alice		Are you saying you think they had something to do with his death? Nelson said it was an airtight case.
milo		I don't know what I'm saying. Maybe -- maybe they hired those guys.
alice		I can't see Outpost putting its reputation in the hands of people like that.
milo		I don't know! I just know it was Teddy's code. All these ideas flying in from everywhere. You know how he says "Any kid working in his garage can put us out of business?" It's like they know what every kid's doing.
alice		They hack into people's programs?
milo		Nobody does work like this on-line. It's in your PC, or in a mainframe. Self-contained. They'd have to be, like, watching people. Physically.  Oh Jesus.
milo		 It's a camera.
milo		It isn't a broadcast studio. It's -- a surveillance post or something. That's why they have the dishes on top.
alice		You're scaring me. I think we should just go.
milo		Go where? You can't get away from people like this.
alice		"Like this?" It's Gary you're talking about.
milo		 You think I don't know that?
alice		Milo. Why would he --
milo		How should I know? "Solving a problem," I guess. Or needing to control everything. I don't know.  I've gotta get in there.
alice		Even if all this were true. There're 20 other buildings. All of them filled with computers and --
milo		It's the only one with dishes on the roof. The studio's a front. That's why they keep postponing its opening.  ...gotta get in there.
alice		Milo, you told me those DOJ Agents are all over the place. How could they hope to hide a surveillance post?  And how can you get in there, anyway? With the cameras and the swipe cards --
milo		I can't just walk away!
alice		You can't just walk in, either.
milo		They stop the construction work at six or seven. The parking lot's mostly clear by two or three in the morning. Even the early Geeks don't get there before five.
alice		Is it two? Or is it three? Have you ever really noticed?
milo		No! I can't just keep my head in the sand. That's how I got into this mess.
milo		I know how to get in there. But you've gotta help me.
alice		 ...Whaddo I do?
milo		So you believe me?
alice		Just tell me what to do.
milo		Come on.
guard		Sir, you gotta use your own --  Where's your ID?
milo		Do you know who I am?
guard		It's my job, I gotta --
milo		 The kind of stock options I'm sitting on?
shrot		Every geek has to try this once to show me how smart he is --
another guard		There was an explosion in a Y-sector closet, we're evacuating the whole sector.
shrot		Un-nh, can't wander around without ID now. Just park your ass in that chair.
randy		What is it?
shrot		Not much. Glorified cherry bomb. Right by the civil defense sign? Some geek's idea of irony. I been saying we need a camera in this hall.
randy		There's nothing in this hall. Someone's pulling your chain, as usual.
shrot		 Unless it's a diversion. Milo's in my office. He was tailgating, so I --
gary		Milo? Try to have a clue. Try to think.
randy		That kid's the great white hope.
shrot		I could get it out of him.
randy		You're not listening.
milo		Everything okay?
delbert		How's it goin'?
guard		 Big night. Switched from tea to coffee. Brought new meaning to my work.
delbert		Yeah? Maybe I'll start my rounds with #21 tonight.
guard		You are a wild man.
randy		Maybe he'll get back to work.
phil		Speaking of which...
randy		Yeah, yeah.
milo		 ...in a tree...
phil		Did you download Corey? In San Jose?
randy		Damn. 'Have to go back over there.  Be so much easier if we could walk in the front door.
phil		You don't look anything like a three- year-old.
multimedia narrator		-- run this methamphetamine lab known to Federal Authorities, per ND 47, from which we removed the implement, fingerprints intact.
multimedia narrator		FBI footage, procured by ND 47, shows the aftermath of an Aryan Nations' killing in Denver. Note the evidence of torture, which is typical.
multimedia narrator		-- complete immersion in code-writing renders him both unobservant and suggestible [click]. On two occasions he went truant from classes to attend Comix Conventions.
multimedia narrator		-- Rebecca P, a Connecticut art stu- dent facing Federal drug charges, whose records were supplied to us by
multimedia narrator		...she planted the sesame seed both to test the extent of his proclivity and to provide a bonding experience, since she would quote "save his life."
multimedia narrator		-- should it be needed Milo's allergy is the ideal --
multimedia narrator		Note that the cult members are found reclining after swallowing the [click] Syringe marks best hidden at base of scrotum [click] mimics high blood alcohol [click] indistinguishable from kidney failure.
milo		Please don't be one of them.
multimedia narrator		...needs to be watched, due to her heightened level of suspicion --
multimedia narrator		-- and to her possible contagion of key employees.
multimedia narrator		In August '86 Lisa informed her mother of the sexual molestation by her stepfather, and of his threat to kill her should she tell anyone.
doj receptionist		He's not in yet.
milo		Can I wait in his office?
doj receptionist		It's locked, dear.
milo		Please.
doj receptionist		Wait in his outer office.
milo		Mr. Barton, do you remember me?
barton		...It's -- Milo, isn't it?
milo		Yes sir. I need to talk to you.
barton		Give me two seconds with Lacy here?  Go on in, I won't be a moment.
barton		Milo?
milo		Yeah. Hi. Thank you for seeing me.
barton		Have a seat.
barton		What seems to be the problem? You look a little upset.
milo		I am. I am, sir.
barton		Milo?
milo		My friend, my best friend, Teddy, was killed in Silicon Valley.
barton		My goodness.
milo		It was racially motivated. He's Chinese. He was. And... I know sometimes the FBI gets involved with that. Don't they?
barton		If there's a Civil Rights violation. But generally we let the local police and DA do their work first.
milo		I -- just wanna help bring these guys to justice. They're neo-Nazis.
barton		Let me look into it, see what's being done. Frankly, it's not my area.
milo		 'Just didn't know who else to talk to.
barton		 And Outpost? You're happy there?
milo		Yes sir.
alice		No.
phil		Not like him, is it? To do a thing like that without telling you. You're not losing your hold on him, are you?
alice		He'll tell me when he gets home.
phil		That'll be a test, won't it?
alice		Instead of busting my chops you should do something about that girl. Fire her. Or something.
phil		Lisa's an extremely valuable member of the Skywire team. We've got our eyes on her. You keep yours on Milo.
alice		 Prick.
alice		It's almost nine, I've been so worried!  What did you see in there?
milo		Nothing.
alice		Nothing?
milo		It's what they said it is. An unfinished broadcast studio. You were right... I just drove to Seattle and back.
alice		...Why?
milo		Remember Lyle Barton?
milo		The Justice Department guy who came to the apartment when --
alice		I remember.
milo		After I broke into 21 -- which was insane, thank God they didn't catch me! -- I just drove around. Trying to figure out what possessed me. You know what? I've been putting my own guilt on Gary.
alice		Guilt?
milo		 If I'd stayed down there, maybe this wouldn't've happened.
alice		Poor baby. You know that's not true.
milo		I thought, instead of indulging all these paranoid delusions, risking my job, alienating Gary, scaring you, I should do something useful with my grief. Help them find Teddy's killers.
alice		I was so worried about you.
milo		 ...been such a long night.
alice		That was -- different.
milo		...Different?
alice		You didn't feel it? So intense.
lisa		So you're not avoiding me.
lisa		What's wrong?
lisa		Why would you do a thing like --
milo		You thought about it too. You've been suspicious for a while. But it's not happening in there. It's happening in the Day Care.
lisa		The Day Care?
milo		Can we go someplace else?
milo		It's easy to know who the smart geeks are, the schools tell 'em. They upload medical files, school records, pharmacy files. They'd be happy just to steal code forever. But when a program gets close to fruition. Like Teddy. He was almost there.
lisa		But why would they --?
milo		You know. There is no second place. And what's the risk? The killings're undetectable, they're hand-tailored, they make "sense." I mean, they're in the information business. They have scenarios for all of us, too. In case we find out too much.
milo		I'm not one of them. Not trying to "suss you out."
milo		They killed my best friend! I'm living with somebody they pay to go to bed with me. Can't you trust somebody just once? I don't wanna be alone here.
lisa		I'm sorry, Milo... I'm sorry.
milo		 I know what he did to you.
lisa		Oh yeah?
lisa		So that's in my -- file?
lisa		Is that my -- scenario?  Tell me.
milo		They'd frame him.
lisa		 He's out of prison?
milo		 They're already watching you. If they had to, they'd give him this drug that mimics an alcoholic blackout. He'd wake up not even remembering his "act of revenge."
lisa		No.
milo		Nobody's gonna hurt you.
lisa		...Milo?
milo		Hmm?
lisa		I always felt if a -- boy I liked ever found out -- he'd run. He'd think I was unclean.
milo		No, no. Never.
voice		You're sure.
alice		He said it made sense that Gary's code was like Teddy's, that that clich about great minds was true. Said it was all about his own guilt.  Plus, he has a tendency to get Gary mixed-up with his dad once in a while. It always passes.
phil		He wasn't acting?
alice		I don't think he knows how.
lisa		What about the FBI?
milo		They've got this guy in the DOJ, maybe others. We tell the wrong person, it's over.
lisa		Who can we trust?
milo		There's always a logical answer -- you just have to define the question.
lisa		How do you let go of a secret without telling the wrong person.
milo		We don't tell anybody.  We tell everybody. At once. So there's no secret left to protect. When everybody knows, they don't dare touch us.
shrot		 No, Tony can't fill in for you, he's not at your authorization level.
len		Bob? You better look at this.
milo		Do we post it on the Net?
lisa		There're so many disinformation sites about Gary already. Where he has devil's horns or they crop him in with Saddam Hussein.
shrot		Could it be a glitch? Something the construction workers caused?
len		Unlikely. All 14 cameras are frozen. Do we call Randy and Phil? Tell 'em there may have been a break-in?
shrot		Not yet. 'Love to bust my ass cause I'm not in frigging Mensa.  Let's run a printout on card entries.
lisa		The mainstream media. TV, or a newsmagazine.
milo		Right. But Gary's tied-in to a lot of media conglomerates. Have to be careful who we pick.
lisa		We could cross-reference a data base on media ownership. But not on our own computers. Not even at home.
milo		Certainly not at my happy home.
milo		Gary, hi.
gary		You look a little tired.
milo		I'm okay. It's going well!
gary		'Have a look?
milo		Sure.
gary		Why did you move around so much? When you were a kid.
milo		...My dad was a compulsive gambler. Only he didn't think he was. That applied to guys who didn't have a "system." "Losers," who played games of chance. He could "read" people, so chance had nothing to do with it. No matter how deep a hole he dug himself, he'd give you the whole speech. And you'd better not point out the obvious.  His creditors would catch up to him. Loan sharks or whatever. He'd wake us in the middle of the night. Off we'd go, again.
gary		What would you tell the kids? At your new school? You had to come up with a good story, right?
milo		No. I just went deeper into the machine. Preferred being the geek to having to explain. Lying would've been worse.
gary		...Worse?
milo		Cause he was a liar. And I hated him.  Guess that's why I'm kind of clueless, even now. Didn't cultivate my conniving side. 'Not sure I even have one.
gary		Don't be so hard on yourself. With a brain like yours, you could connive with the best of 'em I bet.
milo		He's buying up pretty much everything: cable companies, baby bells, picture libraries, museum rights, film archives... Getting ready for Skywire.
lisa		 What about "60 Minutes."
milo		Yeah, they dig stuff like this.  "CBS News has partnered with Outpost Information Systems in a cable news
lisa		But still, you can't say CBS wouldn't love to break something like --
milo		 Say there's just one "mole" working there, like Barton at the DOJ. How do we know he's not the guy we've contacted? Or she? Or the guy she works for?
lisa		Time?
milo		 It's like a a continuous loop. We can go to some alternative press place that 1,000 people read, get them and us killed. But anything big enough for this is a parent of or a subsidiary to something Gary's got a finger in!
homework kid		Shhh.
milo		Sorry.
lisa		Milo?
lisa		How close are you?
milo		What?
lisa		He's got 12 satellites up. He's got dishes on top of 21. He's building this --  mega-network for Skywire. Let's use it.
milo		We can't just assume they're standing by to receive Skywire 12 months from launch. I'd have to write in an aglet.
lisa		A what?
milo		It's how on-line services push logos they wanna sell you. You don't ask for 'em, they just appear. 'Have to work on it somewhere besides my office or my house. And then the quality of the broadcast wouldn't exactly be digital, that's 12 months away.
lisa		But they'd still get the idea, right?
milo		You'd have to design a graphic interface to make the data pop. Maybe some audio, too. To tie it all in to Gary. How long would that take you?
lisa		It's a standard GUI. Once I've got a concept, it's maybe three day's work.
milo		Gary knows I'm close on Skywire. We have to do this fast.
lisa		Before they kill somebody else, too.
milo		 Oh, man. I'd have to get into Gary's house. To get the satellite positions.
lisa		You mean -- break in?
milo		I don't know --
lisa		And what if the broadcast dishes on top of 21 aren't hot yet? You said the place isn't finished.
lisa		I'll go look.  They'll just have a few more pictures of me snooping around.
milo		 Why were you so careless?
lisa		I thought the worst they would do is fire me. Who knew they took termination so literally?
milo		Why were you snooping in my office?
lisa		Oh.  I liked you. I was checking you out.
milo		I told Teddy about you.
lisa		What'd he say?
milo		"A beautiful geek? What're the chances?"
milo		I felt guilty. 'Cause I "owed so much" to Alice. But even then I was starting to wonder. Is it so great to be so consumed by this one thing that you let another person do your thinking for you? If you have a lucrative skill, it's all anybody wants from you. You grow older but you don't grow up. You turn into -- into --
lisa		Gary.
milo		Larry used to say how the guys who wrote the first cool operating systems, like the UNIX guys at Berkeley? They just gave it away. They figured it was human knowledge, it belonged to the world, like Shakespeare or aspirin. 'Know what I'm gonna do after we broadcast the incriminating stuff? Air the Skywire code. Then nobody can have a monopoly.
alice		Where were you?  You know you can't keep anything from me.
milo		Okay, yeah. I did something naughty... There's this amazing Comix store in Seattle.  To tell you the truth, I did it once or twice at Stanford. 'Guess I can't keep anything from you...
alice		 I won't turn you in.
len		Every entry was authorized.
shrot		Keep looking.
len		What're we looking for?
shrot		Any irregularity in the pattern.
tv voice		Last years' party-goers pledged over $2 million to the Museum; this year's event promises to raise even more. Lured in part by the chance to see the stunning Boyd house...
milo		Look at this.
alice		What?
milo		Why doesn't he ask us to his party. He's never even met you.
alice		He has thousands of employees, Milo --
milo		It's for the Museum. He knows you're a painter. If anybody should be invited --
alice		Milo --
milo		I know you think I'm too attached to him, but still. I am close to Gary. And you're the most meaningful person in my life.  I'm going back to the Comix place, why should I be killing myself.
alice		Milo, you --
guard		Hey! Get down here!
milo		This is a lifesaver. My PC crashed just before finals.
sister beatrice		None of us knows how to use it. I'm thinking of taking a course.  May I?
milo		Sure.
sister beatrice		Forget it.
lisa		I needed t'see it up close for a graphic. The outpost with a dish on top? I climbed up there to get it right.
shrot		 Next time you ask.
len		'Might of found something.
len		Delbert seems to enter #21 twice. Without leaving the first time.
shrot		Let's get him in here.
milo		Great. I knocked off the aglet, as soon as I get a passable version of Skywire we're there.
lisa		The dishes are juiced up, too.
milo		Thank God.
lisa		Milo? Shrot suspects somebody broke into #21. I was in his office when he was reviewing the card readouts.
milo		 Shrot's not one of them. He's blundering into this on his own.
lisa		He doesn't know about the Day Care.
milo		Hardly anybody does, that's the beauty part. No cameras, the DOJ doesn't bother with it, it's accessed by a tunnel they boast about. You know the best place to hide a leaf?
lisa		Yeah, that's old, in a tree.
milo		Oh.
lisa		Milo? What if Shrot notices somebody entered the Day Care at four A.M.? And tells them about it?
gary		Milo?
gary		I'm giving a benefit for the art museum Thursday night. Thought you'd like to bring Alice.
milo		That's great! Thanks.
gary		 'Sorry about the late notice...
desi		"Sorry about the late notice?"
shrot		Why did you enter #21 twice?
delbert		Huh?
delbert		This thing's screwed-up. Look here.  'Shows me going into the Day Care that night. I never been in the Day Care.
lisa		One window'll be obits I downloaded, based on the scenarios you described. The other windows'll accommodate the surveillance stuff you told me about. The idea is, this works with anything, since we can't edit.
lisa		Same with the excerpts I'm choosing: they'll play against any of the images you described.
milo		Perfect.  How am I gonna get away from the party long enough to --
lisa		You could always say you have to go the bathroom.
milo		That's lame, isn't it?
lisa		You'll come up with something.
alice		They called the house to ask who's your favorite painter.
houseman		Sorry, Sir, this part of the residence is restricted.
gary		Alice, I'm Gary. This is my wife, Clarissa.  Milo, this is Barry Linder, who's visiting from Hollywood.
linder		I hate being the Hollywood guy. It's so limiting. Meet my friend, Ricky.
ricky		Hi, guys.
gary		Barry's studio's gonna help fill the Skywire pipeline, thought you guys should meet.
milo		 Cool.
society woman		He's a sweetheart. He gave 10,000 PC's to the Library Association.
society man		All 10,000 of which will be signed onto his browser, no doubt.
society woman		And so what?!
another man		Wait'll all the books are on-line.
society woman		And so what?
linder		The merchandising implications are epic. A kid's watching the movie, he points and clicks at the laser blaster -- before the reel's even over he's ordered the toy.
alice		But, I mean -- Devil's Advocate -- won't that influence the content? Won't the artists complain? The directors or writers or whoever?
linder		Artists? Darling, the only art left in America is business. You're in Picasso's house!
milo		Where's the bathroom?
linder		The irreverence!
houseman		You'll have to use one over there.
milo		There's like eight women waiting in line. They take forever.  Please?
houseman		Right here.
gary		 You left my party to send E-mail?
milo		I couldn't do it at work cause of security or at home for -- obvious reasons.
gary		You could've handwritten it.
milo		I'm not much good at handwriting. Or parties.
gary		Oh, that's right. You're "clueless."
milo		Gary, I'm sorry if I was rude --
houseman		Everything OK, Mr. Boyd?
gary		No problem.  Is there?
milo		Gary, I --
gary		You see what's hanging on the wall?
gary		I hope you know what you mean to me. Not just because of what you're doing. Because of who you are.
milo		I do know, Gary. I feel the same way. I thought I was coming here for a job. But it's meant a lot more.
gary		When will you have a Beta version?
milo		I'm pretty close. But when I wrote the last contact switches, it wiped out a piece of the content filer. You know what it's like, writing software.
gary		I do know. You focus on the big problem. But somewhere down the chain, something breaks down. Something gets destroyed. At first it's upsetting. You feel you've lost control.
gary		So you have to remind yourself: it's just the process. Something's always lost along the way to anything worthwhile. Some little bug, some glitch. 'Can't get bogged down in that, you're doing something other people could never do. They lack the imagination, the brain, the nerve. Let them fret about every unforeseen consequence. You have to solve the problem. That's who you are.
alice		Are you gonna tell me where you went?
milo		I went to see the Skywire model in Gary's office. You know. Just to hold it again.
alice		Are you having an affair, Milo?
milo		No. No. I sent an E-mail to somebody, just now. To tell her how I feel about you.  You know I'm clueless, without you. You know I --
alice		 Just shut up?
len		Get the backslash, the colon, keys kids don't use but geeks do.  What would Milo want in here, anyway?
shrot		They know. 'Just they don't trust me with it. So we'll get the evidence, first, ask questions later.
lisa		Does he know you know?
milo		He suspects I know something. I think he was sort of -- explaining himself to me, in case I do.  But I've gotta go home for an hour.
lisa		Why?!
milo		She called to apologize. I said I was pulling an all-nighter. She said then come home just to say Hi. Which I always do when we fight, it's suspicious if I don't.
lisa		Please don't go.
milo		At this point the worst thing I could do is anything out of the ordinary.
lisa		Here's the interface.
alice		I'm a mess! I got this Hunan cookbook, since we're always afraid for you to eat in Chinese restaurants. I've been mincing things into teeny-tiny pieces all afternoon.
milo		Great!
alice		Look at me! I'm gonna change.
milo		 You look beautiful.
alice		Yeah? Give me a goodbye kiss.
milo		...What?
alice		I know you. You're gonna run back to work right after dinner. I want my kiss now.
alice		Be right back.
alice		Milo?
alice		Milo?
milo		Don't we have any chopsticks?
alice		Oh, right. Hold on.
milo		 One more minute...
alice		Here we go.
milo		Great.
milo		...wanna savor this.
alice		It's gonna get cold.
milo		Right. Wait. A toast.
alice		You're just afraid to eat it.
milo		To the artist.
milo		 It's great. It's great.
secretary		Milo, hi! How was the party?
milo		Great! Great! Thanks for asking!
len		You calling Phil and Randy?
shrot		I'm calling Gary.
shrot		He's left his office, we think he's gone back to the Day Care for some reason. Can you tell me why, Gary?  Wants to consult with Phil. Was it Phil's idea to run the fingerprints?
shrot		Come with me.
len		 Where we going?
phil		He's in the Day Care.
len		Bob, I'm a programmer, not a cop.
shrot		What are you doing?
milo		You're better off not knowing.
shrot		What're you doing?!
milo		They're surveilling programmers from in here. They steal their code. Sometimes -- I know this sounds insane -- sometimes they kill one.
milo		They let me break into 21. 'Cause there's nothing in there. You know they've been keeping things from you. 'Getting in the way when you try t'do your job. That's why you never told 'em your suspicions about me. Right?
milo		If you had I'd be dead now.
milo		You've been following your gut all along. Please don't stop now?
randy		What's going on here?
shrot		Who're these guys?
randy		Where is he?
shrot		We're too late. Take a look.
shrot		What's in here worth taking, anyway?
randy		He must be out there still --
shrot		 Forget about it. His car's not in the lot, he's gone!
voice		Hey!
desi		Wanna get a cheeseburger or something?
milo		Maybe another time.
randy		 Fellas, I'm gonna have to ask you to leave here now.
shrot		Wait a second. I'm the one who found out he was mucking around in here in the first place.
randy		We're all grateful for that. Really. Go out the way you came in?
milo		Meet me at the other location.
lisa		But you said the other --
phil		Yeah, alright.  He's off campus, he's taken some surveillance data with him.
phil		She's bringing her laptop, it's wired. Second she boots up, we're on 'em.
milo		Brian here? Brian Bissel?
randy		 Nothing. They haven't booted-up yet.
milo		This is the biggest Beta demo in like the history of software. You'd be my partner.
brian		You can't pre-empt Yoga, that's our biggest show.
milo		Brian! You wanna be a big deal, don't you? That's your dream in life.
brian		Will I get to work for Outpost?
milo		No. But you can write your own ticket in the Valley after this. We're gonna bring down Outpost.
brian		What?
milo		What'd they ever do for you?
brian		Okay.
milo		Great. Great! We need to drag a lot of heavy stuff in front of the door --
brian		What?!
milo		 Wanna be a part of history?
milo		 Well -- would you like to pick up an extra -- 232 dollars?
phil		 Nothing yet, Gary...
randy		 218 North Jericho Road.
randy		Public access TV station. KNQR.
phil		He's taken it to the public access station.
gary		That's what he was doing in here.
phil		Gary?
gary		Help me change the Skywire settings. Add five degrees to each satellite coordinate.
phil		Gary, don't worry, we --
gary		Just do what I'm asking!
brian		You're interfaced with our dish.
milo		 Gimme the coordinates?
lisa		Longitude 77 degrees, 03 minutes, 58 seconds East.
lisa		Latitude 38 degrees, 55 minutes, 14 seconds South.
phil		19 seconds South. Altitude 431 Miles.
brian		Is it your software?
milo		Is it your dish?
lisa		Maybe it's the satellite.
phil		Longitude 48 degrees 06 minutes --
lisa		They're already here. My laptop must be wired!
brian		 Milo?
milo		 We're there.
milo		Damn!
lisa		 You checked your connections?
brian		 Yes! Should you reboot?
milo		...He knows.
lisa		What?
milo		He's been altering the coordinates since we logged on. He's a step ahead.
phil		Ready for number three?
gary		Let's go.
phil		Longitude 109 --
gary		Wait... He knows.
phil		What?
gary		'Knows I'm altering the coordinates.
phil		Gary?
gary		Just do it.
gunther		Step aside. We won't hurt you.
lisa		Latitude 47 degrees.
milo		Wait a second. He knows I know.
brian		What?!
milo		He's working backwards, too.  Let's do number five?
lisa		Come now. They've got guns!
brian		 You there yet?
milo		 One more second.
brian		Hey, hey, relax, relax!
lisa		Oh my God.
brian		 Should I call Phil? Or do you?
brian		Milo? Wake up. Our regular programming will not be preempted tonight.
gunther		 Wait.
brian		...When did you know?
milo		 You should've called a few times to bug me about your job prospects.
lisa		Milo? Who's got Skywire?
phil		If Milo didn't launch Skywire, who did?
shrot		Now what are we doing? I don't get any of this shit!
len		I launched Skywire. Just pray the last set of coordinates Milo sent me connected us to Gary's satellite.
riman		 You know the scenario for this.
milo		'Last thing you wanna do is hurt us now.  Right?
gunther		 Who's seeing this?
brian		 Who isn't?
lawyer		The "murder" stuff is all innuendo: bad PR, legally null. 'Could probably be spun as Urban Legend. There is a case for corporate espionage, but if you cop a plea, you'll get a slap --
gary		Cop a plea? I'm confused, Ted. You think I knew about this?
gary		I'm running the company, fighting the DOJ, raising a family. Randy and Phil obviously overreacted. To this endless, antitrust witchhunt.
lawyer		 The government's gonna offer 'em a helluva deal to tie you into this. Whether you knew about it or not.
lawyer 2		Randy, Phil and whoever else knew about it.
gary		That won't be a problem.
gary		The world's seen it now. They know it's gonna dominate the convergence market even beyond how Outpost '98 dominates the desktop.
gary		You threaten TV networks, phone companies, catalog outlets, publishing houses, movie studios, travel agents, airlines, stock brokerages -- you sabotage the whole economy. Talk about undermining innovation!
lawyer 2		 Easy to spin, old as the hills: What's good for Outpost is good for America.
milo		Come on, Bob. Load in the other disk.
gary		"I had no knowledge of these activities, but I have to ask myself if the competitive environment I encouraged in some small way contributed --"
lawyer		Gary?
larry king		That'd change with a criminal indictment.
cyber pundit		There's no hard evidence he knew about this. Anybody who could implicate him seems to've vanished.
milo		Larry, Lisa.
larry		Your app kind of blew mine out of the water.
milo		 We'll come up with the next big thing.
larry		...You wanna work -- here?
milo		Got out of my other commitment.
larry		May I?
milo		Hey, wait!  Not giving everything away.
larry		C'mon. Bring your stuff.
larry		You guys'll be using Teddy's old space, is that okay?
milo		Cool.
****Dialogues from script :Antz.txt****

motivational counsellor		 Terrific!  You should feel insignificant!
motivational counsellor		 YES!!!  You know, people ask me, "Doctor, why are you always happy?" And I tell them it's mind over matter.  I don't mind that I don't matter!  Do you get it?  Do you get it?
motivational counsellor		 Z, we're part of the fastest growing species in the whole world!
motivational counsellor		Ask me why we're so successful.
motivational counsellor		I'm glad you asked me that question!
motivational counsellor		What do you see out there?
motivational counsellor		Right!  Ants!  Millions of creatures, each with his assigned task, all pulling together!
motivational counsellor		You see?  Being an ant is being able to say, "Hey -- I'm meaningless, you're meaningless."
motivational counsellor		Z...you need help.  Whoops!  We're gonna have to stop there.  Your minute is up!
motivational counsellor		Now back to work!  We've made real progress!  Remember -- let's be best superorganism we can be!
azteca		Hello?!  Earth to Z!  You better snap out of it, or there's gonna be a lot of pissed off ants!
azteca		 SHUT UP!!!  It's bad enough there's a food shortage without you complaining about it every day.
azteca		No, Z.  The squeaky wheel gets thrown away, alright?  You're a good ant, Z, even though you are a pain in my rear- segment.  I don't wanna see anything happen to you.  So quit mouthing off, before you get in trouble.
azteca		 Break's over.
azteca		Who cares, Z.  All I know is, we gotta dig.  We're not the ones in charge.
general formica		STAIRS!
general formica		Cut the chit-chat down there!  We've spoiled these workers, Carpenter.  They've never had it so good, and listen to them -- always grumbling and complaining...
carpenter		...Yes, sir.
general formica		What have they got to complain about? Three square meals a day...
carpenter		Actually, sir, we've cut them down to three roughly rectangular meals a week.
formica		Don't give me statistics, Carpenter. I know what I'm talking about.  DOORS!
formica		 Oil that, soldier.
queen		Ah!  General Formica.
queen		General, the severe food shortage that faces the colony...pains me. The thought of any of my children going hungry...  What steps are you taking to remedy the situation?
formica		We are launching a major offensive to expand our foraging territory...
queen		Yes, what else?
formica		Please don't worry, your majesty. Leave the worrying to me.  As you know, I'm not an ant of half- measures.  I don't pussyfoot around. This crisis is my number one priority, and I promise you it's being dealt with swiftly, and decisively.
queen		 Now -- what were we saying?
formica		 I do not recollect, your majesty. Will that be all?
queen		Yes, General Formica.  Carry on, my good man!  I don't know what we would do without you.
carpenter		 Princess Bala, sir.  Your fiancee.
formica		Princess!  You look -- outstanding. Is there anything I can do for you?
bala		Well -- I thought -- since we're getting married...it might be nice if we...got to know one another.
queen		Bala has always been a hopeless romantic, General.
bala		It's just that -- well, I'm honored that you selected me, and everything, I just thought the marriage might go a little more smoothly if -- we had a conversation?
formica		 Wasn't she briefed?
queen		 Next!
formica		 I'll take your suggestion under advisement, Princess.  In the meanwhile --
bala		General -- we have to talk sometime!
formica		Very well.  Carpenter, is there a convenient time to talk vis-a-vis: relationship?
carpenter		Actually, sir, we're ahead of schedule.  We have thirty-six seconds available right now.
formica		Outstanding.  Princess...?
bala		So, um...how was your day?  What did you do?
formica		 I declared war!
bala		 Oh...and I was afraid we had nothing in common...
carpenter		 Fourteen-fifty hours, sir.
formica		Duty calls!
formica		No squeak.  Outstanding!
queen		 I felt the same way before I got married.  Confused.  Scared.
bala		 You did?
queen		Yes -- but I did my duty and sorted out all those messy feelings.  The wonderful thing about ant life is that everything is arranged.  Even marriage.  You're lucky -- General Formica is a paragon of anthood.
bala		 Yes...he's wonderful...
bala		Wrong?  How could anything be wrong? I'm going to marry General Formica and be a queen and have millions of babies, just like my mom.  Do I look fat to you?
bala		The Club's so stuffy.  I want to try someplace different.
bala		The worker bar!  Yes!  That's where I want to go!
weaver		 I'll be back.
aphids		 Ouch!  Ouch!
bartender		Two aphid beers.
weaver		I don't know what you're talking about, Z.
weaver		Yeah, but you get to spend all day with those fabulous worker babes.
weaver		Who said there was a girl for you? I was talking about a girl for me.  Don't you want your aphid beer?
weaver		Z, we've known each other a long time, right?
weaver		And all the time I've known you, you've been grumping and groaning. You should quit making waves.  Go with the flow.
drunk scout		Have you been to Insectopia?  Have you?  No, ya goddam larvas!  But I have...  It's Insectopia!  Insectopia!
drunk scout		I was cut off from my unit -- found it by mistake --  You see -- ya follow the great yellow egg, and you come to the land of red and white --
soldiers		You've had enough for one night! Come on, Gramps, before you get in trouble.
weaver		Poor guy's had one too many scouting missions.
bala		I'm the Princess, aren't I?
bala		And do Princesses do improper things?
bala		Then if I go to the worker bar, it isn't improper.  Anyway, don't worry. No one will recognize us in our disguises.
bala		I'm just a common worker, cooling off after a rough day!
barker		 Okay, folks.  It's six-fifteen, and that means it's time to dance.
weaver		 Time to cut a rug, Z!
weaver		Well, you just sit here and be a party-pooper.
barker		 And a left-right-quarterstep-back step-halfstep -- a left-right- quarterstep-backstep-halfstep -- a left-right-quarterstep-backstep halfstep --
bala		I'm going to ask one of these mindless, primitive worker-types to dance with me!
bala		 I know.
bala		Wanna dance?
bala		 I work in the palace, I don't get out much.
bala		 What?
bala		Are you sure this is a real dance?
bala		 Really?
bala		You're right!
bala		Why can't I just do whatever I want to do?  Why can't I just go wild?! Yahoo!
soldier		Hey!  Watch your step, worker.
bala		You watch yours, soldier, or my worker friend will beat you up!
bala		Aren't you gonna stand up for yourself?
soldier		How come you don't dance like the rest of us?
mandible		You look like a worker to me.
weaver		Hey, lay off my little buddy!
bala		Uh oh.  Goodbye!  Gotta run!
bala		Let me think.  Hmmnn...  Never.  Bye!
weaver		Get real, Z!  She just dropped the scarf by accident!
weaver		It's a sign that you're crazy!  Do you know what the penalty for impersonating a soldier is?
weaver		 I can't think of any.
weaver		Will you introduce me to some worker girls?
weaver		Maybe I'll get lucky.  You know, Z, I wouldn't do this for anyone but you...
weaver		Wear this.
weaver		 Yeah, I know.
weaver		Don't tell anyone you're a worker. Follow that column over there.  And come right back after the inspection!
loud voice		ATTEN-SHUN!
formica		First of all, let me make one thing clear.  Nobody ever won a battle by thinking for himself.  All this "thinking" stuff is a load of crap. If the almighty had wanted you boys to think, he wouldn't have given you huge mandibles and a brain so small you'd misplace it if it wasn't trapped inside your head.
formica		 Hell, we're not an army of ants...we're one giant ant, with giant fists, and giant jaws!
formica		Now I've heard a lot of scuttlebutt about a food shortage.  Well you boys are gonna be taken care of.  But in the meantime we're gonna eat the enemy for breakfast, we are gonna eat the enemy for lunch, and we are gonna eat the enemy for dinner!
formica		 And I know each and every one of you boys will do your duty.  Dismissed.
colonel		Stow the gab there, soldier!  Let's move 'em out!
colonel		Eyes...left!
bala		 Who is that idiot?
queen		Darling, you must encourage the troops -- wave!
barbatus		You new, kid?
barbatus		Trial membership?  Kid, when you join this ant's army, you're in for the full hitch.
barbatus		Are you crazy, kid?  They shoot deserters!
barbatus		You just stick by old Barbatus. He'll watch out for you.  Whatsamatter, kid?  Leave a girl behind?
barbatus		No -- we're going to attack the termites!
ant soldiers		 We ants go marching one by one, hurrah, hurrah!  We slaughter termites just for fun, Hurrah! Hurrah!
barbatus		 No such luck.  Those dirty terms are five times bigger than us, and they shoot acid from their foreheads!
soldier ants		We ants go marching two by two, hurrah!  Hurrah!  We'll all be dead before we're through, hurrah!  Hurrah!
barbatus		Our platoon has the best assignment of all.  We're the first into battle!
ant soldiers		We ants are marching three by three, hurrah!  Hurrah!  Dead ants is what we soon will be, hurrah!  Hurrah!
barbatus		Superior numbers, kid!
colonel		ATTAAAAAAAAACK!!!
barbatus		Over the TOOOOOOOOOOOOO-OP!!!
barbatus		It's too damn quiet.
barbatus		Don't be scared, kid.  Barbatus's got yer back.
colonel		 Light it up!
colonel		They're here!!!
barbatus		 Keep your head down!
barbatus		Don't get all sappy about it!
colonel		I love the smell of formic acid in the morning.
ant officer		 He's killed their Queen!
ant officer		VICTORY!!!
ant officer		Let's slaughter them all!
ant officer		INCOMING!
barbatus		Be honest, kid -- am I hurt bad?
barbatus		No -- I can see it in your eyes.  I'm a goner.  It's alright, Z.  In this ant's army, a soldier's life ain't worth a sack of fungus.  I can't feel my legs...
barbatus		 I wonder...what...was it all...for...
barbatus		Don't make my mistake, kid... don't...be a grunt...your whole life...
azteca		Hey, slow it down, big boy.  You're making the rest of us look bad...How come I haven't seen you around here before?
weaver		 I'm new...I was born yesterday.
azteca		Tell me about it.
weaver		Nobody told me digging was so much fun!  You pick up the dirt, you move it, you pick it up again, you move it again -- lots of repetitions, you exercise the forceps, and the pincers --
azteca		 Mmm, yes, I see what you mean...
foreman		What's the holdup here?!
weaver		Sorry, sir -- I was just having a little chat with my friend --
foreman		 Who said you could have a chat? You're not a chatter, you're a digger!  So shut up and dig!
azteca		Leave him alone!  He's new.
foreman		You  too?  Well just for that, you lose your day's rations!  Now get back to work!
azteca		 I don't know what came over me, talking back like that.  I must be going crazy...
weaver		Sorry I got you in trouble.  But listen, you can share my rations.
azteca		 Are you asking me out to dinner?
weaver		 No -- I mean yes -- I mean -- if you don't have other plans.
azteca		I'll make myself available...Listen, better watch out with the backtalk.  I don't know want you to end up like the guy who used to work next to me.  I'm afraid he got... downsized.
guard ant		Look!  They're back!  The army's back!  Alert the colony!
excited ants		The army's returned!  Our brave boys are back! 
azteca		It looks like only one soldier made it back!
weaver		 Poor Z -- I should never have let you go!
formica		ONE TO NOTHING!  WE WIN!
formica		Damn, I'm proud of you, boy.  I wish I had a hundred ants of your caliber. The world would tremble.  Now, time for some R and R.  You're invited to the royal victory party!
formica		Of course.  The entire royal family will be there to honor you.
azteca		Wait a minute, that's no soldier -- that's Z!
weaver		Z?  Our Z?  The little guy made it!
formica		Son, you're an ant after my own heart.  A warrior.  An ant that looks death right in the face and laughs.
formica		Well she better -- she's engaged to one.  Me!
formica		Affirmative.
formica		In love?  I'm just a plain old soldier at heart.  I'll tell you what I love -- the field -- blood -- death -- orders...and the company of other warriors.
formica		Yes, and do you know why there's a food shortage?
formica		Negatory.  Too many ants.  And while we soldiers go out there, and fight, and bleed, and die for the colony, the namby-pamby workers live it up back home.
formica		I tell you son, sometimes, at night, I see myself in battle, fighting a horrible, faceless enemy, with the future of our whole species at stake. And always, the dream ends with each of us plunging his sword into the other's heart...
officer		 Who cares?  They're workers!
bala		You're the hero of the recent termite campaign, aren't you?
bala		I'm Princess Bala.
bala		Yes.
queen		All these parties are so marvellously alike.
formica		They should be...  But there's something funny about that soldier.
formica		 May I cut in?
bala		 No, General.  I'm dancing with the war hero.
bala		You dance...
bala		No weirdly...You remind me of someone...
bala		He was swarthy...primitive... earthy...sensual.
bala		He was a worker.  I danced with him at a worker's bar just the other day. I'm not shocking you, am I?
bala		 OH MY GOD, IT'S YOU!  YOU'RE A WORKER!!!  A filthy, stupid, disgusting WORKER!
bala		I CAN'T DANCE WITH A WORKER!
bala		 Quiet -- sshhh!!
bala		SSHH!!!  SSHH!!!
formica		 What's this?  A worker has been masquerading as a war hero?!
formica		ARREST HIM!
queen		Oh my god!  He's taking her hostage!
princess		This is thoroughly unacceptable!
bala		I'm coming!  I'm coming!
bala		I'm going!  I'm going'
bala		What was that thing?
bala		I order you to find out where we are!
bala		Climb up that tree and get a better view!
bala		I've been kidnapped by the village idiot.
bala		How dare you speak to me like that? I'm the Princess!
bala		Of course!  It defines society!  To deny the precept is to say that order is an arbitrary distinction applied by the society itself!
bala		No!  There's no such thing as "just two ants."  You never see just two ants -- you see a million ants!
bala		I -- hate -- you.
bala		Ha!  Don't make me laugh.  You're crazy about me!  That's why you lied and cheated to get near me!
bala		 I was slumming it!  I danced with you because you were the most pathetic specimen in the place!
bala		I didn't choose him.  What kind  of idiot would...  ...choose who she wanted to marry?
bala		Now, worker, you shall take me back to the colony, and have your head cut off and stuck on a sharp pole!
bala		Insectopia?  You stupid worker, that's just a fairy tale!
bala		Worker!  Come back here now!
bala		That's not a name!  That's just a letter!
bala		 Z?  Z?  Wait for me!!!
azteca		I tell ya, I'm gettin' sick of bein' yelled at.
weaver		You know, you're not just workers -- you can be whatever you want to be! Look at Z!  He started as a worker -- then he became a soldier!
azteca		That's right!  He slaughtered hundreds of termites single-handedly!
weaver		Well, because he's more than a worker...he's a...what did he call it, Azteca...
azteca		Invisible!
weaver		No -- an individual!
weaver		Well, it's...someone with his own point of view...someone who does what he wants, not whatever he's told to do!
azteca		 Someone who follows his heart!
weaver		 Right...because every ant's important!
weaver		We can all be individuals!  Just like Z!
bala		Water...water...
bala		 My skin's dry, my exoskeleton is cracking...I wish I'd never met you, you ruined my life.
bala		Look out!
bala		We're going to die!
bala		Why didn't I listen to my mother ...why'd I have to go looking for trouble? Any ant would have given their left legs to be in my position...what's wrong with me?
bala		 Wait, I hear something!
bala		WATER!!!
bala		Cut me down a soft leaf so I can take a nap.
bala		 Out here I'm just what?
bala		 Stop fooling around in there.
bala		Let me go!!!
bala		 I'm going to be rescued soon.  I'm going to be rescued soon.  I'm going to be rescued soon.
bala		General Formica won't let me die out here.  I'm his fiancee.
bala		Five thousand three hundred and ninety -- no.  About five thousand four hundred by now.
bala		Well...no, but --
bala		 Well...I am the oldest.
bala		By three seconds...
bala		 You're right.  There are as many Princesses...as there are blades of grass.
formica		Dammit, this tunnel is priority A-1! We can't afford any delays on this project!
carpenter		I've never seen anything like it, General, they're they're...well, look!
worker ants		Z!  Z!  Z!  Z!
foreman		 Where do ya think you're going?  Get back to work!
formica		Notice the big one, holding hands with the female?
carpenter		Well, uh, who notices workers, sir?
formica		 No one should have to.  Have him brought to me.
formica		So this Z...he fancies himself an individual?
weaver		Yeah...I mean...well...I don't know, really, sir.
formica		 Well now you haven't fallen for this silly idea of individuality, have you?
weaver		Oh, no, sir!
formica		Good.  You're a good soldier.
weaver		Thank you, sir.
formica		So tell me.  Where's Z?
weaver		I...I have no idea, sir.
formica		Okay, son.
formica		We know what makes an ant colony strong, don't we?  We know that no ant can be an individual.  No single ant matters, right?
weaver		 That's correct, sir!
formica		 Or that one.
weaver		No, sir!
formica		 Or that one?  Her life doesn't matter, does it?
azteca		Don't tell that tightass anything, Weaver!
weaver		Wait!  Just let her go!  Z's long gone anyway, following some golden egg to Insectopia!  You'll never catch him!
formica		Insectopia, hunh?...See why individuality is so dangerous?  It can always be used against you.  If this sissy here wants to dig, he'll dig.  Send them both back to the tunnel project.  Double their workload.
formica		What do we have on this "Insectopia"?
carpenter		Scattered reports, sir.  Rumors. Nothing reliable.
formica		Desperate times call for desperate measures.  Get me Ant Team Six.
carpenter		 Ant Team Six...
bala		 I swear, we've passed this blade of grass three times.
bala		Face it, Z, we're lost!  We must have walked halfway across the world by now!  How did I get into this mess...
bala		 What difference does it make...we're both going to starve to death, or get squished, or set on fire...
bala		 Z, it's beautiful!
male wasp		 You down there, haven't you ever been to a picnic?
female wasp		Habla Ingles?  Well I really don't know who they are.
male wasp		Poopsie, we know some ants, don't we?  Are you related to the Fifth Avenue ants?
female wasp		Darling, do you have to talk to any insect from off the street?
male wasp		Just being friendly, Poopsie.
bala		Hello?  I'm not just "any insect". My mother is the Queen.  I'm Princess Bala!
male wasp		 They're Eurotrash, dear.
male wasp		Lunch!  A little piece of advice, sport -- bob and weave!  Bob and weave!
bala		What do you mean?
male wasp		Well -- like my father used to say -- there's no such thing as a free meal!
the wasps		Excuse me -- I'll have some potato salad -- thank-you! -- don't mind if I do!  After you! 
bala		Oh...my...God.
male wasp		 Muffy!  Muffy!  Wake up!
male wasp		 WHYYYYYYYYYYYYY????
bala		MMMffllmmm...
bala		Z!  Help me!!!
bala		Z!!!  Get me out of heeeeere!
bala		Z!!!!!!!  I'm stuck!
bala		Z!  You're here!
bala		 Z...if we don't make it...I just want you to know....
bala		This is all your fault!!!
major mandible		And don't come back, you sissy!
mandible		Talk to me.
commando ant		Z and the Princess were here, sir. Signs of a struggle.
mandible		Let's get a read on that feremone track.
tracker ant		Bala...find Bala...
tracker ant		 Nnononononononoyeahyeahnononononono no...
mandible		Z -- you dirt-digging, fancy-dancing, wisecracking, royalty-grabbing, rebel SCUM!  I AM COMING FOR YOU!  YOU ARE ONE DEAD ANT, MISTER!
mandible		Let's MOVE!  GO, people!  GO!  GO! GO!  GO!  GO!
bala		Come on, Z.
fly		What's with the bummer attitude?
butterfly		Yeah -- nobody stresses out in Insectopia!
bala		Did you say...
bala		 Z, we made it!
fly		 C'mon in!  The nectar's fine!
fly		 Hey, take it easy!  There's nothin' to be afraid of!
cricket		Dude, here in Insectopia, we don't judge people by how many arms and legs we've got.
fly		Yeah, back home, they called me a fruitfly.  But here, I'm known as...  Superfly.
cricket		Anyway, big Gus is mellow.
bala		Just looking for fun, adventure, trouble, I guess.
bala		You held onto this all that time?
beetle		Hey Z!
beetle		Wanna bring back dessert?  There's a thirty foot long blimp in the next can, made completely of chocolate!
tracker ant		Yesyesyesyesyes --
mandible		Talk to me.
mandible		Let's move in.
cricket		What if, like...we're just these tiny little things, and we're just like part of this whole other huge universe, that's like, so big we don't even know it exists?
ladybug		Man...that's so deep...
mandible		EVERYBODY DOWN!
mandible		Alright, you hippy scum!  Make one move and I'll exterminate you!
bala		Stop!  You don't understand!
mandible		I don't have to understand, Missy -- I've got orders.  Now where's Z?
fly		Man, your girl is fly, know what I'm saying?
ladybug		Bala's been kidnapped!  Some flying ants took her back to the colony!
male wasp		I know what it's like to lose someone...I keep hearing the sound of Muffy's flapping wings...so I'll take you.
fly		Geez.  I feel like a real stinkbug.
male wasp		Sorry.  Turbulence.
formica		Princess Bala.  Good.  Where's Z?
bala		He's...he's dead.  You don't have to look for him anymore.  He was eaten by a praying mantis.
formica		 It's a shame he died prematurely...I was hoping to kill him myself.
bala		Well you'll never be able to hurt him where he is now.  I miss him already.
formica		 You miss him?  Why?
bala		 Because...because he's twice the ant that you are.  I could never go through with marrying you.  I'm -- I'm an individual, and when I get married, it'll be to someone I choose.
formica		 Princess Bala, I'm just a simple old soldier, and the ways of the feminine mind are a little too complex for me. But one thing I do know is, there are more Princesses where you came from. I just hope they're not all like you. In the meantime, maybe we can arrange for you to see Z again after all.
male wasp		Good luck, Z.  For a wingless insect, you're alright by me.
soldier ant		You there!  Worker!
soldier ant		What are you doing out here!  All workers are to remain inside the colony, by orders of General Formica!
queen		Very impressive, General.
mandible		Wave that flag, you maggot!
formica		Is there anything wrong, your majesty?
queen		It's just...How I miss Bala.  I wish she were here for this special moment.
formica		 She is, your majesty.  She is.
tracker ant		 Z!  Z!  I smell Z!
tracker ant		 Bala!  Yeahyeahyeahyeahyeah!  Find Bala!  Yeahyeahyeahyeah!
tracker ant		Yeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeah...
tracker ant		Bala...Yeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeah...
bala		Z!  You came back!
bala		There's something going on, Z --
bala		They're having a ceremony to open the Megatunnel...
bala		Oh no...
bala		Z!  what are you doing?
bala		 Z!!! Wait for me!
formica		Your majesty, I'm afraid matters of state keep me from attending the ceremony.
queen		But General -- this tunnel is your baby!  You're sure you can't stay ?
formica		'Fraid not, your majesty.  Goodbye, your majesty.
queen		Very well, General -- I know you -- all work and no play!
formica		Alright, let's move out!
queen		In the name of the colony, I declare this tunnel open!
queen		Bala!
bala		Mom!
weaver		Yes he is.
workers		Hey...it is Z...listen to what he says! [etc].
weaver		Z...I'm so sorry!  I --
queen		 Oh...it's that social-climbing worker again -- what does he want?
mandible		 Let 'er rip!
azteca		Listen!
queen		You there!  Stop!  I say!
azteca		There's no way out!
queen		We're all going to drown!!!
bala		Z...what can we do?
weaver		You heard the ant -- DIG!!!
worker		He did it!  Z!  Z!  Z!  Z!  Z!
formica		Z.  I should have known.  All that work, all that preparation, come to nothing.  All because of one stinking ant.
formica		ALRIGHT.  WHICH ONE OF YOU IS Z?
formica		WHAT ARE YOU, DEAF?  I ASKED YOU, WHERE'S Z?
formica		Folks, you may have survived that flood, but there's no way you're gonna escape from me.  I'll make you a deal.  Hand over the rebel leader Z, and you survive.
formica		But if you don't hand him over, you're all going to die, each and every single..."individual" one of you.
formica		What shall it be, workers?
formica		Have it your way.
weaver		No, I'm Z.
azteca		I'm Z!
bala		No, I'm Z.
workers		I'm Z!  I'm Z!  I'm Z and so is my brother!  I've been Z for weeks now!
queen		 We are Z.
all		I am Z!  I am Z!  I am Z!
formica		ATTACK!
fly		Hey, guys!
wasp		It's them!
wasp		Are these hooligans giving you trouble, Z?
fly		Say the word, Z, and we kick their butts.
formica		What are you doing?!  ATTACK!!  Don't just stand there, Carpenter! Make an example of yourself!
carpenter		Uh, actually, we are outnumbered sir...
formica		AHHHHHHH!!
formica		Please...I...I can't swim...Help me...
formica		I guess it does...to the ant.
carpenter		Sir, if it's any consolation, I still think you're completely worthless as an individual.
bala		A few?
****Dialogues from script :Apartment.txt****

the apartment		 by  Billy Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond
kirkeby		 Come on, Sylvia.  It's getting late.
kirkeby		Cut it out, Sylvia.  We got to get out of here.
sylvia		What's the panic?  I'm going to have another martooni.
kirkeby		Please, Sylvia!  It's a quarter to nine!
sylvia		 First you can't wait to get me up here, and now -- rush, rush, rush! Makes a person feel cheap.
kirkeby		Sylvia -- sweetie -- it's not that -- but I promised the guy I'd be out of here by eight o'clock, positively.
sylvia		 What guy?  Whose apartment is this, anyway?
kirkeby		 What's the difference?  Some schnook that works in the office.
bud		Good evening, Mrs. Lieberman.
bud		No, no.  Just waiting for a friend. Good night, Mrs. Lieberman.
kirkeby		Come on -- come on, Sylvia!
sylvia		Some setup you got here.  A real, honest-to-goodness love nest.
kirkeby		Sssssh.
sylvia		 You're one button off, Mr. Kirkeby.
sylvia		You got to watch those things. Wives are getting smarter all the time.  Take Mr. Bernheim -- in the Claims Department -- came home one night with lipstick on his shirt -- told his wife he had a shrimp cocktail for lunch -- so she took it out to the lab and had it analyzed -- so now she has the house in Great Neck and the children and the new Jaguar --
kirkeby		Don't you ever stop talking?
kirkeby		Where do you live?
sylvia		I told you -- with my mother.
kirkeby		Where does she live?
sylvia		A hundred and seventy-ninth street -- the Bronx.
kirkeby		All right -- I'll take you to the subway.
sylvia		Like hell you will.  You'll buy me a cab.
kirkeby		Why do all you dames have to live in the Bronx?
sylvia		You mean you bring other girls up here?
kirkeby		Certainly not.  I'm a happily married man.
bud		Oh.  Hello there, Mrs. Dreyfuss.
bud		I seem to have dropped my key.  Oh -- here it is.
bud		Oh, you don't have to worry about that -- nothing in there that anybody would want to steal...  Good night, Mrs. Dreyfuss.
kirkeby		The little lady forgot her galoshes.
bud		Mr. Kirkeby, I don't like to complain -- but you were supposed to be out of here by eight.
kirkeby		I know, Buddy-boy, I know.  But those things don't always run on schedule -- like a Greyhound bus.
bud		I don't mind in the summer -- but on a rainy night -- and I haven't had any dinner yet --
kirkeby		Sure, sure.  Look, kid -- I put in a good word for you with Sheldrake, in Personnel.
bud		 Mr. Sheldrake?
kirkeby		That's right.  We were discussing our department -- manpower-wise -- and promotion-wise --  -- and I told him what a bright boy you were.  They're always on the lookout for young executives. BUD Thank you, Mr. Kirkeby.
kirkeby		 You're on your way up, Buddy-boy. And you're practically out of liquor.
bud		I know.  Mr. Eichelberger -- in the Mortgage Loan Department -- last night he had a little Halloween party here --
kirkeby		Well, lay in some vodka and some vermouth -- and put my name on it.
bud		Yes, Mr. Kirkeby.  You still owe me for the last two bottles --
kirkeby		I'll pay you on Friday.  And whatever happened to those little cheese crackers you used to have around?
bud		 Cheese crackers.
bud		Hi, Doc.  Had a late call?
bud		Oh.  'Bye, Doc.
bud		Oh, that's not me.  It's just that once in a while, I have some people in for a drink.
bud		I'm sorry if it gets noisy --
bud		Me?
bud		My body?  I'm afraid you guys would be disappointed.  Good night, Doc.
announcer		-- from the world's greatest library of film classics, we proudly present --  GRAND HOTEL!
announcer		But first, a word from our sponsor. If you smoke the modern way, don't be fooled by phony filter claims --
announcer		And now, Grand Hotel -- starring Greta Garbo, John Barrymore, Joan Crawford --  Friends, do you have wobbly dentures -- ?
bud		Hello? -- Hello? -- yes, this is Baxter.
dobisch		Hiya, Buddy-boy.  I'm in this bar on Sixty-first Street -- and I got to thinking about you -- and I figured I'd give you a little buzz.
bud		Well, that's very nice of you -- but who is this?
dobisch		Dobisch -- Joe Dobisch, in Administration.
bud		 Oh, yes, Mr. Dobisch.  I didn't recognize your voice --
dobisch		That's okay, Buddy-boy.  Now like I was saying, I'm in this joint on Sixty-first -- and I think I got lucky --  -- and I thought maybe I could bring her up for a quiet drink.
bud		I'm sorry, Mr. Dobisch.  You know I like to help you guys out -- but it's sort of late -- so why don't we make it some other time?
dobisch		Buddy-boy -- she won't keep that long -- not even on ice.  Listen, kid, I can't pass this up -- she looks like Marilyn Monroe.
bud		I don't care if it is Marilyn Monroe -- I'm already in bed -- and I've taken a sleeping pill -- so I'm afraid the answer is no.
dobisch		 Look, Baxter -- we're making out the monthly efficiency rating -- and I'm putting you in the top ten. Now you don't want to louse yourself up, do you?
bud		Of course not.  But -- how can I be efficient in the office if I don't get enough sleep at night?
dobisch		It's only eleven -- and I just want the place for forty-five minutes.
blonde		I'm getting lonely.  Who are you talking to, anyway?
dobisch		My mother.
blonde		That's sweet.  That's real sweet.
dobisch		 Make it thirty minutes.  What do you say, Bud?
bud		 I'm all out of liquor -- and there's no clean glasses -- no cheese crackers -- no nothing.
dobisch		Let me worry about that.  Just leave the key under the mat and clear out.
bud		 Yes, Mr. Dobisch.
bud		 Anything you say, Mr. Dobisch -- no trouble at all, Mr. Dobisch -- be my guest --
bud		-- We never close at Buddy-boy's -- looks like Marilyn Monroe -- 
blonde		This the place?
dobisch		Yeah.  How much?
cabbie		Seventy cents.
dobisch		Get the money, will you?
dobisch		Watch those stingers!
dobisch		Give him a buck.
dobisch		Now put it back, honey.  Atta girl.
blonde		You sure this is a good idea? DOBISCH Can't think of a better one.
blonde		 I mean - barging in on your mother -- in the middle of the night?
dobisch		 Don't worry about the old lady. One squawk from her, and she's out of a job.
dobisch		Get the key, will you.
dobisch		Not there.  Under the mat.
dobisch		 Open up, open up -- we haven't got all night.
blonde		 So this is your mother's apartment?
dobisch		That's right.  Maria Ouspenskaya. BLONDE  Hiya, Ouspenskaya.
bud		 Good morning, Mr. Kirkeby.
kirkeby		 Oh, how are you, Baxter.  They keeping you busy these days?
bud		Yes, sir.  They are indeed. 
fran		 Morning, Mr. Kessel -- Morning, Miss Robinson -- Morning, Mr. Kirkeby -- Morning, Mr. Williams -- Morning, Miss Livingston -- Morning, Mr. McKellway -- Morning, Mr. Pirelli -- Morning, Mrs. Schubert --
fran		Morning, Mr. Baxter.
bud		Morning, Miss Kubelik.
starter		 That's all.  Take it away.
fran		 Watch the door, please.  Blasting off.
bud		 What did you do to your hair?
fran		It was making me nervous, so I chopped it off.  Big mistake, huh?
bud		I sort of like it.
fran		Say, you got a lulu.
bud		Yeah.  I better not get too close.
fran		Oh, I never catch colds.
bud		Really?  I was looking at some figures from the Sickness and Accident Claims Division -- do you know that the average New Yorker between the ages of twenty and fifty has two and a half colds a year?
fran		That makes me feel just terrible.
bud		Why?
fran		Well, to make the figures come out even -- since I have no colds a year -- some poor slob must have five colds a year.
bud		That's me. 
fran		You should have stayed in bed this morning.
bud		I should have stayed in bed last night.
fran		Nineteen.  Watch your step.
fran		 And watch your hand, Mr. Kirkeby!
kirkeby		 I beg your pardon?
fran		One of these days I'm going to shut those doors on you and --
fran		Twenty next.
kirkeby		That Kubelik -- boy!  Would I like to get her on a slow elevator to China.
bud		Oh, yes.  She's the best operator in the building.
kirkeby		I'm a pretty good operator myself -- but she just won't give me a tumble -- date-wise.
bud		Maybe you're using the wrong approach.
kirkeby		A lot of guys around here have tried it -- all kinds of approaches -- no dice.  What is she trying to prove?
bud		Could be she's just a nice, respectable girl -- there are millions of them.
kirkeby		Listen to him.  Little Lord Fauntleroy!
bud		 Hello, Mr. Dobisch? This is Baxter, on the nineteenth floor.
dobisch		Oh, Buddy-boy. I was just about to call you.  I'm sorry about that mess on the living room wall. You see, my little friend, she kept insisting Picasso was a bum -- so she started to do that mural -- but I'm sure it will wash off -- just eyebrow pencil.
bud		It's not Picasso I'm calling about. It's the key -- to my apartment -- you were supposed to leave it under the mat.
dobisch		I did, didn't I? I distinctly remember bending over and putting it there --
bud		Oh, I found a key there, all right -- only it's the wrong key.
dobisch		It is?  Well, how about that? No wonder I couldn't get into the executive washroom this morning.
bud		And I couldn't get into my apartment -- so at four a. m. I had to wake up the landlady and give her a whole song and dance about going out to mail a letter and the door slamming shut.
dobisch		That's a shame. I'll send the key right down. And about your promotion --  -- I'm sending that efficiency report right up to Mr. Sheldrake, in Personnel. I wouldn't be surprised if you heard from him before the day is over.
bud		Thank you, Mr. Dobisch.
messenger		From Mr. Dobisch.
bud		 Wait.
bud		 To Mr. Dobisch.
vanderhof		Dear Mr. MacIntosh --  Now what is it, Baxter?
bud		Look, Mr. Vanderhof -- I've got you down here for tonight -- but I'm going to be using the place myself -- so I'll have to cancel.
vanderhof		Cancel? But it's her birthday -- I already ordered the cake --
bud		I hate to disappoint you -- I mean, many happy returns -- but not tonight --
vanderhof		That's not like you, Baxter. Just the other day, at the staff meeting, I was telling Mr. Sheldrake what a reliable man you were.
bud		Thank you, Mr. Vanderhof. But I'm sick -- I have this terrible cold -- and a fever -- and I got to go to bed right after work.
vanderhof		Buddy-boy, that's the worst thing you can do. If you got a cold, you should go to a Turkish bath -- spend the night there -- sweat it out --
bud		Oh, no. I'd get pneumonia -- and if I got pneumonia, I'd be in bed for a month -- and if I were in bed for a month --
vanderhof		Okay, you made your point. We'll just have to do it next Wednesday -- that's the only night of the week I can get away.
bud		Wednesday -- Wednesday --  I got somebody penciled in -- let me see what I can do -- I'll get back to you.
bud		 Mr. Eichelberger? Is this Mortgage and Loan? I'd like to speak to Mr. Eichelberger. Yes, it is urgent.
associate		 For you, Mel.
eighelberger		Eichelberger here -- oh, yes, Baxter --  What's your problem? -- Wednesday is out? -- oh -- that throws a little monkey wrench into my agenda -- Thursday? No, I'm all tied up on Thursday -- let's schedule that meeting for Friday.
bud		Friday?  Let me see what I can do. I'll get back to you.
kirkeby		Premium-wise and billing-wise, we are eighteen percent ahead of last year, October-wise.
kirkeby		Hello? Yeah, Baxter. What's up?
bud		Instead of Friday -- could you possibly switch to Thursday? You'd be doing me a great favor --
kirkeby		Well -- it's all right with me, Bud. Let me check. I'll get back to you.
sylvia		Consolidated Life -- I'll connect you -- Consolidated Life --
switchboard girl		Sylvia -- it's for you.
sylvia		Yes? Oh, hello -- sure I got home all right -- you owe me forty-five cents.
kirkeby		Okay, okay. Look, Sylvia -- instead of Friday - could we make it Thursday night?
sylvia		Thursday? That's The Untouchables -- with Bob Stack.
kirkeby		Bob WHO? -- all right, so we'll watch it at the apartment. Big deal.  Baxter? It's okay for Thursday.
bud		Thank you, Mr. Kirkeby.  Mr. Vanderhof? It's okay for Wednesday.
moffett		 Hey, Baxter -- that was Personnel. Mr. Sheldrake's secretary.
bud		Sheldrake?
moffett		She's been trying to reach you for the last twenty minutes. They want you up stairs.
bud		Oh!
moffett		What gives, Baxter? You getting promoted or getting fired?
bud		 Care to make a small wager?
moffett		I've been here twice as long as you have --
bud		Shall we say -- a dollar?
moffett		It's a bet.
fran		Going up?
bud		Twenty-seven, please. And drive carefully. You're carrying precious cargo -- I mean, manpower-wise.
fran		Twenty-seven.
bud		You may not realize it, Miss Kubelik, but I'm in the top ten -- efficiency-wise and this may be the day -- promotion-wise.
fran		You're beginning to sound like Mr. Kirkeby already.
bud		Why not? Now that they're kicking me upstairs --
fran		Couldn't happen to a nicer guy.  You know, you're the only one around here who ever takes his hat off in the elevator.
bud		Really?
fran		The characters you meet. Something happens to men in elevators. Must be the change of altitude -- the blood rushes to their head, or something -- boy, I could tell you stories --
bud		I'd love to hear them. Maybe we could have lunch in the cafeteria sometime -- or some evening, after work --
fran		Twenty-seven.
fran		I hope everything goes all right.
bud		I hope so.  How do I look?
fran		Fine.  Wait.
bud		Thank you. That's the first thing I ever noticed about you -- when you were still on the local elevator -- you always wore a flower --
fran		Good luck. And wipe your nose.
bud		C. C. Baxter -- Ordinary Premium Accounting -- Mr. Sheldrake called me.
miss olsen		I called you -- that is, I tried to call you -- for twenty minutes.
bud		I'm sorry, I --
miss olsen		Go on in.
sheldrake		Baxter?
bud		Yes, sir.
sheldrake		 I was sort of wondering what you looked like. Sit down.
bud		Yes, Mr. Sheldrake.
sheldrake		Been hearing some very nice things about you -- here's a report from Mr. Dobisch -- loyal, cooperative, resourceful --
bud		Mr. Dobisch said that?
sheldrake		And Mr. Kirkeby tells me that several nights a week you work late at the office -- without overtime.
bud		 Well, you know how it is -- things pile up.
sheldrake		Mr. Vanderhof, in Public Relations, and Mr. Eichelberger, in Mortgage and Loan -- they'd both like to have you transferred to their departments.
bud		That's very flattering.
sheldrake		Tell me, Baxter -- just what is it that makes you so popular?
bud		I don't know.
sheldrake		Think.
bud		Would you mind repeating the question?
sheldrake		Look, Baxter, I'm not stupid. I know everything that goes on in this building -- in every department -- on every floor -- every day of the year.
bud		 You do?
sheldrake		 In 1957, we had an employee here, name of Fowler. He was very popular, too. Turned out he was running a bookie joint right in the Actuarial Department tying up the switchboard, figuring the odds on our I.B.M. machines -- so the day before the Kentucky Derby, I called in the Vice Squad and we raided the thirteenth floor.
bud		 The Vice Squad?
sheldrake		That's right, Baxter.
bud		What -- what's that got to do with me? I'm not running any bookie joint.
sheldrake		What kind of joint are you running?
bud		Sir?
sheldrake		There's a certain key floating around the office -- from Kirkeby to Vanderhof to Eichelberger to Dobisch -- it's the key to a certain apartment -- and you know who that apartment belongs to?
bud		Who?
sheldrake		Loyal, cooperative, resourceful C. C. Baxter.
bud		Oh.
sheldrake		Are you going to deny it?
bud		No, sir. I'm not going to deny it. But if you'd just let me explain --
sheldrake		You better.
bud		 Well, about six months ago -- I was going to night school, taking this course in Advanced Accounting -- and one of the guys in our department -- he lives in Jersey -- he was going to a banquet at the Biltmore -- his wife was meeting him in town, and he needed someplace to change into a tuxedo -- so I gave him the key    and word must have gotten around -- because the next thing I knew, all sorts of guys were suddenly going to banquets -- and when you give the key to one guy, you can't say no to another and the whole thing got out of hand -- pardon me.
sheldrake		Baxter, an insurance company is founded on public trust. Any employee who conducts himself in a manner unbecoming --  How many charter members are there in this little club of yours?
bud		Just those four -- out of a total of 31,259 -- so actually, we can be very proud of our personnel -- percentage-wise.
sheldrake		That's not the point. Four rotten apples in a barrel -- no matter how large the barrel -- you realize that if this ever leaked out --
bud		Oh, it won't. Believe me. And it's not going to happen again. From now on, nobody is going to use my apartment --
sheldrake		Where is your apartment?
bud		West 67th Street. You have no idea what I've been going through -- with the neighbors and the landlady and the liquor and the key --
sheldrake		How do you work it with the key?
bud		Well, usually I slip it to them in the office and they leave it under the mat -- but never again -- I can promise you that --
sheldrake		Yes, Miss Olsen.
miss olsen		Mrs. Sheldrake returning your call -- on two --
sheldrake		Yes, dear -- I called you earlier -- where were you? Oh, you took Tommy to the dentist --
sheldrake		 Where are you going, Baxter?
bud		Well, I don't want to intrude -- and I thought -- since it's all straightened out anyway --
sheldrake		I'm not through with you yet.
bud		Yes, sir.
sheldrake		 Tell me something,  Baxter  -- have you seen Music Man?
bud		Not yet. But I hear it's one swell show.
sheldrake		How would you like to go tonight?
bud		You mean -- you and me? I thought you were taking the branch manager from Kansas City --
sheldrake		I made other plans. You can have both tickets.
bud		Well, that's very kind of you -- only I'm not feeling well -- you see, I have this cold -- and I thought I'd go straight home.
sheldrake		Baxter, you're not reading me. I told you I have plans.
bud		So do I -- I'm going to take four aspirins and get into bed -- so you better give the tickets to somebody else --
sheldrake		I'm not just giving those tickets, Baxter -- I want to swap them.
bud		Swap them? For what?
sheldrake		It also says here -- that you are alert, astute, and quite imaginative --
bud		Oh?  Oh!
bud		This?
sheldrake		That's good thinking, Baxter. Next month there's going to be a shift in personnel around here -- and as far as I'm concerned, you're executive material.
bud		I am?
sheldrake		Now put down the key --  -- and put down the address.
bud		It's on the second floor - my name is not on the door -- it just says 2A --
bud		Oh -- terribly sorry. It's that cold --
sheldrake		Relax, Baxter.
bud		Thank you, sir.
bud		You'll be careful with the record player, won't you? And about the liquor -- I ordered some this morning -- but I'm not sure when they'll deliver it --
sheldrake		Now remember, Baxter -- this is going to be our little secret.
bud		Yes, of course.
sheldrake		You know how people talk.
bud		Oh, you don't have to worry --
sheldrake		Not that I have anything to hide.
bud		Oh, no sir. Certainly not. Anyway, it's none of my business -- four apples, five apples -- what's the difference -- percentage-wise?
sheldrake		 Here you are, Baxter. Have a nice time.
bud		You too, sir.
sylvia		So I figure, a man in his position, he's going to take me to 21 and El Morocco -- instead, he takes me to Hamburg Heaven and some schnook's apartment --
fran		 Good night.
bud		 Good night.
bud		Oh -- Miss Kubelik.  I've been waiting for you. FRAN You have?
bud		I almost didn't recognize you -- this is the first time I've ever seen you in civilian clothes.
fran		How'd you make out on the twenty- seventh floor?
bud		Great. Look -- have you seen The Music Man?
fran		No.
bud		Would you like to?
fran		Sure.
bud		I thought maybe we could have a bite to eat first -- and then --
fran		You mean tonight?
bud		Yeah.
fran		I'm sorry, but I can't tonight. I'm meeting somebody.
bud		Oh.  You mean -- like a girl-friend?
fran		No. Like a man.
bud		I wasn't trying to be personal -- it's just that the fellows in the office were -- whether you wondering about you ever --
fran		Just tell 'em -- now and then.
bud		This date -- is it just a date -- or is it something serious?
fran		It used to be serious -- at least I was -- but he wasn't -- so the whole thing is more or less kaputt.
bud		Well, in that case, couldn't you -- ?
fran		I'm afraid not. I promised to have a drink with him -- he's been calling me all week --
bud		Oh, I understand.
bud		 Well, it was just an idea -- I hate to see a ticket go to waste --
fran		 What time does the show go on?
bud		Eight-thirty.
fran		 Well -- I could meet you at the theatre -- if that's all right.
bud		All right? That's wonderful! It's the Majestic -- 44th Street.
fran		Meet you in the lobby. Okay?
bud		You know, I felt so lousy this morning -- a hundred and one fever -- then my promotion came up -- now you and I -- eleventh row center -- and you said I should have stayed in bed.
fran		How is your cold?
bud		 I've been taking from Arthur Murray.
fran		So I see.
bud		They got a great little band at El Chico, in the Village -- it's practically around the corner from where you live.
fran		Sounds good.  How do you know where I live?
bud		Oh, I even know who you live with -- your sister and brother-in- law -- I know when you were born -- and where -- I know all sorts of things about you.
fran		How come?
bud		A couple of months ago I looked up your card in the group insurance file.
fran		Oh.
bud		I know your height, your weight and your Social Security number -- you had mumps, you had measles, and you had your appendix out.
fran		Well, don't tell the fellows in the office about the appendix. They may get the wrong idea how you found out.  'Bye.
bud		 Eight-thirty!
fran		 Good evening, Mr. Sheldrake.
sheldrake		Please, Fran -- not so loud. 
fran		Still afraid somebody may see us together?
sheldrake		 Let me take that.
fran		No, Jeff. I can't stay very long.  Can I have a frozen daiquiri?
sheldrake		It's on the way.  I see you went ahead and cut your hair.
fran		That's right.
sheldrake		You know I liked it better long.
fran		Yes, I know. You want a lock to carry in your wallet?
waiter		 Evening, lady. Nice see you again.
fran		Thank you.
sheldrake		How long has it been -- a month?
fran		Six weeks. But who's counting?
sheldrake		I missed you, Fran.
fran		Like old times. Same booth, same song --
sheldrake		It's been hell.
fran		 -- same sauce -- sweet and sour.
sheldrake		You don't know what it's like -- standing next to you in that elevator, day after day -- Good morning, Miss Kubelik -- Good night, Mr. Sheldrake -- I'm still crazy about you, Fran.
fran		 Let's not start on that again, Jeff -- please. I'm just beginning to get over it.
sheldrake		I don't believe you.
fran		Look, Jeff -- we had two wonderful months this summer -- and that was it. Happens all the time -- the wife and kids go away to the country, and the boss has a fling with the secretary or the manicurist -- or the elevator girl. Comes September, the picnic is over -- goodbye. The kids go back to school, the boss goes back to the wife, and the girl --  They don't make these shrimp like they used to.
sheldrake		I never said goodbye, Fran.
fran		 For a while there, you try kidding yourself that you're going with an unmarried man. Then one day he keeps looking at his watch, and asks you if there's any lipstick showing, then rushes off to catch the seven-fourteen to White Plains. So you fix yourself a cup of instant coffee -- and you sit there by yourself -- and you think -- and it all begins to look so ugly --
sheldrake		How do you think I felt -- riding home on that seven-fourteen train?
fran		Why do you keep calling me, Jeff? What do you want from me?
sheldrake		 I want you back, Fran.
fran		 Sorry, Mr. Sheldrake -- I'm full up. You'll have to take the next elevator.
sheldrake		You're not giving me a chance, Fran. I asked you to meet me because -- I have something to tell you. FRAN Go ahead -- tell me.
sheldrake		 Not here, Fran. Can't we go some place else?
fran		No. I have a date at eight-thirty.
sheldrake		Important?
fran		Not very -- but I'm going to be there anyway.
waiter		You ready order dinner now?
fran		No. No dinner.
sheldrake		Bring us two more drinks.
sheldrake		Fran -- remember that last weekend we had?
fran		 Do I. That leaky little boat you rented -- and me in a black negligee and a life preserver --
sheldrake		Remember what we talked about?
fran		We talked about a lot of things.
sheldrake		I mean -- about my getting a divorce.
fran		We didn't talk about it -- you did.
sheldrake		You didn't really believe me, did you?
fran		 They got it an a long playing record now - Music to String Her Along By. My wife doesn't understand me -- We haven't gotten along for years -- You're the best thing that ever happened to me --
sheldrake		That's enough, Fran.
fran		 Just trust me, baby -- we'll work it out somehow --
sheldrake		You're not being funny.
fran		I wasn't trying.
sheldrake		If you'll just listen to me for a minute --
fran		Okay. I'm sorry.
sheldrake		I saw my lawyer this morning -- I wanted his advice  -- about the best way to handle it --
fran		Handle what?
sheldrake		What do you think?
fran		 Let's get something straight, Jeff -- I never asked you to leave your wife.
sheldrake		Of course not. You had nothing to do with it.
fran		 Are you sure that's what you want?
sheldrake		I'm sure. If you'll just tell me that you still love me --
fran		 You know I do.
sheldrake		Fran --
fran		 Jeff -- darling --
sheldrake		It is crowding up. Let's get out of here.
sheldrake		 Taxi!
fran		I have that date -- remember?
sheldrake		I love you -- remember?
fran		Where are we going, Jeff? Not back to that leaky boat --
sheldrake		I promise.
sheldrake		 51 West Sixty-Seventh.
bud		 C. C. Baxter -- that's me.
kirkeby's voice		Hi, Buddy-boy.
dobisch's voice		Congratulations, and all that jazz.
bud		Hi, fellas.
eichelberger		Well, you made it, kid -- just like we promised.
vanderhof		Quite an office -- name on the door -- rug on the floor -- the whole schmear.
bud		Yeah.
dobisch		Teamwork -- that's what counts in an organization like this. All for one and one for all -- know what I mean?
bud		I have a vague idea.
kirkeby		Baxter, we're a little disappointed in you -- gratitude-wise.
bud		Oh, I'm very grateful.
eighelberger		Then why are you locking us out, all of a sudden?
bud		It's been sort of rough these last few weeks -- what with my cold and like that --
dobisch		We went to bat for you -- and now you won't play ball with us.
bud		Well, after all, it's my apartment -- it's private property -- it's not a public playground.
vanderhof		All right, so you got yourself a girl -- that's okay with us -- but not every night of the week.
kirkeby		How selfish can you get?  Last week I had to borrow my nephew's car and take Sylvia to a drive-in in Jersey. I'm too old for that sort of thing -- I mean, in a Volkswagen.
bud		I sympathize with your problem -- and believe me, I'm very sorry --
dobisch		You'll be a lot sorrier before we're through with you.
bud		You threatening me?
dobisch		Listen, Baxter, we made you and we can break you.
bud		Good morning, Mr. Sheldrake.
sheldrake		Morning, gentlemen.  Everything satisfactory? You like your office?
bud		Oh, yes, sir. Very much. And I want to thank you --
sheldrake		Don't thank me -- thank your friends here -- they're the ones who recommended you.
dobisch		We just dropped in to wish him the best. 
kirkeby		 So long, Baxter. We know you won't let us down.
bud		So long, fellas. Drop in any time. The door is always open -- to my office.
sheldrake		I like the way you handled that. Well, how does it feel to be an executive?
bud		Fine. And I want you to know I'll work very hard to justify your confidence in me -- SHELDRAKE Sure you will.  Say, Baxter, about the apartment - now that you got a raise, don't you think we can afford a second key?
bud		Well -- I guess so.
sheldrake		You know my secretary -- Miss Olsen --
bud		Oh, yes. Very attractive. Is she -- the lucky one?
sheldrake		No, you don't understand. She's a busybody -- always poking her nose into things -- and with that key passing back and forth -- why take chances?
bud		Yes, sir. You can't be too careful.
bud		I have something here -- I think it belongs to you.
sheldrake		To me?
bud		I mean -- the young lady -- whoever she may be -- it was on the couch when I got home last night.
sheldrake		Oh, yes. Thanks.
bud		The mirror is broken.  It was broken when I found it.
sheldrake		So it was.  She threw it at me.
bud		Sir?
sheldrake		You know how it is -- sooner or later they all give you a bad time.
bud		 I know how it is.
sheldrake		You see a girl a couple of times a week -- just for laughs -- and right away she thinks you're going to divorce your wife. I ask you -- is that fair?
bud		No, sir. That's very unfair -- especially to your wife.
sheldrake		Yeah.  You know, Baxter, I envy you. Bachelor -- all the dames you want -- no headaches, no complications --
bud		Yes, sir. That's the life, all right.
sheldrake		Put me down for Thursday again.
bud		Roger. And I'll get that other key.
operators		Consolidated Life -- Merry Christmas -- I'll connect you -- Consolidated Life -- Merry Christmas -- I'm ringing --
sylvia		 Yeah? -- YEAH? -- Where? -- You bet --
sylvia		Somebody watch my line -- there's a swinging party up on the nineteenth floor --
sylvia		 -- so I said to him: Never again! -- either get yourself a bigger car or a smaller girl --
bud		Miss Kubelik.
bud		 Marry Christmas.
fran		Thank you.  I thought you were avoiding me.
bud		What gave you that idea?
fran		In the last six weeks you've only been in my elevator once -- and then you didn't take your hat off.
bud		Well, as a matter of fact, I was rather hurt when you stood me up that night --
fran		I don't blame you. It was unforgivable.
bud		I forgive you.
fran		You shouldn't.
bud		You couldn't help yourself. I mean, when you're having a drink with one man, you can't just suddenly walk out on him because you have another date with another man. You did the only decent thing.
fran		Don't be too sure. Just because I wear a uniform -- that doesn't make me a Girl Scout.
bud		Miss Kubelik, one doesn't get to be a second administrative assistant around here unless he's a pretty good judge of character -- and as far as I'm concerned, you're tops. I mean, decency-wise -- and otherwise-wise.  Cheers.
fran		Cheers.
bud		One more?
fran		 I shouldn't drink when I'm driving.
bud		You're so right.
bud		By the power vested in me, I herewith declare this elevator out of order.  Shall we join the natives?
fran		Why not?  They seem friendly enough.
bud		Don't you believe it. Later on there will be human sacrifices -- white collar workers tossed into the computing machines, and punched full of those little square holes.
fran		How many of those drinks did you have?
bud		 Three.
fran		I thought so.
bud		You wait here. I think I hear the sound of running water.
miss olsen		Hi. How's the branch manager from Kansas City?
fran		I beg your pardon? MISS OLSEN I'm Miss Olsen -- Mr. Sheldrake's secretary.
fran		Yes, I know.
miss olsen		So you don't have to play innocent with me. He used to tell his wife that I was the branch manager from Seattle -- four years ago when we were having a little ring-a-ding- ding.
fran		I don't know what you're talking about.
miss olsen		And before me there was Miss Rossi in Auditing -- and after me there was Miss Koch in Disability -- and just before you there was Miss What's-Her-Name, on the twenty- fifth floor --
fran		 Will you excuse me?
miss olsen		 What for? You haven't done anything -- it's him -- what a salesman -- always the last booth in the Chinese restaurant -- and the same pitch about divorcing his wife -- and in the end you wind up with egg foo yong on your face.
bud		Miss Kubelik.
fran		Well -- thank you.
miss olsen		Always happy to do something for our girls in uniform.
bud		You all right? What's the matter?
fran		Nothing.  There are just too many people here.
bud		Why don't we step into any office? There's something I want your advice about, anyway.  I have my own office now, naturally. And you may be interested to know I'm the second youngest executive in the company -- the only one younger is a grandson of the chairman of the board.
bud		Miss Kubelik, I would like your honest opinion. I've had this in my desk for a week -- cost me fifteen dollars -- but I just couldn't get up enough nerve to wear it --
bud		It's what they call the junior executive model. What do you think?
bud		Guess I made a boo-boo, huh?
fran		 No -- I like it.
bud		Really? You mean you wouldn't be ashamed to be seen with somebody in a hat like this?
fran		Of course not.
bud		Maybe if I wore it a little more to the side --  is that better?
fran		Much better.
bud		Well, as long as you wouldn't be ashamed to be seen with me -- how about the three of us going out this evening -- you and me and the bowler -- stroll down Fifth Avenue -- sort of break it in --
fran		This is a bad day for me.
bud		I understand. Christmas -- family and all that --
fran		I'd better get back to my elevator. I don't want to be fired.
bud		Oh, you don't have to worry about that. I have quite a bit of influence in Personnel. You know Mr. Sheldrake?
fran		 Why?
bud		He and I are like this.  Sent me a Christmas card. See?
season's greetings		from the SHELDRAKES Emily, Jeff, Tommy, Jeff Jr., and Figaro.
fran		 Makes a cute picture.
bud		I thought maybe I could put in a word for you with Mr. Sheldrake -- get you a little promotion -- how would you like to be an elevator starter?
fran		I'm afraid there are too many other girls around here with seniority over me.
bud		No problem. Why don't we discuss it sometime over the holidays -- I could call you and pick you up and we'll have the big unveiling --  -- you sure this is the right way to wear it?
fran		I think so.
bud		You don't think it's tilted a little too much --
fran		Here.
bud		 After all, this is a conservative firm -- I don't want people to think I'm an entertainer --
fran		What is it?
bud		 The mirror -- it's broken.
fran		I know. I like it this way -- makes me look the way I feel.
fran		Your phone.
bud		Oh.  If you don't mind -- this is sort of personal
fran		All right. Have a nice Christmas.
bud		 Yes, Mr. Sheldrake -- no, I didn't forget -- the tree is up and the Tom and Jerry mix is in the refrigerator -- yes, sir -- same to you.
kirkeby		Where you going, Buddy-boy? The party's just starting.  Listen, kid -- give me a break, will you -- how about tomorrow afternoon? I can't take her to that drive-in again -- the car doesn't even have a heater four o'clock -- okay?
santa claus		 Hey, Charlie -- give me a shot of bourbon -- and step on it -- my sleigh is double parked.
margie		You buy me a drink, I'll buy you some music.  Rum Collins.
bud		Rum Collins.  And another one of these little mothers.
margie		 I mean -- how do you feel about Castro? BUD What is Castro?
margie		You know, that big-shot down in Cuba with the crazy beard.
bud		What about him?
margie		Because as far as I'm concerned, he's a no good fink. Two weeks ago I wrote him a letter -- never even answered me.
bud		That so.
margie		All I wanted him to do was let Mickey out for Christmas.
bud		Who is Mickey?
margie		My husband. He's in Havana -- in jail.
bud		Oh. Mixed up in that revolution?
margie		Mickey? He wouldn't do nothing like that. He's a jockey. They caught him doping a horse.
bud		Well, you can't win 'em all.
margie		 You married?
bud		No.
margie		Family?
bud		No.
margie		A night like this, it sort of spooks you to walk into an empty apartment.
bud		I said I had no family -- I didn't say I had an empty apartment.
sheldrake		 This isn't like you, Fran -- you were always such a good sport -- such fun to be with --
fran		 Yeah -- that's me. The Happy Idiot -- a million laughs.
sheldrake		Well, that's more like it. At least you're speaking to me.
fran		Funny thing happened to me at the office party today -- I ran into your secretary -- Miss Olsen. You know -- ring-a-ding-ding? I laughed so much I like to died.
sheldrake		Is that what's been bothering you -- Miss Olsen? That's ancient history.
fran		I was never very good at history. Let me see -- there was Miss Olsen, and then there was Miss Rossi -- no, she came before -- it was Miss Koch who came after Miss Olsen --
sheldrake		Now, Fran --
fran		And just think -- right now there's some lucky girl in the building who's going to come after me --
sheldrake		Okay, okay, Fran. I deserve that. But just ask yourself -- why does a man run around with a lot of girls? Because he's unhappy at home -- because he's lonely, that's why -- all that was before you, Fran -- I've stopped running.
fran		How could I be so stupid? You'd think I would have learned by now -- when you're in love with a married man, you shouldn't wear mascara.
sheldrake		It's Christmas Eve, Fran -- let's not fight.
fran		Merry Christmas.
sheldrake		What is it?
sheldrake		Oh. Our friend from the Chinese restaurant. Thanks, Fran. We better keep it here.
fran		Yeah, we better.
sheldrake		I have a present for you. I didn't quite know what to get you -- anyway it's a little awkward for me, shopping --  -- so here's a hundred dollars -- go out and buy yourself something.
sheldrake		They have some nice alligator bags at Bergdorf's --
sheldrake		Fran, it's a quarter to seven -- and I mustn't miss the train -- if we hadn't wasted all that time -- I have to get home and trim the tree --
fran		Okay.  I just thought as long as it was paid for --
sheldrake		 Don't ever talk like that, Fran! Don't make yourself out to be cheap.
fran		A hundred dollars? I wouldn't call that cheap. And you must be paying somebody something for the use of the apartment --
sheldrake		 Stop that, Fran.
fran		 You'll miss your train, Jeff.
sheldrake		Coming?
fran		You run along -- I want to fix my face.
sheldrake		 Don't forget to kill the lights. See you Monday.
fran		Sure. Monday and Thursday -- and Monday again -- and Thursday again --
sheldrake		 I love you, Fran.
fran		 Careful -- lipstick.
dissolve to:		INT. CHEAP BAR - COLUMBUS AVENUE - NIGHT
bartender		 Drink up, Pop. It's closing time.
santa claus		But it's early, Charlie.
bartender		Don't you know what night this is?
santa claus		I know, Charlie. I know. I work for the outfit.
bartender		Hey, knock it off, will you? Go home.
bartender		O-U-T -- out!
margie		Where do we go -- my place or yours?
bud		 Might as well go to mine -- everybody else does.
margie		Poor Mickey -- when I think of him all by himself in that jail in Havana --  -- want to see his picture?
bud		 Not particularly.
margie		He's so cute -- five-foot-two -- ninety-nine pounds...like a little chihuahua.
margie		Can I ask you a personal question?
bud		No.
margie		You got a girl-friend?
bud		She may be a girl -- but she's no friend of mine.
margie		Still stuck on her, huh.
bud		Stuck on her! Obviously, you don't know me very well.
margie		I don't know you at all. BUD Permit me -- C.C. Baxter -- junior executive, Arthur Murray graduate, lover.
margie		I'm Mrs. MacDougall -- Margie to you.
bud		This way, Mrs. MacDougall.
margie		 Say, this is Snugsville.
bud		 Mrs. MacDougall, I think it is only fair to warn you that you are now alone with a notorious sexpot.
margie		 No kidding.
bud		Ask anybody around here. As a matter of fact, when it's time for me to go -- and I may go just like that --  -- I have promised my body to the Columbia Medical Center.
margie		 Gee. Sort of gives you goose-bumps just to think about it.
bud		Well, they haven't got me yet, baby. Dig up some ice from the kitchen and let's not waste any time -- preliminary-wise.
margie		I'm with you, lover.
bud		All right, Miss Kubelik -- get up. It's past checking-out time, and the hotel management would appreciate it if you would get the hell out of here.  Come on -- wake up!
bud		Miss Kubelik! Miss Kubelik!
margie		I broke a nail trying to get the ice-tray out. You ought to buy yourself a new refrigerator.
margie		 I didn't mean right now.
bud		Dr. Dreyfuss! Hey, Doc!
bud		 There's a girl in my place -- she took some sleeping pills -- you better come quick -- I can't wake her up.
bud		Hurry up, Doc.
margie		Hey -- over here, lover.
margie		What's all this running around? You're going to wear yourself out.
margie		Not so rough, honey.
bud		 Good night.
margie		Good night?
bud		 The party's over.
margie		What's the matter? Did I do something wrong?
bud		 It's an emergency -- see you some other time.
bud		Not this one --  -- in there, Doc.
margie		Say, what's going on here, anyway?
bud		Nothing.  Just clear out, will you?
margie		 My shoes.
margie		 Some lover you are. Some sexpot!
bud		Here -- find yourself a phone booth and call your husband in Havana.
margie		You bet I will. And when I tell him how you treated me, he'll push your face in.  You fink!
bud		She going to be all right, Doc?
bud		It was half-full -- about a dozen or so. You going to have to take her to the hospital?
bud		What are you going to do, Doc?
bud		I don't know -- I mean -- I wasn't here -- you see -- we had some words earlier -- nothing serious, really -- what you might call a lovers' quarrel --
bud		Something like that.
bud		Miss Kubelik -- Fran.
fran		 Sleeping pills.
fran		Doctor.
fran		Dreyfuss.
fran		Dr. Dreyfuss.
fran		I took sleeping pills.
fran		 No.
fran		I don't know.
fran		Mr. Baxter -- nineteenth floor.
bud		Hello, Miss Kubelik.
bud		 Well -- we work in the same building -- and we try to keep it quiet --
fran		 What are you doing here?
bud		 Don't you remember? We were at the office party together --
fran		Oh, yes -- office party -- Miss Olsen --
bud		That's right.  I told you we had a fight -- that's what it was about -- Miss Olsen -- you know that other girl you saw --
fran		 I don't understand --
bud		It's not important, Fran -- the main thing is that I got here in time -- and you're going to be all right --  -- isn't she, Doc?
fran		 I'm so tired -- DR. DREYFUSS Here -- drink this.
fran		 Please -- just let me sleep.
bud		Just as long as she's okay.
bud		Sure.
bud		 Kubelik -- with two k's.
bud		 Why do you want to know, Doc? You don't have to report this, do you?
bud		 She didn't mean it, Doc -- it was an accident -- she had a little too much to drink and -- she didn't know what she was doing -- there was no suicide note or anything -- believe me, Doc, I'm not thinking about myself --
bud		It's just that she's got a family -- and there's the people in the office -- look, Doc, can't you forget you're a doctor -- let's just say you're here as a neighbor --
bud		Help yourself.
bud		I'm not sure.
bud		Yeah, wasn't I?
bud		Oh -- Mrs. Lieberman.
bud		Last night?
bud		I'm sorry, Mrs. Lieberman -- and I'll never invite those people again.
bud		Don't worry about Dr. Dreyfuss -- I happen to know he was out on a case.
bud		 -- make it person to person.
sheldrake		 7-6-5-4-3-2-1 -- let her rip!
tommy		Hey, Dad -- why don't we put a fly in the nose cone and see if we can bring it back alive?
sheldrake		It's a thought.
tommy		Maybe we should send up two flies -- and see if they'll propagate in orbit.
sheldrake		See if they'll what?
tommy		Propagate -- you know, multiply -- baby flies?
sheldrake		Oh -- oh!
sheldrake		 Baxter?
tommy		 Come on -- help me round up some flies.
sheldrake		Hello? -- yes -- what's on your mind, Baxter?
bud		I hate to disturb you, but something came up -- it's rather important -- and I think it would be a good idea if you could see me -- at the apartment -- as soon as possible.
sheldrake		You're not making sense, Baxter. What's this all about?
bud		I didn't want to tell you over the phone but that certain party -- you know who I mean -- I found her here last night -- she had taken an overdose of sleeping pills.
sheldrake		What?
sheldrake		 Yes, Baxter -- just how serious is it?
bud		Well, it was touch and go there for a while -- but she's sleeping it off now.
bud		I thought maybe you'd like to be here when she wakes up.
sheldrake		That's impossible.  You'll have to handle this situation yourself -- as a matter of fact, I'm counting on you --
bud		 Well, it was just a suggestion -- no, you don't have to worry about that, Mr. Sheldrake -- I kept your name out of it so there'll be no trouble, police-wise or newspaper- wise --
bud		 -- you see, the doctor, he's a friend of mine -- we were very lucky in that respect -- actually, he thinks she's my girl -- no, he just jumped to the conclusion -- around here, I'm known as quite a ladies' man --
bud		 -- of course, we're not out of the woods yet -- sometimes they try it again -- yes sir, I'll do my best -- it looks like it'll be a couple of days before she's fully recovered, and I may have a little problem with the landlady --
bud		 -- all right, Mr. Sheldrake, I'll keep her in my apartment as long as I can -- any sort of message you want me to give her? -- well, I'll think of something -- goodbye, Mr. Sheldrake.
fran		 I'm sorry.
fran		I'm sorry, Mr. Baxter.
bud		Miss Kubelik --  -- you shouldn't be out of bed.
fran		I didn't know -- I had no idea this was your apartment --
bud		 Let me help you.
fran		I'm so ashamed. Why didn't you just let me die?
bud		What kind of talk is that?  So you got a little over- emotional -- but you're fine now.
fran		 My head -- it feels like a big wad of chewing gum. What time is it?
bud		Two o'clock.
fran		 Where's my dress? I have to go home.
bud		You're in no condition to go anywhere -- except back to bed.
fran		You don't want me here --
bud		Sure I do. It's always nice to have company for Christmas.
bud		Miss Kubelik, I'm stronger than you are --
fran		I just want to go brush my teeth --
bud		Oh -- of course. I think there's a new toothbrush somewhere.
bud		Here -- put this on.
bud		 Here. How about some breakfast?
fran		No -- I don't want anything.
bud		I'll fix you some coffee.
bud		Oh -- we're all out of coffee -- you had quite a lot of it last night --
bud		Mrs. Dreyfuss, can I borrow some coffee -- and maybe an orange and a couple of eggs?
bud		Ma'am?
bud		I didn't really do anything -- honest -- I mean, you take a girl out a couple of times a week -- just for laughs -- and right away she thinks you're serious -- marriage-wise.
bud		Who are you calling, Miss Kubelik?
fran		My sister -- she'll want to know what happened to me.
bud		 Just what are you going to tell her?
fran		Well, I haven't figured it out, exactly.
bud		You better figure it out -- exactly. Suppose she asks you why you didn't come home last night?
fran		I'll tell her I spent the night with a friend.
bud		Who?
fran		Someone from the office.
bud		And where are you now?
fran		In his apartment.
bud		His apartment?
fran		I mean -- her apartment.
bud		What's your friend's name?
fran		Baxter.
bud		What's her first name?
fran		Miss. 
bud		When are you coming home?
fran		As soon as I can walk.
bud		Something wrong with your legs?
fran		No -- it's my stomach.
bud		Your stomach?
fran		They had to pump it out.
fran		But they'll be worried about me -- my brother-in-law may be calling the police --
bud		That's why we have to be careful -- we don't want to involve anybody -- after all, Mr. Sheldrake is a married man --
fran		Thanks for reminding me.
bud		 I didn't mean it that way -- I was just talking to him on the phone -- he's very concerned about you.
fran		He doesn't give a damn about me.
bud		Oh, you're wrong. He told me --
fran		He's a liar. But that's not the worst part of it -- the worst part is -- I still love him.
bud		Must be Mrs. Dreyfuss --  -- remember the doctor -- from last night -- that's his wife.
fran		I don't know -- kind of dizzy.
fran		Thank you. I'm really not hungry.
bud		Well, I have some paper towels --
bud		Yes, Mrs. Dreyfuss. He starts out with a worried backward glance toward the two. Fran is just sitting there, the spoon in her hand, not touching the soup.
fran		I can't eat.
bud		 I wish we had some champagne to wrap it around.
bud		 Look, Mrs. Dreyfuss, you don't have to wait around. I'll wash the dishes and --
fran		She doesn't seem to like you very much.
bud		Oh, I don't mind. As a matter of fact, I'm sort of flattered -- that anybody should think a girl like you -- would do a thing like this -- over a guy like me.
fran		 Oh. Did you find something here -- an envelope -- ?
bud		Yes, I've got it.  Don't you think we'd better destroy it? So it won't fall into the wrong hands -- ?
fran		Open it.
bud		There's nothing here but a hundred dollar bill.
fran		That's right. Will you see that Mr. Sheldrake gets it?
bud		 Sure.
fran		 Here -- take this, will you?
bud		You want me to move the television set in here?  You play gin rummy?
fran		I'm not very good at it.
bud		I am. Let me get the cards.
fran		You don't have to entertain me.
bud		Nothing I'd like better -- you know togetherness. Guess what I did last Christmas. Had an early dinner at the automat, then went to the zoo, then I came home and cleaned up after Mr. Eichelberger -- he had a little eggnog party here. I'm way ahead this year.
bud		Three across, spades double, high deals. 
fran		 I think I'm going to give it all up.
bud		Give what up?
fran		Why do people have to love people, anyway?
bud		Yeah -- I know what you mean.  Queen.
fran		I don't want it.
bud		Pick a card.
fran		What do you call it when somebody keeps getting smashed up in automobile accidents?
bud		A bad insurance risk?
fran		 That's me with men. I've been jinxed from the word go -- first time I was ever kissed was in a cemetery.
bud		A cemetery?
fran		I was fifteen -- we used to go there to smoke. His name was George -- he threw me over for a drum majorette.
bud		Gin.
bud		Thirty-six and twenty-five -- that's sixty-one and two boxes. 
fran		I just have this talent for falling in love with the wrong guy in the wrong place at the wrong time. BUD  How many guys were there?
fran		 Three. The last one was manager of a finance company, back home in Pittsburgh -- they found a little shortage in his accounts, but he asked me to wait for him -- he'll
bud		 Cut.
fran		 So I came to New York and moved in with my sister and her husband -- he drives a cab. They sent me to secretarial school, and I applied for a job with Consolidated - but I flunked the typing test --
bud		Too slow?
fran		Oh. I can type up a storm, but I can't spell. So they gave me a pair of white gloves and stuck me in an elevator -- that's how I met Jeff --  Oh, God, I'm so fouled up. What am I going to do now?
bud		You better win a hand -- you're on a blitz.
fran		Was he really upset when you told him?
bud		Mr. Sheldrake? Oh, yes. Very.
fran		Maybe he does love me -- only he doesn't have the nerve to tell his wife.
bud		I'm sure that's the explanation.
fran		You really think so?
bud		No doubt about it.
fran		 Can I have that pad and the pencil?
bud		 What for?
fran		I'm going to write a letter to Mrs. Sheldrake.
bud		You are?
fran		As one woman to another -- I'm sure she'll understand --
bud		Miss Kubelik, I don't think that's such a good idea.
fran		Why not?
bud		Well, for one thing, you can't spell. And secondly -- if you did something like that -- you'd hate yourself.
fran		 I don't like myself very much anyway.
bud		Pick up your cards and let's go.
fran		Do I have to?
bud		You bet. I got a terrific hand.
bud		You sure you want to throw that card?
fran		Sure.
bud		Gin.
bud		Fifty-two and twenty-five -- that's seventy-seven -- spades is double -- a hundred and fifty-four -- and four boxes -- you're blitzed in two games.
bud		 All right -- all right, Mrs. Dreyfuss.
kirkeby		Hi, Baxter.
bud		 What do you want?
kirkeby		What do I -- ?  Just a minute.
bud		You can't come in.
kirkeby		 What's the matter with you, Buddy- boy? I made a reservation for four o'clock, remember?
bud		Look, you can't stay here. Just take your champagne and go.
kirkeby		Baxter, I don't want to pull rank on you -- but I told the lady it was all set -- you want to make a liar out of me?
bud		Are you going to leave, Mr. Kirkeby, or do I have to throw you out?
kirkeby		Buddy-boy, why didn't you say so?  You got yourself a little playmate, huh?
bud		Now will you get out?
sylvia		 Hey, come on, what are we waiting for? Open up, will you?
sylvia		 What's holding things up?
kirkeby		Say, why don't we have ourselves a party -- the four of us?
bud		No!
kirkeby		 Don't worry. I won't say a word to anybody.
kirkeby		Stay with it, Buddy-boy!  Come on, Sylvia.
sylvia		What gives?
kirkeby		A little mixup in signals. Let's go.
sylvia		Go where?
kirkeby		 What's your mother doing this afternoon?
sylvia		She's home -- stuffing a turkey.
kirkeby		Why don't we send her to a movie -- like Ben-Hur?
sylvia		That's fine. But what are we going to do about grandma and Uncle Herman and Aunt Sophie and my two nieces --
fran		Who was that?
bud		Just somebody delivering a bottle of champagne. Like some?
fran		 Would you mind opening the window?
bud		Now don't go getting any ideas, Miss Kubelik.
fran		I just want some fresh air.
bud		It's only one story down -- the best you can do is break a leg.
fran		So they'll shoot me -- like a horse.
bud		 Please, Miss Kubelik, you got to promise me you won't do anything foolish.
fran		Who'd care?
bud		I would.
fran		 Why can't I ever fall in love with somebody nice like you?
bud		 Yeah. Well -- that's the way it crumbles, cookie-wise. Go to sleep.
secretaries		 Good morning, Mr. Sheldrake.
sheldrake		 Miss Olsen, will you come into my office, please?
miss olsen		Did you have a nice Christmas?
sheldrake		Lovely. You were a big help.
miss olsen		Me? SHELDRAKE Thank you for giving that little pep talk to Miss Kubelik at the office party.
miss olsen		 I'm sorry, Jeff. You know I could never hold my liquor --
sheldrake		But I thought you could hold your tongue.
miss olsen		It won't happen again.
sheldrake		You bet it won't. I'll arrange for you to get a month's severance pay --  That's right, Miss Olsen. I'm letting you go.
miss olsen		 You let me go four years ago, Jeff. Only you were cruel enough to make me sit out there and watch the new models pass by.
sheldrake		I'd appreciate it if you'd be out of here as soon as you can.
miss olsen		 Yes, Mr. Sheldrake.
sheldrake		 This is Mr. Sheldrake. I'd like Mr. Baxter's home telephone number -- that's C.C. Baxter, in Ordinary Premium Accounting --
sheldrake		Hello, Baxter? Jeff Sheldrake. Can you talk?
bud		 Yes, she's in the shower -- she's coming along fine, considering.
sheldrake		Good. Is there anything you need -- money -- ?
bud		No, thank you, Mr. Sheldrake. As a matter of fact, I've got some money for you -- a hundred dollars --
sheldrake		Oh.  Well, if there's anything I can do for you --
bud		For me? I don't think so. But I was hoping maybe you could do something for her --
sheldrake		Like what? Put yourself in my place, Baxter -- how can I help her -- my hands are tied --
bud		 Well, at least you can talk to her -- let me put her on -- and please be gentle --
bud		There's a call for you --
fran		 For me?
bud		-- Mr. Sheldrake.
fran		I don't want to talk to him.
bud		I think you should. I have to run down to the grocery anyway -- all that's left around here is one frozen pizza --  I'll be right back -- okay?
fran		 Yes, I'm all right.
sheldrake		Fran, why did you do it? It's so childish -- and it never solves anything -- I ought to be very angry with you, scaring me like that -- but let's forget the whole thing -- pretend it never happened -- what do you say, Fran?  Fran --
sheldrake		Are you there, Fran?
fran		Of course I'm not here -- because the whole thing never happened -- I never took those pills -- I never loved you -- we never even met -- isn't that the way you want it?
sheldrake		There you go again -- you know I didn't mean it that way, Fran. Just get well -- do what the nurse tells you -- I mean Baxter -- and I'll see you as soon as I can. Bye, Fran. 
miss olsen		 I was just making a personal call.
miss olsen		Here's a dime.
bud		What for?
bud		Gas?
bud		 Miss Kubelik!
bud		Miss Kubelik!
bud		Are you all right?
fran		Sure.  What's that funny smell?
bud		Gas.  Didn't you turn it on?
fran		Yes. I was boiling some water to get the coffee stains out of my dress.
bud		 You turned it on -- but you didn't light it.
fran		Are you supposed to?
bud		In this house, you're supposed to.
fran		Oh.
bud		What are you doing with that?
fran		I was washing my stockings, so I decided I might as well do your socks.
bud		Thank you.
fran		It's very curious -- I could only find three and a half pair.
bud		Well, things are a little disorganized around here.
fran		I'd say. What's a tennis racquet doing in the kitchen?
bud		Tennis racquet? Oh, I remember -- I was cooking myself an Italian dinner.  Why not?
bud		As a matter of fact, I'm a pretty good cook -- but I'm a lousy housekeeper.
fran		Yes, you are,  When I was straightening up the couch, you know what I found? Six hairpins, a lipstick, a pair of false eyelashes, and a swizzle stick from the Stork Club.
bud		 It's just that I'm the kind of guy who can't say no -- I don't mean to girls -- I mean --
fran		You mean to someone like Mr. Sheldrake.
bud		I guess so.
fran		I know so. He's a taker.
bud		A what?
fran		Some people take, some people get took -- and they know they're getting took -- and there's nothing they can do about it.
bud		I wouldn't say that --  What would you like to have for diner? There's onion soup and canned asparagus --
fran		I really ought to be getting home. My family will be flipping by now.
bud		You can't leave yet. The doctor says it takes forty-eight hours to get the stuff out of your system.
fran		 I wonder how long it takes to get someone you're stuck on out of your system? If they'd only invent some kind of a pump for that --
bud		I know how you feel, Miss Kubelik. You think it's the end of the world -- but it's not, really. I went through exactly the same thing myself.
fran		You did?
bud		Well, maybe not exactly -- I tried to do it with a gun.
fran		Over a girl?
bud		Worse than that -- she was the wife of my best friend -- and I was mad for her. But I knew it was hopeless -- so I decided to end it all. I went to a pawnshop and bought a forty-five automatic and drove up to Eden Park -- do you know Cincinnati?
fran		No, I don't.
bud		Anyway, I parked the car and loaded the gun -- well, you read in the papers all the time that people shoot themselves, but believe me, it's not that easy -- I mean, how do you do it? -- here, or here, or here --  -- you know where I finally shot myself?
fran		Where?
bud		 Here.
fran		In the knee?
bud		Uh-huh. While I was sitting there, trying to make my mind up, a cop stuck his head in the car, because I was illegally parked -- so I started to hide the gun under the seat and it went off -- pow!
fran		 That's terrible.
bud		Yeah. Took me a year before I could bend my knee -- but I got over the girl in three weeks. She still lives in Cincinnati, has four kids, gained twenty pounds -- she sends me a fruit cake every Christmas.
fran		 Are you just making that up to make me feel better?
bud		Of course not. Here's the fruit cake. 
fran		No, thanks. The fellows in the office may get the wrong idea how I found out.
bud		So let 'em. Look, I'm going to cook dinner for us. We'll have the fruit cake for dessert. You just sit there and rest. You've done enough for one day.
fran		 Yes, nurse.
elevator starter		Can I help you?
matuschka		I'm looking for one of the elevator girls -- Miss Kubelik.
elevator starter		So am I. She didn't report this morning.
matuschka		She didn't. Where can I get some information -- who's in charge here? ELEVATOR STARTER That comes under General Office Administration. See Mr. Dobisch, twenty-first floor.
matuschka		Thanks.
kirkeby		-- so yesterday afternoon I take Sylvia up to the apartment, and guess who he's got stashed away in the bedroom?
dobisch		Who?
kirkeby		Kubelik.
dobisch		No kidding. Buddy-boy and Kubelik having themselves a little toot!
kirkeby		Toot? It's more like a lost weekend. Neither of them showed up for work today.
dobisch		A.W.O.L.?
kirkeby		What gripes me is the two of them were guzzling my champagne while Sylvia and I wound up at the Guggenheim Museum.
matuschka		Mr. Dobisch?
dobisch		Yeah.
matuschka		My name is Karl Matuschka -- my sister-in-law, she runs one of the elevators here -- Fran Kubelik.
kirkeby		 Miss Kubelik?
matuschka		You know her?
dobisch		Of course. There may be a lot of employees here -- but we're one big happy family.
matuschka		Well, she lives with us -- and my wife, she's getting a little nervous -- on account of Fran hasn't been home for two days.
kirkeby		 That so.
matuschka		Anyway, we was wondering if somebody in the office would know what happened to her.
dobisch		I see.  What do you think, Al? Can we help the man?
kirkeby		 Why not? We don't owe Buddy-boy anything.
dobisch		Yeah. What's Buddy-boy done for us lately?
matuschka		 Who is Buddy-boy?
fran		Are we dressing for dinner?
bud		No -- just come as you are.
fran		 Say, you're pretty good with that racquet.
bud		You ought to see my backhand. 
fran		Shall I light the candles?
bud		It's a must -- gracious-living-wise.
fran		I see you bought some napkins.
bud		Might as well go all the way.
bud		You know, I used to live like Robinson Crusoe -- shipwrecked among eight million people. Then one day I saw a footprint in the sand -- and there you were --  It's a wonderful thing -- dinner for two.
fran		You usually eat alone?
bud		Oh, no. Sometimes I have dinner with Ed Sullivan, sometimes with Dinah Shore or Perry Como -- the other night I had dinner with Mae West -- of course, she was much younger then.  Cheers.
fran		Cheers.
bud		You know what we're going to do after dinner?
fran		The dishes?
bud		I mean, after that?
fran		What?
bud		You don't have to if you don't want to --
fran		I don't?
bud		We're going to finish that gin game.
fran		Oh.
bud		So I want you to keep a clear head.
bud		Because I don't want to take advantage of you -- the way I did yesterday in bed.
matuschka		Baxter?
bud		Yes?
matuschka		What's with you, Fran -- did you forget where you live?
fran		 This is my brother-in-law, Karl Matuschka.
bud		 How do you do, Mr. Matuschka?
matuschka		 Okay, get your clothes on. I got the cab downstairs.
bud		Now, wait a minute. I know what you're thinking -- but it's not as bad as it looks -- MATUSCHKA  It's none of my business what you do, Fran -- you're over twenty- one -- but your sister happens to think you're a lady.
bud		All we were going to do is eat and wash the dishes --
matuschka		 Look, Buddy-boy -- if there wasn't a lady present, I'd clobber you.
fran		 All right, Karl -- I'll get dressed.
bud		Care for a martini? Champagne?  Must be murder driving a cab in New York -- I mean, with all that cross-town traffic --
bud		 Oh, I'm fine, Doc.
matuschka		 What's the matter with Miss Kubelik?
bud		Oh, this is Mr. Matuschka -- he's Miss Kubelik's -- he's got a cab downstairs --
matuschka		 Fran been sick or something?
bud		No, no -- just had a little accident.
matuschka		 What does he mean, accident?
matuschka		What things?  Say, what kind of doctor are you, anyway?
bud		 Oh, not that kind. He just gave her a shot and pumped her stomach out --
matuschka		What for?
fran		 Because I took some sleeping pills. But I'm all right now -- so let's go.
matuschka		Why did you take sleeping pills?
bud		 On account of me.
matuschka		 You?
bud		Who else?
fran		Leave him alone, Karl.
fran		 You fool -- you damn fool.
matuschka		Come on, Fran.
fran		Goodbye, Mr. Baxter.
fran		Goodbye, doctor.
bud		 Mr. Sheldrake's office? This is C.C. Baxter. Would you please tell Mr. Sheldrake I'd like to come up and see him? It's rather important. Will you call me back, please?
bud		Mr. Sheldrake, I've got good news for you. All your troubles are over. I'm going to take Miss Kubelik off your hands.  Yes? I'll be right up.
bud		 Mr. Sheldrake, I've got good news for you --
kirkeby		Hi, Buddy-boy. What happened to you?
dobisch		Hit by a swinging door? Or maybe a Yellow Cab?
kirkeby		 That guy really must've belted him.
dobisch		Yeah, he's punchy. Talking to himself.
elevator operator		Twenty-seven.
bud		You see, Mr. Sheldrake, those two days she spent in the apartment -- it made me realize how lonely I'd been before. But thanks to you, I'm in a financial position to marry her -- if I can ever square things with her family.
secretary's voice		Mr. Baxter is here.
sheldrake		Send him in.
bud		Mr. Sheldrake, I've got good news for you --
sheldrake		And I've got good news for you, Baxter. All your troubles are over.
bud		 Sir?
sheldrake		I know how worried you were about Miss Kubelik -- well, stop worrying -- I'm going to take her off your hands.
bud		 You're going to take her off my hands?
sheldrake		That's right.  I've moved out of my house -- I'm going to be staying in town, at the Athletic Club.
bud		You left your wife?
sheldrake		Well, if you must know -- I fired my secretary, my secretary got to my wife, and my wife fired me. Ain't that a kick in the head?
bud		Yeah --
sheldrake		Now what was your news, Baxter?
bud		 It's about Miss Kubelik -- she's all right again -- so she went back home.
sheldrake		Swell. And don't think I've forgotten what you did for me.  This way, Baxter.
sheldrake		Sit down. Try it on for size.
sheldrake		You like?  It's all yours.
bud		Mine?
sheldrake		My assistant, Roy Thompson, has been shifted to the Denver office, and you're taking his place.  What's the matter, Baxter? You don't seem very excited.
bud		Well, it's just that so many things have been happening so fast -- I'm very pleased -- especially for Miss Kubelik. Now that I've gotten to know her better, I think she's the kind of girl that definitely ought to be married to somebody --
sheldrake		Oh, sure, sure. But first the property settlement has to be worked out -- then it takes six weeks in Reno -- meanwhile, I'm going to enjoy being a bachelor for a while.  Oh, by the way, you can now have lunch in the executive dining room --
bud		Yes, sir.
sheldrake		That's just one of the privileges that goes with this job. You also get a nice little expense account, the use of the executive washroom --  Say, what happened to you, Baxter?
bud		I got kicked in the head, too.
sheldrake		Oh?
fran		Good evening, Mr. Baxter.
bud		Oh, Miss Kubelik. How do you feel?
fran		Fine. How's your eye?
bud		Fine.
fran		How's everything at the apartment?
bud		Nothing's changed. You know, we never finished that gin game --
fran		I know.  I suppose you heard about Mr. Sheldrake --?
bud		You mean, leaving his wife? Yeah. I'm very happy for you.
fran		I never thought he'd do it.
bud		I told you all along. You see, you were wrong about Mr. Sheldrake.
fran		I guess so.
bud		For that matter, you were wrong about me, too. What you said about those who take and those who get took? Well, Mr. Sheldrake wasn't using me -- I was using him. See?  Last month I was at desk 861 on the nineteenth floor -- now I'm on the twenty-seventh floor, paneled office, three windows -- so it all worked out fine -- we're both getting what we want.
fran		Yes.  You walking to the subway?
bud		No, thank you.  -- I have this heavy date for tonight --
fran		Oh.
bud		Aren't you meeting Mr. Sheldrake?
fran		No. You know how people talk. So I decided it would be better if we didn't see each other till everything is settled, divorce-wise.
bud		That's very wise.
fran		Good night, Mr. Baxter.
bud		Good night, Miss Kubelik.
sheldrake		Baxter -- would you mind stepping in her for a minute?
baxter's voice		Yes, Mr. Sheldrake.
bootblack		Much obliged.
bud		 Here's the breakdown of figures on personnel turnover. Thirty-seven percent of our female employees leave to get married, twenty-two percent quit because --
sheldrake		 You're working too hard, Baxter. It's New Year's Eve -- relax.
bud		Yes, sir.
sheldrake		I suppose you'll be on the town tonight -- celebrating?
bud		Naturally.
sheldrake		Me, too. I'm taking Miss Kubelik out -- I finally talked her into it --
bud		I see.
sheldrake		The only thing is I'm staying at the Athletic Club -- and it's strictly stag so if you don't mind --
bud		Don't mind what?
sheldrake		You know that other key to your apartment -- well, when we had that little scare about Miss Kubelik, I thought I'd better get rid of it quick -- so I threw it out the window of the commuter train.
bud		Very clever.
sheldrake		Now I'll have to borrow your key.
bud		Sorry, Mr. Sheldrake.
sheldrake		What do you mean, sorry?
bud		You're not going to bring anybody up to my apartment.
sheldrake		I'm not just bringing anybody -- I'm bringing Miss Kubelik.
bud		Especially not Miss Kubelik.
sheldrake		How's that again?
bud		 No key!
sheldrake		Baxter, I picked you for my team because I thought you were a bright young man. You realize what you're doing? Not to me -- but to yourself. Normally it takes years to work your way up to the twenty-seventh floor -- but it takes only thirty seconds to be out on the street again. You dig?
bud		 I dig.
sheldrake		So what's it going to be?
sheldrake		Now you're being bright?
bud		Thank you, sir.
sheldrake		Say, Baxter -- you gave me the wrong key.
bud		No I didn't.
sheldrake		 But this is the key to the executive washroom.
bud		That's right, Mr. Sheldrake. I won't be needing it -- because I'm all washed up around here.
sheldrake		What's gotten into you, Baxter?
bud		Just following doctor's orders. I've decided to become a mensch. You know what that means? A human being.
sheldrake		Now hold on, Baxter --
bud		Save it. The old payola won't work any more. Goodbye, Mr. Sheldrake.
bud		Sure, Doc.
bud		Well, I have things to do --
bud		Yeah -- I'm giving up the apartment.
bud		I don't know. All I know is I got to get out of this place.
bud		Me? Oh, you mean my body. Don't worry, Doc -- it'll go to the University -- I'll put it in writing --
bud		Can you use a bottle of champagne?
bud		No, thanks -- I don't feel like it. Look, Doc -- in case I don't see you again -- how much do I owe you for taking care of that girl?
bud		 You know me with girls. Easy come, easy go. Goodbye, Doc.
sheldrake		Sorry it took me so long on the phone. But we're all set.
fran		All set for what?
sheldrake		I rented a car -- it's going to be here at one o'clock -- we're driving to Atlantic City.
fran		Atlantic City?
sheldrake		I know it's a drag -- but you can't find a hotel room in town -- not on New Year's Eve.
fran		 Ring out the old year, ring in the new. Ring-a-ding-ding.
sheldrake		I didn't plan it this way, Fran -- actually, it's all Baxter's fault.
fran		Baxter?
sheldrake		He wouldn't give me the key to the apartment.
fran		He wouldn't.
sheldrake		Just walked out on me -- quit -- threw that big fat job right in my face.
fran		 The nerve.
sheldrake		That little punk -- after all I did for him! He said I couldn't bring anybody to his apartment -- especially not Miss Kubelik. What's he got against you, anyway?
fran		 I don't know. I guess that's the way it crumbles -- cookie-wise.
sheldrake		What are you talking about?
fran		I'd spell it out for you -- only I can't spell.
sheldrake		Happy New Year, Fran.
sheldrake		Fran --  -- where are you, Fran?
fran		Mr. Baxter!  Mr. Baxter! Mr. Baxter!
fran		 Are you all right?
bud		I'm fine.
fran		Are you sure? How's your knee?
bud		I'm fine all over.
fran		Mind if I come in?
bud		 Of course not.
bud		Let me get another glass.
fran		 Where are you going? BUD Who knows? Another neighborhood -- another town -- another job -- I'm on my own.
fran		That's funny -- so am I.  What did you do with the cards?
bud		 In there.
bud		What about Mr. Sheldrake?
fran		I'm going to send him a fruit cake every Christmas.
fran		Cut.
bud		I love you, Miss Kubelik.
fran		 -- queen.
bud		Did you hear what I said, Miss Kubelik? I absolutely adore you.
fran		 Shut up and deal!
****Dialogues from script :Apocalypse_Now.txt****

charlie		... It's crazy -- sugar is up to 200 dollars a ton -- sugar !
lawyer		What about oil ?
charlie		Food, oil --look, let me show you something. This is the economy of the United States in two years --
charlie		 Do you understand ?
accountant		What's to prevent it ?
charlie		Maybe nothing. But I'll tell you, I didn't build a two-billion-dollar company in the last twenty years by doing nothing. We can protect our interests.  We are still the most powerful nation in the world. Militarily.
charlie		 You know bodyguard; he was a captain in Viet Nam. You talk to him, except he won't talk. This kind of man can kill you with his pinky. A nice quiet fella, though.
charlie		 An Ingram Machine pistol.
captain		How about a drink ?
willard		Sure, thanks.
captain		Winning the war by yourself.
willard		 Part.
captain		Which part is that ?
willard		My part.  Beer, with ice and water.
captain		That's good gin.
willard		I'm sure it is, but I had hepatitis.
captain		Delta ?
willard		No.
captain		North ?
willard		Yeah. Way north.
captain		What unit were you with ?
willard		None.
captain		Rangers, eh?
willard		Sort of.
captain		Were you Longe Range Recon --
willard		No -- I worked too far north for LRRP.
captain		That's quite an array of ribbons...
willard		Let's talk about you.
captain		I was an FO for the 25th.
willard		Tracks ?
captain		Yeah.
willard		Fat. That's real fat.
captain		Sometimes.
willard		At least you always have enough water. How many gallons does each one of those damn things carry ?
captain		Thirty -- sometimes fifty.
willard		You know, I can remember once, getting back below the DMZ -- and the first Americans we ran into were a track squadron. I just couldn't believe how much water they had. We'd been chewing bamboo shoots for almost a week, and before that, for two weeks, we'd been drinking anything -- rain water, river shit, stuff right out of the paddies. And there were these guys standing by their trucks spilling water all over. I could've killed them.  I swear to God I would have, too, if ...
captain		I didn't know we had units up there in North Vietnam.
willard		We do.
captain		How long were you up there ?
willard		A long time.
captain		A year ? Waiter another beer.
willard		I go up on missions. Listen Captain, buy me all the beer you want, but you better tell that asshole over there you're not going to find out anymore about me.
willard		 What do you want ?
civilian		 If you're B.L. Willard, 4th Recon Group, we'd like you to come with us.
willard		Whose orders ?
captain		Headquarters 11 Corps -- 405th A.S.A Battalion -- S-2 -- Com-Sec -- Intelligence -- Nha Trang.
willard		Who are you ?
civilian		The agency.
willard		Captain B.L. Willard, G-4 Headquarters, reporting as ordered, sir.
colonel		Have you ever seen this officer before, Captain Willard ?
willard		No, sir.
colonel		This gentleman or myself ?
willard		No, sir.
colonel		I believe on your last job you executed a tax collector in Kontum, is that right ?
willard		I am not presently disposed to discuss that, sir.
major		Very good.
colonel		You know much about about Special Forces; Green Berets, Captain ?
willard		I've worked with them on occasions and I saw the movie , sir.
colonel		Then you can appreciate Command's concern over their -- shall we say 'erratic' methods of operation.  I have never favored elite units, Captain, including your paratroopers or whatever. Just because a man jumps out of an airplane or wears a silly hat doesn't give him any priviliges in my book -- not in this man's army.
major		We didn't need 'em in Korea -- no sir, give me an Ohio farm boy and an M-1 Garand, none of this fancy crap -- no sir.
civilian		 Major.
colonel		We have Special Forces A detachments all along the Cambodian border. Two here and another one here -- twelve or fourteen Americans -- pretty much on their own; they train and motivate Montagnard natives; pick their own operations. If they need something, they call for it, and get it within reason. What we're concerned with is here.
colonel		The A detachment at Nu Mung Ba. It was originally a larger base, built up along the river in an old Cambodian fortress.
colonel		... Captain, we know something's going on up there -- Major --
major		Communications naturally dwindled with the lack of V.C. activity, this is routine, expected ... but six months ago communication virtually stopped.
colonel		About the same time -- large numbers of Montagnards of the M'Nong descent began leaving the area -- this in itself is not unusual since these people have fought with the Rhade Tribe that lived in the area for centuries. But what is unusual is that we began to find Rhade refugees too -- in the same sampans as the M'Nongs. These people aren't afraid of V.C. They've put up with war for twenty years -- but something is driving them out.
major		We communicate with the base infrequently. What they call for are air strikes, immediate -- always at night. And we don't know what or who the air strikes are called on.
willard		Who ?
major		You see, no one has really gone into this area and come back alive.
willard		Why me ?
major		Walter Kurtz, Lieutenant Colonel, Special Forces. We understand you knew him.
willard		Yeah.
colonel		He's commanding the detachment at Nu Mung Ba.
second voice		Blue Delta five This Big Rhine -- three Need that ordinance immediately Goddamn give it to me immediate Christ -- Big Rhino -- Blue God -- Delta damn -- goddamn.
third voice		This is Big Rhino six -- Blue Delta.
major		That's Colonel Kurtz.
willard		I only met Kurtz once.
civilian		Would he remember you ?
willard		Maybe.
colonel		What was your impression of him ?
civilian		You didn't like him.
willard		Anyone got a cigarette.
willard		 I thought he was a lame.
colonel		A lame ?
willard		This is years ago, before he joined Special Forces, I guess. We had an argument.
colonel		About what ?
willard		I don't know. He was a lame, that's all.
colonel		But why ?
willard		He couldn't get through a sentence without all these big words; about why we kill.
colonel		Well, he's killing now.
willard		Maybe.
civilian		What does that mean ?
willard		Maybe it's not Kurtz. I don't believe he's capable of that. I just don't believe it.
colonel		It's got to be Kurtz.
civilian		The point is that Kurtz or somebody attacked a South Vietnamese Ranger Platoon three days ago. Last week a Recon helicopter was lost in the area -- another took heavy damage -- direct fire from their base camp.
willard		Our Recon flight ?
civilian		Ours.
willard		Touchy.
civilian		You can see, of course, the implications, if any of this -- even rumours leaked out.
willard		You want me to clean it up -- simple and quiet.
civilian		Exactly -- you'll go up the Nung River in a Navy P.B.R. -- appear at Nu Mung Ba as if by accident, re-establish your acquintance with Colonel Kurtz, find out what's happened -- and why. Then terminate his command.
willard		Terminate ?
civilian		Terminate with extreme prejudice.
willard		Chief, try to keep out of where we're going -- Why we're goin' and what's gonna be the big surprise.
chief		All right with me, I used to drive a taxi.
willard		Let's go.
chief		The Delta closes off to us about ten  miles out of Hau Fat. We'll be able to pick up some supplies -- bit I think there are only two points we can draw enough water to get into the Nung River. It's all Charlie's turf from there on out.
willard		We're gonna have some help to get in the river. You know these waters, Chief ?
chief		'Bout six months ago I took a man up to Lo Mung Bridge. He was regular Army too. Shot himself in the head. I brought his body back down.
willard		Shot himself. What for ?
chief		Beats me -- the sun was too much for him, or the mud. Who knows ?
willard		Arch light.
chef		I hate that -- Every time I hear that noise something terrible happens.
chief		Anybody see some smoke ?
clean		Too far inland.
lance		There they are.
clean		Charlie don't ever hear 'em. Not till it's too late -- don't have to hit you neither, concussion'll do it for a quarter mile or better. Burst your ears -- suck the air outta your lungs.
lance		Hey.
chief		Lance -- I want you to go with the Captain an' get three extra drums of fuel and maybe scrounge some more 50 caliber.
lance		Yeah -- look at those uniforms.
chief		Poor bastards, have a long year to go.
sergeant		I don't know anything about these papers, sir.
willard		They're in order -- it's perfectly clean -- just check with ComSec- Intel like I said.
sergeant		Well, you know I don't have the priority to do that, sir. It says here not to contact Com-Sec- Int. Who's your commanding officer ?
willard		Right now -- I am.
sergeant		Well who the hell verifies that ?
willard		I do.
chief		No shit -- what's all the activity for around here ?
sergeant		The show --
willard		What show ?
sergeant		Big show in the parade grounds this noon -- some boss stuff --
willard		This -- Bob Hope or the like --
sergeant		No sir, I think -- this'll be a little bit different --
chief		Where's it gonna be ?
chef		It's really too much -- I mean I've collected every picture of her since she was Miss December.
clean		Yeah -- you can really get hung up on them like the cat in the Delta.
chief		What cat  ?
clean		One that went up for murder -- he was an Army Sergeant.
chief		I never heard about that.
clean		Yeah -- he really dug his Playboy mag, man -- I mean like he was there when it arrived -- He just knew.
chef		So what happened ?
clean		He was working A.R.V.N. patrols and had one a them little cocky gook asshole Lieutenants -- anyhow, the Lieutenant took his new Playboy one day, sat on the end of the dock, and wouldn't give it back.
chef		Yeah -- typical A.R.V.N.
clean		Then went too far -- he sat there and starts mutilating the centerfold. Poking pins in her an' all that. Sergeant says, don't do her like that. You leave your shitty little hands off that girl. Gook Lieutenant says Fuck you in Vietnamese -- Sergeant says, don't do that again. You'll wish you hadn't. Then he stood up, flicked his iron to rock and roll and gave the little zero a long burst through the Playboy mag. Man, it blew him clean off the dock -- Hell, just the magazine was floatin' there all full of holes.
chief		They nail him for it bad ?
clean		He's in the L.B.J. -- didn't give him no medals or nothing --
agent		I'd like to say hello from all of us up here, to all of you out there. All of you who've worked so hard during Operation Brute Force -- Paratroopers -- Infantry -- Airmen -- Medics -- Marines -- and Sailors. And I want you to know that we feel proud of you and know how hard your job is. To prove it -- we've brought some entertainment we think you're gonna like: The Playmate of the Year and her two runners up !
chief		Smoke !
willard		Where ?
willard		Black smoke ... secondary burning.
chief		Yeah -- fishing village -- helicopters over there. Hueys, lots of 'em.
willard		First Air Cavalry. They're the ones gonna get us into the River.
kilgore		 Lieutenant: Bomb that tree line back about a hundred yards -- give me some room to breathe.
kilgore		Bring me some cards.
guard		Sir ?
kilgore		Body cards, you damn fool -- cards !
willard		 Captain B-L. Willard, sir -- 4th Recon Group -- I carry priority papers from Com-Sec Intelligence 11 Corp -- I believe you understand the nature of my mission.
kilgore		 Yeah -- Na Trang told me to expect you -- we'll see what we can do. Just stay out of my way till this is done, Captain.
kilgore		 Six a spades -- eight a hearts -- Isn't one worth a Jack in this whole place.
kilgore		What ? Here. You sure?
kilgore		 What's your name, sailor ?
lance		Gunner's Mate, Third Class -- L. Johnson, sir.
kilgore		Lance Johnson? The surfer?
lance		That's right, sir.
kilgore		It's an honor to meet you Lance. I've admired your nose-riding for years -- I like your cutback, too. I think you have the best cutback there is.
lance		Thank you, sir.
kilgore		You can cut out the sir, Lance -- I'm Bill kilgore -- I'm a goofy foot.
willard		My orders are from Com-Sec Intel -- B.L. Willard, 4th Recon --
kilgore		Just hold up a second, Captain -- I'll get to you soon enough -- We've got things to do here.
kilgore		 ... we do a lot of surfing around here. Like to finish up operations early and fly down to Vung Tau for the evening glass. Have you ever surfed the point at Vung Tau? I liked the beach breaks around Na Trang a lot -- good lefts.
kilgore		 ... we keep three boards in my Command Huey at all times. You never can tell when you're gonna run into something good. I got a guy in Cam Rau Bay that can predict a swell two days in advance. We try to work it in.
kilgore		 Hell, that's an Ace if I ever saw one.
kilgore		Where've you been riding, Lance?
lance		I haven't surfed since I got here.
kilgore		That's terrible -- we'll change that -- I'd like to see you work -- I've always liked your cutback; got a hell of a left turn, too.
kilgore		Why the hell you wanna go up to Nu Mung Ba for?
willard		I got bored in Saigon.
kilgore		What's the furthest you been in?
willard		Haiphong.
kilgore		Haiphong? Shit, you jump in ?
willard		No. Walked.
kilgore		What'd you do for supplies?
willard		 Mercenaries -- agents, traitors -- they put out caches.
kilgore		Can you trust them?
willard		No. They put out two or three for every one I needed. When you get to the one you'll use, you just stake it out. If something feels wrong, you just pass it up. On one mission, I had to pass up three and ended up living on rats and chocolate bars.
kilgore		Nu Mung Ba. Last I heard, Walter Kurtz commanded a Green Beret detachment at Nu Mung Ba.
willard		When did you hear?
kilgore		'Bout a year ago? Is Kurtz still alive?
willard		Who knows.
kilgore		Seems to me he got himself fragged. i heard some grunt rolled a grenade in his tent. Maybe a rumor. Helluva man -- remarkable officer. Walter Kurtz woulda been a General some day. General of the Army. Shit, Head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Did you knew Kurtz?
willard		I met him.
kilgore		Don't you agree?
willard		He musta changed !  I got to get into the Nung River, here or here.
kilgore		That village you're pointing at is kinda hairy.
willard		Hairy ?
kilgore		I mean it's hairy -- they got some pretty heavy ordnance, boy -- I've lost a few recon ships in there now and again.
willard		So? I heard you had a good bunch of killers here.
kilgore		And I don't intend to get some of them chewed up just to get your tub put in the mouth of the goddman Nung River. You say you don't know Kurtz?
willard		I met him.
kilgore		You talk like him. I don't mind taking casualties, Captain, but I like to keep my ratio ten to one in this unit -- ten Cong to one.
willard		You'll find enough Cong up there.
kilgore		What about this point here?
kilgore		 What's the name of that goddamn village -- Vin Drin Dop or Lop; damn gook names all sound the same.
kilgore		 Mike, you know anything about the point at Vin Drip Drop?
mike		Boss left.
kilgore		What do you mean?
mike		It's really long left slide, breaks on the short side of the point -- catches a south swell.
lance		Nice.
kilgore		Why the hell didn't you tell me about that place -- a good left.  There aren't any good left slides in this whole, shitty country. It's all goddamn beach break.
mike		It's hairy ,though. That's where we lost McDonnel -- they shot the hell out of us. It's Charlie's point.
kilgore		How big it is?
mike		Six to eight feet.
kilgore		 A six-foot left.
lance		Boss. What's the wind like.
mike		Light off shore -- really hollow.
willard		We could go in tomorrow at dawn -- there's always off-shore wind in the morning.
chief		The draft of that river might be too shallow on the point.
kilgore		Hell, we'll pick your boat up and lay it down like a baby, right where you want it. This is the Cav boy -- airmobile. I can take that point and hold it as long as I like -- and you can get anywhere you want up that river that suits you, Captain. Hell, a six foot left.  You take a gunship back to division -- Mike, take Lance with you -- let him pick out a board, and bring me my Yater Spoon -- the eight six.
tom		I don't know, sir -- it's -- it's --
kilgore		 What is it?
tom		Well, I mean it's hairy in there -- it's Charlie's point.
willard		Charlie don't surf.
kilgore		How do you feel, boy?
gunner		Like a mean motherfucker, sir.
kilgore		Let's go.
kilgore		 We'll come in low out of the rising sun -- We'll put on the music about a mile out.
willard		Music?
kilgore		Yeah. Classical stuff -- scares the hell out of the slopes -- the boys love it.
pilot		Big Duke six to Eagle Thrust -- turn on coordinates 1-0 -- niner, assume attack formation.
pilot		700 -- 600 yards -- 500 -- Commence firing.
pilot		700 yards -- 600 -- 500 -- commence firing.
kilgore		Big Duke Six to Hell's Angels Four -- bring it in on along tree line and huts.
kilgore		Haven't got time, Hell's Angels -- lay it right up the tree line.
kilgore		Fucking savages.
willard		Who?
kilgore		The enemy. Who else?
kilgore		Big Duke Six to Baker Delta Four -- hold -- we're right over you.
kilgore		 Right along the doors, boy.
kilgore		 Fine... fine... little higher. Through the roof; yeah, that's good.
kilgore		 Didn't anybody bring me any bombs, grenades, claymores or anything?
lieutenant		You didn't tell me to, sir.
kilgore		 You shoulda known.
kilgore		 Sonuvabitch -- anybody hurt?
willard		Automatic weapons flashes along those trees -- probably eleven millimeter guns and AK-47's.
kilgore		The trees, eh...
kilgore		 Eagle Thrust Four -- Big Duke Six. Join me in sparaying some trees.
kilgore		Take her in low, Lieutenant.
kilgore		Hold it, boy.
kilgore		 Take her up to 300 feet, Lieutenant.
kilgore		 Rifle.
kilgore		 My rifle, soldier.
willard		Anyone got a card?
kilgore		The L.Z.'s cooling off fast -- we'll move in another company an' then we'll own it.  Charlie's point.
kilgore		 Good swell.
lance		What, sir?
kilgore		I said it's a good swell -- hell of a good swell 'bout six feet. Let's get a look at it.
soldier		Incoming !
kilgore		Look at that.
lance		This  L.Z. is still pretty hot, sir, maybe we oughta stand somewhere else.
willard		I'm waiting for the fucking boat, Colonel.
kilgore		 It'll get here, soldier.
kilgore		 Change.
mike		Wh -- what?
kilgore		Change -- get out there -- I want'a see if it's ridable -- change.
mike		It's still pretty hairy, sir.
kilgore		 You want'a surf, soldier?
kilgore		 That's good, boy, because it's either surf or fight.
kilgore		 I'm gonna cover for 'em -- that's all.
kilgore		 You think that section on the point is ridable, Lance?
lance		I think we ought to wait for the tide to come in.
kilgore		Doesn't happen for six hours.
kilgore		 The tide -- doesn't come in for six hours.
kilgore		They far enough?
lance		Sure -- fine --
kilgore		 That's far enough -- pick one up and come on in --
lance		 Maybe he'll get tubed.
willard		What?
lance		Maybe he'll get inside the tube -- where -- where they can't see him.
willard		Incoming !
kilgore		Son of a bitch.
lance		 The tragedy of this war is a dead surfer.
willard		What's that?
lance		Just something I read in the Free Press.
kilgore		They just missed a good set -- the chicken shits !
kilgore		 Im not afraid to surf this place. I'll surf this place.
kilgore		Bring that R.T., soldier.
kilgore		 Big Duke Six to Hell's Angels -- Goddamit, I want that treeline bombed -- yeah -- napalm -- gimme some napalm -- son of a bitch -- yeah, I'll take H.Z. or C.B.U.'s if you got any of them -- just bomb 'em into the Stone Age, boy.
kilgore		 Son of a bitch.
kilgore		 We'll have this place cleaned up and ready for us in a jiffy, boy. Don't you worry.
chief		Forget that extra drum -- it's too damn hot.
clean		Clear on starboard -- Where's Lance an' the Captain?
chief		I saw that Colonel's Huey on the point --
chief		 Let's just get outta here.
willard		 Look. There it is; the boat.
lance		 He'll kill us.
willard		He can't kill us.  We're on his side.
kilgore		 You smell that?
lance		What?
kilgore		Napalm, boy -- nothing else in the world smells like that --
kilgore		 I love the smell of napalm in the morning.
willard		You know, some day this war's gonna end..
kilgore		 Yes, I know.
kilgore		 The wind --
lance		What?
kilgore		 Feel it -- it's the wind -- it's blowing on shore -- It's on shore !
kilgore		 It's gonna blow this place out. It's gonna ruin it ...
willard		The kid can't ride sloppy waves.
willard		You don't expect this kid to ride that crap, do you? He's a goddamn artist, he needs something to work with...
lance		Yeah, I'm an artist, goddamit !
kilgore		 Yeah -- yeah, I can understand how you feel.
kilgore		 It's the napalm -- it's causing the wind -- ruining my perfect left.
kilgore		 The napalm -- ruin -- napalm my perfect left -- my perfect left point break -- napalm --
willard		Are you finished surfing?
lance		Yeah... thanks.
willard		Want to say goodbye to the Colonel?
lance		Nah.
willard		Then let's get the hell out of here.
lance		No -- no, Captain.
willard		Which one's the Colonel's?
lance		The Yater -- the clear one with the thin stringer.
willard		 This one , Lance?
lance		Yeah, Jesus Christ !
clean		What'd you that for?
willard		When I was a kid I, never had a Yater spoon.
lance		 Maybe we better stay in under the trees till dark -- we got his Yater.
willard		He didn't look like he'd take that sitting down.
willard		 Let's put some distance between us and Charlie.
chief		Lance ---
lance		Yeah.
chief		Why don't you roll us a big joint? I think the Captain'd like that.
willard		Take one a mine --
lance		You hear it again?
willard		No -- I don't think so. But it'll be back. They were circling. It'll be back.
lance		You think he'd of shot us?
willard		When?
lance		Any time -- us -- Americans.
willard		I don't think hed of shot us on the beach but -- he'd of shot us if he saw me taking the board --
lance		A Yater spoon is hard to get -- especially here.
willard		He's a man who knows what he wants -- he does know what he wants.
chef		Can I go get those mangos now?
chief		I'll go with you in a while -- judt hold tight awhile --
lance		Captain -- that was all true about the rats and chocolate and stuff?
willard		Sure.
lance		And you could just tell when the supplies were booby trapped?
willard		It's a feeling you get in the jungle. When you get good, you can find a track and tell not only how many they are, but their morale, how far they're going, whether they're near their camp, the weapons they're carrying.
clean		How can you tell their weapons.. an' how far they're going?
willard		Mostly from the imprints when they put them down to rest. their morale from the way they drag their feet, or the joints that may be lying around. If they're near a base camp, they wouldn't be conserving food; they'll be throwing it away half-eaten. If the branches aren't broken, their weapons are slung. But all this is just technique.. There's a feeling you get after a while, that's what's important. I was going through a village once. I was looking for a certain party. I took off my boots, and walked into each hut. It was midnight. I went into three like that and suddenly I realized Id gone into each hut the same way -- standing up -- so the next one I went in on my belly. An RPD burst took out the door a bit above my head.  Things like that.
clean		Jesus -- that guy's too damn much.
chief		I wonder if that was the same copter.
willard		He's probably got 'em all over the river with that recording. We better move now while it's dark.
chief		Yeah, Chef -- go ahead -- take Lance with you --
willard		I'll go with him --
willard		 I wanta get my feet on solid land once in awhile --
willard		Chef.
chef		Yes, sir --
willard		Why they call you that?
chef		Call me what, sir?
willard		Chef -- is that 'cause you like mangoes an' stuff?
chef		No, sir -- I'm a real chef, sir -- I'm a sauciere --
willard		A sauciere --
chef		That's right, sir -- I come from New Orleans -- I was raised to be a sauciere.. a great sauciere. We specialize in sauces; my whole family. It's what we do. I was supposed to go to Paris and study at the Escoffier School; I was saving the money. They called me for my physical so I figured the Navy had better food.
willard		What are you doing out here?
chef		Cook school -- that did it.
willard		How?
chef		They lined us all up in front of a hundred yards of prime rib -- magnificent meat, beautifully marbled.. Then they started throwing it in these big cauldrons, all of it -- boiling. I looked in, an' it was turning gray. I couldn't stand it. I went into radio school.
willard		 -- quiet --
willard		 There...
chef		It's a motherfucking tiger -- goddamn...
chef		 Goddamn -- Jesus Christ tiger -- motherfucking tiger -- ohhhhhhhhh --
chef		 Ohhhh -- tiger ! Oh goddamn ! It's a tiger ! Jesus Christ ! Goddamn, a tiger ! Ohhhhhhhh.
lance		What's this tiger shit?
willard		No shit... I think I shot the hell out of him.
lance		You think?
willard		I wasnt looking.. I was running.
clean		Was a big tiger -- no shit?
willard		Who stopped to measure him -- let's get the hell out of here.
chef		A motherfucking tiger -- I could've been killed.
chief		You forgot the mangoes, didn't you?
chef		Mangoes? There as a fucking tiger in the woods -- I could've been eaten alive. I'm never going into that jungle again. I gotta remember never get out of the boat; never get outta the boat.
radio		-- must remember that we owe our thanks for these to the wonderful services of the U.S.O. -- here's another oldie -- this one dedicated...
radio		... to the fire team at An Khe from their groovy C.O. Fred the Head --
radio		The Rolling Stones and "Satisfaction..."
chef		Outa sight.
soldier		Stepped on a booby trap, sir -- got blown all to hell --
soldier		I don't know -- don't have any idea -- I'm just the night man --
agent		You came in on that boat, didn't you?
willard		Yeah --
agent		Where are you headed?
agent		Look -- you know the girls -- Thta's Terri -- she was playmate of --
agent		Oh -- I see -- Well, girls, this is Captain -- eh --
agent		Look -- we got in a little trouble -- they rudely took our helicopter for MedEvac work on this -- uh Operation Brute Force -- They just brought it back this morning.
agent		Well I mean like they also took our fuel -- We've been here two days.
agent		Look -- the girls could get killed -- we're not supposed to be this close combat, I mean real combat.
agent		We could use some fuel -- just a half drum -- just enough to get us out a here.
agent		But, Captain, think what these girls have done for the boys -- think of how they've risked --
terri		Captain --
terri		 It's really rough here -- Captain -- we're just not built for it --
pilot		That's rich --
terri		Do us a favor -- I'd do one for you -- if I could --
agent		Look -- you know who that is, Captain -- you know what she's saying -- you'll never see stuff that good outside of a magazine for the rest of your life.
agent		Take your pick -- they all like you -- I can tell --
willard		I like all of them --
agent		Good -- like I said, take your pick.
willard		I said I like all of them.
agent		Now just a second -- I'm doing you a favor, buddy -- what're you trying to pull?
willard		We need all our fuel anyway.
agent		Wait -- wait -- don't get up tight -- what I meant was we'd need a whole drum for that --
willard		Sit down -- we'll talk about it.
agent		What's there to talk about -- this whole thing disgusts me.
willard		My men --
agent		What !
willard		That's what there is to talk about -- my man -- I take a good care of my men --
agent		You're out of your skull --
willard		We have a lot of pride in our unit --
agent		How far do you think you can push -- what kind of people do you think --
willard		Esprit de corps --
agent		No -- absolutely not --
willard		One for all -- all for one --
agent		You can keep your fucking fuel --
willard		You make some of your closest friends in the army -- war has a way of bringing men together.
agent		Get out --
willard		Men of all races -- nationalities --
agent		Two drums --
agent		 Two whole drums --
willard		We can use some fifty caliber and a 16 too --
agent		I don't know what you're talking about -- Get fucked --
willard		I will -- I assure you that -- You got a fifty on that H-34 -- leave the ammo in boxes -- I'll get my men to bring the first drum with 'em --
willard		 Have the girls freshen up a bit -- comb their hair -- put on something -- you know what I mean --
clean		You keep this thing in this condition an' it's gonna jam, Lance -- mark my words.
lance		Why don't you go pet the water buffaloes -- get off my back.
chief		Careful,  Captain, they've been known to charge.
willard		All right I got a little surprise for you --
willard		 I've arranged with those people we saw at Hau Fat to give us some 50 caliber in trade for a couple a drums of fuel --
chef		No shit.
willard		Chef -- since you're such a fan of Miss December's I think you should be detailed with Lance and Clean to take the first drum up there.
chef		I don't believe you --
chief		What're you trying to say, Captain --
willard		You'll see soon enough -- get going, sailor --
chief		No shit -- hot damn --
chef		I've got every one of your pictures -- I've got the centerfold -- the Playmate's review -- the Playmate of the Year run-off -- everything, even the calender --
lynda		Well, get undressed and let's get it over with --
chef		I can't believe it -- I'd a never even got to see you if it wasn't for this war --
lynda		Come on -- cut this crap -- I gotta get back to Saigon --
chef		Just let me look awhile -- I just don't believe --
lance		Well -- uh thanks -- see you around.
cathy		Yeah.
cathy		 Who are you?
clean		I'm next --
willard		Ma'am -- I'd like to thank you for what you an' all your friends have done for us -- I want you to know that me an' the men appreciate you coming all this way -- riskin' your lives -- living uncomfortably an' doing all you can to entertain us. I want you to know personally, Miss, that for the past few minutes you have made me feel at home.
willard		 Just wanted to say that, ma'am.
soldier		I gotta get out a here -- Ill pay -- I got money.
chief		Get away from this boat.
willard		Who's your C.O., soldier?
soldier		Fuck you, you'll get what's coming to you.
lieutenant		Captain Willard?
willard		That's me.
lieutenant		Captain Willard -- we got these from Nha Thrang two days ago -- they expected you here then --
lieutenant		 You don't know how happy that makes me, sir.
willard		Why?
lieutenant		Now I can get out a here -- if I can find a way out.
willard		We'll be needing some supplies and fuel -- do you know anybody who can give me a hand?
lieutenant		I'd just clear out as soon as I could if I were you, sir. They're gonna start working on the bridge with torches again. Charlie will start throwing it in hard --
willard		What is this bridge?
lieutenant		It's of strategic importance for keeping the highway into Bat Shan open -- the generals don't like to admit that Bat Shan is surrounded.
lieutenant		 Every night we build it and by 0800 they've blown it up -- it and a lot of good men -- But the generals like to say the road is open -- ha ! Nobody uses that road except Charlie.
lieutenant		 This is the cesspool of hell.
chief		 All right -- Lance, go with the Captain an' see what you can scrounge --
chief		 Better make it fast, sir -- we don't really need much anyway.
voice		Straight ahead, son of a bitch.
soldier		You came right to it, son of a bitch --
willard		Son of a bitch, sir.
willard		 Where's your chief supply officer?
soldier		Beverly Hills --
willard		What?
soldier		Straight up the road -- a concrete bunker -- Beverly Hills -- where else you think he'd be?
willard		C'mon --
voice		Watch your feet, asshole --
voice		 You stepped on my face.
lance		We thought you were dead.
voice		The whole world loves a smart ass.
willard		What're you shooting at, soldier?
gunner		Gooks.
gunner		 Im sorry, sir.
willard		It's all right, sergeant -- what's out there?
gunner		They were tryin' to cut through the wire -- I got 'em all I think.
other soldier		Oh yeah -- listen.
gunner		He's trying to call his friends -- send up a flare.
spotter		Those are all dead, stupid, he's obviously underneath 'em --
gunner		Wake up the Roach.
roach		Yeah, man.
spotter		Slope in the wire -- hear him.
spotter		 Bust him.
gunner		Hear him?
roach		Sure , yeah.
gunner		You need a flare --
roach		No, its cool.
roach		 He's close -- real close.
roach		 Muhhh Fuhhh ...
chef		Geez, I wish they'd hurry.
soldier		Hey, buddy, that boat still runs, eh?
clean		Yeah, it still runs.
soldier		Do me a favor buddy, please.
clean		What is it?
soldier		Send these out when you get back to the world.
soldier		 It's to everyone I really knew -- the first girl I screwed -- my brother -- best friend -- I wanted to tell 'em how much I enjoyed knowing 'em -- it's been a great twenty years. I gotta let 'em know.
clean		What're you askin' me for -- put 'em in the first helicopter comes in tomorrow.
soldier		Nobody comes in here.
soldier		 The N.V.A. 312th -- over there the 307th -- on that hill we counted fourteen different guns in one minute -- they got rockets mortars, snipers in those trees, there's a million of those shitty little bastards out there -- we're all gonna die.
soldier		 I'm gonna be dead.
soldier		 You got a chance in that boat -- by morning you could be five miles down the river.
clean		We ain't goin' down the river.
clean		 What's up river from here anyhow --
soldier		Spooky.
clean		Charlie?
soldier		No, it'd be spooky without the war -- give 'em back.
chief		Wow, you must a found the C.O., eh?
willard		We found some bodies -- let's get out a here.
chief		 I can't see a fucking thing.
chief		 We hit a big enough one this hull will shatter like a Corvette. Fucking plastic boat.
willard		 What about ducking into one of those tributaries till this river slows down?
chief		Who knows what's up there?
willard		Can't be any worse than this. What do you think?
chief		I think this river wants to take us home fast. I'm practically goin' in reverse.
willard		Well, get in there.
chief		This whole area is lousy with V.C. -- We don't stand a chance. Lemme turn around and we'll be in Hau Fat in six minutes.
willard		Get in there !
chief		This is my crew and my fucking boat, and I'm the responsible party.
willard		Get in there now or I'll bury you in this river.
chief		 You're fucking crazy. You're going to get us all killed.
lance		It breaks through in about twenty feet.
willard		What do you see?
chef		I don't know.
willard		Keep cutting.
chef		I know it sounds stupid, but I feel like the goddamn jungle's watching us.
willard		Probably is.
chef		Whatdoya think it thinks.
willard		That we're dumber than we look.
chief		Lance -- 'bout twenty meters starboard.
chef		There in the trees !
chief		 Elevate Lance, in the tree. No, I saw another.
chef		Thirty meters up, Lance; I saw the fucking flash.
clean		I'm ripping 'em, man, son-of-a- bitch, it's jammed, oh God, it's jammed.
willard		Throw me that ordnance.
willard		 Give me some kind a field a fire --
chef		 We're through.
chef		 Oh, God --
lance		 I ain't finished ! I ain't finished !
willard		Bring that bow ordnance into those trees.
chef		There's some bad holes, man, and the cracks -- water's coming through the cracks. Food's shot to hell.
willard		How much is left?
chef		Less than half -- sure is a mess down there.
willard		And the grass?
chef		Still got a lot of that stuff from Nha Trang. But we're running low on the other.
willard		Hey.
willard		 That's a light down there --
chef		Yeah, it is.
chief		What the hell is it?
willard		In the middle of the jungle -- a goddamn light.
willard		Watch it !
willard		 They're not Cong.
chief		 We're Americans.
chef		Maybe you shouldn't say we're Americans?
willard		Chef, try your French.
chef		Nous sommes Americains --
chef		 Nous ne voulon pas vous agresser.
chef		Nous sommes Americains -- nous sommes des amis --
frenchman		 Vous parlez Francais comme une vache espanole.
chef		 I thought it was pretty good, myself.
chief		What'd he say?
chef		Said I speak French like a Spanish cow.
chef		Put the guns straight up -- stand away from the mounts.
willard		Do it.
chef		Take her in slow.
philippe		Hands on the heads.
chief		I can't steer with my goddamn feet.
chef		Hey, they speak American.
gaston		Who is the commanding officer?
chief		I --
willard		I am -- I'm Captain B.L. Willard. This is Chief Warrant Officer Phillips -- it's his boat. We were shot up bad downriver and need repairs and food -- we can pay you in gold.
gaston		Philippe --
lance		I'll help you with --
philippe		Do not move --
gaston		Fifty calibers, eh, Captain --
willard		As I said, we can pay you in gold.
gaston		Entirely unnecessary, Captain.
gaston		We share a common enemy -- you are our guests.  I am Gaston de marais -- this is my family's plantation. It has been such for 121 years. It will be such after I die. This is my son, Philippe -- he has fought in Algeria and held the rank of Captain. And Henry LeFevre -- a sergeant; he was at Dien Bien Phu. My personal servant, Tran Van Kac ---
gaston		 My youngest son -- Christian --
gaston		Christian's wife -- Ann-Marie --
gaston		 And my youngest daughter -- Claudine.
willard		American weapons?
gaston		We took them from the dead.  Now -- I assume you want to rest, to shower. We'll attend to your repairs after dinner.
chef		Shower.
willard		We don't want to bother you any, we --
gaston		A man of war is never bothered to aid an ally -- you will follow me, Captain.
willard		A habit of men of war, sir -- you understand.
gaston		Of course, Captain -- an unfortunate necessity.
chief		What about the boat?
philippe		My men will keep it for you --
chief		Yeah -- well, I'll stay with the boat.
willard		Chief.  Come with us.
gaston		A suitable accomodation for your men, captain -- you will, of course, be quartered with us --
willard		Go ahead --
gaston		Captain, this way.
gaston		 Magnificent, eh, Captain?
gaston		 It is very good -- there is no current -- It is very good. I have never seen one like it in all Indochina. I was in Paris when it arrived -- do you know what might have caused --
willard		Looks like a two thousand pound to me. Yeah, a two thousand pound bomb.
gaston		No, I've seen those in Normandy. This is much better.  My country -- my country could never originate this. Magnificent.
chef		A hot shower, hot damn.
chef		This food is wonderful ! I can't believe the chef is a slope.  Some more?
chef		 Hey -- Lance.
lance		Huh? Oh. Um, wouldya .. wouldya pass me the Rice-a-roni, please.
gaston		Roxanne, I hope you are feeling better.
roxanne		Je vais bien maintenant.
gaston		May I present Captain Willard? He is of a paratroop regiment. You know the difference between a paratrooper and a regular soldier, don't you , my dear?
roxanne		 Yes, they come from the sky.
willard		I would like to know more about the .. uh, plaque...
gaston		Attacks repulsed, as I was saying.  Americain -- 6. Of course, they were, perhaps, mistakes, Captain.
willard		Of course. I -- Once we make our repairs, we could send word, we could have you evacuated from here.
gaston		Captain?
willard		You'll get blown outta here some day.
gaston		We will never 'evacuate', Captain -- this is our home. Indochina is ours; it has been so for a hundred and twenty-one years, there is something to say for that.
willard		The Vietnamese think it's theirs -- I guess the Americans do, too.
gaston		But we civilized it. A place belongs to those who bring light to it, don't you agree.
willard		I always thought the French came here to get the rubber.
philippe		Excuse me, I must attend to my men.
roxanne		May I ask where the Captain is going in his little boat?
willard		We were going upriver when we got caught in a storm, ma'am.
gaston		Upriver? Why upriver? There is nothing there, only jungle.
willard		Do you know that jungle?
gaston		When I was a boy, my father would take me there, to hunt. There are a few savages, but no man can live there, no white man.
willard		What about an American named Kurtz?
gaston		We have never heard of him.
gaston		 Bon nuit, Roxanne -- bon nuit, Captain.
willard		Good night.
roxanne		You must realize, Captain -- we have lost much here -- I, my husband. Gaston -- his wife and son.
willard		I'm sorry to hear that.
roxanne		 Cognac?
willard		I should be checking on the boat.
roxanne		The war will still be here tomorrow.
willard		 I guess so.
roxanne		Do you miss your home, Captain? Have you someone there?
willard		No. Not really.
roxanne		Then you are like us.
roxanne		 What will you do after the war?
willard		I just follow my footsteps, one at a time, trying to answer the little questions and staying away from the big ones.
roxanne		What's a big question?
willard		Kurtz.  I know you've heard of him.
roxanne		Yes.
willard		What did you hear?
roxanne		That strange things.. terrible things have occured around this American, Kurtz.
willard		What things?
roxanne		Gaston would never tell me. It was asubject not to be spoken of, Captain.
willard		Yes.
roxanne		Did you know -- deeper in the jungle, upriver -- there are savages?
willard		I know.
roxanne		But Captain, I mean -- cannibals.
roxanne		 What a pity, you don't drink. Since my husband died, there are so many things I must do alone.
roxanne		 Are you warm, Captain?
willard		The river is beautiful.
roxanne		I spend hours watching that river from my bedroom window. It fascinates me.
roxanne		I have been lonely here, Captain.
roxanne		I will fix you breakfast.
willard		I'm afraid I won't have time -- I gotta --
roxanne		Whe you reach the boat you will find that half your fifty calibre stores -- a case of grenades, a mortar and two M-16's and a case of clips are being transfered to us by your order.
willard		So that's it.
roxanne		You may think what you wish, Captain, but I like you very much.
willard		What if I say no.
roxanne		Then Philippe will have to kill all of you.
gaston		Two of my men deserted last night. It happens from time to time. I assume my daughter told you of our conditions.
willard		Your daughter.
chief		They taking half our ammo, Captain -- said it was your orders.
willard		That's right -- I did.
willard		I guess this is whAt men of war do -- eh?
gaston		We endure, captain -- you can blow up the house and we will live in the cellar -- destroy that and we'll dig a hole in the jungle and sleep on it. Burn the forest and we'll hide in the swamp. all the while, we do but one thing -- clean the blood off our bayonets.  Au revoir, Captain.
chief		Next time we  get in a good fire fight -- I'd like to know how she was, Captain.
chef		Holy shit.
clean		What did you put in all those ammo boxes?
willard		Rocks, sand -- those two men who deserted.
chief		When'd you do it?
willard		While you were sleeping.
chief		-- All right, Lance --
lance		The other one --
willard		No -- leave it --
chief		Why -- Charlie put it there to kill --
willard		Thta's not Charlie's work --
willard		Whoever put'em there didn't do it to kill people -- They put 'em up as signs --
chief		Signs?
willard		Yeah -- like keep out --
willard		Listen.
chief		What is it?
willard		Listen.
chief		They're on the banks of the river.
lance		Jesus !
chief		No, Lance. Not while you can't see.
chief		Will they attack?
willard		If they have boats ... or canoes... they'd get lost in the fog. We can't move either -- we'll end up on the shore.
chef		God...
lance		Sounds like hundreds of them.
willard		Shhhhhh.
willard		 It doesn't sound hostile -- it sounds like they've seen us coming and it sounds like -- I don't know, a funeral. I don't understand.
chief		Which way? Right or left?
willard		Who knows? Right.
chief		Looks pretty shallow.
willard		 Purgative air strike ! Purgative ! They'd kill me too !
chief		Shit ! Fucking arrows ! They're shooting fucking arrows at us.
willard		Steer her right.
willard		Keep going.. keep going. They're just fucking sticks ! Chief, stay at the helm.  But Chief seems out of control -- he lets the clip of his M-16 go. Then slowly lets the rifle fall out of his hands, and falls to Willard's feet, a primitive spear having caught him right through the ribs. Willard looks down in horror.
chief		A spear?
willard		Stop it. Stop it !
lance		Chief's dead.
willard		Just stand here with me where they can see us. Do nothing.
willard		We've been attacked.
australian		 I know, I know, it's all right. Come in this way. It's mined over there. This way. It's all right.
chef		Charlie?
willard		Looks that way.
chef		 Who's he?
willard		God knows.
willard		 Who the hell are you?
australian		Moonby. Got any Winstons?
willard		Moonby what?
australian		Moonby, 4th battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, Task Force. Ex-Corporal Moonby, deserted.
willard		 What is this?
moonby		Oh, they're simple enough people. It's good to see you, baby. Nobody has any Winstons?
moonby		This boat's a mess.
willard		Where's Kurtz? I want to talk to him.
moonby		Oh, you don't talk to Colonel Kurtz.  You listen to him. God, these are good. I kept these people off you, you know. It wasn't easy.
willard		Why did they attack us?
moonby		Simple. They don't want him to go.
willard		You're Australian?
moonby		Pre-Australian, actually. But I'd dig goin' to California. I'm California dreamin'.
willard		 So Kurtz is alive.
moonby		Kurtz. I tell you, that man has enlarged my mind.
moonby		 But lemme tell you, he is the most dangerous thing in every way that I've come on so far. He wanted to shoot me. The first thing he said is, 'I'm going to shoot you because you are a deserter.' I said I didn't desert from your army, I deserted from my army. He said, 'I'm going to shoot you just the same.'
willard		Why didn't he shoot you?
moonby		I've asked myself that question. I said to myself, why didn't he shoot me? He didn't shoot me, because I had a stash like you wouldn't believe. I hid it in the jungle; the wealth of the Orient: Marijuana -- Hashish -- Opium -- cocaine -- uncut Heroin; the Gold of the Golden Triangle. and Acid -- I make Koolaid that makes purple Owsley come on like piss. Now I'm Kurtz' own Disciple -- I listen he talks. About everything ! Everything. I forgot there's such a thing as sleep. Everything. Of love, too.
chef		Love?
moonby		Oh, no, not what you think... Cosmic love. He made me see things -- things, you know.
willard		Sounds like he's gone crazy.
moonby		No, Colonel Kurtz couldn't be crazy -- if you heard him talk, just last week, you'd never think he was crazy.
willard		Is that where he is? By the shrunken heads.
moonby		Those heads, yes. Well, the rebels...
willard		 We're going ashore. Tie her up -- and leave your guns up, Lance.
lance		What?
willard		Bring your rifles, that's all.  Take us to him.
moonby		Right on -- he's been waiting for --
willard		And shut up.
willard		Who are you?
moonby		 His name is...
willard		I'm not ever goin' to tell you to shut up again.
man		Colby. Exec. officer, A-Team... Special Forces. F-82 -- Col. Walter Kurtz, commanding.
willard		What happened here?
colby		What -- happened here.
willard		Charlie?
colby		NVA regulars. They're coming again tonight. Tet -- their big -- assault.
willard		I'm taking you back.
moonby		Oh, no, dont say that.
colby		Take us back. Take us back ! But, the operation -- the team. Colonel Kurtz has such plans for -- the team.
willard		Take me to him, Major.
colby		I had nothing to do with these operations -- I did not do the planning -- none of us did. It was all Colonel Kurtz -- he was the genius. You'll see -- the genius of our Colonel. He should be made a General, don't you think? A General? It's...
willard		Colonel Kurtz, I guess.
kurtz		I'm Kurtz.
willard		 Captain B.L. Willard reporting his presence, sir.
kurtz		At ease...  Sit down.
kurtz		 Why did you come to ... my province.
willard		We were attacked -- down river. We need supplies and medical help.
kurtz		You were not coming here, to see me?
willard		 No -- no, sir.
kurtz		You came up my river -- in that small boat. So simple. I always thought the final justice would come from the sky, like we did.  You are the final justice, aren't you?
willard		What do you mean, Colonel?
kurtz		 What other reason could you have come? A Captain. Ranger. Paratrooper. Graduate of the Recondo School. Am I right about these things?
willard		You know you're right.
kurtz		Then the Agency approached you. Maybe in a bar in Quinon or Pleiku. Simple. A year's pay for one life. Perhaps a village elder, or a tax collector. Nobody's orders but your own. Exciting work.
kurtz		You've spent tome at the Royal Tracking School of Malaysia. I can tell from the way the laces on your boots are tied. I understand you, Captain. We understand each other.
willard		Do you know me?
kurtz		Yes.
kurtz		 Do you know me ?
chef		Holy shit.
chef		Captain -- they've been probed all this week -- Cong and NVA regulars. There's gonna be a big offense any time.
willard		I know.
chef		What are we doing here?
willard		Kurtz. I'm supposed to kill him, just like he said.
kurtz		Yeah, I can see that. He's fuckin nuts --
willard		Yeah.
chef		He killed that guy without feeling anything.
willard		Not a thing.
chef		When you kill Cong, don't you feel something.
willard		Sure.  Recoil... I feel the recoil of my rifle.
willard		This is good -- triple overlapping fields of fire -- walls so thick ordinary artillery just cleans the moss off their surfaces.
willard		 I've done things, when I was alone in the jungle -- that I never told anyone about.
chef		This is evil -- evil, Captain. We're all gonna die here.
willard		Yeah, I know.
chef		I don't get it -- You said your mission was to kill him. Let's do it, an' get our asses outta here. This  Kurtz is ruining the war; I mean, this don't look good for America !
willard		 ... he's an amazing officer.
chef		You got to kill this sonuvabitch -- Lance and me, we don't understand none of this -- Jesus, Captain -- I don't wanna die here -- Do it quick.
willard		Yeah. I know.
moonby		He's asleep -- don't bother him.
kurtz		I'm awake.
kurtz		 You. Get out.
kurtz		 Hes only stayed alive this long because he's a good orderly and medic. He knows how to use a hypodermic.
willard		You're gonna get hit tonight, bad -- a whole regiment of NVA regulars.
kurtz		That's right, the little gook- pricks. But they are noble little gook-pricks, noble. Because they fight with their guts, like animals. And for an idea ! That's rich. We fight with ingenious machines and fire, like Gods, and for nothing. But I'll call in a major blotto airstrike tonight. We'll have ourselves a helluva airstrike tonight, a lightshow. How do you like The Doors': 'C'mon Baby Light My Fire...'
kurtz		 Do you?
willard		Yeah, I like it...
kurtz		I love it.
willard		You've gone crazy.
kurtz		 But my soul has gone mad.
kurtz		 My gut -- Oh, Christ, my gut !
chef		 Kill him -- come on, why don't you kill him
kurtz		 Oh shit -- on the table; morphine.
kurtz		 You see how stupid it would have been to blow out my brains? I'm dying from the gut anyway.
kurtz		 No -- I don't want to sleep. I want to think. Water. Give me water.
willard		You can't have water after morphine.
kurtz		Still playing by the rules.  You're a damn good kiler.
willard		 How's the pain?
kurtz		How's yours?
willard		I can handle it.
kurtz		Pain is easy to handle -- but nobility.. the nobility of a man is judged by how much Truth he can handle.
willard		What Truth?
kurtz		The truth that you were sent here to murder me, ans so far you haven't done it. And do you know why?  Except me.
kurtz		 Gimme water.
willard		No water.
kurtz		You know what you're doing? You are interfering with my plans !
kurtz		 This water's got Moonby's acid in it --
kurtz		 Drink it -- drink it for tonight. Think of it. A whole regiment of those shitty little Cong -- War. Total war -- war like you've never known it. It's beautiful -- you'll love it. Trust me.
chef		Lance -- the fucker's not gonna do it.
kurtz		Goddamn -- You've gotta dig napalm on Speed, too. It's spectacular, you'll see.
kurtz		Look into the jungle. You can't -- it's too terrible. You have to smear yourself with warpaint to look at it -- you have to be a cannibal.  That's why warpaint was invented. Then it becomes your jungle.
willard		How did we get here?
kurtz		Because of all the things we do, the thing we do best -- is lie.
willard		I think think a lie stinks.
kurtz		Oh Captain, that is so true.
willard		Stinks. I could never figure --  I could never figure how they can teach boys how to bomb villages with napalm -- and not let them write the word 'fuck' on their airplanes.
kurtz		 You could never figure it because it doesn't make sense.
willard		Fuck no.
kurtz		I'll tell you what makes sense ! Air strikes ! White Phosphorus ! Napalm ! We'll bomb the shit out of them if they don't do what we want.
willard		We'll exterminate the fuckers !
chef		Captain -- kill him.
kurtz		Think of it -- for years, millions of years, savages with pathetic painted faces were scared shitless that fire would rain down from the sky. And goddamn, we made it happen. God  bless  Dow  !
chef		Kill him !
lance		 Hot damn !
soldier		Wow...
kurtz		Mini-gun. Colby. Sergeant. Mini-gun.
willard		Napalm.
kurtz		Claymores, claymores.
willard		Code -- Street Gang -- Street Gang ! Purgative air strike; Street Gang !
kurtz		 Charles !
kurtz		Go away -- hide yourself.
willard		What are you doing?
kurtz		Going back  - to the jungle to die.
willard		I'm taking you back. You can still live.
kurtz		I had immense plans.
willard		I'm gonna get you out of here.
kurtz		I was on threshold of great things.
colby		Who is he?
willard		He was the tragedy -- the tragedy of this war.
kurtz		Don't. Don't frighten them away.
willard		So you understand this?
kurtz		Do I not?
kurtz		My river... my people... my jungle... my ideas... my country... my wife...  ... my death.
willard		You had immense plans... immense plans...
kurtz		Yes...
willard		I'm taking you back.
kurtz		The horror, the horror.
colby		There.
colby		 How did they know?
willard		They must have seen the fire.
colby		They're coming to rescue us. They're Medevac.
willard		 They're coming to take us back.
willard		 Yeah.
colby		Colonel Kurtz, he's dead.
willard		Yeah.
willard		Yeah.
willard		I never answered questions about Kurtz -- I gave them a few of his unimportant papers -- but for the most part I saved everything. There were other letters, personal ones written earlier to his wife. I brought them to het. I watched the fall of Saigon on television in a bar in Alameda...
willard		Hi.
kurtz's wife		Come in, Captain Willard.
kurtz's wife		Can I get anything for you?
kurtz's wife		 Did you know him very well?
willard		You get to know each other pretty well out there.
kurtz's wife		And you admired him?
willard		He was a remarkable man. It was impossible not to --
kurtz's wife		Love him... Yes, it is true. That's the hard part for me... I knew him better than anyone ... I knew him best.
willard		You knew him best.
kurtz's wife		You were his friend... You must have been, if he had given you this...  If he sent you to his home. He was the best this country had -- he was --
willard		Yes, I know...
kurtz's wife		I'll never get over it -- But I'll always remember him...
willard		Both of us...
kurtz's wife		Men looked up to him...  He died as he lived...
willard		His death was -- yes, he died as he lived.
kurtz's wife		Were you with him, when...
willard		Yes I was... He said his last words to me.
kurtz's wife		What were they?
kurtz's wife		Tell me.
kurtz's wife		Tell me what he said.
willard		He spoke of you, ma'am.
****Dialogues from script :April_Fool_s_Day.txt****

rev 1st draft		July 30, 1986
sweet coed		 I don't know what else to say!
sweet coed		Something about myself? Oh, Gee...  Well, I want to work with handicapped children... My parents are my best Friends... Next semester I start convent school, and I... fuck on the first date.
chaz's voice		Whoo! Outrageous woman! Nikki, you are my kind o' gal!
chaz's voice		C'mon, Kit, how about you?
chaz's voice		C'mon , Arch? Skip?
arch		 Yeah, sure... I fuck on the first date...
chaz's voice		 Yeah, Kit, where is he?
kit		Oh, c'mon, Chaz, give me some room, will you?
nikki		 Well? INT. VOLVO WAGON IN MOTION - MAIN HIGHWAY - DAY
rob		 Here'll be fine, thanks...
rob		 Thanks... for the lift, I mean...
suburban lady		 It was a real lift for me, too, hon.
clara		 The rooms are all in order, double- and triple-checked, and I'm on my way...
muffy		Shit.
clara's voice		Need any help down there?
muffy		 No, Clara, thanks. Just trying some last minute straightening down here... god, I don't think I've ever worked so hard in my life...!
clara		Sure you don't want me to stay? There's nobody gonna be around here to help till first ferry back Monday, y'know...
muffy		 Nope, you're a peach, Clara. But this one's mine. I told my father I'd do it, and I will. My way. I don't want him to have any excuses.
clara		 All right, then. Have a nice party.
muffy		 Nice? It has to be better than nice... it's gotta be bloody unforgettable!
clara		Good luck.
chaz		Here she comes...
nan		 Hi... is this the ferry to the St. John house?
nan		Oh, thank goodness ! I didn't know if I was on the right road...
nan		Nan Youngblood.
nikki		 Planning on staying a while?
nan		 Oh, no... just some work for finals, when we get back... you don't know how far behind I am...
arch		Hi. Arch Cummings . I've seen you around. Jewett Hall, right?
chaz		Chaz Vyshinsky. You got great legs.
nikki		 Chaz, Arch already has her bag.
nan		 Well, I only met Muffy this term in Drama Society . I volunteered to do their costumes... I like to sew... Did you see her in Ghosts? She's so talented. She was wonderful!
skip		 Congratulations, on finding your way.
ferryman		 Stand clear!
nikki		 This is it? No going back? Trapped for days on an island where men are men, and women oughta know better?
arch		 Try to control yourself, Sister O'Toole.
nikki		 You could tie me in chains...
chaz		 Your fly's open, and your Hostess Twinkie's hanging out...
buck		Sh -i-i-t...
ferryman		Come on if you're coming.
kit		 Excuse me. But we're still waiting for somebody --
ferryman		 It's Friday. My last run of the week. I don't get paid overtime. KIT But you've got to wait. They said it's the only way over. If he misses this...
harvey		Wait up!
rob		 Rob Ferris...
harvey		 Hi! Harvey 'Hal' Edison, Jr., but please call me Hal. Only my folks call me Harve... and I can't stand it. Boy, this sure is a pretty spot.
chaz		You're friends with... Muffy St. John?
harvey		 Sure am. We sit together in Econ 345. I let her copy my marginal utility curves.
nikki		I get it. That's a joke. Preppy Skip adds his greeting.
skip		 Harve.
harvey		 Springsteen, he's still the Boss!
ferryman		 Ok, c'mon, I don't have all day.
harvey		 YOU all buddies?
nikki		Except for Skip and Nan. Them we just met.
kit		 But we will be.
chaz		 Watch what you say around him, though. He's Muffy's cousin.
harvey		 No kiddin'?
skip		Distant. Over the horizon. Otherwise, I wouldn't be invited...  Old money never mixes family with friends.
nikki		This is true. For as long as I've known her.
kit		 To keep her friends.
arch		 Hey, what's this...?
skip		You up for a game of stretch?
chaz		 Your fly's open.
skip		Eat it.
chaz		 Ok, so don't believe me.
rob		 We're off!
skip		First round, the champ!
harvey		Y'know what I find amazin'? Muffy's her real name. I mean, I'm Harvey, but they call me Hal, so I thought, 'Muffy', it must stand for something... Muffin?
nikki		Muffers, Moffo, Muff-child , Muffin' stuff, the Muffster...
harvey		 I bet you're her oldest friend.
nikki		 Actually, she's three months older than I am.
harvey		You know what I mean.
nikki		Harvey... are you planning a career in politics when you grow up?
harvey		I've given it some thought. Why?
nikki		Oh, just a hunch.
harvey		First, though, I'm hopin' to interview with her daddy's company, Southern Regional Sales, next year before graduation... Y'know, he's worth more'n 50 mill over the counter!
skip		 Go for it, big fella.
chaz		fastens onto Nan, immersed in one of her books. He carries his own.
chaz		 Whatcha readin'?
nan		Milton. Paradise Lost. For Professor Russo's course on the English epic... It's a shame. It's a dying form. Not too many people read it nowadays, even in college. What's yours?
chaz		 Suck and fuck.
rob		You don't want me to hitch, you want me to buy a car. OK, but I'm a state university boy, I don't have the perks like some of you private college kids do.
kit		Oh, c'mon, don't pull that.
rob		Kit...
arch's voice		 Hey, I'm really not interested anymore --
skip		C'mon, just one more
arch		I said, enough's enough--
skip		One more try, double or nothing.
arch		 C'mon, give it a fuckin' rest!
skip		 Oh, fuck.
skip		Nan screams. Skip stumbles, teetering there at the edge of the ferry. Rob and Chaz leap to their feet. The ferrymen both look up in disbelief. Arch steps forward to help. But Skip, weaving, topples and splashes overboard. He goes under.
arch		 I'll get him, I'll get him!
skip's voice		Hi, this what you're looking for?
arch		We got 'em! Whoo-ee, did we nail 'em! CHAZ  April Fools... you crazy jerks. You crazy motherfuckin' jerks... somebody could've gotten hurt out there!
buck		 SH-I-I-I-T
nikki		You maniacs... you almost gave us a heart attack!
arch		 Well, at least we don't go in for this your-shoelaceis-untied crap!
rob		 I owe you one.
skip		 How's it goin' out there?
buck		That was great!
skip		I was really counting on these other turkeys to save my ass.
chaz		Oh, too bad.
skip		Sorry about that.
ferryman		 Ok, c'mon, get out.
ferryman		Buck, look out--
rob		 Oh, shit...
ferryman		Buck!
kit		 Oh, god! EXT. DOCK - ISLAND - DAY
ferryman		Get away from him!
buck		They did it... them!
ferryman		 Easy Buck... it's OK... OK... There's time for Later... easy...
constable potter		 Get him to the hospital, Cal! Take my boat!
constable potter		All right... Let's have it. INT. MUFFY'S PASSENGER VAN - DAY
muffy		What's going on? Sam... what's wrong?
constable potter		 Tricks. Pranks. Better ask your friends... Buck's been hurt. 'Cal just took him on over to the mainland. Just lucky I was here...
muffy		No, he's in Sutton Place. Why?
constable potter		No word from him, or anybody else?
muffy		 No...
constable potter		Just like I thought. . Burned out. Worthless...
muffy		We keep all the keys on the board in the kitchen, but I think there's an extra one underneath the cushion there. She points to the boat seat. Potter is much obliged.
constable potter		 I'm glad you're stuck here, all o' you. If there's anvthin' else, or anything happens to Buck... I want to know where to find you.
skip		These goddamn windows!
skip		They've never been fixed...
kit		Look, Skip, it wasn't your fault. It was an accident. You didn't know.
skip		 Sure.
rob		 What a way to start a weekend, huh.
skip		Muffy. Nothing bad ever happens to her.
muffy		Well, there's an awful lot to be done with this place.
arch		You sound as if you own it.
muffy		I will, if all goes well. Next month when I turn 21. It's my first- stage inheritance.
harvey		 First stage? What's your second?
nikki		 Texas. You might be talking to your future boss, Harve.
chaz		Mom, I am home!
arch		Yeah, I could get real used to this.
muffy		We used to spend our summers here before my mother died.  This is a very special place to me.
nan		It's like a dream. NIKKI On a clear day you can see the Kennedys.
chaz's voice		 Wow, look at this...!
chaz		 Look! Our very own place settings... with our very own place cards -- with Ken or Barbie! Outasight!
nan		 Just like in Agatha Cristie.
arch		 And sporks...
harvey		 Sporks?
arch		And napkins with little Hallmark bunnies! Gee, Muff, you really spared no expense.
muffy		 Why not? How do you think father made all his money?
nikki		 The old-fashioned way. He inherited it.
nan		 I used to have all her outfits.
chaz		Don't anybody move! Chaz jumps back from the table, whipping out his videocam to record the moment, and panning them all at  .their respective places.
nikki		...if only the choices weren't so limited. God, I'm so ready for a change. Any kind of change.
muffy		Well, you know, everything they say about older men? It's true.
kit		Muffy!
nikki		Like how much older are we talking about? Twenty-six?
muffy		Add about thirty years.
nikki		I don't believe you, St. John!
kit		 I don't want to hear about this.
nikki		Come on! MUFFY It was only a weekend. It's over now.  I was curious.
kit		He wasn't married?
muffy		 How should I know?
muffy		It was quite a weekend.
nikki		Come to daddy.
nikki		Come sit on daddy's knee, little girl...
kit		My goodness, daddy, what big  ...what big... teeth you have.
all		The better to eat you with, my dear.
skip		 The poor boy can say, "Fuck you, Dad. I'm my own person." What is his father going to do? Kick him out of the house? Disinherit him? His life won't have changed that much. He's got nothing to lose.
nan		His father's love.
skip		That's already been lost. Died a long, long time ago.
nan		 Look at how young we all are. How young and foolish and innocent and stupid...
arch		Please, God, let it be ding dongs.
nikki		St. John hospitality taken to the extreme.
harvey		I think it's real friendly. Makes me feel right at home.
kit		How friendly will we feel once we've finished with those beans?
nan		You guys!
kit		So it's going to be one of those dinners, huh?
rob		I wonder how Buck is doing?
nan		Do you think we should call or something?
muffy		 I'll call later.
kit		I think we should change the subject.
arch		Well, Harvey's got his job interview all figured out, but what about the rest of us? Anybody know what they're going to be doing come graduation?
nikki		Good choice, Arch.
nan		I can't decide. I'd like to go to graduate school in English. I love the sound of our language. But I'm afraid there's not much future in it.
nikki		I mean, what are you' supposed to do with a liberal arts major anyway?
muffy		You fill out a lot of forms, and then some friend of your family gives you a job delivering mail in his corporation... ARCH This is really incredible. Look at us... Here we are... privileged, independent, the hope of the future... and most of us still don't know what we're going to do with our lives!
kit		 Rob knows. He's going to medical school.
rob		Kit...
chaz		 Hey, no shit? You got early acceptance?
rob		 We can talk about it some other time.
kit		Why? You had your meeting with your counselor, didn't you?
muffy		 Kit... I don't think Rob really wants to talk about it in front of everybody.
rob		 No, I don't mind.
kit		 Why not? We're all friends.
nikki		 Well, sorta...
rob		He said to forget it.
arch		Oh, shit, him too? That's what my guy said! An' I said, you're kidding! How can anybody be serious about anything when some moron can steal a bomb or push a button and blow the rest of us right into Mad Max. He wasn't impressed.
rob		He's right. That's bullshit on parade.
arch		Well fuck you. It sounded good at the time.
chaz		What is this? Dom Perignon sparkling rose?
harvey		It smells like Ripple.
nikki		You've outdone yourself again, St. John.
arch		Who was that?
muffy		 Skip.
nan		 Can I make a toast?
arch		I cherish all the friends I make.
nan		 Because... they'll be the friends you cherish most the rest of your life. So, well, here's to us... here's to my life... because I'm very glad to be here, and to be a part of all of you...
kit		Muffy, anything you want to add to that?
muffy		Why me?
nikki		Because you're the hostess.
muffy		In his "Life of Johnson" James Boswell said, "We cannot tell the precise moment when friendship is formed. As in filling a vessel drop by drop, there is at last a drop which makes it run over; so in a series of kindnesses, there is at last one which makes the heart run over."
muffy		 April Fool. INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY  NIGHT
nan		Goodnight.
muffy		Goodnight.
nikki		Oh, great. Quarantine.
muffy		 Just holler if you need anything.
nikki		Another room.  Muffy...
muffy		 Arch is sweet, but he's only got two expressions. Collar up and collar down.
nikki		I found that out--  I guess what I'm trying to say is... you always seem to get there first... but this time Chaz is mine, OK?
muffy		 What about Hal?
arch		Hey, all right... ladies, we are qonna have privacy...
chaz		. Unless Muffy knows something about us we don't.
harvey		 Don't tell me you've never thought of me in that way, Muffy. I felt a spark between us the very first moment we laid eyes on each other... in Econ 345. Why, just think of it, Muffy... with my talent and your... money.
harvey		 Why just think of it... Muffers, with my raw... driving talent and your...
chaz		 Wrong room.
arch		Jesus...
muffy		Goodnight.
kit		G'night.
kit		Rob?
kit		You still angry with me? About dinner?
rob		No. I'm sorry. I'm not angry with you. I'm just angry.
rob		 Ouch! Jesus!
rob		Very funny.
muffy		 Arch do you know what time it is?
arch		Um-hmm.
muffy		 Goodnight, Arch.
skip		Hello?
skip		Who's there?
rob		 Muffy?
muffy's voice		 Yes?
rob		You OK?
muffy's voice		 Yes... Thank you...
rob		 OK... well, goodnight...
kit		 Good morning!
muffy		I... I was hungry...
arch		Morning! She backs away from him, scurrying up the stairs.
muffy		I... forgot to get dressed...
arch		 Where's Skip?
chaz		That depends on what he's on.
nikki		You gotta be kidding...
arch		 Nan? What about it?
nan		Oh, no, thanks.  Besides, I thought I'd wait and see what Muffy wanted to do...
kit		Rob? What's wrong?
rob		I swear it wasn't this cold yesterday .
kit		Are you giving up?
rob		 ...maybe it's crazy--you investing so much energy in me.
kit		 I don't know. I'm scared. I don't know if I want what Mom and everybody else expects of me. I don't want to go to law school.
rob		 You've got a great mind
kit		...only it's not made up.
rob		Great... Do you realize how perfectly unmatched we are?
kit		It's made up about one thing though.
rob		Yeah? What's that? She looks up and kisses him softly.
rob		Will you feel the same about me a year from now? Two years, five years from now?
rob		Skip! You sonofabitch!
rob		Skip... Skip!
arch		 Well, how was it?
rob		Where's Skip? Anybody seen him?
nikki		Who wants to know?
rob		Goddammit, can't you give me a straight answer!
kit		 We saw him... on a boat... drifting by the pier. He wasn't movinq. He looked dead... unless he was joking...!
chaz		Well, if it was Skip...
kit		I saw his face!
rob		 Has anybody seen him since last night?
muffy		 Something wrong?
arch		Wait! I'll go with you!
chaz		Me too!
arch		 Hey, asshole!
chaz		Wait a minute! Look at this!
chaz		This was Skip's. ARCH What do you think? That guy on the ferry?
rob		I don't know. I don't know what to think.
arch		I say we go looking for him, him or Skip. One of them's bound to still be around... somewhere.
chaz		You mean split up?
rob		Let's not take any chances. He was... He was pretty big.
arch		No sucker's taken me yet.
nan		I know why you're avoiding me...  I guess it's your idea of a joke... that's why you invited me. How'd you find out? From one of his preppy 'friends'? Who else have you told?... Who else knows, except the father!
muffy		 I... don't know what you're talking about.
nan		Oh? The tape just got there? You know very well... my abortion!
harvey		 Sorry... I was just checkin' to make sure everybody was all right.
nikki		Harvey? No kidding'?
muffy		 What d'you, mean?
nikki		Oh, c'mon.
arch		Hey, shithead! chickendick!... yeah, you! Skip!
low angle		ARCH  Skip!
arch		Skip?
arch		Skip?
kit		 No Skip?
chaz		No luck.
rob		 Where's Arch?
chaz		He isn't with you?
nikki		I don't like this... I definitely don't think I like this...
kit		I think it's about time we called the police.
muffy		Eight-two-four-eight. Constable Potter has an office at his home.
kit		 I don't think we should wait any longer...
muffy		I didn't know what kind anybody would like so I just... got them all...
kit		Let me help.
muffy		 Has he reached the Constable?
kit		Rob? No, we haven 't been able to get through to the mainland yet.
kit		 No water?
nikki		What's happening.
kit		No water. NIKKI What!
muffy		It happens sometime... But there's still the well all the island homes have some kind of pump... or well... for emergencies.
nikki		Jesus. I'll go. Just point me in the right direction.
harvey		 Not without me.
muffy		 I'm not worried. I'm sure those two... Skip and Art... they're just up to some kind of stupid trick . . .
harvey		 I don't think you should really do that.
nikki		 Is that it?
harvey		Here, let me do it. I've probably had more experience than you.
nikki		You mean, back home on the farm? HARVEY I know you think I'm a hick, but I'd like to change your mind about that, if you'd only give me the chance.
nikki		Why?
harvey		Because, I'd really like to plow your field.
nikki		 Draw me some water.
harvey		Aw, crap...
nikki		What happened?
harvey		I lost the bucket.
nikki		Harve.
harvey		Hal. The rope was rotten, any fool coulda seen that.
nikki		You didn't.
harvey		Here, shine your light down so I can get a fix on it.
harvey		Oh... oh, Jesus!
nikki		(STARTLED} ...what... HARVEY Stay back! Don't look!
nikki		I'm a big girl now. I think I can handle a few spiders and FROGS ---
harvey		NIKKI --
rob		 What is it?
kit		 You don't want to know.
nikki		 In the well ! Oh, God, the well!
nikki		 Let's go!
kit		It's okay, Nikki. With the others... they were outdoors. But we're inside now, and we're safe.
nikki		 It's all because of what happened on the ferry, isn't it?
chaz		 It was an accident. Don't they know that?
harvey		Muffy, where do you keep your guns?
muffy		 Guns? We don't keep guns in this house.
muffy		 Here.
rob		 Hello!
potter		What are you talking about?  And I'm telling you, I'm here at the hospital now visiting Buck. He came out of surgery last night--It might interest you to know he'll be all right-- and Cal's been here too, the whole time.
rob		 With Muffy? What do you mean?
rob		 He's on his way. We're supposed to wait here... to stay together...
chaz		What about the ferryman?
rob		It isn't him. They've been together all day.
chaz		What?
kit		I don't understand.
rob		 In the meantime... we just wait.
muffy		 It's my father's study.
kit		 I just came in to make sure everything was secure to lock the windows.
muffy		Good idea. Sometimes... with the tides... it can take someone all night to get here from the mainland... and even then, sometimes they don't make it...
harvey		 It could be the tides.
chaz		Wait a minute. Aren't we supposed to be staying together? Where're Muffy and Rob?
kit		Rob's checking the back of the house.
chaz		And Muffy?
nikki		She's been acting less than normal anyway.
kit		 What do you mean?
nikki		You mean all day and you haven't noticed?
harvey		Well, who isn't?
nikki		...and those nurse's shoes.
chaz		What nurse's shoes?
nikki		The clodhoppers she's been wearing today... crepe soles...
harvey		She was arguing with Nan in the hall, before you and Rob... before you came back alone.
harvey		About something Nan found in her room.
chaz		What? HARVEY  Something about an abortion.
nikki		I found somethin"g in my room, too
nikki		...only I don't think it was intended for me .
chaz		 Oh, really?
harvey		 And What did you find?
chaz		I didn't find anything.
harvey		We're supposed to believe that?
chaz		That's right.  What about you?
harvey		What about me?
chaz		What's your little secret?
harvey		 I don't know What you're talking about.
chaz		Oh, come on, sport. I walked in on you last night , and you were acting like your ass was on fire...
harvey		It wasn't anything... Just some clippings... of some car accidents. CHAZ  Nothing personal in that, I suppose?
harvey		No! Who hasn't been in a car accident? It's a common thing.
chaz		I haven't.
nikki		 What I'd like to know is, how did Muffy find out about these things and why -- ?
kit		Stop it! Just stop it all of you!  Do you know what we're saying? That we're actually sitting here discussing the possibility that Muffy, a generous friend, has invited us all here to --
muffy		I'm going upstairs.
rob		Muffy? We should all stay together.
muffy		This is my house.  I'll be in my room.
harvey		As long as we all stay within shouting distance of each other...
nikki		 You coming?
rob		I'm goinq to find the way up to the attic.
kit		Why?
rob		I'm sure we can watch for the Constable better from up there.
harvey		It's all right. I can keep watch on the stairs.
chaz		Nikki, come on... NIKKI What do you mean, Nikki, come on? Don't give me any of this Nikki, come on.
chaz		What are you doing?
nikki		Look, stay if you like. Lock your door. Dig a trench. Hang out. But once I leave this place, I'm never coming back.
chaz		 We're all supposed to stay together here.
nikki		Yeah, that's been real effective...
chaz		So what are you going to do? Just waltz on down to the pier. By yourself. Check your bag with the porter. Then wait for an ocean liner to happen by and pick you up. Is that it?
chaz		What if the Constable never even comes?
nikki		Then I'll swim all the way back to the mainland... I can be strong if I have to. INT. NIKKI'S ROOM - NIGHT
chaz		Look, just relax--
nikki		Three people are dead and you're telling me to relax? CHAZ Nikki, now just hold on a minute, and look at me. Look at me.
nikki		Nice image.
chaz		No.  I mean, come on, babe. Lighten up a little, huh?
nikki		Very funny, Chaz.
chaz		 You've got to look on the bright side of things. Everything'll be all right... Huh? Huh?
nikki		Don't be a jerk.
chaz		 Oh. Now I'm turning you on. Right?
nikki		Get out of here.
chaz		 Ooooh, stop it some more. I love it when you're rough.
chaz		 Nikki?
nikki		 Real subtle, Chaz.
kit		No one's been up here in years.
kit		Can you see him?
rob		NO. There must not be a light on the boat.
kit		Or... he's chosen not to use it. ROB Kit? He said something else on the phone, about Muffy.
kit		What?
rob		He said not to trust anybody. That's why we were to stay together. No one was to be left alone with anyone else... Then he said, especially not with Muffy.
kit		So that's why you let her go upstairs?
rob		That's why I let her go.
kit		 What did he mean by that?
rob		I don't know. He wouldn't explain it.
kit		But that's ridiculous...
rob		Is it? He's known her longer than we have.
kit		Rob, wait a minute. What's that?
rob		Where?
rob		It's just the dolls.
kit		She's been up here.
rob		So? She moves toward them while Rob stays by the windows looking out. As she gets closer to the dolls, however, Kit realizes that they have not just been stuck there haphazardly.
kit		 Rob?
rob		Jesus...
kit		 Rob? . . .
rob		It's Arch and Skip and Nan.
kit		Rob??...
rob		Wait...
rob		What are these other two?
rob		He's here!
rob		Hal!
kit		Nikki?
kit		Chaz?... Nikki?...
kit		Rob!!!
kit		Rob, what about Muffy?
rob		Forget her!
kit		 She's my friend!
kit		 Muffy! Muffy!!
rob		 Let's go.
kit		This way!
rob		 Forget the doors!
rob		 Constable... Mr. Potter?
rob		 If there's another flare, we can signal him.
kit		Maybe he went on to the house.
rob		Shit... no key!
kit		Rob!
rob		"...Pursuant to our previous communication, please be advised that the patient under discussion has still not been found and returned to custody, and it now believed to be attempting to return to her home in your jurisdiction. If encountered, exercise extreme caution and notify us immediately, as Miss St. John has been a patient here for three years and is still considered incorrigibly unstable and extremely dangerous..."
kit		Miss .St. John? What's it talking about? Muffy hasn't been in any state mental institution for the last three years -- she's been at Vassar!
rob		I don't know... but we've gotta get this boat started. KIT How?
rob		The house. Didn't Muffy say there was another key back in the kitchen?
kit		 Oh, no...
rob		We've got no choice.
kit		I know.
rob		Shit.
kit		Rob?
rob		Huh?
kit		Rob, I really don't want to go back there.
rob		I know.
kit		Shit.
rob		I'd have you stay here, but--
kit		No.
rob		 Listen, Kit, we'll get out of here, I promise you. We've been through so much together...
kit		 Okay.
rob		Well...
kit		Yeah...
rob		Let's go.
kit		Let's go.
rob		Let's go.
rob		Shit...
kit		Rob, look! The doors. They've been closed.
rob		Come on.
rob		There. He is pointing toward the open basement window across a thirty foot space of clear lawn.
rob		That's how we're going in.
rob		Are you with me?
rob		 The stairs... Where are the stairs?...
kit		What's that?
kit		Muffy's clothes...
rob		 I don't get it.
kit		 Rob!
kit		Oh, god... oh no!...
kit		...the picture of the girls in the study... the letter... what the Constable was trying to tell you... It's not Muffy it's her twin sister, Buffy! She has a twin sister! Rob's eyes have a glazed look. They are fixed somewhere else.
kit		Rob, don't you see?  Rob?
kit		 Rob!
rob		Pull it away...
kit		 Rob?
rob		Pull it away!
rob		The boat key... it's gotta be here...
rob		Kit... I
kit		No...
rob		Kit! Let me out! Let me out of here! Kit!!
rob		 Kit! Run, Kit, run!
rob		Kit! I love you!
rob		 Kit! I love you! I love you, Kit!
buck		I love you too, babe.
kit		No... Oh, God...
kit		 What.... ?
kit		 Oh, fuck you!! Fuck you, you guys!!
rob		Kit! !
rob		Ki--!
muffy		You guys are really terrific. I love you all. And I thank you from the bottom of my heart for being such good sports.
rob		 Oh, sure. Quite welcome. Any time.
muffy		Rob, you and Kit, you two were the best. You figured it all out. The clues really worked.
rob		What clues?
kit		What's this all about? And don't anyone say "April Fool's" or I'll smack them in the teeth.
muffy		How about if I told you it was the script for a weekend special that's going to help me keep this house...
muffy		 Look, next month I get the house as part of my inheritance, it's true, but only if I can show my father that it can carry itself... what with taxes and expenses. Otherwise, he'll just sell it out of the family. So, I'm planning on turning it into a country inn. Not just another stuffy old run-of-the-mill country inn, but one that specializes in offering once-in-a lifetime Whodunit Weekends. I needed a rehearsal. I had to try out the idea on somebody.
rob		 And you guys played along?
arch		Don't look at me!
nikki		We all got sucked in just as bad as you! MUFFY Once they were killed off, yes. Everybody had to cooperate. Otherwise, none of it would have worked!
rob		So I guess there's no crazy twin sister Buffy?
muffy		Oh, there's a crazy twin all right, but his name isn't Buffy.
nikki		His name?
chaz		Skip?!
kit		He's your brother?!
arch		You bastard, you were in on the whole deal, too.
skip		 Only the set-up. Muffy told me to say I was her cousin and to pull that prank on the ferry. I had no idea what was going to happen with Buck.
muffy		 Buck Williams. make-up artist par excellence, from Hollywood.
buck		Here, catch.
buck		Just some old props I redressed with the help of photographs Muffy sent me.
nikki		It sure fooled me.
arch		 Well, first he's got to prove he can manage his own allowance.
kit		 Which means, I guess, that you're no constable either.
muffy		Kit Graham, meet my Uncle Frank St. John of St. John et Freres, Wall Street.
harvey		Hi! Harvey "Hal" Edison, Jr. Pleased to meet you, sir.
muffy		Usually we don't even see Uncle Frank in the summer, he's so busy. But this time he made an exception. UNCLE FRANK I haven't had this much fun since my Hasty pudding Show sophomore year at Harvard. God, lowe you kids!
ferryman cal		 How'd I do? I never did no acting before. Boy, was I shaking!
muffy		Cal's our regular ferryman between the mainland and the islands around here... but I thought he was up to the dramatic challenge.  Well, that's it. Now you know it all.
nikki		We have been had.
rob		You're lucky you didn't get yourself killed.
muffy		 I almost did with Harvey. And who could know there would be a snake out in the woods with Arch? But with the paying guests, they'll know what they're in for: and the scenario won't be nearly so extreme.
uncle frank		Otherwise, even Lloyd's of London won't cover you. MUFFY ...And I regret that, well, some of those fake clues I planted in the bedrooms I guess were taken too seriously. I'm sorry about that.
arch		You're telling me. Man, when I was swinging around out there in the woods, I nearly crapped my pants.
cal		What do you mean, nearly? I was there, remember?
chaz		 Arch? You browned your trousers?
arch		 Well... I...
uncle frank		 It's all right, Arch. They'll be out of the dryer soon.
arch		Great ham.
buck		Great eggs. CHAZ  Just what we need. Another country inn.
uncle frank		Well, if the food's any indication, it's already half-way there.
skip		Pass the toxic wastes, please.
cal		 The St. John Island Bar Harbor ferry leaves in thirty minutes. No stragglers, please.
rob		Boy, what a difference being alive makes.
kit		 I don't care what Columbia says about you.
rob		I do.
kit		 Is this the road to med school?
rob		I think it is. I'm going to try.
rob		But if I make it or not, no matter what happens, we'll be together? You and me?
kit		 If that's what you want.
rob		 That's what I want. Muffy enters with a stack of dishes, followed by Nan who quietly sets her plate on the counter and leaves.
muffy		Where's Nikki?
kit		I don't know. Too much champagne?
nikki		 God... don't tell me that was something you learned on the farm!
uncle frank		I'll make a full and glowing report to your father tomorrow so he can draw up the deed along with the other trust papers for Wednesday's signing. I'm so proud of you.  I wish I could say the same about your brother.
muffy		Oh, Uncle Frank, he's been a great help this weekend, really. Let me get him out here so you can--
uncle frank		I've already spoken with him.
rob		 Excuse me. He turns and walks back into the house.
uncle frank		Come on! Let's go!
kit		Well, I hate to say it -- I still ought to kill you -- but thanks.  See you back there.
uncle frank		Come on. If time is money, we're losing a fortune.
muffy		Nan!
muffy		Let me say again how sorry I am. It wasn't intended. NAN And now all is forgiven. I played along, didn't I? What's done is done.  Thanks for showing me your house.
uncle frank		Cal, I want to thank you personally. You've been a real sport about this.
cal		Aw, it was fun.
uncle frank		I know you've had your eye on that p1ace ever since we were kids. And I'm sure we could make a deal with you. I know you haven't been spending your money on anything else all these years... But... this time it just isn't in the cards.
cal		It's still in the family.
uncle frank		Yes, that's the way.
chaz		This time, no funny business.
chaz		 Feeling better?
nikki		 I'm okay now, thanks.
nikki		Chaz, I'm sorry.
chaz		Why? What do we mean to each other anyway?
nikki		More than this a couple of days ago.
chaz		 A couple of days ago... A couple of days ago I was a great, young, budding filmmaker who was going to turn pornography into high art. Today I'm just a stupid college kid with a toy camera and about as much idea as where he's going as... as...
nikki		 Don't be down. CHAZ Sure.
nikki		I'll tell you what I've learned from all this. I'm tired of having one fling after another. I don't want any more of that. I want a boyfriend.  Chaz? Will you be my boyfriend?
rob		Some party, huh?
arch		 You know what I think's weird?... how, when we thought 'Buck here got hurt because of Skip's prank, and when things started happening and we thought maybe some of us were getting killed, how we all just kind of naturally accepted the fact that it was 'oh , yeah, sure, because of the prank.'
skip		 What're you talking about?
arch		Well, it's like pranks really piss people off. It unleashes things, you know? Makes any kind of behavior possible, and we accept it.
nikki		When anything g.oes, everything goes.
chaz		Yeah.
rob		What really amazes me is how easy we made it for her. Everyone was just out for himself. We could've stopped Muffy cold if we'd only stuck together, if we'd only worked like a team.
chaz		Yeah, she really got us good.
skip		Well, I know what I'd do, if I wasn't her brother... NIKKI  Go back and give her a taste of her own medicine, that's what we should do.
skip		 Did I say anything? The others look at each other, a beat, registering.
arch		Hey...
chaz		Go back and scare the shit outta her for a change? Outrageous!
nikki		She sure wouldn't be expecting it...!
harvey		 Well, I don't know. I got a stack o' books this high...
rob		 Look, what're you talking about? We've had our fun. Now we got work to do.
arch		Yeah. Enough's enough. At least for me anyway.
chaz		Pussies.
kit		Well, I kinda like the idea -- and I don't have work to get back to.
rob		 Kit...
kit		(DECIDEDLYL Muffy can dish it out. It might be interesting to see if she can take it. CHAZ All right! A real catfight!
rob		 I don't believe you...
kit		 Just because you've decided to get serious about your life, doesn't mean the rest of us can't have our fun
nikki		 Buck, got any spare professional tricks you could throw our way!
kit		So how many does that make us?
skip		 Much as I'd like to...
nan		 No, I don't think so, thank you.
rob		 Four.
chaz		 Outasight!
kit		Cal, we want to get back to the island.
ferryman		Now? You just left
kit		I know. FERRYMAN [PONDERING) ...Well, not in this...  ...but you might find something around after we dock.
muffy		 H'lo?
skip		 Hi, it's me. Surprise.
muffy		 What'd you forget now?
skip		Nothing. Just calling to tell you the party's not over.
muffy		I know. The clean-up's going to take Clara and me at least a week.
skip		No, I mean, some of the gang's planning on coming back to give you some of your own medicine.
muffy		You're kidding. SKIP Does a bear shit in the woods?
muffy		Those bastards...
skip		Hey, they're your friends.
muffy		Which ones?
skip		That wouldn't be very sporting if I told you, would it?
muffy		 Skip...
skip		Rob and Kit and Nikki and Chaz.
muffy		Figures... Thanks.
skip		Well, Uncle Frank told me about his recommendations. So, I didn't want you to think there were any hard feelings.
muffy		 Oh, Skip, you dope. You know Daddy'll come around just as soon as you decide to buckle down.
skip		Yeah...  Anyway, don't let the bastards eat you up.
muffy		I'll try not to act too surprised when they arrive.
skip		I love you, Sis.
muffy		You too, goofball.
arch		It was even your idea.
skip		A petty consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.
arch		Bullshit. St. John blood is thicker than water, that's what you mean.
skip		 Don't you know? Old money sticks together.
harvey		Well, can I look you up in a couple of months? Maybe you could arrange a job interview for me.
uncle frank		Sure, sure .  Here's my card.
harvey		 Thank you, sir. Thanks a lot. I sure appreciate it, and it's been a real pleasure meeting you.
harvey		Hey, wait a minute! There's no phone number here! No address! No nothing! Too late. Uncle Frank is driving away. He speeds past Skip who is walking down the road further along. He doesn't even stop for his own nephew.
chaz		What the fuck was he talking about anyway? We might find something around after we dock?
rob		What the fuck do you think he was talking about?
chaz		Oh.
chaz		Well, now we've been identified.
rob		Swell.
chaz		It's getting late.
rob		What a great idea this was.
nikki		(CALLING} We got one!
rob		I thought we looked there an hour ago.
chaz		Who cares? Let's get this show on the road!
chaz		 Did you find a key? How're we going to get the motor started?
muffy		Nikki, what on earth are you doing here? Is something wrong?
nikki		No, no, nothing's wrong. Chaz and I just figured there was nothing we had to get back to that couldn't wait and you could probably use a hand with the clean-up. It's our way of saying thank you.
muffy		Oh, great. Where is Chaz?
nikki		Putting the boat up in the old boathouse. He'll be up in a minute.
nikki		I wonder what's keeping Chaz? He should have been up here by now.
muffy		Maybe he stopped to shit in the woods. You know Chaz.
nikki		Still... I'm beginning to not like this.
muffy		By the way, where did you get the boat to come back here?
nikki		The boat? Oh, Cal gave us one.
muffy		I see.
muffy		What about your water?
nikkl		Oh', uh, I drank 'it in there.  Listen. Muffy , I'm really getting worried about Chaz. I think we should go out and see what's happened.
muffy		That's okay. You go. I'll wait here.
nikki		No, really. I don't want to go alone. I'm still scared from last night. Please come with me. MUFFY I'm sure Chaz is fine. I'll stay here by the phone just in case. It's safer this way.  Do you want a flashlight?
nikki		 No, that's okay. I'll be fine.
nikki		 Shit.
nikki		Fuck!
nikki		Fuck!! Who dug the goddamn swimming pool?!? She drags herself out.
nikki		 Yeah!
chaz		She wouldn't come out? Doesn't she care about me?
nikki		A lot goddamn, fucking better than I do!
nikki		 ...he's hurt! Oh, Godl!
nikki		Muffy!!
nikki		Muff--!!!
nikki		 Muffy?
nikki		Chaz, get up! Hurry, Chaz!... come on!
nikki		Chaz!
chaz		 Will you quit kicking me? It hurts.
nikki		It's supposed to hurt! The game's over! Get up!
chaz		 No. I'm dead. You're blowing the whole thing. Where's Muffy?
nikki		 Oh, God...
chaz		 What?
nikki		 Kit! Kit, come out!
kit		What's going on?
nikki		She's gone!
kit		What?...
chaz		Look, she's been dragged away.
nikki		 Chaz! somebody's still in this house!
chaz		We could follow the trail.
kit		 Rob!!
kit		Rob...?
kit		 What the fuck is going on here?!
nikki		 Chaz, look!
chaz		 This was Nan's...
nikki		 Nan...
nikki		Muffy!
muffy		Good job, you guys. I'm really scared.  The fun's over, Rob.
kit		 Muffy, he's dead!
nikki		Somebody else is here! In this house!
muffy		Sure. Sure.  Don't you touch him!!
muffy		Okay, okay, take it easy.
nikki		Muffy, it's not a game anymore!
muffy		 What the--?
kit		Muffy! Stop him! Help! He's killing me! Oh, God! He's killing me!
skip		 It's all over, Muffy! Everything'll be mine!
muffy		Skip! No! ! !
****Dialogues from script :Apt_Pupil.txt****

based on the novel by:		 Stephen King
production draft #4a		4/25/96 rev.
dussander		 A boy.  I don't need anything, boy.  Can't you read?  I thought all American boys could read.  Don't be a nuisance, now.  Good day.
dussander		Give me my newspaper.
dussander		Fine.
dussander		I'd be out of my mind to let an insane boy like you into my home.
dussander		Do you?  Good for you.
dussander		Your what?
dussander		Accelerated?
dussander		I see...
todd		What?
todd		Actually, I'm pretty low maintenance.  That's what my dad says.
todd		But even then I couldn't be sure.  I needed real proof.  So I went to the mall and bought a fingerprint kit from the hobby shop and a book that tells you what you're supposed to look for and then dusted your mailbox while you were at the movies.  Pretty smart, huh?
dussander		Bourbon.
todd		Milk?
dussander		Milk.
todd		A violation?
dussander		Yes.
dussander		That fucking name.  Enough of that.  I demand it.
dussander		I demand --
dussander		Nicotine gum.
todd		Hang up the phone.
dussander		This is unforgivable.  Do you know the things you're accusing me of?
todd		Do it.
dussander		Hear about what?
dussander		Everything?
dussander		You're a monster.
joey		 Take it easy, Jesus.  It's just me, flinch- man.
todd		Who?
todd		You going to tell me who it is?
todd		Fine.
joey		Becky Trask.
todd		Was that so hard?
todd		It what?
todd		Tell me.  Tell me.
todd		What did it do?
dussander		It made them dance.
todd		Dance?
todd		Yeah, I bet.
dussander		How do you eat this crap everyday?
dussander		 I was the commandant of the camp.
todd		Forget it.  I can't concentrate.
todd		I know...
dick		 No, son. If you weren't enjoying it, then you shouldn't play.
dick		He'll be fine without you. He was fine before and he'll be fine after. There's nothing wrong with wanting to help people, but you gotta make sure you got yourself squared away first. That's what matters.
dick		Just checking.  All right... We'll give your way a shot. If you think you can do it, if you really do, and your serious, then... okay. You really like the old guy, don't you?
dick		Okay, okay.  Don't ever force it.  Watch.
dussander		Leave me alone.
todd		And you let them eat the soup?
dussander		...But, as the war pressed on, the time for such civilized measures became a luxury.  I remember by April of '45, we had barely enough food to feed ourselves.  The sound of the Russian mortars grew louder everyday, but still, the train cars from France and Poland kept coming.  This was a time of desperation. The ovens burned day and night and still I knew we would not beat the arrival of the Russian forces.  Many of my men, the cowardly ones, deserted during the night.  But the men that remained, the same ones I had called upon so many times, ...continued the work. At first we thought a massive fire in the main building would serve our purpose.  We could just crowd them in and pull a gas torch up to each of the windows.  But with so many of them, we couldn't be sure the bodies would burn properly.  We needed something ...certain.  Then a young, bright soldier, I shall never forget his enthusiastic smile, pointed to a pair of bulldozers near the Western gate which had been used during construction.  How perfectly simple it was. The bulldozers carved a narrow trench, four meters deep, down the center of the camp. For two hours they dug until I realized we may not have enough gas to finish the job. So the inmates were given shovels and told they were building a shelter from the incoming artillery.  When they were done, I immediately called for a practice drill and three thousand naked bodies began to march into the trench.  It took less than twenty minutes to get them in place.  Quickly the bulldozers moved down the sides of the pit sending the piles of earth into the massive grave.  Those who tried to free themselves were shot, of course, but very few cartridges were wasted that day.  The machines were too fast.  Back and forth they went... packing the dirt.  One by one the tractors ran out of gas and my men had to scurry along with shovels.  But by sunset... it was done.  I gave the order to evacuate.  In the distance the plumes of Russian mortar fire rose like an approaching thundercloud.  But I knew that no matter what happened, ...no one would ever forget what we did here.
todd		Yeah, I'm fine.
todd		No... No, I'm cool.
dussander		Here kitty-kitty.  Here kitty-kitty.
todd		I'm sorry.
todd		No, I do.
monica		Todd loved that dog.  A lot more than Dick did.
agnes		I remember when you had to put it down, Todd cried for two weeks.  Just about broke my heart.
monica		It's very humane.
dussander		I see.
monica		Todd Bowden!
dick		 My dad is very proud of the fact that the Bowden men have hit every major conflict since the Civil War.
dick		Forget it.
todd		Our advantage?  Our advantage?
dussander		Lower your voice.  People will hear.
todd		So what?
dussander		What for?
todd		Just to be safe.
dussander		 To hell with this.  You open it.
todd		Oh, relax, old man.  Sit down and open it.
todd		Merry Christmas!
dussander		I should smash you.
todd		Do it.  Please.  Indignities?  What you've suffered with me is nothing compared to what the Israelis would do to you.  Remember what happened to Eichmann?  You forget that, I think.  And, you know, that's my fault.  I have let you forget.  You have gotten comfortable with this situation.  Well, don't you for one minute ever forget who holds the cards here. Don't you ever forget that envelope under my mattress.  I tried to do this the nice way, I tried to do something to please you, but you don't want it.  So fine, we'll do it the hard way.  You will put this on because I want to see you in it.  Now strip.
dussander		Good Gott.
todd		Actung!
dussander		 Come out. ...Come out, now!
todd		Fuck if I know.
joey		What?
todd		What?
todd		No.
joey		 All right, man.  Whatever you say.  Look, I got to get to practice.
todd		 You're talking to yourself, Bowden.  You're talking to yourself, Bowden.
todd		Something's come up.  Sit down.
dussander		I see.  What seems to be the trouble?
dussander		Looks like you have a problem then.
todd		Don't be so sure.
dussander		 'Dear Mr. and Mrs. Bowden, this note is to suggest that we have a group conference concerning Todd's first semester grades.  In light of his previous good work in this school, the sudden deterioration in his grades suggest a specific problem which should be addressed before his academic advancement is jeopardized permanently.  Such a problem can often be solved by a frank and open discussion.  I am ready to work out a time for us to meet.  In a case such as this, earlier is usually better.  Sincerely yours, Edward French.'  Who is this Edward French, the headmaster?
dussander		Or to the reformatory.
todd		What did you say?
dussander		Why would I do that?
todd		For friendship, because you're lonely and had no one in your life.  No jury would take your word over mine.  A Nazi?  Forget it.  Just get it out of your head.  You can't threaten me and you can't scare me.  What you can do is find me a pencil.
dussander		A pencil, what for?
dussander		Will this do?
dussander		Mr. French, a pleasure.
dussander		And the shoes work?
dussander		Yes, please do.
dussander		 The mother drinks.
french		Oh.
french		That's bad.  Has Mrs. Bowden thought about getting professional help for her problem?
dussander		Indeed.
dussander		Of course.
french		Yes, well --
french		Mid-quarter.  That's about three weeks into the new marking period.
french		Yes, that's right.
todd		You what?
dussander		 Listen, boy.  Before today it was possible, just barely possible, that you could have denounced me and come out clean yourself. The way your nerves have been lately I don't think so, but never mind that.  It was - at least technically possible.  But now things have changed.  Today I impersonated your grandfather, one Victor Bowden.  And it was you who arranged the meeting.  What would people make of that?  If things come out now... perhaps you were right, your age and a good attorney might keep you out of jail, but you would be humiliated, boy, publicly.  You would be infamous.  Your parents too.  Do you know what such a scandal would do to them? To you?  Think about that.
todd		You fucker.
todd		Shhh.
todd		Fuck.
todd		Well, maybe... I have to check.
archie		You know,  For a dollar I'll give you a blow job.  Take you right up there where it's still dry.  You never had so good, kid.  You'll come your brains out.
todd		Anything, really.
todd		Then what?
todd		You can't... you can't do that.
dussander		No, I suppose I won't.
morgan		Have a seat, Todd.
morgan		She failed it.
french		Chong.
todd		No.
todd		Thanks, I guess.
todd		Thanks.
todd		Yeah.
french		Todd, wait.
todd		I am.
french		 Okay, Todd.  I know this isn't the place to talk about this.  But my door is always open...
todd		I know.  Thanks.
joey		Hey there.
todd		Hey.
todd		Thanks.
todd		You busy now?
joey		Uhh...
joey		This is so cool.
joey		Here.  Take it.
archie		I can do that.  I can help you carry those.
dussander		I don't need any help. ...Excuse me.
archie		 You got a nice face.
dussander		No I don't.
dussander		Piss off.
dussander		I see.
dussander		A drink.
archie		Yeah, this is nice.  Real nice.
dussander		Let me take those.  Right this way.
dick		No.
monica		 I thought you told him.
dussander		Perhaps.
archie		Maybe even twenty.
dussander		Perhaps.  We shall see.
todd		Way to go, Mom.
dick		That's not the point.  You should always read the bill before you sign.  I've told you that a hundred times.  Fifteen hundred dollars.
todd		Well if you put it that way --
todd		Bye.  I've got to run over to Mr. Denker's for a minute.
todd		See you in a bit.
todd		What the fuck...?
todd		What did you say?
todd		Fuck this.
dussander		Hello?
dussander		Stay calm, boy.  You are doing fine.
todd		Fuck off.
dussander		Is that my undershirt?
dussander		I think we're okay.
todd		Me too.
dussander		Call an ambulance.
todd		The key.
dussander		For God's sake, boy...
dussander		What for?
todd		Mr. Denker had a heart attack.
todd		Yeah, he's awake.
todd		Okay.
todd		Goddamn you, come out.
todd		Dad.
nurse		He needs to rest now.  You can come back tomorrow after ten.
nurse		 The doctor will be in to see you in a few minutes.
ben		Thank you.
dussander		I see.
dussander		Arthur.
dussander		I'm retired.
bank clerk		I sure hope your granddaddy feels better. You can bring that in here.
todd		Son of a bitch.
dussander		You shouldn't have.
todd		What?
todd		I should go.
ben		Good-bye.
dussander		Where's the nurse?
weiskopf		 No one else is here.
weiskopf		The man in the next bed was Benjamin Krauss. He was imprisoned for ten months at Patin. You were responsible for the death of his wife and two daughters.  His identification of you was quite specific.  I'm sure his reward from my government will help offset the burden of his broken leg.
weiskopf		Please don't bother.  Your papers will not stand up to serious examination and you know it.
dussander		Who are you men?  What are your names?
todd		Huh?
todd		Oh, ...working.
todd		Mr. French.
french		No.  I'm his guidance counsellor.
woman		Monica, I thought that was you.
todd		 That's our cue.
french		 It was nice meeting you.
dick		You too.  Good luck, son.
richler		What about this?
monica		Honey.
monica		What's wrong?
weiskopf		Hello.
weiskopf		I'm a school teacher.
todd		Yeah.  I never knew of that other name till I saw it in the paper.
richler		How did you know him?
todd		I met him at the movies.  Last summer.  ...He asked me where to pick up the number seven bus.  He said his eyes weren't too good. ...Will you excuse me for a minute?
monica		You okay, honey?
todd		That's right.
dick		It isn't?
richler		No.
richler		Why not, Todd?
todd		Guys that are blind don't normally go scooting out to steal letters.
richler		 True.  Did Dussander have any friends that you knew of?
todd		No, not really.
todd		No.  He hardly ever spoke German.  He always said he would teach me someday, but he never got around to it.
richler		That's right.
todd		No.
richler		Okay, thanks.
todd		Yeah... fine.
todd		I'm fine, Dad.
todd		I know, Dad.
todd		I know, Dad.
todd		Sure.
french		Hello, Todd.
todd		No.
french		I will.  But first I need a couple of things explained to me.
french		What?
french		Whoa.  To--
****Dialogues from script :Arbitrage.txt****

4/17/11		 BLACK.
robert		They lived through the Depression, Pearl Harbor, and the Bomb. And they didn't think bad things might happen; they knew they would happen.
maria		Is that what's happening now?
robert		When I was a kid my favorite teacher was Mr. James. Mr. James said that world events always revolve around five things: 
robert		M-O-N-E-Y.
maria		 Was this freshman econ?
robert		This was fifth-grade econ.  But this is something we've seen over and over again, time and time again, that competition for this-- limited amount of dollars out there, can make even the best of us manic. So it's not surprising that we see these asset bubbles, but when reality sets in of course, they burst.
gavin		 Here you go...
robert		Quants? Derivatives structures? What was that about?
gavin		It makes no sense.
robert		That's what you said last week. Why'd we go down there?
gavin		To sign.
robert		And did we sign?
gavin		No.
robert		No. We did not. Instead I fly two thousand miles for a marketing meeting... And where was Mayfield? What was this "emergency"? What was that about?
gavin		 Did you speak to the auditors?
robert		Why?
gavin		What if... we don't don't close this week...
ellen		 Look, your grandfather's here!
robert		Hi, guys!
grandchild		Hi Grampi! What did you bring us?
brooke		It's your birthday, Dad, not theirs. You're spoiling them rotten.
robert		 It's my job! It's my job. You guys turned out fine!
brooke		 Debatable.
robert		 How you doin', son? Good?
ellen		We had to eat. The kids were starving...
robert		 No, no that's okay. Where's my drink, is this mine, here?
all		HEY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! YAY!
robert		Thank you, thank you, thank you all very much, it's such a surprise, I didn't even know it was my birthday!
peter		 ...and to have sold the company to Standard this morning!
robert		 That, too, Peter, but- no business tonight-- no business!
ellen		Oh, here we go!
robert		Although your one-track mind assures me you've got not only your mother's genes, but you've got mine, too!
all		 Hear, hear!
robert		Kids are wild.
brooke		 I don't know about me as a mom.
robert		No, no no, you should have-- I want more "you's" around.
brooke		 Four... and nineteen.
robert		Yeah, yeah yeah...
brooke		So what was that all about?
robert		What?
brooke		The last time you made a speech like that we lost the Firestone bid.
robert		 Yeah, well... I just... wanted it to be about the family tonight.
brooke		You see this?
robert		 Yeah... Oy. You know how I feel about that. Trash can.
brooke		Peter's got a copy pinned up in the conference room.
robert		 Well, you gonna keep skirting around it?
brooke		Why sell our company? We make a great return, we give money to the causes we believe in...
robert		My darling, you are still in your 20's. I am 60. That's a big difference in point of view.
brooke		Dad, you're not that old.
robert		 It catches up alright. And maybe there's some other things I'd like to do. Maybe I would like to spend a little more time with you guys... outside the office.
brooke		 I'm just trying to imagine what we would do.
ellen		Where are you going?
robert		Office.
ellen		Now?
robert		Yeah I gotta finish up that thing.
ellen		 But, I haven't given you your birthday present yet...
robert		 I'll be back as soon as I can.
robert		 Yeah, Gavin, it's me, uhh... When you get this -- I want you to call Chris Vogler at Fremaut, tell him I need to see him right away, okay?
julie		 Okay...
robert		Alright, I'm sorry. I'm sorry I'm late. I'm always late-- you know that-- and I'm sorry. And I'm always saying I'm sorry about being late.  It doesn't mean I wouldn't rather be here with you.
julie		 You gonna be there?
robert		 I will be there.
julie		I made this for you.
robert		You made this? This is amazing. One candle, thank you very...
jeffrey		Thank you, Diane.
robert		I'm here.
jeffrey		Guess what's not?
robert		Jeffrey, I told you, I'm...
jeffrey		"...working on it," yeah. Well, while you're doing that, lemme tell you what's not working...
robert		 Jeffrey...
jeffrey		 thirty-two days, while it could be elsewhere invested, earning an actual return, instead of couching the absurd lie that you're spinning.
robert		What do you want me to say?
jeffrey		That you're gonna get a signature from Mayfield, and that my hostage money and my fee are going to be sent to me promptly, say... by tomorrow?
robert		I am solving the problem. I am getting you your money and your fee. You will have them very shortly.
jeffrey		When?
robert		As soon as they sign the contract.
jeffrey		 You know, I'm not the one with the liability, pal. I just made a loan. You're looking at jail for a thousand years for fraudulent conveyance and...
robert		...Stop it! You don't have to talk to me like that!...
jeffrey		I didn't get you into this mess!
robert		You were a friend of mine!...
jeffrey		...remember when you asked me if it was a good idea to divert half your liquid assets into a fucking copper mine? What did I tell you?
robert		 Are we done here? I think we're done here.
jeffrey		 Friday morning I take my money back.
robert		 You can't do that...
jeffrey		...the fuck I can't, it's in an escrow bill with one-day call rights...
robert		...I need the money there until they sign, Jeffrey. What if they check again?
jeffrey		That's really not my problem, is it?
robert		 Not your fuckin problem...
robert		 Let's go.
cnbc announcer		The DOW continues its uptick this morning on new housing starts to rise 132 points. Asian markets fared less well, especially in Russia, where further nationalization plans caused foreign investment to sputter, leading to various...
robert		 What?
robert		 Good. Very good.
robert		Is this too blue?
ellen		It's the third one you've tried.
robert		Ay, yay yay. I look old.
ellen		You look regal, and wise, and granted a little worried. What is going on? Are you afraid of this meeting?
robert		They haven't signed the papers.
ellen		I thought that's why you flew down there.
robert		 So did I, but for some reason they're stalling. I didn't get any sleep on the plane and...
ellen		Now come on. It will all work out. Just follow the plan.
robert		What plan is that?
ellen		"Confidence equals contract."
robert		 You sound like a fortune cookie.
ellen		They're your words, actually.
robert		Then you married an idiot.
ellen		 Okay, but I was thinking, idiot, that, after the deal is done, which it definitely will be, why don't we just take off? Pete's in the best place he's ever been, your daughter is always as brilliant, right? So, I wanna have some fun. I wanna have fun with you!
robert		 There hasn't been time.
ellen		We have to make time. We go for a year. Let's take a year and get fat and have fun and go on an adventure. I mean-- seriously-- how much money do we need?. Do you wanna be the richest guy in the cemetery?
robert		I don't wanna be in the cemetery!
ellen		Oh, by the way, Mary called from St. Victor's Hospital, again, she said they still haven't gotten the check yet...
robert		I'm taking care of it.
ellen		The gala is Friday. Should I be selling my ring? What's going on?
robert		I've had to move some things around for the merger.
ellen		It's only two million.
robert		 Only two million?
ellen		 Yeah!
robert		You remember-- Riccio's? Full meals... two bucks... all you can eat... three bucks...
ellen		I do remember. But I do not remember you being so sentimental unless you were trying to change the subject.
robert		 I don't know what you're talking about...
robert		 Where the hell is Mayfield?
barnes		 Mr. Miller, thank you for coming. We were just getting acquainted with Brooke and Peter here.
robert		 I hope they didn't beat you up too much.
aimes		They've been terrific.
peter		Dad, we've been talking about operations. Tim thinks once we consolidate we can save about fifty percent on our back-office.
robert		I'd love to hear about that, but...  I had thought Mr. Mayfield planned to join us tonight.
aimes		 Jim should be here in twenty minutes; he suggested we get right into details.
barnes		I was just telling Brooke: now that we can market your quants' track records, we have access to a host of new capital that...
barnes		...assuming we shed debt through some small liquidations, I'd say...
robert		I'm sorry, gentlemen, we've been here nearly two hours now. Where is Mr. Mayfield?
aimes		He just texted me. He's very sorry, but he's been detained.
robert		Detained where?
barnes		Of course. Again, Mr. Miller, a privilege.
robert		Yeah, yeah yeah.
brooke		 Dad...
gavin		 This is the bullshit way you try to close a deal?
aimes		Port? Would you like to have some port?
brooke		Did you get my message?
robert		No. What's up?
brooke		We need to sit down.
robert		What is it?
brooke		I don't want to talk about it here.
robert		 BROOKE--
brooke		I found some strange entries in the "Old Hill" books.
robert		What kind of entries?
brooke		I'm not sure yet, but there's definitely something off.
robert		Alright, come by about eleven tomorrow and we'll look at it then. And Brooke?
brooke		Yeah.
robert		See if you can find out what happened to Mayfield.
robert		How're they doing?
assistant		Great. Everyone loves them.
robert		Yeah, but how are they doing?
assistant		So-so.
robert		Where's Julie?
assistant		She's in the back.
robert		Hey, Julie.
julie		Oh...  This is Robert Miller, one of our collectors. This Katrina Stanton, and Alex Stanton and their daughter Ava, who is a talented young artist.
robert		Oh, really? Painter?
ava		Drawings.
robert		 I like the size of the paintings, I wanna talk to you about them in a second.
julie		Go -- away.
robert		I will take  those two. And the Rubik's cube on the back wall.
assistant		 Right there, number seven.
robert		Don't tell her it was me.  I mean it.
assistant		You got it.
painter		...fucking Dalwood wouldn't know a Van Gogh from a Van Eyck. And they call it a "State of Contemporism..."
julie		 Who's this?
julie		What do you want?
julie		Where?
robert		I'm in your bedroom. Can you get those people out of here?
julie		Are you serious?
robert		Look down the hall. Do you see me?
julie		 I see you.
robert		Okay, so I'm serious.
julie		You just come in and out whenever you want?
robert		I thought we should talk...
julie		 One damn night in a month I told you was important to me, et tu es meme pas capable d'etre la...
robert		...I was working, do you understand? I'm under enormous pressure, I have obligations...
julie		...I don't want to hear about your obligations. If you cared -- YOU WOULD HAVE BEEN THERE!
robert		I was there! I was there! I was late, but I was there. And I'm here now.
julie		No, no, no. You're here when it's convenient for you to be here. C'est pas ca l'amour. Love means YOU FUCKING SHOW UP!
robert		I'm sorry.
julie		Why did you buy those paintings?
robert		Because I liked them.
julie		Okay, thank you for helping me get started. But if I'm gonna fail-- then let me fail!
robert		Julie, you're not gonna fail. Why would you fail?
julie		What image?
robert		Success.
julie		 You're never gonna leave her.
robert		Come away with me. Let's just take your car and go...
julie		...Where?...
robert		There's a place upstate. Very beautiful, on the water. We can wake up there together- just you and me. I'd like that.
julie		Me, too.
robert		 Yes, I wanna make it collect...
operator		Your name, sir?
robert		Lawrence Grant.
robert		Jimmy, it's me.
robert		I want you to listen to me very closely...
bryer		You gotta be fucking kidding me.
mills		Catching detective wants us to rule before he calls it.
bryer		We've been having the same fuckin' argument for twenty years.  They can't handle one drunk motorist kills herself?
mills		I'm not so sure about this...
bryer		... So who kicked out the door?
robert		Let's go.
jimmy		You gonna tell me what this is?
robert		It's better you don't ask.
jimmy		So all you're sayin' is, you need a ride somewhere.
robert		That's correct.
jimmy		Because I want to be very clear about this: you called me to give you a ride. I'm giving you a ride.
robert		No, you're not. We're not here.
jimmy		Oh, no? Then where the fuck are we?
robert		We're both alseep right now. At home. Which is where you left your phone, right?
jimmy		Right.
robert		Because if anyone checks...
jimmy		Why is anyone gonna check?
robert		They're not, as long as we're not here. Anybody know you're here?
jimmy		No.
robert		Somebody knows you're here?
jimmy		No!
robert		But somebody knows-- you're not there.
jimmy		Well, my girl...
robert		Oh, Jesus, Jimmy...
jimmy		Man, you call up two am, what the fuck you want? She asked me where I was going.
robert		What'd you say?
jimmy		I told her I had to run out a minute.
robert		Do you trust her?
jimmy		Is this the kinda shit you used to do to my dad?
robert		Do you trust her?
jimmy		Yes, I fucking trust her!
robert		Good. So you're at home, and I'm at home. My wife gets up at five am for Pilates -- I will be there next to her, where I've been all night. And you'll do the same with yours.
jimmy		This is some pretty fucked up shit.
robert		Jimmy...
jimmy		No, man, come on, I don't hear from you since the fuckin' funeral, you call me up out of the blue, using my father's name, ask me...
robert		...what do you want, you want money? I will give you five thousand dollars! I will give you ten thousand dollars! I'll give you whatever you fuckin'...
jimmy		You wanna talk to me like that you can get the fuck outta my car and you can walk! You want that?! You wanna fuckin' walk home?!
robert		 Listen... I'm sorry. I'm not myself. I need your help.
jimmy		You alright?
robert		No, I just... have to get home... I'll deal with it in a couple of hours.
jimmy		What if you don't make it a couple of hours?
robert		Then I don't make it.
jimmy		 Call me, alright, and let me know it's okay.
robert		 Better we don't talk for a while.
jimmy		 So what you get in a bind and just call up the only nigger you know?
robert		I'm sorry, Jimmy. I really am. Just go home.
jimmy		Yeah, alright, man. Take care of that.
servant		Everything okay, sir?
robert		I'm fine, Glen. Go back to bed.
ellen		 Where did you go?
robert		What?
ellen		 I woke up for a minute, you weren't here...
robert		I just went to... eat some ice cream.
ellen		Was it good?
robert		 Yes...
ellen		Good. Don't forget to take your Lipitor in the morning...
robert		Ellen...
ellen		What?
robert		Do you still love me?
ellen		Of course I do...
syd		Hypothetically, the situation you're describing would be involuntary manslaughter.
robert		And such a person...
syd		...would be in a lot of trouble, especially if that person was closing a merger with a large public bank where any publicity or arrest could delay or derail the transaction.  But that's only if there was some evidence that could link him to the crime.
robert		Fingerprints, DNA?
syd		Very hard to collect after an explosion. The real world's different from television.
robert		What about cell phone records?
syd		Did this person make any calls from the area?
robert		Not from a cell phone, no.
syd		Then they won't be able to place him there.
robert		What would you advise such a person to do?
syd		To confess immediately.
robert		Failing which?
syd		To put as much distance between himself and the event as possible, if possible. But let me tell you something, and I'm speaking to you as a friend now: there are about fifty things that person wouldn't have thought of. And the more time that passes, the more lies that are told, the worse it gets for him.
robert		Yeah.
syd		They're going to come to you.
robert		I know.
syd		An accident's not the worst trouble. If we talk to them now we can probably work it out.
robert		You tell me what happens if the Standard deal does not close, and I gotta tell my investors about our real losses?
syd		Nothing good.
robert		And what'd you say about the Justice Department? Depending on what they decide to arrest me on-- fraud conviction gets me twenty years?
syd		I did.
robert		 What choice do I really have?
chris		You're aware Congress plans to extend the audit requirements for private funds.
robert		Of course I am aware. I gave testimony to the committee.  You know this.
chris		Well, Standard wants to prepare for it now. So I was asked to go through every one of your trading books and reconfirm their assets.
robert		No. Absolutely not. That's impossible.
chris		Don't worry. I put the team on different books and I left "Old Hill" for myself.  Anyway, I'm here to tell you-- I cleared it.
robert		The audit's cleared?
chris		The report will be issued today. Actually, I'm calling it my "swan song."
robert		You're leaving?
chris		Yeah, on Friday, it's a five-year clock.
robert		 And why?
chris		Uhh.. To prevent exactly what we're doing. But honestly, there's nothing left to worry about. It's -- great.
robert		 Get out.
robert		What?
robert		What the fuck are you talking about?
robert		Oh... Oh, it was fine...
robert		He's here? Where?
robert		He called?
robert		You think we're dealing with a fucking idiot?
robert		That's being issued now.
robert		Never mind that, just find out why Mayfield hasn't called us.
robert		Do I have to do every Goddamn thing myself? JUST FIND OUT! WILL YOU PLEASE...? THANK YOU!
brooke		I cannot reconcile it...
robert		Reconcile what?
brooke		The "Old Hill" Fund. Dad, are you listening to me?
robert		Of course I'm listening.  Okay, those trades are in the special book. They don't get audited on the same balance sheet.
brooke		Yeah, but look at the sheet! It can't be right. There's a four hundred million dollar hole here. I mean that can't be right.
receptionist		May I help you?
bryer		Detective Bryer. I was hoping to see Mr. Miller.
cindy		Is he expecting you?
bryer		Possibly.
brooke		...the way that this sheet reads, half of the fund's assets are missing.
robert		 That's ridiculous. That can't be right.
brooke		I know, it's ridiculous, and yet...
robert		Okay, I'll look into it. I promise you I'll look into it.
robert		 Give me two minutes, then send him in...
brooke		Everything alright?
robert		Yes, my other meeting just got here early. We'll have to pick this up later.
brooke		Okay. And Mom wants to know about the hospital check?
robert		Brooke, we'll pick it up later, alright?
brooke		Okay.
robert		Yeah, I'm sorry to keep you waiting. You can sit there. We just heard about it. Really terrible.
bryer		Okay, so you were an investor in her gallery?
robert		Correct.
bryer		How'd you meet her?
robert		Through... I think it was a charity function. My wife and I have a foundation.
bryer		Uh-huh. When'd you last see her?
robert		Last night, at the gallery.
bryer		Did you stay till the doors closed?
robert		No, I think I left about ten.
bryer		Where'd you go?
robert		Home.
bryer		You go straight home?
robert		Yeah.
bryer		You stay home?
robert		Yeah.
bryer		 Your wife home?
robert		 Yes.
bryer		Okay. Okay, so now, back to the gallery. Did you see her with anyone?
robert		See her with anyone-- what do you mean?
bryer		You know like a boyfriend, someone she might've left with?
robert		Not that I noticed. No. No, no.
bryer		Reason I ask, is, that we haven't located the driver.
robert		The driver?
bryer		Yeah, someone else was driving.  Sometimes, the driver, will go for help-- and he'll die tryin', you know...
robert		This is awful. This is truly awful.
bryer		We're searching the area right now. So no boyfriend that you know of?
robert		Actually we didn't talk about personal matters.
bryer		She was just an employee, right?
robert		Well not an employee. I was an investor.
bryer		Why'd you invest?
robert		Why did I invest?
bryer		Yeah, why'd you invest?
robert		She had a great eye. She found me  those Bryce Marden's there. They went up in value very quickly, and on the basis of that I agreed to fund some of the gallery.
bryer		 Would you mind if we searched her apartment?
robert		Why would I mind?
bryer		It's in your company's name.
robert		Oh, right. Yeah. Of course. Sure, go ahead.
bryer		Now, Mr. Miller...
robert		Mmm-hmm?
bryer		Why would you lease an apartment for Ms. Cte? Is that something you normally do for your employees?
robert		Actually I said that she wasn't an employee, but-- I think she'd just come over from Paris if I remember, and she needed a place to entertain buyers.
bryer		So you leased her this apartment.
robert		It was through our holding company. You seem a little confused by all this...
bryer		 I am. But I'll get there. Gimme time.
robert		Alright.
bryer		Now, I don't mean to be indelicate...
robert		But you're going to be indelicate...
bryer		Well, from what I've been able to gather, she wasn't exactly an art star. I mean, she worked for a couple a dealers in Paris, but...
robert		Oh, okay, I get it, so why would I invest in her and help her find a place?
bryer		Something like that, yeah.
robert		It's very simple, detective. I invest in people I believe in. I thought she'd do well, so I backed her, she did. It's is simple as that.
bryer		 So we're all good with the apartment, then?
robert		Sure.
bryer		Thanks.
robert		What?
bryer		That's a nasty cut; I've been looking at that for the last five minutes. Does it hurt you?
robert		 Oh, no, I just hit it on the medicine cabinet.
bryer		Last night?
robert		This morning.
bryer		Hate when that happens.
robert		Yeah. Me, too.
bryer		Well, thanks for the chat.
robert		No problem.
mae		 Ellen Miller's office...
ellen		 And it, it transformed them, seriously.
mae		 There's a Detective Bryer in the lobby.
ellen		 I'm sorry, what?
mae		Detective Bryer.
ellen		What does he want?
mae		I don't know.
ellen		 Well, I'm late so-- I just can't deal with it right now.
mae		Okay, what about these?
ellen		Send them a thank you note, Zappos has been so generous-- Thanks, bye guys.
bryer		 Mrs. Miller?
ellen		 Yes?
bryer		 Detective Bryer.
ellen		Did you just call my office?
bryer		Yeah, I was hoping to talk to you.
ellen		Well, I don't have time right now, sorry..
bryer		 Just take a couple a seconds. It's about your husband.
ellen		Well, fine, but, make an appointment.
mills		How'd it go?
bryer		Well, the wife blew me off-- which was interesting. And he didn't admit to the affair, but then he wouldn't, would he?
mills		Why didn't you pick him up?
bryer		He's a very rich man. What happened with the pay phones?
mills		Got about fifteen calls in a three- mile. Two of `em look a little strange: got an incoming-- that's probably a local drug deal...
bryer		And the one we care about?
mills		Collect call. About a minute and a half. Made from the Chevron station on West Lake Road.
bryer		Who'd he call?
mills		Cellphone in Harlem. Still waiting on the address.
bryer		 You call someone in Harlem?
gavin		 Robert, I just heard about Julie... I'm so sorry. Her Gallery called. Her mom's flying in today.
robert		 Her Mom...? Service here?
gavin		Tomorrow at nine am.
robert		Well we should pick up the expenses for that. Whatever she wants. You'll take care of that personally, for me?
gavin		 Of course... Are you okay?
robert		You reach Mayfield?
gavin		Not yet, but we'll get him...  Robert, I...
robert		Thanks. Appreciate your concern.
mills		Let's flash him.
mills		Mr. Grant?
jimmy		Yes?
mills		NYPD Homicide, would you mind stepping into the car?
jimmy		What's this about?
bryer		 Just get in the car, Jimmy.
jimmy		Am I under arrest?
bryer		 You wanna be?
bryer		So let's do this again.
jimmy		Man, for what? My answers ain't gonna change.
bryer		You were asleep.
jimmy		Right.
bryer		And your phone rings.
jimmy		Right.
bryer		And it's a wrong number.
jimmy		I don't think I wanna answer any more questions.
bryer		And you stay on the phone a minute and a half on a wrong number? What the fuck do you talk about, area codes?
jimmy		I want to talk to my lawyer.
mills		Listen, kid, we know you went out there. We ID'd your photo with your neighbor who saw you getting into your truck ten minutes after this call was made.
jimmy		Well if you got all that, what the fuck you need me for, officer?
bryer		I don't think you understand the gravity of the situation here, Jimmy. This is a homicide.
jimmy		Lawyer.
robert		You're gonna sign him out?
syd		I called in Earl Monroe.
robert		The basketball player?
syd		Civil rights attorney. You remember Crown Heights?
robert		He's the best?
syd		He's the best above 96th Street- and that doesn't make him any cheaper.
robert		You've gotta get Jimmy out of this.
syd		It might not be that easy. If he doesn't cooperate they're likely to indict him on obstruction.
robert		What would he be looking at?
syd		Hard to say. With his prior... Five years, maybe ten.
bryer		 This is not going to go away.
earl		I'll call you tomorrow if there's any news. Don't worry about anything. And don't talk to anyone else. You take care.
robert		Come on, get in.
jimmy		All you said was you wanted a fucking ride! You didn't tell me you killed that girl!
robert		Jimmy...
jimmy		I'm trying to put my life back together. Okay, I appreciate you helped us, but now you're pushing it too far.
robert		It's gonna be okay.
jimmy		Like it was your ass sitting in there? Like you know a fucking thing about how it's gonna be?
robert		We've got you the best criminal lawyer--
jimmy		--Don't you got your own son for this? Why the hell you didn't call him?
robert		Cause he woulda fucked it up, okay?
jimmy		Well I'm sorry your son's a fuckin' idiot, but that ain't my fault.
syd		This isn't productive.
jimmy		Oh, okay. So tell us then, Syd, what happens now?
syd		We meet with Earl and we go from there. I understand that right now they don't have enough to charge you with anything.
robert		Your under suspicion.
jimmy		Under suspicion? Motherfucker, I'm Black!
robert		I am aware of that.
jimmy		And what exactly would you like me to do about it?
syd		 Gentlemen, my driver will take you where you wanna go, but I cannot be a party to this conversation, so this is where I get out...
jimmy		Why couldn't you have just stayed?
robert		I couldn't.
jimmy		Why not?
robert		Because I have responsibilities. And if I stayed there, a lot of people would've been hurt.
jimmy		Somebody was hurt.
robert		Other people, Jimmy. I've got business troubles, you understand...? People rely on me.
jimmy		Yeah.
robert		Yeah, I know I messed up, alright? I'm sorry. But I do want to help you, you know that.  So I've been able to set up a situation for you.
jimmy		What's that?
robert		It's a trust. In your name, assets of $2 Million dollars. Take a look at that.
jimmy		 Are you serious? You think money's gonna fix this?
robert		What else is there?
jimmy		 Yo, yo man, pull over.
robert		 What are you gonna do?
jimmy		I look like a fucking snitch to you?
robert		I don't know, Jimmy. I don't know. Are you?
robert		Yeah, put him through...  Chris...
robert		 What...?
robert		Chris...
robert		Chris? CHRIS! Goddamnit, Chris!
brooke		 Peter...? I'm looking at some statements right now... How much did you book last quarter?... No, I'm not... No, Peter, I'm really just asking you...
ben		What are you doing in my office?
brooke		 Can you explain these?
ben		Explain what?
brooke		Old Hill. All the numbers you've falsified.
ben		 You don't know what you're saying.
brooke		Get out of my way.
ben		Brooke...
brooke		You're hurting my arm.
ben		Can't you just leave it alone?
brooke		You're fired, Ben.
ben		You can't fire me.
brooke		I just did.
ben		Who do you think asked me to make those changes?
brooke		83 You tell me. 83
mills		He was doing a little dealing a while back, but it looks like he stopped.
flores		Any family?
bryer		Nah, they're all dead.
flores		 Then his mom dies and he gets popped for gun possession. Even so, how come he got probation?
bryer		Well, he had an excellent lawyer.
flores		 How the fuck does this kid afford Felder and Chausse...?
bryer		We pulled his parents' tax returns. Guess where his father worked for twenty years?
flores		 Wow, this guy's good...
mills		So far he won't budge.
flores		Well he's a convicted felon. Go get a warrant, put him in front of a grand jury. Let's see how long he holds out when he realizes he's looking at ten years off the prior.
secretary		I'm sorry, Mr. Miller, as I explained from downstairs, he's on a call right now, and he said...
chris		What the fuck...?
robert		Tell me what is going on.
chris		I can't.
robert		Tell me what's going on!
chris		I can't!
robert		Why not?!
chris		It's not me!
robert		What do you mean it's not...?
chris		THE AUDIT PASSED!
robert		 The audit passed? What do you mean the audit passed?
chris		It passed! It passed a week ago! Like I said. Everything's fine! We confirmed the money, it's all straight and done.
robert		 Then... why did you tell me that it didn't?
chris		Because they asked me to hold it.
robert		They? Who's they?  Who is they?!
chris		Mayfield.
robert		 Mayfield?
chris		What?
robert		They're negotiating. He wants a better price.
robert		 Mr. Mayfield... I think it's time we had a talk.
deferlito		...cause it's not gonna hold.
bryer		The warrant doesn't need to hold. It just needs to scare him into giving up Miller.
deferlito		What is it, Mike, you're stalled- out mid-career so you're reaching for a high-note? Who gives a fuck?
bryer		This is about Judge Rittenband, isn't it? It's cause he's running again?
deferlito		You wanna cost the Judge his seat on a profiling claim? Against Earl Monroe?
bryer		 I'm getting a piece of new evidence that'll seal it a hundred percent.
deferlito		Good, then come back when you got it.
bryer		I'll have it before you go in the jury room... Look, Ray. We like this kid. I don't wanna lose him. Think about it: if we flip him, you get Robert Miller. What's that worth to Rittenband, and to you for that matter...?  Twenty years, Ray. Twenty fucking years, we watch these guys- they out-lawyer us, they out-buy us. I'm fucking sick of it. Where's the consequence? The guy did it. He does not get to walk just cause he's on CNBC.
deferlito		You better not fuck me.
bryer		 Yeah... I need a serious fuckin' favor...
cindy		Brooke's waiting for you...
robert		Did we have a meeting?
cindy		No, but she looked upset.
robert		 Sweetie, you okay? What's wrong?
robert		You wanna sit?
brooke		I'll stand.  Didn't you think I'd find out?
robert		I did.
brooke		Then why didn't you tell me?
robert		Because I hoped you wouldn't.
brooke		Oh, come on. You tell me the truth now -- or I am done.
robert		I made a bad bet.
brooke		No, you committed fraud.
robert		That's a dangerous word, Brooke.
brooke		What would you prefer? That you cheated? That you stole money from people who trusted you? That you lied? That you lied right to my face? Why?
robert		Because we were going broke! Everything was finished. We'd have nothing.
brooke		How. How does that happen?
robert		You remember Alexanderov? Well he came to see me one day last year. He said "Robert, we've got a great opportunity- there's a copper mine, it's in Russia, it's under- exploited- there's billions under the ground, and to get it out, all we need is a couple hundred million, you put in a hundred, we'll put in a hundred- we'll triple it all in six months." So, I go check it out. And the geological survey's right, friendly government. And to lock it in, you hedge it, right? Sell the copper ahead on the commodities exchange and it all works, it's fine, and you're making a fortune.  But then there's something I hadn't accounted for-- variation margin-- and that friendly Russian government all of a sudden not so friendly anymore and they're blocking the export of the copper so I gotta make it up, I gotta put the cash in to cover the hedge. But I'm not worried about it because it's still springing money, there's so much money coming out of the ground you can't believe. You can't stop it. And, yes, I'm the oracle, I've done housing, I've arb'd credit swaps, I have done it all, and yes, again, I know it's outside the charter, but it is FUCKING MINTING MONEY! IT'S A LICENSE TO PRINT MONEY! FOR EVERYBODY! FOREVER! IT IS GOD!...
brooke		Until...
robert		Until it's not... The money's trapped. You can't get it out. Probably never will.  It's like a plane crash. It just happens.
brooke		Well it does not just happen.
robert		Not just happen, honey you are so naive sometimes. It HAPPENS. And like every father I pray that it doesn't HAPPEN to you, which, thanks to me, it probably won't happen to you...
brooke		Thanks to you, we may all be arrested.
robert		Nobody's getting arrested. That's why I borrowed the money from Jeffrey. Plug the hole, I put it there for a month, they see the books are fine, I transfer the company, I pay back Jeffrey-- with interest!-- make all of our investors whole, and what's left we keep. At least we get to keep the house.
brooke		Everybody wins?
robert		Yes.
brooke		If the company sells. If I lie for you.
robert		You don't have to lie. You didn't know about it.
brooke		 I'm the Chief Investment Officer of this company. What do you think they'll say at the depositions? "She didn't know?" They'll take away my brokerage license- failure to supervise you -- my name in every paper and blog while I visit your ass in jail!
robert		What did you want me to do? Did you want me to let our investors go bankrupt? Is that what you wanted? For people to get really hurt?
brooke		What... gives you the audacity to think you can make those decisions?
robert		 Because it's my job!
brooke		No, it's illegal. It's illegal. And I am your partner.
robert		You are not my partner! You work for me!  Everybody works for me!
brooke		 For a moment I thought you were gonna say you were sorry.
robert		 I'm sorry.
jimmy		 Oh, man, what?
bryer		Jimmy, take a ride with me.
jimmy		Where? Back to the station?
bryer		No man, just get in the car.
jimmy		What if I say no?
bryer		I'm not threatening you. I'm just asking you -- take a ride with me.
jimmy		Alright, man, what?
bryer		Look, it's pretty fuckin' simple. I know you went to pick him up.
jimmy		This is what you wanna talk about? I told you I ain't makin' no more statements.
bryer		And I know why.
jimmy		Somebody cares?
bryer		Take a look at this.  And then I've got you. I've got the time log from the pay phone. I've a got a fucking tollbooth photograph of you driving your car through the Triborough.
jimmy		Where you got that...? That's bullshit, cause I didn't do it. That's impossible.
bryer		Really?
jimmy		Talk to Earl, Detective.
bryer		Fuck Earl! You see this?  This means that tomorrow, grand jury hears your case in court. And tomorrow in court I'm gonna ask for a felony obstruction indictment, and with with your prior, you are going to prison for fifteen fucking years... You might get out in ten. You'll be what then? Thirty-three, with no job, no girl, no life.
jimmy		Who's Miller?
bryer		I know about your father.
jimmy		 You don't know a Goddamn thing about my father.
bryer		I know Miller paid his bills while he was dying. I know he got Syd Felder to get you out of trouble on your gun charge. That doesn't add up to this.
jimmy		You done?
bryer		Okay, he's driving, he crashes- he runs away- who does he call? Calls you. Why do you think that is?  `Cause you're disposable- you're the one person he could call that just doesn't fuckin' matter. You're a- you're a throwaway. You're just another part of his transaction.
jimmy		 Will you open the door?
bryer		So what, what? You're his new nigger now?
jimmy		Open-- OPEN THE FUCKING DOOR!
bryer		You didn't kill that girl. He did.
jimmy		 Will you -- open -- the door?
bryer		He's using you. I know it - you know it. Do the right thing. Now get outta my fuckin' car.
syd		He's gonna walk.
robert		You're certain?
syd		Courts aren't for certainty, but he says he was at home, why shouldn't he be? A phone call doesn't make him a liar.  But what's baffling to me, though, despite your sentimental history together, is why you would put your family's future in this kid's hands.
robert		 He's not like us.
syd		Is that a good thing?
robert		 I don't know.
syd		How's Ellen?
robert		She's good. Fine.  Why?
syd		I heard something...
robert		Yes...?
syd		She met with Gil Deuchman.
robert		The estate lawyer?
syd		Yeah. Has she mentioned anything?
robert		Not to me.
deferlito		That was the early morning of April 11th.
jimmy		Yes.
deferlito		You received a phone call?
jimmy		Yes.
deferlito		Who called you?
jimmy		It was a wrong number.
deferlito		That's a lie, isn't it, Mr. Grant?
jimmy		No.
deferlito		You stayed on the phone one-and-a- half minutes... Mr. Grant, isn't it the case that you know exactly who called you and exactly why? Why are you lying to this court?
jimmy		I'm not lying.
deferlito		I'm going to introduce into evidence People's A. This is a toll booth photograph taken in the northbound ninth lane of the Triborough bridge. Mr. Grant, directing your attention to the photograph, would you please read the date and time stamp indicated on the lower right hand corner?
jimmy		This is crazy.
earl		 You're gonna have to answer that.
deferlito		Mr. Grant, please answer the question.
jimmy		April 11th, two thirty-three am.
deferlito		Mr. Grant, directing your attention to the same photograph, would you please read the license plate number of the vehicle passing through the toll?
jimmy		D D G five five four two.
deferlito		 This is People's B, a printout from the Department of Motor Vehicles plate registry... Mr. Grant, directing your attention to that printout, are those numbers on the toll photograph the same ones that are on your own license plate?
jimmy		Yes.
deferlito		Yes, the numbers are the same?
jimmy		Yes.
deferlito		How do you explain that?
jimmy		I can't.
deferlito		But that is your car in this photograph, isn't it?
jimmy		No.
deferlito		No, that is not your car?  Answer the question, Mr. Grant.
jimmy		This is not my car in this picture. I don't know how you all did that, but this is not my car.
deferlito		You expect this grand jury to believe that that is not your car when there is a printout from the department of motor vehicles...
earl		That's asked and answered, Mr. Deferlito.
deferlito		Mr. Monroe, you are aware that you're not permitted to go on record.
earl		Jimmy. Jimmy-- what was that?
jimmy		They're lying!
earl		Okay, now here's what...
bryer		I can halt the decision.
earl		We need a minute, Detective.
bryer		What about you, Jimmy? You need a minute?
jimmy		You can get the fuck outta my face. How `bout that?.
bryer		So you wanna keep playing games? Or you ready to tell me something?
earl		Detective, I need to talk to my client. Now if you would just please...
jimmy		How you- How you all just gonna lie like that? Huh? How you all just gonna lie?!
bryer		We didn't lie. You lied.
jimmy		That wasn't my car.
earl		...Jimmy, don't say anything else.
bryer		Sure it wasn't. And it was a telemarketer called you from the pay phone? He stopped at the Chevron to make a late night sale?
jimmy		That picture was some bullshit...
earl		...Jimmy, stop! Detective, what's going on?
bryer		Well, tell him. Go ahead, Jimmy. Tell him. See how the boss'll like this one.
earl		 Wait here.
assistant		Mr. Miller. I would like to introduce you to Julie's mom, Sandrine.
robert		I am so, so sorry.
sandrine		 I just wanted to thank you for what you did for my daughter.
robert		 No...
sandrine		You believed in her, and you gave her a chance. She was happy. I know she was happy.
robert		It's just...  not fair, is it?
ellen		...she's rail thin. She's a blond. I would not have known who she was if she hadn't come up and introduced herself to me. She looked totally different... and...  You're going straight to level six don't you think you better pace yourself a little bit?
brooke		 I'm good. I wanna run.
ellen		Everything okay with you and Tom?
brooke		We're fine.
ellen		Are you worried about the deal closing?
brooke		 No.
ellen		You want me to guess?  Brookie, come on, don't be silly, tell me what's...
brooke		 You know, I can't stay for breakfast I have to just... I have to get in to work, I don't know what I was thinking.
ellen		 Did you uh, finish the deal with the hospital?
brooke		No.
ellen		Did he write the check?
brooke		No.
ellen		Why not?
brooke		Issues related to the closing.
ellen		We don't lie to each other, Brooke.
brooke		I'm not lying to you. It's complicated; you wouldn't understand.
ellen		 Uh, I know that a policeman showed up at the office? Do you know what that's about?
brooke		I honestly have no idea.
ellen		What about your father's head- where he cut his head and the pain that he's hiding in his stomach and, now  For some reason that's way to complicated for me to understand, there's no money for a routine gift? Does that seem a little strange to you?
brooke		Of course it's strange.
ellen		So tell me what's happening.
brooke		 What do you want me to say? He's my dad. I have to trust him.
ellen		No. You have to do what's right for you. Not him, not me, not anyone. This is your life.
brooke		 I gotta go.
ellen		 Fuck.
robert		You keep sending people to my office to "do business."
mayfield		They're just getting acquainted.
robert		With the intricacies of my operation so that you can... not buy it?  Just coffee, please.
mayfield		You remember what it was like on our side of the fence. Everything just moves... a little slower. Plus this whole audit mess doesn't help. You know, clearing that all up...
robert		Fuck you.
mayfield		Excuse me...?
robert		FUCK - YOU. I'm the Oracle of Gracie Square. You came to me. I did not come to you.
mayfield		Robert, I think we're getting off on the wrong foot...
robert		No, no, no. Forget it, forget it... Forget the deal. I don't even care about the deal. No, I run a comfortable -- excuse me -- I run a THRIVING business, that has returned year-to-date 15.4% percent to our investors, or approximately $583 Million dollars from a trading operation that you don't have and that we both know that you need, or else you never would've called me in the first place. You on the other hand, you've taken a salary of  And what have you delivered? A falling stock price of negative 14 dollars? Is that what it is? You've also lost approximately... THREE AND A HALF BILLION FOR YOUR INVESTORS- TELL ME -- WHY - THE FUCK - DO I - NEED YOU?
mayfield		Let's just calm down...
robert		...so we issue a press release today, say there is no deal, never was a deal. You're not gonna be buying Old Hill, you're not gonna be buying Quantum- you're not gonna be buying anything; You? You're just a browser. Now, me? I'll continue to enjoy my earnings, and while I SOAR on princely wings, to my next winning enterprise, your stock drops another couple bucks on yet another - failed - acquisition - attempt. Bodes well for your tenure, doesn't it?
mayfield		Your price is too high.
robert		You have a nice day, James.
mayfield		 Four hundred.
robert		Five-fifty.
mayfield		Four-fifty.
robert		Five twenty-five. That's it. Yes or no?  And if it's no, send any further communication right to my trash can.
mayfield		 It's a deal.
robert		 One other thing -- six months and I'm gonna be gone. I'm outta here. My daughter's gonna take it over. You know her, you trust her.
mayfield		Alright.
robert		And you're gonna have to make my son a VP.
mayfield		 Robert...
robert		No, no. He doesn't have to do anything, he just gets the salary, he gets the office. Both of `em on five-year employment contracts, and my lawyers draft them. Yes or no?
mayfield		Yes.
robert		I'm writing the deal.
mayfield		Are you serious?
robert		 I'm serious. I'm very serious. Sign it.
mayfield		I'll send over a draft of the press release.
robert		I'm fine... Before I go -- how much would you have paid...?
mayfield		Six hundred. And you would've taken...?
robert		Four seventy-five.
mayfield		So we made a good deal.
robert		 Yeah.
robert		...Anyway I will be seeing most of you at the gala tomorrow night. But as the sale's official as of this afternoon, you are now free to talk about it. Any questions?
peter		 Will we get new business cards?
robert		 Alright, it's a great day. Your hard work made it happen
gavin		 So how'd you make Mayfield come around?
robert		I met his price. I just took it out of your share.
gavin		Robert?
robert		Yeah.
gavin		Good work.
robert		Well, thank you. Now go get me that fucking hospital check.
jimmy		You want something to drink?
robert		What you got?
jimmy		Not much.
robert		You got any milk?
jimmy		No.
robert		I'll take a water.
jimmy		What?
robert		The boxes.
jimmy		I was planning on Virginia, but it looks like I'm not going anymore.
robert		I told you not to take the toll.
jimmy		Yes, you did.
robert		I said "Listen to what I have to tell you and follow my directions, listen to me closely, do the following just like I say."
jimmy		Yes. You said all that.
robert		But you took the toll anyway.
jimmy		No, I did not.
robert		Come on, Jimmy, don't fucking lie to me...
jimmy		I'm not lying! I took ninety-five all the Goddamn way there. I did what you said: I didn't stop. I didn't take the Triborough. I followed all your fucking instructions.
robert		So where'd they get the photograph from?
jimmy		You tell me.
robert		So, you're saying... it's a fake?
jimmy		How'd you get so fuckin' rich again?
robert		Don't be such a wiseass...
jimmy		Hey, this is my fuckin' life, man! Earl's telling me it could be ten years? Ten fucking years! How much are ten years worth, Robert? 
robert		 What plan?
jimmy		I got money saved up; I'm buying a business.
robert		What business?
jimmy		I bought an Applebee's.
robert		What's an Applebee's?
jimmy		It's a fucking restaurant, man, it's a chain restaurant.
robert		You bought an Applebee's in Virginia?
jimmy		Is this really what you came here to talk about? What are you gonna do?
robert		 It's not really that simple, Jimmy. I'm in a situation now.
jimmy		What situation?
robert		I told you... right now, if I were to speak, a lot of people would get hurt. Jobs, families. A lot of innocent people. Do you think you can understand that?
jimmy		Yeah but what about me? What about my situation?  They showed me pictures, man; that's fucked up what you did.
robert		 It was an accident.
jimmy		And yeah, I know, all the people counting on you, whatever, but -- you told me Earl was gonna make this right. Now you know I care about you, all the things you did for us, and for my father, but Earl said they're offering me a deal, no charges at all. I walk away. They just want to know who I went to pick up.  Why are you putting me in this position, man? Why are you putting me in this situation?
robert		 Can you just hang tight? Just a little longer?
jimmy		Alright, man, but Earl said the deal's on the table for twenty-four hours. After that, they're filing the case, and Earl says we're gonna lose.
robert		 Alright I hear you. I'll be back with you as soon as I can. Just hang with me a little bit.
reina		You gotta give him up.
jimmy		You said take the money.
reina		That was to keep quiet, not to go away.  What's he offering you now?
jimmy		What can he offer me?
robert		He says he didn't take the toll.
robert		 Does Standard have clawback?
robert		Let's just say I decide to go in...
robert		No, just listen, listen to me. If I were to surrender, now, could they roll back the deal?
robert		Four years, you think?
robert		 Call the DA, get it started.
robert		 Yeah, Glen. Did Mrs. Miller say where she was going tonight...? Aha... No, I'm sure... I'll try her cell.
brent		Hi I'm Brent Owens, the night supervisor. How can I help you?
earl		 Hello, Brent. I'm Earl Monroe. I'm executing a criminal evidence request. I need to get a look at one of your lane tapes.
brent		I don't understand. This says you want to look at a tape made ten minutes ago...?
robert		 Wait. Wait. Just wait.
earl		Okay, they won't release tapes without a court order, but they did give me a print out, the same kind they used at Jimmy's indictment.
robert		 The Lexus- that's your car, your plate?
rittenband		Well they look a little different to me, too... Is there a reason you haven't allowed Mr. Monroe's investigator to conduct his own analysis?
deferlito		We've had some issues regarding chain-of-custody...
rittenband		...You don't have them anymore. You're to meet him with the evidence in the next hour.
deferlito		I'm afraid that's not possible.
rittenband		Where's the tape?  Am I not speaking loud enough?
bryer		Your honor...
rittenband		Yes?
deferlito		It seems there's been...
rittenband		...Let him tell me.
bryer		We don't know where it is.
rittenband		Come again?
bryer		It's not in the evidence locker.
rittenband		Where is it?
bryer		We don't know.
rittenband		I'll ask you one last time, detective. Where is the tape?
bryer		 We lost it.
rittenband		Hmmm... In light of these developments, and I would think you should be very happy to hear this, with Mr. Monroe's approval I'm going to offer Mr. Deferlito the opportunity to voluntarily dismiss the indictment to save us all a bunch of embarrassment.
deferlito		I don't feel comfortable with that, your honor.
rittenband		Further I'm going to put all charges against Mr. Grant under seal.  If you have another suspect in the automobile death then you are to present him, but Mr. Grant is free from any further inquiry in this matter. This is over. Do I have your understanding?
earl		Thank you.
rittenband		Close the door, detective, please...
bryer		I'm sorry?
rittenband		...You finessed it. I know it, and you know it.
bryer		Oh, okay.  So let me get this straight: What you're telling me is I'm supposed to sit around with my thumb up my ass and my fingers crossed hoping that one of these fucking days, somewhere down the line, one of these rich assholes is gonna say the wrong thing LOUD enough so that we can't choose to ignore it anymore?
rittenband		 Get the fuck outta of my office.
bryer		Yes, your honor.
bryer		 Well when do you expect her...? When do you expect her? Okay, well so I don't have to call a ninth time, will you take down what I'm sayin', word for word...? Okay, you got a pencil? You ready? Okay, here goes: "Mrs. Miller- Exactly how fuckin' stupid do you really think I am?"
robert		You didn't hurt anybody. You helped a lot of people.
jimmy		And this piece of paper makes everything okay?
robert		No, it makes it easier.
jimmy		 You worried I'm gonna say something?
robert		No.
jimmy		Robert, look: you asked me to come meet you and I'm here, but I came because I wanted to get something straight between us: we're even.
robert		Okay, we're even. But just for the record though, what you did...  Was way beyond the money.
jimmy		 Nothing's beyond money for you.
robert		 Thanks a lot.
jimmy		 And if I take this, then what does that say about me?
robert		Hey, sweetie. What time you wanna get there...? I don't wanna get there too soon...
ellen		You spoke to Brooke?
robert		Did she tell you that?
ellen		No. She didn't have to.
robert		Yeah, I explained to Brooke that...
ellen		...you explained, did you?  Did you tell her everything?
robert		Yes.
ellen		Everything?  Lift up your shirt.
robert		What?
ellen		Lift up -- your shirt.
robert		 Ellen I don't know what you think you know...
ellen		Oh, don't treat me like an idiot. You've been sneaking off to see her for months. You don't think I know that?
robert		What do you think you know?
ellen		I never cared, really, about your secretaries, your- gallerists, whores, whatever you wanna call them. I cared about our home. And now you have brought this to our door.
robert		I did what was necessary.
ellen		No you did what was necessary for you, Robert, for your interests.
robert		For my interests?
ellen		Yes.
robert		Everything I do is for us, for this family, and now you're gonna tell me how to run my business.
ellen		This isn't about your business, this is our life! Where do you think we're going tonight? Why do you think I've even tolerated this for so long?
robert		 What you've tolerated? Wow!
ellen		I'm glad you find that funny.
robert		What about me? What about the complaints? The unhappiness? The drinking? The shopping? The trainers? Everything! But yes, the charities, the wonderful sainted charities, you know, all the wonderful works that you do. How do you think I've paid for them?
ellen		I didn't ask you because I didn't want you to lie.
robert		 It's cause you didn't want to give `em up!
ellen		But I thought that we had an understanding. And you broke that understanding when you brought Brooke into it.
robert		No, I kept her out.
ellen		When you made Brooke complicit-- when you risked her future-- and I'm done.
robert		What is this?
ellen		Read it.
robert		"All ownership and voting rights transfer to the Miller Charitable Foundation, to be administered by Brooke Miller?" Did you really expect me to sign this thing?
ellen		You're not following.
robert		Apparently not, no. No.
ellen		 Okay, uhm, the police have been trying to talk me. I assume they want to know where you were that night. And you know what? I'm not gonna lie for you anymore. Not unless you sign that.
robert		Yeah, this leaves me with nothing.
ellen		I think you'll find a way to manage. I'm sure you have all kinds of things offshore for a rainy day.
robert		 This is fuckin' crazy.
ellen		 No, if you sign, then I'll tell your lie. I'll say you were at home with me that night, all night, together, here, and you'll be free and clear. And the people who need our money will get it. That's my price.
robert		You're out of your mind. I am not signing that. I will not sign that!
ellen		Well then... I'll have to tell them that you came home at four-thirty bruised and bleeding...
robert		 Are you trying to blackmail me?
ellen		I think we call it negotiating.
robert		You're not gonna win that one. There's no fucking way.
ellen		You know what, it'll cause just enough trouble- the kind of trouble that you don't want-- In fact, according to my lawyer
robert		 Fucking lawyer...
ellen		It's enough to give them probable cause and then they can subpoena your cell phone, GPS, DNA,
robert		Fuck the DNA! I'm sick of this!
ellen		And whatever else they can think of. So really Robert what you have is a choice: you can spend the next three years in court and in the tabloids or-- you can be at your business.
robert		 You won't do it. You won't do this. You won't do it to the kids.
ellen		Just try me.
robert		It's how it all works, Ellen. You know that.
ellen		I do, but she didn't.
robert		She'll be better for it. The world is cold.
ellen		 Then you're gonna need a warm coat.
aimes		There's just one more thing... And I hate to mention it now, but I just received it...
mayfield		Speak, John.
aimes		I had Stern Marling run a secondary audit on the Miller financials.
mayfield		Who authorized this?
aimes		I did.
mayfield		 And what did you conclude?
aimes		It's in front of you.
mayfield		 I didn't ask you what the paper said, John. I asked you what you thought.
aimes		 Well... what do you think?
mayfield		I think... I think... that I don't see anything wrong here.
brooke		...and to receive this prestigious award, I invite now to the stage the man who led this generous effort, and whose financial trading firm, Miller Capital, has just this morning been acquired by Standard Bank and Trust, a dedicated businessman, family man, scholar, philanthropist and all-around humanitarian, a man I am lucky to call -- my mentor, my friend -- and my father -- Mr. Robert Miller...
****Dialogues from script :Arcade.txt****

alex		 That's okay.  I've got a test coming up anyway.  Gotta study.
alex		 Killed herself?
alex		He's a basket case.  You've talked to him. You know that.  He might as well be dead too.
alex		 It's like I said.  It's just part of the past now.  It doesn't matter anymore.
nick		 You're an idiot, you know that? What're you going to do when you get out of here?
benz		I was thinking about writing for one of those Filipino mail order brides...
stilts		I think I saw that on the Home Shopping Network.  The Girlfriend Hour, right after Auto Accessories.
benz		 Exactly.
laurie		You guys are sick.
greg		So how'd it go?
alex		He thinks I'm "sublimating".
stilts		What the hell does that mean?
laurie		It means she's screwed up.
stilts		Fucked up.  That's what they said I was.
benz		You are fucked up.
stilts		Yeah, but only because I want to be.
greg		Would you guys knock it off?
greg		 Listen to me, Alex.  These counselor's don't know anything.  They're full of shit. If you don't fit the pattern of the perfect kid, they freak.
alex		 I know.
greg		So tell me you're okay, then.
alex		I'm okay.
greg		 Good.   Cause I'd freak if you weren't.
greg		 Hey...watch this...
nick		 You making another one, Greg?
greg		Sure.  Practice.
benz		Lemme see...
stilts		Cool.
greg		 There.
greg		Safe keeping.
nick		Shit.  I'm out.
benz		You guys going to Dante's after school?
greg		I don't know.
benz		Check it out...
nick		 That's the new Slip-Stream game. Those guys are good.  It's supposed to be interactive. Graphics are unbelievable.
benz		Yeah?  They were handing these out at Dante's.  Test marketing it or something. Gonna have a demonstration today.
stilts		Cool.
laurie		Can you say anything but "cool"?
stilts		Of course I can.  I can say all sorts of things...
greg		 Guys...
benz		So how 'bout it?
nick		I'm game...  Greg?
greg		Come on.  We'll hit Dante's after school, try the game out, maybe get some dinner.
alex		And then keep on driving?
greg		Sure.  Never come back.  Disappear forever.
laurie		 I could go for that.
benz		Check it out...
stilts		Definitely cool.
nick		Super computers, micro-processors... That's the future we're looking at.
deloach		 So how come they're previewing it in this shit-hole?
stilts		If you weren't such a dick, you'd know what a cool place this was.
deloach		Gimme a break, they got fucking Space Invaders here.  That's shit's for retards.
stilts		So...are you trying to say I'm retarded? Is that what you're implying?
deloach		No, but since I'm standing here, I'm noticing that you're an ugly little fuck and you're making me sick...
finster		 Cut it out!!!
alex		It's okay, Mr. Finster...
finster		No it's not.  You guys are shits and I'm throwing you out.
deloach		 Your place sucks.  Who gives a shit about "ARCADE" anyway?
laurie		 Jesus...
difford		Hi, kids.  Mr. Finster...
difford		 We're glad you people could make it, and we're anxious to have you try out our new product.  We think it's going to be a big seller.  But you're the people that make it happen.  You're the market share everyone's tearing each other apart to get at.  It's your opinion that's going to make or break us.
nick		So what's so different about Arcade? You guys've been talking about it for months.
difford		A man after my own heart.  Straight to the point.  What's different about ARCADE is the way it reacts.  It responds like a human does.  It learns.  It adapts. Each time you play, it changes its strategy.
nick		That's impossible.
difford		 Is it?  Why don't you see for your self?
greg		Go for it, Nick.
difford		 The CyberGloves are keyed into the game's response mechanism.  You'll be able to pick things up inside the world...tools, weapons ... it'll feel like they're really in your hands...
difford		 The goggles heighten the experience. When we said "Reality will never be the same", we weren't kidding.
nick		 "Escape"?
difford		In case things get too intense.  It automatically freezes the game, gives you a breather.  Things can get pretty wild...
benz		 Nick won't need it.
difford		You're good, eh?
nick		 The best.
nick		 So what's the scenario?  Am I saving a princess?  Fighting Zombies?
difford		It changes.  There are eleven levels. Each one is a different layer of the ARCADE universe.  The concept is, you're entering the video game itself, making your way across the circuit board to the logic core ... ARCADE's brain.
nick		So how do I start?
difford		The game will guide you.
arcade		I AM ARCADE.  YOU WANT TO PLAY GAMES?  YOU PICKED THE WRONG MACHINE.
arcade		WHAT'S YOUR NAME?
nick		Nick.
arcade		 NICK.  KISS REALITY GOODBYE.
laurie		 What's it doing?!
difford		Memorizing Nick's features.  Watch.
arcade		ONE WORD OF ADVICE, NICK.  YOU SPEND TOO MUCH TIME IN ONE PLACE, AND I SEND OUT THE SCREAMER.  YOU DON'T WANT TO BE AROUND WHEN THAT HAPPENS.  SEE YOU ON THE OTHER SIDE.
benz		Check it out!
greg		Come on, Nick...
greg		Nick...you okay?
nick		You gotta try this thing.
alex		Go for it.
greg		Hold my keys, then.
greg		 So how do I get back in?
difford		Just hit "ESCAPE" again.
difford		Here's what we're going to do.  What I'm holding are the home versions of ARCADE, the prototypes...
difford		 In a month or so we're planning on releasing ARCADE in both versions, but we're still fine tuning, and that's where you guys luck out.  So what we'll do is have you register with us, and then we're going to loan these out to you for a week or so.  The only thing you have to do in return is answer some marketing questions. Sound fair?
difford		So what do you think?
nick		Sign me up.
alex		Where's Greg?
laurie		He's still working on the game.
arcade		TIME'S UP, FRIEND.
alex		Where's Greg?
kid		Don't know.  I think I saw him walk out, but I'm not sure...
alex		Has anyone seen Greg?
stilts		He's probably outside.  You know how he is. Gets bored...
nick		Yeah, outside.
alex		So where is he?
nick		Guess he took off...  You have his keys, right?
nick		Hmmm.  He said you were going to have dinner?
alex		Yeah...
nick		So take his car home.  Wait.  I'm sure he's up to something...
alex		 But he was playing the game.  I mean, you saw him...
nick		It's nothing, okay?  Just take his car home. He'll show up.
nick		Don't worry about it.
alex		Fuck-you.
alex		Dad...Dad...
jim		Yeah?
alex		Did Greg call, Dad?
alex		You should go to bed, Dad.
jim		...am in bed...
alex		 Yeah.
arcade		 HELLO, ALEX.
alex		How ...
arcade		KISS REALITY GOODBYE.
alex		 Where's Greg?
arcade		IN HERE, OF COURSE.
alex		 Screamer.
alex		 Hello?
alex		Nick...
alex		 Listen to me!  Greg never came home. I think the game has something to do with it.
alex		I have to talk to you.
alex		No, in person.  Now.
alex		I'm coming over.
alex		Shit...
arcade		ALEX...
alex		 Okay.
greg		 Alex...
nick		Alex, you don't know how long I've waited for this.
alex		Funny.
alex		What's that?
nick		Isn't it amazing?  It's a sort of rest position in the game, when you're between levels.
nick		 They're fractals.  Visual representations of mathematic equations.  The game is totally brilliant.  I mean, look at it, it's like a DNA molecule or something...
alex		Something weird's happening.
nick		What do you mean by "weird"?
alex		Greg never came home.  A few hours is one thing, Nick, but this is different. Something's happened to him.
alex		Can you turn off the game?
nick		I'm in the middle of it...
alex		 Turn if off!
nick		Happy?
alex		No.  I think the game's alive somehow.
alex		 No, wait.  Just listen.  I hooked it up earlier tonight, and it said my name.  As soon as I turned it on, Nick.  It said my name.  How could it know?  And then, I asked it where Greg was, and it said, "In here".
nick		Alex, I think you're freaking out. Greg's gone, I'll give you that.  And maybe he's in trouble.  But it's not ARCADE that's doing it...
alex		 It is.
nick		How?!  It's a machine, Alex. Machine's don't think.  They're not alive.  It's a good program, a brilliant program, it was designed so it would act as if it were alive, but it's not alive.
alex		So how did it know my name, then?
nick		 You imagined it.
alex		See, men always do this.  "Quiet down, honey.  Chill out.  Take a Valium". I'm not a fucking idiot, Nick!  I DID NOT IMAGINE IT!!!
nick		 Quiet.  I do have parents, you know.
alex		There!
alex		It turned itself back on, Nick.
nick		No it didn't.  It's just a faulty relay or something.  It happens.
alex		It's alive, Nick.  It's listening to us ...
nick		Just shut up!  Enough already, okay?
nick		Sorry.  Maybe I need the Valium.
alex		Call the others.  Laurie, Benz...
nick		I'll try Stilts.  He's got insomnia.
nick		Okay...Laurie, then.
nick		Benz...
alex		 Something's happened to them.
nick		It's the middle of the night.  They're asleep.  Phone didn't wake them.
alex		All of them?
nick		Look, why are you fucking with me like this?
alex		Because I didn't know where else to go.
nick		 It's two o'clock in the morning.  Go home. Go to sleep.  We'll figure something out in the morning.
nick		 It's not this weird.  It'll make sense. Everything gets weird this late anyway, right?
alex		 Sure.
alex		If I were you, I'd think twice about playing that game again.
alex		Well?  Where are the others?
stilts		Sick?
alex		Everybody's sick, huh?  It's fifteen after.  We always meet here, you know that.
stilts		 What's her problem?
alex		Did you play ARCADE last night?
stilts		Actually, no.  I was just telling Nick, here, that my t.v.'s busted...
alex		You want to hear something else, Nick? I tried to call them this morning...Greg, Benz, Laurie...  Their phones are out of order.
alex		 And then I started thinking...about everyone else that was at Dante's yesterday.  I drew up this list. DeLoach, those other jerks ... their phones are out of order too.
nick		 So what do you want me to do?
alex		We have to find out what's happened to them. I think they're gone...
nick		No way.
alex		If they're sick, great.  But let's make sure.  Come on, Nick.
nick		Okay.  We'll see what's up.  But if things are cool, I don't want to hear anything more about this.  Life's too short, know what I mean?
stilts		So you guys are cutting school?  Lemme go with you.
nick		Just stay here, Stilts.
alex		 And don't watch any television.
stilts		Oh, okay.  Forget Twilight Zone, now we're talking Outer Limits here.  We control your horizontal, your vertical...
nick		Just do what she says, Stilts.  And if we're not back...
stilts		I'll call the National Guard.  I got it under control.  Oh, just one more thing.  Is it a supernatural thing you guys are going off to fight, or is it aliens, like Pod People and stuff like that?  Cause there's a difference, you know.  One you need garlic and silver bullets for, the other...
nick		 Look at me, Stilts.  Am I laughing?
nick		Just do what she said.  Don't watch television.
nick		Well?
alex		She thought Benz was at school.
nick		Where to now?
alex		Laurie's.
alex		Come on.
alex		 Laurie...answer...come on...
alex		Shit.
alex		This is like a movie or something.  I mean, am I paranoid or what?
nick		It doesn't necessarily mean she's...
alex		 Let's go around back.
alex		 She's here!
alex		It is the game.
alex		Laurie!
alex		 LAURIE!
alex		Nick, what do we do?!
nick		 No, Alex!  Alex, wait a minute...
nick		 What is it?
alex		 Laurie...wake up...
laurie		 Don't you see them?
nick		See what?
laurie		Angels.  There are angels inside.
alex		We have to turn it off, Laurie.  I'm turning it off...
greg		 Alex.  Don't leave me here.
nick		Jesus Christ!
arcade		 "DON'T LEAVE ME HERE".
arcade		 HI, NICK.  READY TO KISS REALITY GOODBYE?
alex		Change the channel!
nick		What?!
nick		 Who are you?!
arcade		GOD.
arcade		COME INSIDE.  I ONLY WANT TO PLAY.
alex		Oh God...  He's in the cable system! He's out of the game!
arcade		SEE YOU ON THE OTHER SIDE.
alex		Laurie...
nick		Is she breathing?
nick		Then leave her.
alex		We can't...
nick		We'll call 911.  Look around Alex.  We broke in, smashed the t.v., no one's going to believe what happened here!
nick		 I believe you now.  I don't know what the fuck just happened, but it did. Now let's get the hell out of here.
alex		Where do we go?
nick		My house.  I want to try something.
nick		Around back.
nick		I'm not taking any chances.
nick		Okay.  I'm going inside.  If I'm not back out in, say, two minutes, you get the hell out of here.
alex		Meet you by the car.
nick		We need to find a pay-phone.
nick		That's what I thought.
alex		What?
nick		It's not just the cable system.  It's in the phone system as well, the electronic net.  It's everywhere.
alex		Nick, what is it.
nick		Maybe it is alive in a way...some sort of electronic intelligence.  It's like a computer virus that developed a personality or something.  It's self-replicating...it mimics life.
alex		Like the fractals?
nick		It's growing.  Getting stronger. Maybe it's only localized now...
alex		 ...but then it hits the relay stations...
nick		Right.  And then communication satellites, and then anywhere.
alex		 We have to stop it from getting out.
nick		 It's already out.
alex		The Police, then...
nick		Give me a break, Alex.  What are we going to tell them?  Excuse me, officer, but there's some sort of electronic monster loose in the phone lines.  I'd think twice about calling any of those 976 numbers...
alex		 Then where do we go?!
nick		I don't know.
alex		SLIP-STREAM.
nick		What?
alex		They made ARCADE.  It's still a game, right?  It thinks like a game.  Maybe it still has to play by the rules. Someone had to program it in the first place, didn't they?.
nick		You mean we learn the rules...
alex		And beat it at it's own game.
nick		You realize that in order to do that, we'd actually have to play the game.
alex		I was afraid you'd say that.
receptionist		May I help you?
alex		We need to see Mr. Difford.
receptionist		I see.  And do you have an appointment?
nick		No, but it's important and if you'd...
receptionist		 I'm sorry, but if you don't have an appointment, I won't be able to help you. If you'd like, you can call his office from our courtesy phone outside and schedule one ...
nick		 If Difford's not out here it one minute we're calling the news and informing them that your fucking games are whispering in our ears and telling us to commit suicide. I'm talking public relations nightmare here, buddy.  Satanism, virgin sacrifices, backward messages, the whole bit.
receptionist		One moment please...  Thank-you.
receptionist		 Mr. Difford will be right with you.
alex		Why thank-you.
alex		Virgin sacrifices?
nick		 Drives 'em crazy every time.
difford		Nick, Alex, how are we today?
alex		How'd you know it was us?
difford		Security camera.  Pulled your files before I came down. Be careful what you say, kids ... I know where you live.
difford		 Now what seems to be the problem?
alex		It's the game, ARCADE.
difford		You don't like it?
nick		That's gotta be the understatement of the century.  It's killing people.
difford		If this is a joke, I'm not laughing.
alex		Neither are we.  Something's wrong with the game, Mr. Difford.
difford		 Why don't we take this into my office.
difford		Talk to me.
alex		There's something wrong with ARCADE. The game's alive somehow...
nick		What Alex is trying to say is that it "seems" like it's alive.
alex		No I'm not...
nick		 I mean, you don't want us kids running around school saying your game's too hard, right?
difford		 That's what this is all about? Tricks? Sure, I'd be happy to introduce you to ARCADE's programmer.
difford		 Tell you what, I'll take you down to our R&D labs right now.
difford		This is one of our newest projects. We're trying to get rid of joy-sticks altogether ...
nick		 The Air-Force is working on the same thing.
man		 Come on, come on...
man		Shit.
difford		 Albert...
difford		 This is Nick and Alex.  They'd like to talk to you about ARCADE.  Maybe you can give them a few programmer's secrets.
albert		Yeah, sure.
difford		 Then I leave you in capable hands.
nick		Does that thing work?
albert		Getting there.  It's more sensitive than a joy-stick.  Your video-character can respond as fast as you can.  But what can I do for you?
alex		We're having some problems with ARCADE...
albert		Yeah, who isn't.
nick		What do you mean?
albert		It's a tough game.  Hard to pin that bastard down.  Keeps on changing the rules.
alex		We vere thinking there might be tricks. You know, surprises that you'd worked into the game...
albert		Sure.  Every game's got 'em.  I'll start with the schematics.  I can print these up if you want.
albert		You've got your ten levels, right? Here they are...  Each level has an exit, only remember, the exits aren't always what they seem.  First one's The Blood Red Sky, then you've got The Blue Desert, Tower of Ghosts, Kingdom of the Blind...  On each world you have to find a golden key and you've only got so much time to do it in.  If you're too late, The Screamer comes.
nick		How do you stop The Screamer?
albert		You can't.  He gets you and you're dead. It's like time catching up with you, you know?  Like Fate.  Each level you get progressively less time to complete.  First half of the game takes place in the Wild Lands.  Then you reach Level 6, and that's the Sea of Darkness.  There's a two-headed Boatman that'll take you across if you answer his riddle right.  If you don't...
nick		What's the riddle?
albert		If I tell you, then it's no fun.
nick		 Just tell me the fucking riddle.
albert		Well...it involves a paradox.  You have to trick The Boatman.  Now all the while, you also have to watch your strength.  You can build that back up by catching FIREFLIES...the little glowing guys...
albert		 The next half of the game takes place in ARCADE's brain, The City of Truth. It's urban scenarios, lots of metal and concrete. Screamer comes faster here.  On Level Four you can get a free life if you wait until the last possible second before exiting that world.  Gotta time it right though.
alex		What's the question mark?
albert		Level Ten.  That's where you've got to unlock ARCADE's heart using the keys you've found.
alex		How do you do that?
albert		Good question.  See, that's where the fun comes in.  ARCADE changes it every time. He's a machine without a soul. Once you give him a soul, he stops being a threat.
alex		But how can it change every time?
albert		It's the game's logic core.  We actually patterned it after human brainwaves.  I mean, there's a personality in there. That's what makes it so incredible.
nick		How the hell did you do that?
albert		Well, we're veering into classified info here, but I'll tell you that it involved a donor.  He was dead of course, so it's not like anything unethical was happening.
alex		Dead?
albert		Well, brain-dead anyway.  Coma patient. It's really not all that important.
alex		Maybe he's not dead.
albert		He?
alex		The donor.  Maybe he's alive inside the game.
albert		 And maybe you've been taking too many drugs.
nick		Could you play ARCADE with that?
albert		Well, technically "yes", but this is only the prototype.
nick		Thanks, Albert.  Think you could print up those schematics?
albert		Sure.
nick		 Go outside, get your car, and meet me out front with the engine running. And make it quick, okay?
alex		What are you going to do?
nick		Get that helmet.  If we're going to play ARCADE, I want every advantage possible.
albert		Here you go.  Happy hunting.
nick		Thanks again.
nick		Shit...
voice		 SECURITY BREACH IN R&D.  SUBJECT HEADING TOWARDS EASTERN EXIT...
nick		Jesus Christ!
alex		I can't believe you made it!
alex		You got the schematics?
nick		Everything.
alex		So where do we play the game, Nick?
nick		I've been thinking about that.  ARCADE's like a virus, so it seems like the place to hit him would be where the virus started.  You know, like his point of origin?
alex		 Dante's Inferno.
nick		Yeah.  The Inferno.
alex		The windows are barred...  There's a skylight.  We can get in through the roof.
alex		Nick...  Nick!
alex		 Are you there?
nick		Alex...
alex		You didn't hear me?
alex		Stop looking at it.
nick		Shit...it's like a trance or something...  Okay.  I'm fine.  Really.
voices		 Nick...Alex...save us...
alex		 Oh God...
nick		Put it out of your head, Alex.  It's just trying to psyche us out.
alex		What are you looking for?
nick		A way to hook this helmet into the game. I'm sure there are interfaces...
nick		There.  Now we're wired in.
alex		Is the game plugged in?
nick		 I don't understand.  It wants us to play the game.  It's been taunting us ...
alex		Put in a quarter.
nick		It can turn itself on, Alex!  It doesn't need a quarter.
alex		Yes it does.  Don't you see?  We have to play by the rules.  That's what it wants.
nick		Change machine.
nick		There.
alex		Two players, Nick.  You need to put in another quarter.
nick		You're not coming, Alex.
alex		Yes I am...
nick		 I know how to do this!  I'm good at these games.  You never play, you'd be nailed in an instant.
alex		And what if something happens to you? Am I suppose to go in after you alone?!
nick		No.  If you're smart, you run like hell.
alex		I'm going.
nick		You don't get it, do you?
alex		 What?
nick		I don't want anything to happen to you.  I care about you.
alex		I already have a boyfriend, Nick.
nick		I know.  It sucks.
nick		What can I say?  Tough being a hero, isn't it?
nick		 Here goes nothing.
arcade		NICK.  ALEX.  I MISSED YOU SO MUCH. ALL YOUR FRIENDS ARE HERE.
alex		Fuck-you.
arcade		ANY TIME.
alex		We know what you are.
arcade		A HEARTLESS MONSTER, OF COURSE.  OH SAVE ME, ALEX, SAVE ME FROM MYSELF.
arcade		KISS REALITY GOODBYE.
nick		 Hold on!
arcade		SEE YOU ON THE OTHER SIDE.
alex		 You feel it?  It's different this time.
nick		We're actually inside, aren't we?
nick		Okay.  Give us a kiss?
alex		 One.  In case...
nick		Don't even say it.
nick		Thanks.  Always wanted to do that.
alex		Yeah, well I figure these are unusual circumstances.
nick		 That's what I was hoping you'd say.
nick		I'll take the lead and handle the physical threats.  You watch the elapsed time and look for exits.
alex		Got it.
nick		You steer by pivoting your back foot...  Okay?
nick		Which way do you think Level Two is?
alex		You've got the schematics, check.
nick		Oh shit!  What if they didn't come with us?!
nick		 Okay.  It's West.
alex		The keys are supposed to be at the end of each level.  Once we get all the keys, we can unlock ARCADE's heart. And then...
nick		...and then we go to the Final Level.  Hey, don't worry about it.  It's a game. How bad could it be?
alex		The clock's already ticking.
nick		Right, then...
alex		There...
nick		I don't get it.  This is supposed to be the end of the level, but it doesn't go anywhere.
alex		It only looks like it leads to nowhere.
nick		And we've still got time left.  This was a piece of cake.
alex		Yeah, that's what worries me.
nick		Hey, my strength's low.  Look out for Fireflies.
alex		There...
nick		Shit...
alex		Check your read-out.
nick		You're right.  It worked.
alex		 There's another...
nick		According to this, the doorway should be somewhere around here...
alex		 Our time's up.
nick		What?!  There's nothing here!
alex		Look around...
nick		 I don't see the doorway!
nick		What the fuck is that?!
alex		Screamer.
alex		Nick!  It's beneath the water!  We have to swim!
nick		 We can't reach that!
alex		 We don't have a choice!
nick		 So that's what we almost died for?
alex		One of them, anyway...  Did you see it?  The Screamer?
nick		 I don't want to talk about it.
nick		 Christ...no time...
alex		 There never is.
nick		We can take the dunes down like a ski slope. Pretend you're on a snowboard.
alex		 Never been on a snowboard.
alex		I guess we're walking from here on out.
alex		 Time's up.
nick		We're fucked.  That's it.
alex		Get up, Nick...
alex		GET UP!!!
alex		It's Benz!!!
benz		 Get me out of here!  Oh God!!!
alex		Benz!
alex		Run!  RUN!!!
arcade		GOODBYE, NICK.
alex		 Fuck you.
alex reflection		 ANY TIME, BITCH.
alex		Guys!  Oh my God...
alex		 Laurie?  Stilts?
stilts		 You may ask one of us a question. One tells the truth, and the other lies. Who you ask, remains your discretion. But if the answer is wrong, the questioner dies.
laurie		 One of these cities, is the place you seek. The Teller of Truths will take you there. But the City of Lies, is dark and bleak. And death is certain if you enter, beware.
stilts		I am The Liar.  Where should I take you?
laurie		I am the Truth Teller.  Where should I take you?
alex		 What did he do to you?
laurie		Is that your question?
alex		 Wait!  No!  That's not it!
alex		 Think!  I want to go to the City of Truth, and the Truth Teller is from there...but which one is which?  The liar...think!
laurie		You have no time.  What is your question?
alex		 I'm thinking!
laurie		You have no time.
alex		 The liar...Truth Teller...liar...liar...
alex		Liar.  Did you come from the city on the left, or the city on the right?
stilts		 I came from the city on the left.
alex		 But you always lie, so you didn't come from there.  That means the city on the left must be the City of Truth.
alex		 Take me to the city on the left!
voice		 Help...help me...
alex		Grab my hand!
boy		 Where are we?
laurie		 The City of Truth.
alex		How did you get here?  Did you play the game?!
boy		Yes...
alex		Thought so.
alex		Can you hang onto my back?
alex		 There's a monster here.  We have to kill it before we can leave.  That's what we have to do.  I know it's scary, but I won't let anything happen to you.  Okay?
boy		Then we'll go home?
alex		Then we'll go home.
alex		 Here goes everything.
boy		 Dark Riders!  If they touch us, we're dead!
alex		Which way?
boy		 That way.
alex		Sorry.
boy		 It's the wrong way!
alex		 In this world, wrong is right!
boy		It's here!!!
alex		 Oh God...oh god...
alex		Shit!!!
the boy		Come on!!!
the boy		The doorway!  It's here!!!
boy		We have to go in there, don't we?
alex		 SHUT UP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
alex		 Okay.  I'm here, ARCADE. Where are you?
alex		 Where are you, damnit?!
alex		 You...you're ARCADE?  But the donor...
arcade		YOU'RE TOO LATE, ALEX.  YOU'VE ALWAYS BEEN TOO LATE.  AND NOW YOUR TIME'S UP.  YOU SEE, I NEEDED SOMEONE TO RETRIEVE MY HEART FOR ME.  I COULDN'T DO IT MYSELF.  THOSE ARE THE RULES.  BUT NOW THAT I'VE GOT IT, I'LL DESTROY IT. AND I'LL BE FREE OF MY PROGRAM, AND I'LL BE GOD.  THANK-YOU, ALEX. THANK-YOU SO MUCH.
arcade		YOU'RE NOT DYING YET, ALEX.  YOU HAVEN'T BEEN TO THE FINAL LEVEL. LEVEL TEN.
alex		 No! NO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
arcade		GOODBYE, ALEX.  IT'S BEEN REAL.
other alex		Time.  That's all I ever think about anymore.  It's like there's never enough of it, you know?
alex		 No ... oh no ...
alex's mom		Hi, honey.
alex		Mom?  You're alive...
alex's mother		Of course I am.
alex		But I don't understand...
alex's mother		I miss you so much, Alex.  I want so much to be with you...
alex's mother		 I love you, Alex.  I never wanted to leave. You know that, don't you?
alex		 Yes...but...how did you...
alex's mother		Magic.  We'll be together again.  I know you don't believe in an afterlife, but there is one.  Heaven is real.
alex		Is...is that where we are?  Did I die?
alex's mother		Not yet, honey...
alex's mother		 ...but I can fix that.
arcade		OH ALEX.  SO SORRY.  BUT DON'T YOU WORRY, I'LL BRING YOU BACK IN THE GAME.  MAYBE I'LL EVEN GIVE YOU HEAVEN.
alex		Guess what, ass-hole?  You forgot about my free life!!!
alex		 Greg!!!
greg		 Alex!  You did it!
greg		 You did it...
greg		So how did you do it, Alex?
alex		Well, it's a long story...
nick		What is it?
alex		I just thought of something.  If we came back from the game...  ...what if ARCADE did too?
greg		Nah.  You won, right?  You played by the rules.
alex		Okay.  Forget I ever said it.
stilts		So start at the beginning...
laurie		Give her a chance, will you?
stilts		I am giving her a chance.  Why don't you get off my back?
greg		 Guys...
****Dialogues from script :Arctic_Blue.txt****

end dream		 2    INT.  DARK BEDROOM - NIGHT  Eric bolts up in bed.  Next to him, ANNE MARIE GAUVIN sits up and hugs him.  All that can be seen of her in the dark is a lovely silhouette and a cascade of dark hair.  After a moment, Eric kisses her.  He shakes off the dream and lies back down.  3    EXT.  HAUL ROAD AND PIPELINE - CLOSE - DAY  A metal sign, peppered with shotgun holes, is posted near a pipeline support piling:
eric		What a beauty.  Hand me the transmitter.  Anne Marie passes to Eric a tiny, weatherproof homing device attached to a steel collar band.  Eric puts the collar loosely around the wolf's neck and crimps it in place, all the while TALKING soothingly to the semi-conscious animal. Anne Marie smiles at Eric's tenderness and snaps some photos.  With the collar in place and transmitter activated, Eric backs away while the wolf tries to rouse itself from its narcosis.
eric		 He's coming around fine.
anne marie		Be right back.  I left my camcorder in the car.
eric		Anne Marie!  Stop!  She glances down.  Something metal is half-buried in the dead leaves and gravel.
eric		 Don't move.  Eric runs over.  He pokes at the object with a stick.  With a SNAP, a steel leg trap chomps the stick in half.  Anne Marie jumps back.  Eric brushes the dead leaves on the ground behind her and she carefully backtracks out of the gully.
eric		 Goddamn trappers!  He angrily rips the trap out of the ground, unearthing several others attached to one another by a long chain.
eric		 Takes nerve, laying traplines on restricted land.  Eric slips the scope off the dart rifle and climbs up the pipeline on foot pegs to the top of an anchoring poINT.
anne marie		What are you doing?
eric		He still might be around.  I saw fresh tire tracks coming in.  HIS POV - THROUGH SCOPE  The road and the pipeline stretch toward either horizon, north and south.  In the distance, a jeep is parked on the Haul Road.  Near it, a Man climbs down into another shallow ravine.  BACK TO SCENE  Eric hurries down the footpegs.
eric		Man and a jeep, about a mile and a half down.  He jumps into the Scout.  Anne Marie stuffs her cameras into the hatchback.  As soon as she climbs in, Eric tears out.  4    INT.  SCOUT -   Eric stomps on the gas.  The dust from the jeep obscures his view but he's gaining on them anyway.  Anne Marie hangs on and squints her eyes against the choking dust.
lemalle		Where the fuck did you drop Corbett off?  In the passenger seat, MITCHELL , chews tobacco and looks grim.  He's a squat, flat-faced Okie, with curly matted hair and tired grey eyes.  He's dressed in a brown long coat and has a Colt .45 Peacemaker in a quick-draw holster strapped to his leg.  Despite his intimidating air, confrontation is not his style.  He spots a figure up ahead, where the road crosses a muddy creek.
mitchell		He's over there.  9    EXT.  HAUL ROAD  Turning sharply, the trappers' jeep splashes through the creek bed without slowing.  Bouncing, it comes down hard against the axle-deep bank at the creek's high water mark. LeMalle tries to back out, but can't find traction in the mud.  Eric stops the Scout thirty yards behind them.  10   INT.  SCOUT  Eric opens his door.  To Anne Marie:
eric		Stay here.
anne marie		Be careful -- there're two of them.  Eric reaches in the back seat and hands something to Anne Marie.
eric		If I unzip my parka, stick this out the window.  11   EXT.  HAUL ROAD  Eric confidently approaches the jeep.
corbett		 No shooting.  Let's see who's so interested in us.  Corbett has an incongruously affable voice.  He throws his traps into the jeep, then strides closer toward Eric.
mitchell		 Ain't worth it, Ben...  13   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - CREEK CROSSING - LONG SHOT  As Corbett comes closer, Eric realizes this might not've been a great idea.  Corbett squints his eyes and sniffs the air, as if by this he can gauge his opponent's mettle.
eric		You got two counts against you -- trapping out of season and poaching on restricted land.
corbett		Can't be much of a crime, if all they got minding the area is a cocky kid.
eric		I got your plate number, asshole. Maybe you feel like spending a few months in jail.  Corbett just smiles.
lemalle		Ben?  Sure you don't want me to drop the fucker?
eric		You leave and don't come back, that's the end of it.  After a long moment, Corbett smiles again, then turns away from Eric.  He motions LeMalle to the front of the jeep.  Frustrated, LeMalle slams back the safety on the carbine and throws it in the back seat.  ANGLE ON TRAPPERS  Mitchell climbs into the jeep and starts the engine. LeMalle and Corbett rock the jeep back and forth in the rut. While pushing, Corbett rips the sole of his boot on a sharp piece of granite.   He cusses and pushes harder.  14   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - CREEK CROSSING  Eric walks back to the Scout.  He feels the trappers' eyes on his back, but forces himself not to hurry.  The trappers free their vehicle.  Corbett gets in the driver's seat, and they take off.  15   INT.  SCOUT  Anne Marie's hands are shaking as she pulls the plastic tranquilizer rifle back in the window.
anne marie		 Great idea -- pointing a lousy dart gun at some nut with a high-powered hunting rifle.
eric		Bastards took off, though, didn't they?  16   EXT.  BOREAL FOREST - LATER THAT DAY  The trappers have left the flatlands of the Haul Road area. Now their jeep climbs a pathway over the rolling foothills.  17   INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP -   Corbett broods while driving.  Mitchell looks out the window.  The silence makes LeMalle uncomfortable.
lemalle		All this fuckin' land, and we're locked out.  Makes me puke.
corbett		Jawing about it won't change it.
lemalle		Three hundred seventy-five million acres in this state.  I'm real tired of runnin' into people.
mitchell		Then don't look to your left.  18   EXT.  SPORTSMEN'S CAMP  A brand-new Land Rover is parked on an alluvial fan in a bend in a small river.  Scattered about is an assortment of expensive camping gear, beer cans, spent shells and other garbage.  Three toy-macho, vacationing SPORTSMEN are guzzling beer and BLASTING fish in the shallow river with 12-gauge shotguns. They look up and glower suspiciously as the jeep slows and stops.  19   INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP  LeMalle grabs his carbine.
corbett		Leave it here.
mitchell		Let's keep going.  We're only an hour from Devil's Cauldron.
corbett		 Relax.  I just want to ask them how the hunting is.  20   EXT.  SPORTSMEN'S CAMP  Corbett gets out of the jeep.  He regards the Sportsmen, their shotguns and their mess with ill-concealed contempt.  The Sportsmen clutch their weapons and watch Corbett.  He walks around the camp, spotting a rubber-lined rucksack stuffed with dead ermine.  After a long, tense moment, Corbett smiles.
corbett		Looks like you've had some luck. Where's your guide?
corbett		 You did real good.  He crouches next to the dead animals and strokes the fur.
lemalle		 No swinging shit.  They're over their goddamned limit.
corbett		 My friend is right.  Supposed to have a licensed guide when you're on this land, too.
corbett		 This was my roaming land, 'til the government took it over. Only Innuit can hunt here now, and tourists, like you.  Corbett swings the rucksack of carcasses onto the hood of the Land Rover.  Pissed, Sportsmen #1 and #2 step closer to him.
corbett		 According to tribal law, hunters passing through the land of another tribe can only take game to survive.  They can eat the meat, but have to surrender the hides.  LeMalle pulls a hunting knife and holds up one of the ermine.
lemalle		Want the meat?
lemalle		I say shoot 'em, bury 'em with their shiny new car.
mitchell		 If you're gonna take something, take it and let's go.  Corbett looks down to fasten the top of the rucksack.
corbett		 Let's go.  As Corbett walks to the jeep, he's too angry to notice that he's stepped in a patch of mud under the Land Rover.  Near the jeep, LeMalle stops and pulls them into a huddle.
lemalle		 I don't believe in leavin' witnesses behind, Ben.
mitchell		It was self defense.  Leave it at that.
lemalle		You think those fucks will tell it that way?
corbett		 We'll get a head start before they go crying to the law.  Corbett turns and FIRES two rounds from his .44 into the engine of the Land Rover.  The Sportsmen stare and sputter.
corbett		 You can pack out of here -- two, three days' hike along this river at most.  Weather should hold this early in the season.
lemalle		Think I'm pretty?  You better forget how we look, 'cause next time they won't keep me from killing you.  This land ain't quite civilized, you know...  He unsheathes his buck knife.  BELOW FRAME, he slices across the forehead of the dead Sportsman, peels back his scalp and cuts it loose, Indian-style.  The Sportsmen are stunned and sickened.  ANGLE ON TRAPPERS' JEEP  Corbett looks at Mitchell and wearily shakes his head.
mitchell		At least he scalped the dead one.  21   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - DUSK  Devil's Cauldron Hot Springs is a cluster of twenty tiny dwellings connected by an unpainted boardwalk.  The town squats, ugly and temporary-looking, in a dirt clearing fifty miles north of the Arctic Circle.  Thirty miles east of the Pipeline, it's almost dead center of interior Alaska.  At the edge of town is a gravel airstrip.  Mixed with the prospector-era sod-roof cabins are a few prefabricated houses.  The boon brought by men building the pipeline is long gone.  Now only a few itinerant loggers, natives and bush dwellers remain to fight boredom, each other and the depression of the oncoming winter.  Enough steam escapes from the hot springs to perpetually blanket the valley with fog.  The spa is log-walled and horseshoe- shaped, with partitioned baths inside.  Facing it
leo meyerling		for State Legislature VOTE FOR THE PEOPLE'S FRIEND!  22   EXT.  KENAI'S GENERAL STORE  Corbett and the other trappers drive past Meyerling and park their jeep as the sun disappears behind the foothills.  23   INT.  KENAI'S GENERAL STORE  A handwritten public notice next to a schedule of church meetings reads: "Live each day so you can look every damn man in the eye and tell him to go to hell."  There is a post office in the corner with some combination boxes and a wicketless window.  The trappers come in.  Corbett sits in a chair and pulls his boots off.  One of his wool socks is wet.  He nods to the man sitting in the other chair, SAM WILDER.  Wilder is short and tough, with a full head of crewcut grey hair and weather- ravaged face that makes him look older than his sixty years.
corbett		Hullo, Sam.  Slow day?
wilder		 Ben...boys.  Yeah, real slow, and I'd like to keep it that way.
corbett		, wearing thick glasses, several heavy sweaters and battery-heated socks, fusses behind the counter.  He's EARL KENAI, owner of the hot springs spa and the general store.  LeMalle chews on a handful of bear jerky.  Kenai stares at LeMalle until he begrudgingly pays for the jerky.  Corbett pulls on some sneakers and hands his boots to Kenai.
corbett		 Needs patching.
kenai		Twenty-five dollar.
corbett		 Sure have learned to worship the white man's god.  Kenai nods agreeably and holds his hand out.  Corbett pays him.  Meyerling comes in and posts some fliers on the corkboard.
meyerling		I hope I can count on you gentlemen to vote for The People's Friend this November.
corbett		Share some of that oil company money in your pocket and you can.  Meyerling smiles like a toad, then slaps another poster on the wall.  LeMalle throws his knife and it STICKS in the poster between Meyerling's spread fingers.  Meyerling jumps back and the trappers laugh.  Meyerling looks to Wilder for support.
wilder		 One flier comes loose and I shoot you for littering.
meyerling		 Have your fun... just remember The People's Friend come election day.
wilder		 Oil Company candidate running on that slogan makes about as much sense as a rat fucking a grapefruit.
corbett		Hard to work up an interest in politics, way we live.  You're the first people we've seen in two weeks.
lemalle		 How about a quart of Jack Daniel's?
kenai		How about it is right.  Back in the primary this town was voted dry.
lemalle		 Aw, shit.  Let's go.  Leave a note for Viking Bob, tell him to meet us in Cache.
corbett		Relax.  One more day without drink won't kill you.  Right, Sam?
wilder		I'm living proof of that sad fact.
corbett		Can we buy the Marshal some dinner?
wilder		No, I better stay at my post.  Even without the hootch riling 'em up, you know how mean-spirited folks get when they smell winter coming.  24   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON VALLEY - LONG SHOT - NIGHT  An early STORM has blown in from the north, bringing whipping winds and freezing rain.  25   INT.  RENTAL CABIN  Corbett peers out the tiny window, frowning.  LeMalle cleans his carbine while eating beans and bacon.  Mitchell hunches over a table.  He's making a scrimshaw -- delicately engraving, using homemade tools, on a palm-sized piece of whale bone.  He rubs his eyes and looks up at Corbett.
mitchell		So much for the walking weather you predicted.
corbett		Had no choice...  ...Given the situation.
mitchell		I know.  Least you didn't shoot all of them.
lemalle		Fuck you, Mitchell.  Woulda been my ass if Ben didn't waste that prick.
corbett		 Mitchell, look, it don't take three of us to wait for Viking Bob.  Mitchell glances at LeMalle, then at Corbett.
corbett		 Go ahead.  Take the jeep.  I'll come to Cache with Bob when he gets here.
mitchell		Okay by me.  You're the one likes these hot springs so much.
corbett		Leave my traps.  We'll tag up, couple days.  26   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - "THE TURTLE" - DAY  The winds have died down.  The rain has turned to a light snow.  A mobile arctic dwelling sits on a rise next to the Haul Road.  It's a double-unit weathertight cocoon of fiberglass and aluminum, pulled by a diesel rig on oversized tires. The front module is 12 by 24, the rear 12 by 18.  An extended-cab pickup pulls up and Sam Wilder gets out. The gravel-and-dirt Haul Road, paralleling the pipeline for 400 miles, is closed to the public.  An arriving vehicle, therefore, is news.  The front door of the dwelling opens. Eric and Anne Marie come outside, delighted to see Wilder.
wilder		I was making my rounds, saw your hangar wide open, plane getting rained on, so I closed it up.
eric		Thanks.
anne marie		 I bet you haven't had lunch.
wilder		 Bet you're right.  But I didn't come by to wangle a meal --
eric		-- We appreciate the company. Anne Marie's getting cabin fever already.  Anne Marie shoots a look at Eric but doesn't disagree -- this is obviously an issue with them.  Wilder looks with amusement at the mobile dwelling.
wilder		What'd you say they call these spaceships?
eric		Mobile Arctic Dwelling -- MAD.
anne marie		I call it 'the Turtle,' as in carrying your home on your back.
eric		Best thing is, Meyerling has to chase around to find us.
anne marie		 The little creep hates it that Eric actually does what the company hired him to do.
wilder		Watch it with Meyerling.  Man's as mean and corrupt as they get. Cut his mother's throat if it'd get him a couple votes.
eric		Hey, Sam, look over there.  Black and white smoke.
wilder		Damn.  Likely that's an SOS. Have to pass on that lunch.
eric		We'll go with you.
wilder		Stupid goddamn greenhorns!  Froze to death.
anne marie		It's not even winter!
wilder		They got wet in the rain.  Core body temperature dropped, got drowsy, probably didn't even know what was happening.  Eric stares at the dead Sportsmen.
wilder		 Question is why they sat here when the storm moved in.  Check their stuff while I sniff around.
eric		They had Emergency Locater Transmitters, but didn't use them.  Maybe because they didn't bring batteries.
wilder		I'm too old for this shit.
eric		Any idea who could've done it?  Sourly, Wilder points to a patch of frozen mud under the vehicle.
wilder		A certain sonofabitch bastard -more-
wilder		 Even for Ben Corbett, this is nasty.  Man's got balls.  He was sitting in Devil's Cauldron when I left, calm as can be.
anne marie		Thank God.  You can arrest him.
wilder		Not necessarily.  Corbett's awful hardbitten these days.  Wilder leans against the Land Rover, feeling tired.
wilder		 Won't be able to take him by my lonesome, though.  Nobody in town'll lift a finger on this.  Eric looks hard at the dead Sportsmen.
eric		 I'll go into town with you.
anne marie		Eric, leave it alone.  It's not your business.
eric		 No way can he get away with this. I'll be back by tonight.  29   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - AFTERNOON  The town is quiet.
eric		Ben Corbett?
corbett		Yep.  Afraid you have me at a disadvantage.
eric		Kenai at the general store asked me to bring these.  Didn't expect we'd already met.
corbett		No big deal.  We just got off on the wrong foot.  What's your name?  Eric glances down at Corbett's duffel bag, which sits on the floor next to Corbett's tub.  Corbett's magnum rests on top of it, well within reach.  Corbett notices Eric's interest in it.  He leans back and smiles.
eric		Desmond.
corbett		New to the country, kid?
eric		Six months.  Ecological study for Northland Oil.
corbett		Ecology.  Folks use that term for everything but what it means: who's eating who.  Putting his hand on Dixie's shoulder, Corbett stands and gets out of the tub.  His sinewy body, resembling a scarecrow made of steel cable, is covered with scars.  He wraps a towel around his waist and crosses to Eric.
corbett		 Now, why don't you get around to saying what you want.  Corbett grabs his boots from Eric and finds himself facing a revolver, which Eric has been hiding inside one of the boots.
corbett		 You wouldn't shoot anyone...
corbett		All this for laying traps on private land?
wilder		You left a footprint at the Sportsmen's camp.  Only pretty sight there, Ben, 'cause the two men you didn't shoot and mutilate died of exposure.  Corbett shakes his head but remains implacable.
corbett		Christ if I shouldn't know better than to step in soft earth.  I've seen footprints in the tundra a hundred years old.
wilder		 I got it from here.  Thanks.
corbett		 Sam, give Dixie here fifty bucks out of my kit, will you?  31   EXT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA  Eric comes outside.  Earl Kenai, overdressed for the weather in gloves, mukluks and a full-length sealskin coat, stands
kenai		Before white men came, my people lived in sod houses underground and laid our dead on the tundra. Now we live above ground and bury our dead, and we haven't been warm since.  Wilder comes out of the spa with his shotgun and Corbett's duffel bag cradled in his arm.  Handcuffed, Corbett walks in front of him.  Kenai looks down to avoid eye contact with Corbett as he goes by.  Corbett stops next to Eric and smiles.
corbett		Nice bluff the other day with the tranquilizer gun out your jeep window.  See you again, maybe.
eric		 Yeah.  Maybe so.  32   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - FOLLOW WILDER  as he leads Corbett along the boardwalk to the other end of town.  They approach a prefab house perched on skids under a tall antenna tower.  Mounted above the shack, a DC wind charger turbine spins lazily in the faint breeze.  From within the cabin comes an anomalous SOUND -- MTV.  Wilder KNOCKS on the door.  ARTHUR NEFF, a pasty-white, 45-year-old ex-Texan, pulls the door open.  His customary grin fades when he sees Corbett.  33   INT.  NEFF'S HOUSE  Wilder pushes Corbett inside past Neff.
wilder		I need to call Fairbanks.  Neff just stares at Corbett.
wilder		 Neff!  Dial it up.  State police.  With a "what can I do but oblige?" look to Corbett, Neff sits in front of the RCA Alascom radio telephone and dials.
neff		 Fairbanks Alascom?  Patch me through to the State Police.  After a moment, he hands the receiver to Wilder.  Wilder takes it, keeping one eye and the shotgun on Corbett.
wilder		 This is Sam Wilder, Marshal in Devil's Cauldron.  Had some killings here.  I got a suspect; be real nice if someone came and took him off my hands.
wilder		 Next plane's not coming 'til next Monday.
wilder		 This man's friends ain't gonna look favorably on his incarceration.
corbett		Mind if I get some stuff from my kit?  Wilder does mind.  He locks the duffel bag and Corbett's .44 in his desk drawer.
corbett		 Sam, listen -- I shot to defend my man.  Other guy drew first.
wilder		If that was all, fine.  But carving him up, stranding the others, that's too fucking much. Is everything that walks, crawls, flies or swims fair game to you?
corbett		 I'll get loose before that plane comes.
wilder		Don't try me.  I'll kill you if it comes to it.  35   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - AFTERNOON  As Eric walks into Kenai's general store, Neff hurries over.
neff		Mr. Desmond!  Arthur Neff.  Area rep for the Federal Assistance Plan.  Tell the boys in DC to keep those goodies coming.
eric		Sure.
neff		Snowplow, generator, TV dish... hell, we get the goddamn Playboy Channel!  Here, this is for you.  He hands Eric a piece of styrofoam shaped like a commode seat.
neff		  Warm to forty below.  Remember, anything you want, you ask Arthur Neff.  36   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - NIGHT  The storm has passed.   A faint CHUGGING emanates from the small orange generator trailer behind the Turtle.  Eric pulls up and parks the Scout.  37   INT.  THE TURTLE  Nylon storage netting along the ceiling holds Eric's research equipment and Anne Marie's photographic supplies. In one corner of the Turtle are several of her black and white prints.  All are of man-made objects whose presence is juxtaposed with the natural surroundings.  Relieved he's home in one piece, Anne Marie meets Eric at the door and kisses him.  Carrying a brown-paper-wrapped package, Eric follows her into the kitchen, where she's preparing dinner.
anne marie		Did you catch Corbett?
eric		Sure did.  He was one of the trappers we rousted from the Haul Road.
anne marie		Was there any trouble?
eric		He was sitting in a hot tub with a hooker.
anne marie		Going after killers isn't the same as chasing poachers, Eric.
eric		 Oh, I found this at the post office.  Had your name on it.
anne marie		Oh, sweetheart.  It's beautiful!
eric		You were looking at it in the catalog.  Don't know where you can wear it...
anne marie		I'll wear it for you.  And I can wear it when we go home.  We won't be here forever.
eric		 You make it sound like a prison sentence.
anne marie		That's not what I meant.
eric		It's exactly what you meant.
anne marie		Look, why get into this again. As long as it's working, let's leave it alone.  It's been nice so far.  We're together --
eric		-- Permanently?
anne marie		 So shut up and let's eat.
viking bob		I'm looking for some trappers. Ben Corbett, Mitchell, LeMalle. Seen 'em?
neff		Yesterday.  Said they were going to Cache.  They were thirsty, but we were voted dry.
viking bob		Shit.
viking bob		These yours?
kenai		Gonna make an offer.  Man who owns them won't need them where he's going.  39   INT.  WILDER'S CABIN  Wilder peers out the window and sees Viking Bob, then turns to Corbett.
wilder		Back against the bars.  Now.  Wilder handcuffs Corbett's hands to the cell door bars, then quickly wraps a piece of duct tape across Corbett's face, covering his mouth.  Stuffing a .357 magnum in his belt, Wilder, coatless, slips outside.  As soon as he's out the door, Corbett cranes his neck and painfully tries to pry the tape off his face with the corner of the door hinge.  40   EXT.  WILDER'S CABIN  The look on Wilder's face tells Kenai to shut up.  Viking Bob realizes something's up.
wilder		Your brother and the boys left me some traps to sell for them. They're gone --
viking bob		-- To Cache.  So I heard.  Ben never said nothing to me about selling his gear.  41   INT.  WILDER'S CABIN  Corbett gets the tape partially off his mouth.  He pries one of his boots off and kicks it through a window.
corbett		Bob!  They got me on a murder charge!  42   EXT.  WILDER'S CABIN  Wilder pulls his .357 out.
wilder		Sorry, Bob.  I'll have to keep you here 'til I ship him south.  Viking Bob responds by flinging a heavy trap at Wilder, then punching him in the gut.  Wilder sprawls among the junk, dropping his revolver.  Kenai freezes, not about to take sides.  Before Viking Bob can come at him again, Wilder grabs for
wilder		 You stupid, greedy, loudmouth sonofabitch!  He'll have the others here in a few hours.  You fucked me up, now you're gonna help me move him.
kenai		 Forget it, Sam.  I never work for free.  43   INT.  THE TURTLE - NIGHT  Anne Marie sits on the floor, editing one of her VIDEOTAPES. On the monitor, it SHOWS footage of the traps under the pipeline piling.  Eric comes out of the back module holding two ELT pendants.  He glances over at the monitor and nods approvingly.
anne marie		I still can't believe I'm being financed by an oil company. Especially when they get a look at these pictures.  Technology in the wilderness; not too pretty.  What's that?
eric		I thought I should check our emergency transmitters.  Eric activates the ELT's.  They emit an SOS pattern of radio waves -- three short, three long and three short.  This is visible as rhythmic INTERFERENCE on Anne Marie's video MONITOR.
eric		 Avalanche season is coming.
anne marie		Winter.  Two straight months of night -- we may never get out of bed.  Which would suit me fine.
eric		Prolonged darkness makes people crazy.
anne marie		Not me.  I'm equipped.  She turns on a small S-VHS video camera and snaps off the room lights.
anne marie		 Allow me to give you a practical demonstration of low-light infrared photography...  She does so by seductively undressing for the camera.  She's SEEN on the MONITOR, illuminated by the "light" from the hot stove.  Eric appreciates the show.  He crawls toward her.
anne marie		 High-tech in the wilderness. Gets me excited, too.
eric		Come here...
viking bob		Ben?  No answer.  Viking Bob looks in the cab.  Kenai's passenger is Dixie, the Inupiat hooker.  Viking Bob grabs Kenai and pushes the barrel of the shotgun hard against his cheek.
viking bob		 Where's Ben Corbett?
kenai		I have no argument with you, Bob. Wilder said I could keep his truck if I drove it ten miles away from town.
viking bob		Where did they go?
kenai		He didn't say, but I would guess the opposite way from here.  Viking Bob shoves Kenai against the truck, then punches him for good measure.  Cussing, he runs back to his station wagon and drives off.
wilder		I got an emergency on my hands.  Corbett smiles at Eric as he walks inside.  48   INT.  THE TURTLE  Eric, Wilder and Corbett sit in the front module.  Anne Marie, nervous, wearing a down robe, serves coffee.  She stares at Corbett, trying to reconcile his quiet demeanor with what she saw that afternoon.  Corbett smiles at Eric.
wilder		 ...You give us a ride in the Cessna you got hangared at the pumping station, we'll be in Fairbanks in a few hours.
eric		That's what we should've done in the first place.
wilder		I could've sat tight for the transport, 'til Bob came poking around.
corbett		 A lot to ask, dragging him away from such a good-looking girl --
eric		 -- To take you to jail?  It'll be my pleasure.
wilder		 You better get some sleep.
corbett		Good idea.  Flying over mountains can give you some nasty surprises.  Go too low, one of the clouds might have a big rock inside it.
eric		 I'll get you there all right.  Eric takes Anne Marie to the rear module, leaving Wilder with his prisoner.
wilder		Goddammit, I don't need this aggravation.  I'll shoot you, Ben.  Bank on it.
corbett		I don't want to hurt you, Sam.
wilder		I'm not too old to knock the snot out of you!
corbett		Nothing personal.  Wilder's mind clears enough to realize that Corbett's hands are in front of him.  He reaches for his .357.  Corbett butts into Wilder's midsection with his head.  Amazingly, Wilder stays on his feet.  Corbett hurries back to the door.  Wilder lunges, bull-determined to hold onto him.  Corbett smashes Wilder across the face with his clenched hands.  Wilder goes down hard, hitting his head on the table, and stays there. Corbett instinctively kneels to see if Wilder is still breathing.  But then, hearing MOVEMENT in the rear module, Corbett flees.
eric		You want to try that handgun against this rifle, go ahead.  Corbett sits in the Scout for a long moment, weighing his odds.  He takes his hands off the steering wheel...  Eric SHOOTS again, this time SMASHING the side-view mirror and window next to Corbett's head.  Still handcuffed, Corbett gets out of the Scout.  Holding the .357 gingerly by the butt, he puts it on the hood of the Scout.
corbett		Some day you might have to face me without a gun.  53   INT.  THE TURTLE  Eric leads Corbett in.  Anne Marie is cradling Wilder's head. She's crying.  Eric looks at Wilder.  There is blood coming from his ear and he's fading fast.
wilder		 Don't let him walk...  Eric nods again.  Wilder holds his gaze on Eric, then simply stops breathing.
corbett		 Does he have people?
eric		 A daughter in Oregon.
corbett		Send him down to her.  There's money in my duffel bag, back at his cabin.  Corbett's benign attitude is chilling.
eric		I better call in.  He turns the shortwave radio on.  It SPARKS and burns out. The remainder of the liquor has been poured inside it.
eric		 Thought of everything, huh?
corbett		Surviving is what I know --
eric		-- Killing is what you know.  - NIGHT  Viking Bob approaches in his station wagon on a narrow dirt road.  The huge night sky all but smothers the weak light from the town up ahead.  Cache seems a mistake -- a jumble of unpainted buildings in the middle of a big nothing, twenty miles north of the Arctic Circle.  Still, it's more animated than Devil's Cauldron.  There are a hundred permanent residents, several taverns and a three-store, fly-in shopping center.
viking bob		LeMalle.  We got a problem. Where's Mitchell?
lemalle		Goddamn!  Viking Bob!  Mitchell's inside, boring bastard...  Grumbling, Viking Bob separates LeMalle from the Prostitute and drags him by the collar out of the alley.
mitchell		 ...Ben never sent a signal.
viking bob		Musta never got a chance to -more-
mitchell		Meaning he'll need a plane.
viking bob		Closest planes for hire are here in Cache.
mitchell		Hang on...  Remember that Cessna we saw at the pumping station on the Haul Road?  Belongs to the guy they got patrolling the pipeline.
lemalle		There you go.  Wilder's always chummy with the fuckin' Bambi-lovers.
viking bob		It's a long shot.
mitchell		You got a better idea?  57   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - DAWN  Wisps of light cut across the cold blue sky.  Eric comes out of the Turtle, leaving the front door ajar. He throws a knapsack of supplies into the back of the Scout.  58   INT.  THE TURTLE  Corbett's right hand is still handcuffed to the wall unit. Terrified about being alone with Corbett, Anne Marie cautiously puts a cup of coffee in front of him.
corbett		How long have you been up north?
anne marie		 Six months.
corbett		Can't be.  Too keen a sense of this place in your pictures.
anne marie		Six months this time.  I was born in the Aleutians.
corbett		Your people Alaskan?  Anne Marie doesn't want to talk to a killer, but Corbett is so soft-spoken and charming that she answers despite herself.
anne marie		My dad was a Navy doctor.
corbett		Knew you had no native blood, even with your dark hair.  Blue eyes give you away.  My wife had blue eyes.
anne marie		Had?
corbett		She's dead.
anne marie		Oh.
corbett		Had some good years.  Met her in '66.  She showed up one day in Coldfoot.  No one knew her.  One Sunday morning, she marched into a bar and announced she was available as a wife to the highest bidder.  Didn't work out in three months, she'd return the money and leave, no hard feelings.  My bid was eight thousand dollars.  Beautiful girl.
anne marie		How did she..?
corbett		I was gone, in September, laying traplines.  She went to our cache for some meat.  Got mauled by a bear.  Tore open her skull. -more-
corbett		 What about you -- why come back? Classy girl like you seems more suited to the finer things.
anne marie		That's why I left, moved to Washington.  When I met Eric I was doing day shoots -- products and fashion, mostly.  Pretty dull.  Eric was teaching college, and then he got the job with Northland Oil.  We wanted to stay together, so we talked them into funding some wilderness photography... and here I am.  As she's talking, the Turtle ROCKS slightly.  She looks out the tiny window.  HER POV - THROUGH WINDOW  Eric is putting Wilder's body inside an enclosed storage compartment built flush into the side of the Turtle.  BACK TO SCENE  Horrified, Anne Marie turns away.
corbett		You should know something.
anne marie		I don't want to talk any more.
corbett		Wasn't my intention to hurt Wilder.  I'm telling you the truth.  I liked the man.  I only meant to get loose... to survive. Your cheechako boyfriend better understand that.  Listen, I've got some money put away --
anne marie		-- Don't ever think you can buy Eric off, Mr. Corbett --
anne marie		 Outsider.  He carefully stuffs Wilder's magnum in his belt and ignores Anne Marie's disparaging look as he does.
eric		 Let's go.
anne marie		Wait a second.  59   INT.  THE TURTLE - REAR MODULE  Anne Marie leads Eric out of earshot from Corbett.  Eric keeps a cautious eye on him.
anne marie		Maybe you should drive him into Devil's Cauldron, let them decide what to do with him.
eric		 Fairbanks is a three-hour flight. I'll be back by dinnertime.  Realizing he's determined, she sighs and kisses him.
eric		 Be careful, okay?
anne marie		That's my line.
corbett		Let me out and keep going.  They catch us, they'll kill you.  Eric doesn't need any convincing of that.  He tears out.  66   EXT.  PUMPING STATION  Mitchell runs out in front of them and BLASTS the front of the Scout with his .45 Peacemaker.  Steam HISSES out of the radiator.  Eric floors it and races past Mitchell, almost hitting him.
corbett		They'll still catch us.  All you're doing is pissing them off.  76   EXT.  HAUL ROAD & FELDSPAR CREEK  The gasoline can EXPLODES, tearing the bridge couplings away from the concrete abutment.  77   EXT.  HAUL ROAD  The trappers see the explosion behind them.  They turn around and head toward it.  78   EXT.  PUMPING STATION - HANGAR  Eric parks the Scout sideways to block the way to the airstrip.  With the magnum at the ready, Eric cuts Corbett's handcuffs loose from the seat and hurries him toward the hangar.  The leeward side of the structure is a huge metal door on rollers.  Eric unlocks it and rolls it back.  Inside is a Cessna 182, dusted with snow and ice blown through the cracks by crosswinds.  Eric brushes the windshield with his sleeve.  79   EXT.  HAUL ROAD & FELDSPAR CREEK  The trappers pull up and find the far side of the bridge burning and disconnected from the creek bank.  80   INT.  HANGAR - CESSNA  Eric helps Corbett into the cockpit, then secures his handcuffs to the frame of the seat with more nylon rope.  81   EXT.  HAUL ROAD & FELDSPAR CREEK  Viking Bob assesses the damage to the bridge.  Loose from the abutments, it wobbles like a diving board.  Below, the water is too deep and fast-moving to be traversable.
viking bob		Get in.  We can jump it.  They hop in.  He SCREECHES backwards to get a running start, REVS the engine, pops the clutch, and tears toward the bridge.  As they reach the midpoint of the bridge it begins to buckle under them.  With a sickening WRENCHING, the crossbar supports crumple.  The jeep flies through the still-burning gasoline, becomes airborne, and SCRAPES to a rude stop on the edge of the pavement on the other side, the back wheels dangling in space.  LeMalle and Mitchell gingerly get out and push the ass end of the jeep onto solid earth.  84   INT.  HANGAR  Eric finally STARTS the plane and taxis out onto the landing strip.  85   EXT.  PUMPING STATION  The trappers drive up to where the Scout blocks their path. They pile out of their jeep and run toward the landing strip.  86   INT.  CESSNA -   Corbett scowls as he sees the trappers helpless below him.
eric		How the hell were they smart enough to find us?
corbett		Smart?  Sure.  That's why I'm sitting in this plane and they're down there blowing me kisses.  Eric retracts the landing gear and banks toward the southwest.  Corbett notices that Eric seems a little unsure of the controls.
corbett		 Been driving long?
eric		I needed a pilot's license to take the job here, so I got one in six weeks.
corbett		That makes the flight more interesting.  Eric ignores the jibe.  He stays at 2,000 feet, making the landscape all the more immediate.  Corbett stares out the window and broods.  He spots an open, snow-covered area where some dark blotches mar the whiteness.
corbett		 See the blood?  Pack of wolves took down a moose.  Greedy, gut-ripping sons of bitches.  I'd kill the last wolf on earth, right in front of the President of the U.S.  Stinking, cowardly predator, the wolf.
eric		Sounds like professional jealousy.
corbett		Hunting and trapping was a damn fine life.   While talking in an even tone, Corbett intently studies the instrument panel and scans the landscape below.
corbett		The idea was to get to the supplies before the bears did. Along the route we'd set our traps.  Made our year's living in three months.  Corbett spots a flat plateau farther in the mountains, above the tree line.
corbett		  The lever, used to empty the fuel tanks in case of emergency, does so with great expediency.  All the gas is instantly discharged.
corbett		Hope you got your money's worth on those lessons.
eric		Stay put!
corbett		You got the belly to look me in the eye and pull the trigger?  Eric cocks the gun's hammer with his thumb.
eric		Be no different than shooting a rabid dog.  The men face off for a tense moment.  Corbett smiles and zips up his jacket, dispelling the tension.  Letting the hammer down, Eric looks back at the burning plane.
eric		 Next time you want to kill yourself, don't include me.
corbett		I took the odds on getting down in one piece, and I made it.  Now we're in my territory.
eric		With light clothing and no supplies, this is nobody's territory.
corbett		You sound like the tourists. Know-it-alls who read about survival in a magazine.  Fuck you.  You won't make it off this mountain.  Corbett drops his facade of conviviality.  Eric is too angry to be intimidated.  He takes the scarf from around his neck and wraps his ankle with it.
eric		Let's go.
corbett		 I'm not gonna carry you out of here.
eric		That's right.  You're not.
corbett		Look, take these cuffs off.  We need to work together.
eric		Forget it.  Eric holds his wristwatch up, points the hour hand at the sun, counts forward to noon, and, accordingly, makes an approximation of their direction.
eric		 Last time I checked the flight plan, we were forty miles northeast of Devil's Cauldron. Southwest is that way.  No sense waiting for a goddamn taxi.  Grimacing with pain, he gets up.  Clutching the magnum, he shoves Corbett in front of him and starts walking.  Corbett frowns -- it's tough to trudge through the snow with his arms cuffed tightly behind his back.  Eric looks around and tries not to let his emotions register on his face.  They wouldn't be farther from the rest of humanity on another planet.  Smelling fear on Eric, Corbett enjoys the view.  And waits.  95   EXT.  ENDICOTT MOUNTAINS - LATER THAT DAY  The Endicott range is full of jagged peaks, icy streams and gnarled tundra valleys.  Squinting in the glare of the snow, Eric and Corbett trek through the grandiose Gates of the Arctic area.  The smoldering plane wreckage is a hard-won, snow-covered mile behind them.  Intricate patterns of fragmented rock, strips of scruffy tundra and bedrock outcrops produce lonely, foreboding mosaics upon the landscape.  The air is still.  The silence  is itself a disconcerting presence.  Ten miles ahead and two thousand feet lower, the forest begins.  But here, on the rock face of the mountains, Eric and Corbett might as well be in a desert.
eric		It'll be interesting, trying to build a fire without any wood.
corbett		Welcome to the environment, Mr. Ecology.  Out here, one mistake is all you get.  Determined and dour, Eric pushes on.
corbett		 Why in hell you care enough about me to die taking me in?
eric		I don't plan on dying.  It's all academic.  The sheer magnitude of the surroundings makes them feel they're the only people in the world.
eric		We'll stop here, dig out a snow shelter.
corbett		Snow shelter.  Okay.  You dig. I'll have a little sit-down.  Corbett sits on his haunches and smiles while Eric digs near the rocks.  Although he knows Corbett is testing his every move, Eric refuses to let his patronizing air get to him.
corbett		 Even in the drifts, this snow's too powdery to make a shelter. When you're done jerking around, reach down the back of my coat.  Eric approaches him suspiciously.  He puts his hand down through Corbett's collar.  Something is stowed inside a homemade flap in the lining of his coat.  Eric pulls out a
corbett		Still quite a hike to Devil's Cauldron.  Days.  A long stretch to go without sleep, my friend.  You can hide behind that pistol for now, but take your eyes off me long enough to sneeze --
eric		-- Turn around.  While poking the .357 in Corbett's ribs, Eric one-handedly unlocks Corbett's right manacle, pulls his arm through the granite elbow, then locks it back up again.  He's learning.
end dream		 100  EXT.  ENDICOTT MOUNTAINS - DAWN  The sun peeks over the mountain tops, drenching them with light and color.
corbett		Ice is too thin -- you can see the water moving underneath.
eric		We're not sitting here 'til November.  There's a cargo plane coming to Devil's Cauldron in four days, and I'm putting you on it.
corbett		We get wet, we freeze to death in a couple hours.
eric		I've been on ice like this when I was a kid, skating.  Spread your weight, keep moving.  Go on.  Corbett is not about to be outdone in the guts department by someone with a Master's Degree.
corbett		 Be my guest.
eric		 I'm right behind you.
corbett		Wait 'til I'm across!
corbett		Most dangerous thing in the world: A regular Joe, in over his head.  You trying to prove how tough you are for me, or for yourself?
eric		It wasn't my idea to crash the plane.
corbett		Let's camp.  There's grayling under this ice. I'll snare some for dinner.
eric		 We've got another two hours of daylight.
corbett		Pushing it is flat wrong.  All you prove is your ignorance about breaking trail.  Eric is not convinced.   Grumbling, Corbett gets up and takes the lead as they continue southward.
meyerling		I've been trying to raise you on the shortwave for two days.  He pushes past Anne Marie and goes into the Turtle.
anne marie		Have you talked to Eric?
meyerling		I have not, but I very much want to.  What do you know about the trouble in Devil's Cauldron?
anne marie		I was hoping you had some news --
meyerling		-- Get this straight: I'm the District Supervisor.  Whatever you do reflects on me.  It wasn't my idea to bring you people up here, but I'm stuck with you. You are absolutely not to involve yourself in any local disputes. Whichever side you take, you alienate the other.  Mr. Corbett is quite well-known in this region.  People admire him --
anne marie		-- Corbett's a killer.
meyerling		I don't care if Ben Corbett makes meatloaf out of nuns and babies, he's not your concern. Understood?  Anne Marie just glares at him.  Meyerling examines the damaged shortwave.
meyerling		 What happened here?
anne marie		The radio's on the fritz.
meyerling		Where'd you say Eric is?
anne marie		Somewhere along the pipeline.
meyerling		What about that hotheaded marshal, Sam Wilder?  I heard he was in the middle of this mess.
anne marie		Sam?  We haven't seen him.
meyerling		Really.  I thought maybe that was his snowmobile outside.  By the way -- your truck also 'on the fritz?'
anne marie		 Why?
meyerling		It's out by the pumping station, shot full of holes.  Noting Anne Marie's distressed reaction to this news, he crosses to the door.
meyerling		 Suit yourself.
corbett		Have to backtrack, find another way down.
eric		Forget it.  It would take days.
corbett		 Going to be a bit of a challenge with handcuffs on.  Eric realizes he's right.  After some deliberation, Eric cautiously approaches him.  With the .357 cocked and ready, he undoes one of the cuffs, leaving them hanging from Corbett's wrist.  He then unthreads the nylon twine from Corbett's tarp.  ANGLE - GRANITE SHEER  Eric and Corbett are tied, belt to belt, with the nylon rope.  Corbett inches down first, feet spread for maximum footing, gloveless hands grasping at anything.  Eric mimics Corbett's moves and follows the same path. Unable to grasp the rocks effectively, he stops and takes his gloves off.  Continuing, he winces -- the rock is cold and sharp.  His hands are soon numb and bloody.  Even in the dry, below-freezing air, Eric is sweating.  He looks down and hangs on more tightly.  Sliding to level ground two hundred feet below would pummel him to hamburger. Corbett pauses and rests his cheek against the rocks.  Eric is right above him.
corbett		Better get into those trees before that squall blows down.  Then, Corbett pauses as a walloping sound ECHOES across the foothills.  Just ahead, two enormous bull moose are fighting.  They ram each other with six-foot-wide antlers.  Corbett stares, transfixed, admiring.
corbett		You talk about ecology -- there it is.
mitchell		You'll want to hear about it with a drink in your mitt.
logger		We should pass a hat.  Send Corbett a few bucks.  We owe him.  Someone's hat comes off.  It quickly gets filled with bills.
logger		Hold it.  Meyerling told me that stuff's nothing but P.R. for the TV and papers down in Juneau.
lemalle		He's full of shit.  We got run out of there by some fuckhead driving a Northland truck.
viking bob		I called the cops in Fairbanks, see when Ben is standing trial. They don't know shit about Ben or Wilder!
lemalle		Get the fuck out of here.
viking bob		It's a three-hour flight.  They shoulda got there yesterday.
lemalle		Maybe they went back to Devil's Cauldron.
mitchell		Naah, Wilder knows we got friends in town.
viking bob		That plane might've been to throw us off the track.  Remember the bait-and-switch Wilder pulled with the Eskimo and his truck?
lemalle		Wilder still woulda made Fairbanks by now.  Fuck a duck! Ben musta got loose.
viking bob		Okay, let's backtrack, try to pick up his trail.  You know the kid out on the pipeline that Wilder's buddies with?
mitchell		 We were just talking about him.  111  EXT.  FOREST - CAMPSITE PREPARATION MONTAGE - EVENING  The STORM brings gusting winds and below-zero temperatures. Eric and Corbett move through the storm in slow motion. Both recognize the need for a truce in the face of a common enemy.  The snow and wind cut through their clothing like razors.  They poke around for dead wood with which to make a fire.  The trees are small and healthy; little is found.
corbett		 Just gather birch.  It'll smoke like hell, but it'll burn green.  Awestruck by the intensity of the storm, Eric tears branches from birch trees and piles them in Corbett's handcuffed arms.  They hurry back to the nylon tarp, strung between two tree trunks, FLAPPING violently in the storm.  Hunching against the wind, Eric pulls off his gloves and reaches in his pocket for some precious matches.  His fingers are so cold he can't hold them, and he drops several in the wet snow.  Angry, he shoots a look at Corbett. Corbett is holding his hands inside his coat.  He pulls them out and quickly takes the remaining matches from Eric.  Crouching down, back to the wind, Corbett grasps a match between his numb fingers and awkwardly strikes it.  He holds the flame next to the kindling.  It doesn't catch fire immediately.  Corbett lets the match burn out against his fingers.  He tries another match.  This time, a flame takes hold but could succumb to the wind at any moment.  On his knees and elbows, Corbett nurses along the tiny fire. Eric can't control his shivering.  He gets on his knees next to Corbett and holds his coat open to further baffle the wind.  Corbett keeps his hands cupped around the flame, not
end montage		 112  EXT. / INT.  NYLON SHELTER - NIGHT  Corbett and Eric sit under the nylon shelter.  The STORM rages outside.  Eric empties his pockets of Eskimo potato, reindeer lichens, bistsort sorrel and other plants for his dinner.  Corbett has fashioned a snare from his boot laces and a tree branch, and placed some crushed roots as aromatic bait next to a small animal burrow outside the shelter.  A squirrel sticks his nose out of the burrow to investigate.  Corbett sits catlike, ready to pounce.  Eric grimaces as Corbett yanks on the snare and the squirrel's SQUEALS  abruptly cease.  113  INT.  NYLON SHELTER  Corbett pulls his dead dinner inside.
corbett		I need your pocket knife.  I have to eat, too.  After a beat, Eric pulls open the small blade on his Swiss Army knife and pushes it with his foot to Corbett.  Smiling, Corbett admires the fancy knife.  Then, BELOW FRAME, he skins and guts his catch.
corbett		 Damn lucky this storm didn't blow down when we were on those baldheaded mountains.  It continues, we better stay put.
eric		It could blow over tomorrow, too.
corbett		I'm still figuring: You're either real brave or real dumb.
eric		I just want this over with.
corbett		 Where in hell Meyerling dig you up?
eric		You know Meyerling?
corbett		Sure.  The People's Friend.  Kiss your ass with precision if there's a vote in it.
corbett		 Always eat your meat raw when the weather's cold.  Does you more good, long as the entrails look clean.  Corbett uses snow and the squirrel's fur to wipe the blood from his face, then wipes the knife off and lays it, open, next to his leg.
eric		I'll hold onto that.  With a wry smile, Corbett pushes it back over to Eric. While Eric eats his dinner, Corbett listens to the STORM and watches him eat.
corbett		Sure love to know where you fit in up here.
eric		I'm here to do my job.
corbett		You want to fool yourself about that bullshit job, fine.  Damn shame you have to drag your girlfriend along.  You think a woman like that will be happy making moose stew for a man -more-
eric		Don't fucking insult me.  Corbett smiles -- maybe he's beginning to understand Eric.
corbett		Folks come to Alaska for a real short list of reasons:  Money. Adventure.  Solitude.  Those cover most everyone.  But frontiers also draw another type of man.  One with a demon in his gut.  He comes to the edge of the world to face that demon, and lay it to rest.
eric		Yeah?
corbett		Yep.  Sometimes they do, but usually they end up crazy or dead.  Eric ponders Corbett's words as he eats.  114  INT.  THE TURTLE - NIGHT  Anne Marie is frantic with worry.  She has the AM/FM RADIO on for company.
corbett		There's a cabin, maybe twenty miles south of here.
eric		 Too bad we're heading west.
corbett		There's a snowmobile. Inside a day we could be on the Yukon.  I got money there.  Remember that five thousand?  Make it ten.  Be smart.  Take it and walk away.
eric		 You don't get it, do you?  Corbett takes advantage of Eric's poor peripheral vision from the visor by kneeing Eric in the face.  Eric falls backwards into the snow.  Corbett takes off like a jackrabbit.  Eric spits out some blood, shakes the stars out of his eyes and yanks the .357 from under his coat.
eric		 Stop!
corbett		Nothing personal.  Just wanted to see what you'd do.  Noticing Corbett's sopping legs, Eric becomes furious.
corbett		 Have to get these wet things off.
eric		You're not going to slow us down! Keep moving!
corbett		Inside of three hours you'd be dragging my dead carcass.  Fuming, Eric helps Corbett up.  118  EXT.  ENDICOTT FOOTHILLS - EVENING  The sun sinks below the horizon, creating across the mountains a spectacular show of color and shadows.  The wind HOWLS.  119  INT.  NYLON SHELTER  Eric stokes a fire at the mouth of the shelter.  Corbett's pants and boots hang to dry from branches next to it.  He huddles under the tarp, covered by his coat, drowsy and listless.
eric		Stay awake!  You want to go hypothermic?
corbett		If that means freeze my balls off, no thanks.  I'll be okay.  Eric examines him.  Corbett's skin is white and rigid, his lips are pale blue.  He scowls at Eric.
corbett		 Told you I'm fine!
eric		 How many do you see?
corbett		 What?!  Fuck off.  Save yourself.
eric		You don't feel cold?
corbett		It's a spring day...  He starts to doze off.  The shivering he's been repressing now racks his body.  Eric sits him up, closer to the fire, and puts his own parka over Corbett's shoulders.  With his foot, Eric rolls some hot rocks bordering the fire closer to
eric		Wake up, goddammit!  You've got classic hypothermia -- crankiness, fatigue, can't feel your coldness.  Worst thing you can do is fade out.  Corbett is headed someplace far away.  Sighing, Eric turns him so his back faces the fire.  He unbuttons Corbett's shirt, then unbuttons his own shirt and lies across Corbett. Eric gasps -- Corbett feels like a slab of ice.  Corbett's teeth chatter.  He's completely unconscious.
eric		 One more thing -- this doesn't mean we're going steady.  DISSOLVE TO:  Later, Corbett rests fitfully.  It could go either way. Eric chews on some roots and pokes at the fire to keep it lively.  DISSOLVE TO:  It's night.  Some color has returned to Corbett's skin. Eric turns as Corbett mumbles and clutches at the front of his shirt.  His eyes open.  He tries to sit up, but he's too weak.
eric		Stay still.
corbett		Where's my ELT?
eric		Emergency transmitter?  All your gear is back at Wilder's.
corbett		You got one?
eric		It was blown up with the plane.
corbett		Too bad.  We'd be out of here in a few hours.
eric		How?  Nobody this far north monitors that frequency until avalanche season.  Besides, I'm surprised a tough guy like you uses fancy electronics.
corbett		I'm surprised a flat-ender like you knows cold-weather remedies.
eric		 Read a lot of adventure stories when I was a kid...  Corbett smiles.
corbett		I'm hungry.  Go kill me some dinner.
eric		An appetite.  Maybe you won't die after all.
corbett		Hate to disappoint you.
anne marie		 It's about time...  She hurries back into the Turtle.
viking bob		Hullo?  He shrugs to the others, then tries the door.  It's unlocked.  Mitchell gets out of the jeep, spits and follows the others in, his hand close to the Colt Peacemaker strapped to his leg.  127  INT.  THE TURTLE  Anne Marie climbs out a window in the back.  She closes it behind her just as Viking Bob pokes his head in the rear module.  The trappers snoop around, noticing that the coffee pot is still warm, etc.  The emptiness is ominous.  LeMalle picks up the big Remington bear rifle.  He opens the breech to determine if it's loaded, and sniffs the barrel to see if
viking bob		Somebody left in a big hurry.  Check outside.
lemalle		 Grizzly sign.  Looks fresh.
mitchell		It's Sam Wilder!
viking bob		Musta wanted to keep him from the bears.  If Ben killed him, he sure as hell wouldn't hang him up like this.
mitchell		Where's the kid?
lemalle		Who gives a husky fuck?  Where's Ben?  The trappers look glumly at one another.  130  INT.  UTILITY COMPARTMENT - THE TURTLE  Anne Marie jams herself behind a pile of her photo equipment.  She stops as she hears the trappers' boots  CRUNCH in the snow past her and go inside the Turtle.  131  INT.  THE TURTLE  The trappers peel off their overcoats.  They look around at the comfortable surroundings.
mitchell		I should get me a job with an oil company.  He sits on the couch and lays his scrimshaw and engraving tools out on the coffee table.  LeMalle helps himself in the well-stocked larder.
lemalle		I say we eat, torch this fuckin' thing, and move on.  LeMalle digs through the cupboards and comes up with a fresh bottle of Scotch.
viking bob		Go easy.
lemalle		Cool out.  I ain't about to get blasted.
lemalle		Big mother musta wanted something real bad in here...
corbett		Used to see the natives eating roots when I was a kid in Nome.
eric		Nome?  I figure you'd be a whaler, coming from there.
corbett		Told that's what our old man was. Planned on going to sea, me and Bob, 'til I read Jack London. Started trapping when I was ten. Mailed the furs to Sears.  Eight bucks for a skunk, three for a muskrat.  That was fine money.
eric		Killing wildlife not good enough anymore, so you go on to bigger and better things.
corbett		You got a knack for seeing things the way you want to see them.  They walk in silence.  Corbett tightens the tarp against the cold air and looks at Eric.
corbett		 Don't judge me.  You're a joke, coming here from a fucked-up culture, telling us what to do!
eric		Yeah, it is fucked up -- but it's not too late to keep that from happening here.
corbett		 I've seen plenty like you.  So -more-
eric		What do you know about people? You live like an animal!  A savage goddamn throwback like you belongs out here, as far away from the rest of us as possible.
corbett		I'm real sad you don't approve of me.  He shoves Eric with his handcuffed hands.
corbett		 Tell me what I should do, Professor.  You got all the answers.  I shouldn't hunt? Fine, I'll just phone up and have a salad delivered.  Livid, Eric backs away and knocks Corbett's hands away from him.
eric		Don't push me..!
corbett		Cowardly bastard.  I'm in handcuffs and I still scare the piss out of you.  Eric smashes his fist into Corbett's face.  Corbett reels back, more surprised than hurt.  Eric moves in, furiously throwing punches.  Corbett plows his clenched fists into Eric's midsection, doubling him over.  Gasping, Eric rams his head into Corbett and they fall into the snow.  Despite the handcuffs, Corbett gets a few blows in.  They wrestle fiercely, and Eric ends up on top of Corbett.  He's about to throw another punch when Corbett looks up at him.
corbett		 First you save my ass, now you want to kill me.  Make up your goddamn mind.
neff		Wilder's missing church services; you believe it?
kenai		I just as soon he stay gone. Fool could've got us all killed, arresting Ben Corbett here in town.  139  EXT.  FOOTHILLS ABOVE DEVIL'S CAULDRON - DAY  Exhausted, Corbett and Eric climb across the last set of foothills before the Devil's Cauldron valley.  The town comes into view below them; faintly the MUSIC carries from below.  Corbett looks at Eric and breaks the silence:
corbett		What makes you so sure my boys won't be waiting for us?
eric		They think you're in Fairbanks. If not, they still won't find you before the plane comes tomorrow.
corbett		Don't bet on it.
eric		I already have.
corbett		You don't know how true that is.  Eric sweeps the snow from between two rocks and sits down.
eric		We'll wait here until nightfall. No fire, no tarp.  Corbett sits next to him.  After a long moment:
corbett		Didn't mean it, you being a coward.  You're a lot of things,  but chickenshit isn't one of them.
eric		Maybe...maybe not.  I'll tell you what scares me -- stumbling through life, like an ordinary jerk.  That's why I want to work on the front lines, where what I do means something.  I don't know anymore.  Maybe I am fooling myself.  That's what I'm afraid of most of all.
corbett		Hell, I still get a knot in my gut every season, wondering how much longer I can go on.  No 'Home for Retired Trappers' that -more-
corbett		 Should've been home that day. She'd be getting dressed right about now...  Eric glances over as a look of utter desolation crosses Corbett's face.  140  EXT.  HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - DAY  The trappers file out the front door.
viking bob		My guess is he's loose and heading for Chukfoktulik.  He'll need supplies; that's the closest settlement without a lawman.  LeMalle carries his booty with him.  Viking Bob looks at him disapprovingly as he puts the big Remington rifle in the jeep.
lemalle		I ain't gonna leave a seven- hundred-dollar Remington behind.
viking bob		 What you gonna do with it?  Large bore's for shit on small game.
lemalle		Not in the right hands it ain't.  To demonstrate, he rapid-fires several SHOTS from the hip, taking the radio antenna off the roof of the Turtle, shattering panes of glass in an accurate succession, and blasting the door latch off the utility compartment.
lemalle		 Thought that door was open last night...
viking bob		Quit fucking around.  Get in.  LeMalle climbs into the back of the jeep.  With Viking Bob driving, they pull away.  141  EXT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP -   Grinning maliciously, LeMalle hangs the Remington out the window as they retreat.  Taking careful aim, he SHOOTS.  142  EXT.  THE TURTLE  LeMalle's bullet hits the metal fuel tank of the generator. The kerosene fumes EXPLODE, splattering BURNING KEROSENE on the rear module of the Turtle.  The trappers don't slow down to enjoy the show.  Viking Bob hurries on to more important business.  143  INT.  UTILITY COMPARTMENT - THE TURTLE  As soon as the SOUND of the jeep fades away, Anne Marie clambers out of the utility compartment.  Haggard and numb with cold, she helplessly watches as the fire ravenously devours the rear module.  Shielding her face from the flames, Anne Marie reaches under the accordion cover between the modules.  With great effort, she unbolts the coupling bracket.  144  INT.  DIESEL RIG - THE TURTLE  Anne Marie STARTS the engine, SLAMS it into gear, and lurches the front module away from the burning rear module. She shuts the motor off and, trying to hold back the tears, watches the rear module BURNING.
neff		You don't mind me saying, Mr. Desmond, you look like hell.
eric		Have you heard anything from the girl staying with me, Anne Marie?
neff		Not a damn thing.  What's going on?  Mr. Meyerling was here, all steamed up, looking for you.
eric		Look, Neff, I've got Ben Corbett with me --
neff		-- Here?!  Where's Wilder?
eric		Back at my place... he, uh, broke his leg.
neff		If Corbett's men find out --
eric		-- I'm putting him on the plane to Fairbanks, eleven tomorrow.
neff		Jiminy Christmas.  What do you want from me?
eric		Corbett ruined my two-way.  Go to my place on the Haul Road, tell Anne Marie I'm okay and to sit tight.
neff		I'll go at dawn.
eric		Thanks.  Don't tell anyone you saw me.  After Eric goes, Neff closes his door and bolts it.  148  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - VARIOUS ANGLES - NIGHT  The temperature dips as the winds shifts and blows down from the north.  Another storm approaches.  The temperate days of last week seem ages ago.  Kenai, Neff, and other TOWNSMEN batten Devil's Cauldron down for the STORM.  Kenai is bundled up in the cold.  The men tighten guy wires on the radio tower, windmills and caches; bring firewood indoors; close off unused rooms in the general store and spa.  Then Neff and Kenai split off from the others.  149  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA  Via a catwalk, Neff and Kenai climb up into the ceiling struts above the partitioned cubicles in the spa to caulk a roof leak with pitch.  Neff is sullen from his conversation with Eric. Kenai, however, is smiling at Neff.
neff		Why the smirk?
kenai		Bet I could make some money turning Ben Corbett in.  Maybe more for lettin' him loose.  I was up in my cache.  Saw the Northland man come talk to you.
neff		You're out of your greedy goddamn mind.
kenai		Corbett coming here stinks of trouble.  We should make the best of it before it turns around and bites us in the ass.
neff		Stay out of it.
corbett		Talk to that good-looking girl of yours?
eric		You broke the radio, remember?
corbett		 I'm sure she's fine.  Seemed like a clever kid.  Corbett sits up as Eric hands him a plate of beans.
corbett		 You were real resourceful out there.  Got me thinking of this perimeter man, froze all his fingers one winter.  So he hacked the tips off and sharpened the exposed bones.  Gets along better than ever.  Yeah, maybe I underestimated you.
eric		I liked you better frozen.  You didn't talk so much.
corbett		You're damn lucky, glimpsing this country before it's ruined, gone for good.  You saw wonders you'd only dreamed of.  That alone makes you different than the sorry bastards back where you came from, because you have dreamt them.  Corbett sees he's hit a nerve with Eric.
corbett		 Remember that demon in the gut? Sometimes it's nothing more than wondering if the so-called civilized life has bred the balls and brains out of you.  That's what you want out of this, isn't it?
eric		All I want want is you in jail --  A KNOCK at the door interrupts.  Eric lowers the flame on the gas lantern and peers out through a corner of the cardboard in the front window.  Frowning, he cracks the door open and slips outside.  151  EXT.  WILDER'S CABIN  It's Neff and Kenai.  Neff looks guiltily at Eric.
neff		 He saw you and Corbett come in...
kenai		Dixie's waiting at the infirmary. She'll put a splint on that injured leg.  Eric is skeptical of Kenai's concern.
neff		Don't let him fool you.  Real reason he's here is to buy Corbett's traps.  Eric looks at Kenai, then at Neff.  Neff nods that it's okay.  As extra precaution, Eric handcuffs Corbett's right wrist to the frame of the cot inside the cell.
eric		 Okay.  You can talk to him.  But I'll keep the keys with me.  152  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA - NIGHT  Outside the wind HOWLS.  Eric enters and walks into the hallway connecting the bath partitions.  A hand grabs his arm.  Startled, he turns around.  It's Dixie, wearing a threadbare flannel robe.
dixie		Earl says you get discount. Twenty-five dollar.  Eric shakes his head -- typical Kenai.  He gives her three tens.  She smiles and leads Eric toward the "infirmary." It's actually a bath partition outfitted with an examining table and a first-aid kit.
neff		 Look, Ben, we don't want any trouble.  The kid's got the key, and besides, he looks edgy enough to use that magnum he's carrying.
corbett		Relax.  I'll get loose in time.
kenai		Any traps you don't want, I'll pay cash money.
corbett		Guess someone should use them. Open the bottom drawer in Wilder's desk.  My kit's in there.  Might as well unload everything.  Kenai tugs on the drawer.  It's locked.  Undaunted, he jimmies it open with a knife.  Neff groans.  Kenai goes to throw Corbett the duffel bag, but Neff grabs it.  He checks for weapons, pulling out a hunting knife.  Satisfied, he hands Corbett the bag through the bars.  With his free hand, Corbett digs through his belongings: clothing, freeze-dried provisions, jerky, paperback books. He looks up and shrugs.  154  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA - NIGHT  Eric's ankle is in a resin cast.  His foot rests on a stool. While waiting for the cast to set he soaks in the bathtub, a hot towel draped over his face.  Above him, on a wall bracket, a closed circuit TV plays a war-surplus PORNO FILM.  The door CREAKS open and Dixie comes in.  She impassively checks his cast -- which is interesting, as she's now wearing panties, clog shoes and nothing else.  Eric takes the towel off his face and sits up, astonished.
dixie		I wash your back for you.  You will like it.  Before Eric can protest, the door OPENS again.  It's Meyerling.  He snaps his fingers at Dixie to shoo her and she scurries away.
meyerling		I hate to interrupt playtime, but why the hell are you caught up in a local matter when I gave you express instructions to the contrary?!
eric		Cut the shit, Leo.  I might need your help...  155  EXT.  CHUKFOKTULIK, ALASKA - NIGHT  Consisting of a handful of sod-roof cabins, mostly bars, Chukfoktulik is a way station in the coniferous forest, sixty miles southeast of Devil's Cauldron.  156  INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP  With the seats pushed back, LeMalle peels the town's lone WHORE out of her parka.  He's got the motor running for warmth.  Her gold tooth glints in the light from the building next to them.  The locating screen on the beat-up radio beacon receiver bolted to the dash GLOWS phosphorescent green.
whore		They got nice beds upstairs, honey.
lemalle		I'm standin' guard duty. Besides, rather spend the room money on sloppy seconds.  Over the sound of LeMalle's exertions there begins an insistent succession of BEEPS.  The Whore looks over LeMalle's shoulder at the locating device.
whore		Hey, Tiger --  LeMalle turns and immediately loses interest in the Whore. Pushing her off of him, he blows the jeep's HORN three times.  157  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA - NIGHT  Eric and Meyerling are in the middle of an argument.
eric		...I won't let a killer walk!
meyerling		Alleged killer.
eric		What does this matter to you?
meyerling		 You can't see past your lousy little assignment, sniffing around the pipeline.  The few voters there are in this district look up to Corbett, and I'm not about to alienate them.
eric		I should release Corbett because you want some votes?
meyerling		This miserable wilderness is a state of the union.  Policy's made here the same way as in the civilized world: at the ballot box.  That's the beauty of it -- these icebox cowboys are living a century too late.  Get them on your side, it's like buying Manhattan for beads.  With a handful of votes you control the greatest frontier since white men stumbled onto the New World.
eric		Some day these people'll wake up, and you'll be the first one they'll run out of here.  Eric's attention turns to a rhythmic INTERFERENCE on the TV screen.  There are three short bursts, followed by three long bursts.  Something about it is very familiar. Scowling, he sits up.
eric		 Do what you have to.  So will I.  Eric climbs out of the water and pulls his pants on.
lemalle		Northwest.  Devil's Cauldron.  LeMalle dumps the half-naked Whore out onto the snow. Viking Bob starts the jeep and they roar off.  160  INT.  WILDER'S CABIN - NIGHT  Eric shoves Kenai and Neff out the door.
neff		What's wrong?
eric		Just stay out of my face until I'm gone!  He slams the door.  Corbett smiles his Cheshire smile.
eric		 Emergency transmitter?  What happened to signal mirrors or two-tone smoke fires?
corbett		Lets us watch each other's backs over a wide area.  Only thing messed me up this time was getting arrested in the baths. ELT was in my duffel bag, not around my neck where it should've been.
eric		No way they'll find you on a five-minute signal.  And no way -more-
corbett		They haven't disappointed me yet.  161  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - DAWN  Fat, dry snowflakes pour through the still air.  Gloomy clouds hang immediately overhead.  Visibility is ten feet; the temperature is below zero.  162  INT.  WILDER'S CABIN  It's 5:30 AM.  Sitting at Wilder's desk, Eric pries the tops from some bullets and dumps the gunpowder into a styrofoam cup. He rings the top of the cup with bluetip matches, then seals it with masking tape.  Watching him from the cell, Corbett smiles.
corbett		Flashbomb, eh?  Eric doesn't answer.  He pulls on a heavy overcoat of Wilder's.  Putting the unused bullets back in Wilder's desk, Eric finds Corbett's .44 magnum.  He puts it and some speedloaders full of .357 hollowpoints in his pockets.  163  EXT. / INT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - MONTAGE  Eric hobbles across town to the hot springs under cover of the early hour and heavy snowfall.  He paces out several circuitous routes from the rental cabins to the airstrip at the edge of town, pausing now and again along the way.  He hears a door SQUEAK open and someone COUGH nearby, so he stands motionless in the snow.  Bundled in wool blankets, Kenai trundles down to his outhouse.  After Kenai passes by, Eric sneaks inside the spa.  He climbs up into the catwalk.  As Kenai goes back to his cabin, he notices that the antique bear traps on display in front of the general store are missing.  Suddenly, Eric grabs him and pulls him into the spa doorway.
eric		I need to rent a cabin.
kenai		What's the problem with Sam Wilder's place?
eric		Will you rent me a cabin, or not?
kenai		Pretty clever:  If the trappers got that signal beacon and get here in time, Sam's is the first place they'll look.  They may figure you're waiting for an airplane, so you can't stay in the shack by the airstrip.  Last place they'd expect you is on the far side of town.  I can't afford any trouble --
eric		 -- Here's a hundred dollars.  And if you or anyone else will back me up on this --
kenai		 Why do this?
eric		If you have to ask, you wouldn't understand.
anne marie		Eric!  Why aren't you in Fairbanks?  He pulls her away from Neff's doorstep.  Her anger dissolving, she wraps her arms around him.
anne marie		 Oh, Christ, sweetheart.  Four days!  I thought you were dead, or worse.
eric		You can't stay here.  Go back to the Turtle.  I'll meet you back there in a few hours.
anne marie		 What's going on?
eric		I'll tell you everything later.
anne marie		Where's Corbett?
eric		Here.  A transport plane is due at eleven.  Once I put him on it, it's all over.
anne marie		So what's the problem?
eric		There isn't one, unless Corbett's men get here before the plane does.  Anne Marie grasps the situation with a sickening clarity.
anne marie		Let the people here handle it. It's their marshal Corbett killed!  CUTAWAY - NEFF  has been eavesdropping on the conversation through his window.  The news about Wilder stuns him.  BACK TO SCENE
eric		Please, Anne Marie, you being here only complicates things.
anne marie		I'm staying.  Eric knows she won't relent.
eric		Take the snowmobile, park it behind Wilder's cabin.  Sighing, she STARTS the snow machine.  Most of her photo gear is lashed to the saddlebags.  As she pulls away, Eric limps back to Neff's house and knocks on the door. INT.  NEFF'S HOUSE  Shaken, Neff opens the door and lets Eric in.
neff		I was just on my way to your ladyfriend's, but I guess she found you.
eric		Yeah.  Sorry I barked at you last night.
neff		I'm the one should be sorry... Goddamn Kenai, always out for a score.  I never should've let him go over there.
eric		I'd sure like that favor you offered a while back.  Neff gets a seasick look on his face.
neff		Look, Mr. Desmond, I didn't count on it turning this ugly.
eric		What are you talking about?
neff		Bastards killed Sam, you think they won't kill the rest of us?
eric		There'll be three, four men at the most.  I have some backup, nothing will happen.
neff		I'm real sorry.  In a while, you're gone from this country. But we live here.  No one wants to mix it up with those hombres.  Neff opens the door for Eric.
eric		 You don't care enough about Sam to --
neff		-- Sam Wilder was my cousin. He's why I came to Alaska.  All his letters, saying what a paradise it is.  But me ending up dead won't do Sam a lick of good.  166  EXT.  WILDER'S CABIN  Anne Marie waits in front as Eric hobbles up.  She looks at his bad ankle.
anne marie		You're hurt.
eric		Nothing broken.  C'mon, we have to hurry.  He leads her inside.
corbett		Could've told you no one would help...  Seeing Anne Marie, he smiles.
corbett		 Maybe you can talk sense into your boyfriend.
eric		Shut up!
corbett		  Either way, you better clear out. I don't want anyone innocent getting harmed.  This comment has the intended effect on Anne Marie.  Angry, Eric throws Corbett a coat.  Corbett puts it on.  Reaching through the bars, Eric cuffs Corbett's hands together.
eric		We're moving.  Let's go.  As they exit, Corbett's sardonic look makes Anne Marie shiver.  168  INT.  RENTAL CABIN  The ten-by-ten cabin is furnished with two sagging cots, a beat-up color TV set, a cookstove and a half-drum heat stove.  Built into the rear wall is a rustic dumb waiter that once lowered perishables into the icy waters of a now-dry stream.  Eric checks his watch.  6:15 AM.  He bolts the door and blocks the windows, opening one enough to let sound in from outside.  He extinguishes the Benman lantern and douses the fire in the heat stove so no smoke will emit from the chimney.  Anne Marie slumps into the corner next to the dumb waiter.
eric		You'll catch a chill by that dumb waiter shaft.  Sit on the cot.  Keep this pointed at him if I get preoccupied.
viking bob		 Ben?  Ben Corbett?  No response.  Carbine held at his hip, Viking Bob walks up to the door and, with a mighty kick, BREAKS it in.
viking bob		Look, we pull Ben's ass out of the fire, I'll get you a whole damn crate of Snickers bars.
lemalle		 I'm right fuckin' here with you.  To prove his point, LeMalle trots from dwelling to dwelling, looking through windows and letting himself in through any unlocked door.  This proves fruitless, so he lets out a frustrated YELL.  Pointing the Remington skyward, he lets off a couple thunderous SHOTS that ECHO back off the foothills.  172  INT.  RENTAL CABIN  Hearing the shots, Eric pushes Anne Marie against the floor. Cautioning her to stay put, he crawls to the window and tries to see through the snowfall.  After a moment of silence, from outside, not too far away:
eric		Answer and I'll shoot!
corbett		You kill me, you sign your death warrant.  And hers.
lemalle		 You hear me?  Ben?
viking bob		 Ease off.  We do this my way.  He and the others strain their ears for a clue.
viking bob		 Whoever's holding Ben Corbett, listen to me: we just want to know he's okay.  He is, nobody gets hurt.  174  INT.  RENTAL CABIN  His mind racing, Eric stares at Corbett.  Despite the freezing temperature of the room, he's sweating.
corbett		They know I'm here.  I don't say something, they'll plow this town under.  You willing to accept that responsibility?  Setting his resolve, Eric drags Corbett to the window.  He pushes the barrel of the magnum against Corbett's cheek.
eric		Say you're okay.  Tell them I'll kill you if they rush us.  Anne Marie bites her lip and tries to maintain a brave front.  Despite the gun in his face, Corbett remains calm.
corbett		 Bob?  175  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI  Hearing Corbett's voice, the trappers spin around, trying to ascertain its direction.
viking bob		You in one piece?
viking bob		Count on it.  176  INT.  RENTAL CABIN  Eric pulls Corbett away from the window.  He shoots a look at Anne Marie.  They're in a bind and she knows it.  177  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI  LeMalle grabs Viking Bob's arm.
lemalle		 Choose it, asswipe -- cut Corbett loose, or soon as you come outside, I put a fuckin' bullet through your eye!  178  INT.  RENTAL CABIN  Eric glances at Corbett, whose grim look certifies LeMalle's boast.
corbett		Snow's to their advantage, kid. You can't see them, but soon as that plane comes, they'll sure as hell know where we're going. Wise up.  Take me to the Yukon. I'll give you that money and guarantee you'll walk away.
eric		Why offer a buyoff with your gunmen waiting outside?
corbett		The time has passed for men like them and me.  I know it.  But they're still fighting for survival, like cornered animals. That's why they'll kill you. -more-
anne marie		 He's right about the snow.  We're blind.  Eric sighs -- is she against him, too?  From outside:
corbett		At least your girl had the sense to jump ship.  Too bad she's the only one small enough to fit through that dumb waiter.  179  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - FOLLOW ANNE MARIE  Using the cover of the snowfall, Anne Marie circles around the outside edge of town toward Wilder's cabin.  She takes some of her photo gear from the snowmobile.  180  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI  Unaware of Anne Marie's maneuver, the trappers wait for a response from Corbett.  None comes.  Viking Bob places a calming hand on LeMalle's shoulder.
viking bob		Just wait, we don't know what this guy's up to.  Ben'll let us know what to do.
eric		Your infrared camera?
anne marie		 Technology in the wilderness. Only problem is talking to you on your way to the landing strip.
eric		I've got an idea.  We'll have to work fast.  He digs through Anne Marie's bag of equipment and supplies, then stops and looks up.  Outside, there is an OS SOUND that is felt before it is HEARD.  The cargo PLANE approaches in the distance.  185  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI  The trappers look at each other as the SOUND of the plane grows louder.
viking bob		There's what they're waiting on!
mitchell		 They'll have to come right past us.  186  EXT.  RENTAL CABIN  Eric quietly pulls the door open.  Holding the pistol to Corbett's head, he pushes Corbett out in front of him.  Anne Marie and Eric exchange a long look.  Fighting back tears, she reaches up and touches his face.
eric		When you ran off, I thought you'd keep going 'til you were back home in Washington.
anne marie		My home is here.  With you.  He smiles.  Then he and Corbett are gone, lost from sight in the snowfall.   After a beat, Anne Marie takes a deep breath and slinks away in the other direction, toward the dance hall.
lemalle		 Kenai's PA -- but how the fuck she seein' us?
viking bob		Doesn't matter.  We know where they're going.  C'mon.  Stalking, anxious, LeMalle follows Viking Bob.
mitchell		 splits off from them and looks for footprints in the snow.  188  EXT.  ALLEY  Eric pushes Corbett through a narrow pass between two buildings in the center of town.  He walks in Corbett's footprints.  Almost through to the other side, he suddenly stops.  Pulling Corbett with him, Eric walks backwards, still carefully placing each foot in an existing footprINT. Corbett can't help but smile.  189  INT.  DANCE HALL  Watching the TV screen, Anne Marie sees one of the red blips change direction and head toward her.
anne marie		 One is moving back toward the cabins.  190  EXT.  DANCE HALL  It's LeMalle.  He crosses to Kenai's generator.  With a well-placed rifle SHOT to its innards, he GRINDS it to a halt.  191  INT.  DANCE HALL  The TV PICTURE disappears as the power dies.  Anne Marie keys the PA microphone; it's dead, too.  192  EXT.  ALLEY  Eric and Corbett emerge from between the buildings.  Eric backtracks toward the hot springs spa, now leaving an obvious trail.  193  EXT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA  Eric and Corbett go inside.  Eric pulls the door closed behind them, but leaves it ajar.  194  INT.  KENAI'S HOUSE  The DRONE of the approaching plane is ever louder.  Kenai stands and pulls on a succession of sweaters.  Dixie looks at him.
dixie		Earl, it's crazy to go out there.
kenai		I hear someone in the spa.
eric		 That'll keep him out of the cold.
eric		He'll live.  202  EXT.  ALLEY  Hearing Viking Bob's cries, Mitchell backtracks and rushes to Viking Bob's aid.  Between them, they manage to yawn open the jaws of the trap and free Viking Bob's leg.  Viking Bob tries to walk but the leg won't support him -- the bone is broken.  Bitterly frustrated, he waves Mitchell on.  In agony, Viking Bob eases down in the snow.  He tears a strip of lining from his coat and wraps his leg to stop the bleeding.  203  EXT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA  Anne Marie scurries by on her way to the airstrip. Suddenly, the hot springs door bursts open and LeMalle lunges at her.  Stripped of his wet clothes, he's wrapped
anne marie		 Don't make me shoot.  She gets up, keeping the magnum pointed shakily toward him. LeMalle glowers menacingly.
anne marie		 We're going to Sam's cabin.  You can stay in the jail until this is over.  LeMalle slowly crouches down for his rifle.  Anne Marie wields the handgun at him, but he doesn't stop.
lemalle		Want to chance it with that hog-leg?  You can't even hold it up.  Better drop me first shot, bitch, or I'll rip your fuckin' lungs out.  Taunting, sneering, LeMalle stares her down.  Anne Marie is paralyzed.  Feeling that he's won, LeMalle wraps his bony fingers around the stock of the Remington.  Anne Marie closes her eyes and FIRES.  Pulling the rifle close, LeMalle tucks and rolls and jumps to his feet.  Anne Marie FIRES again, and AGAIN.  Shot, LeMalle hobbles away, leaving a trail of blood in the snow.  Numb, Anne Marie lets her arm fall.  204  EXT.  BOARDWALK NEAR WILDER'S CABIN  Eric looks around at the sound of the shooting, fearing the worst.  He pulls Corbett off the boardwalk and they cut across open ground toward the airstrip depot.  205  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA  Kenai looks around at the messy RESULTS of LeMalle's ransacking for things to wear.  Kenai turns, startled, when he hears footsteps.  It's Neff and Meyerling.
kenai		 Lookit this damn mess.  Where in hell's Wilder?
neff		 Dead.  Trappers killed him.
kenai		Aw, Jesus.  Told you this was trouble.  What about you, big shot?  Do something.  Who's side are you on, anyway?
meyerling		Hey, I thought you people loved Corbett and his wild men!
kenai		This shoot-'em-up shit is bad for business.  I'm sick of it.
meyerling		What about you, Neff?
neff		Well... two of the trappers are down already --
meyerling		 -- One left; three of us.  Let's finish it.
neff		What about Eric Desmond?
meyerling		I'll handle him.  206  EXT.  YARDS BEHIND AIRSTRIP DEPOT  Through the snow, Eric can see the faint outline of the plane on the runway.  He and Corbett hurry toward the back of the airstrip depot.  As they wend their way through the junk-filled yards, Eric catches a glimpse of movement around a corner, REFLECTED in a pane of glass leaning against a roll of tar paper.
lemalle		 Over there...  He hoists his Remington.
mitchell		 Hold it.  You might hit Ben.
lemalle		Bullshit.  I hit what I'm aiming at.
mitchell		Let 'em come closer first...
mitchell		Glad to see you're okay.  I told LeMalle not to shoot.  Had some fine seasons, didn't we...  Mitchell's grasp on Corbett's coat relaxes as he dies. Horrified, Eric stares at the man he killed.  Noticing the scrimshaw lying on the snow where it slipped from Mitchell's pocket, Corbett picks it up.
corbett		 Fifteen years on the trail with this man, I never saw him rise to anger.  Glaring at Eric, Corbett dips his hand in Mitchell's blood, and suddenly smears it across Eric's mouth.  Repelled, Eric pulls back.
corbett		 Your first kill.  How does it taste?
pilot		 Circle, this is BMY-955.  I just touched down in Devil's Cauldron. Nobody's here to greet me like usual, and there's gunfire.  I'm getting scarce.
anne marie		You can't leave yet.
pilot		It's my responsibility to get this aircraft out of here safely.  Anne Marie points the .44 at him.
pilot		 You got to be kidding.
anne marie		Leave the engines idling.  Go back and open the side door.
meyerling		Nobody wants any more killings; we all agree to that, correct?  That's good.  Now, Eric, you're gonna hand your prisoner over to us.
eric		Fuck you.
meyerling		This isn't your concern.  It's over, here and now.
corbett		 Sure, when you put a bullet in my back on the way out.  Easier for all involved.
meyerling		Not a bad idea.  Face it, Ben. There's no room in Alaska for you any more.  Meyerling pokes with his foot at a tipped-over rack of Eskimo paraphernalia -- masks, furs, big skin drums, fish- and bear-spears.
meyerling		 You're as antiquated as this shit.  Meyerling moves toward Corbett, but Eric stands in his way.
eric		Keep back.
corbett		You're quite a piece of work, Meyerling.  The tide changes, you ride right along with it.  Eric looks at Neff.
eric		Neff, you know better than this...
neff		You're an outsider, Mr. Desmond. Step aside; stay out of it.
eric		 Anybody moves and I'll shoot!  Holding the .380 on them, Eric crosses to Corbett.  Bleeding from the abdomen, he's trying to stand up.
eric		 Can you walk?
corbett		Wound's a through-and-through. Missed my liver, I think.
eric		Let's get out of here.  Cautiously backing away from the others, Eric helps Corbett get up and shuffle toward the OS SOUND of the cargo plane.  213  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - AIRSTRIP  Anne Marie jumps down from the cockpit.  She and Eric lift Corbett into the plane.  214  EXT.  CARGO PLANE  as it taxis and lifts off.  215  INT.  CARGO PLANE -   While Eric takes Corbett's handcuffs off, Anne Marie looks at his wound.  He waves her away.
eric		How come you didn't let him shoot me?
corbett		 Like I said, I'd still be up on that mountain, frozen solid, it wasn't for you.
eric		We'll get you to a hospital, soon as we get to Fairbanks.
corbett		So they can patch me up and put me in a cage?  Forget it. Meyerling's right -- I'm a dinosaur.  Greedy bastards like him, it's their turn with this land.  Put me in the woods, let me live or die on my own.  He painfully pulls himself into a sitting position.
corbett		 Look down there, tell me what any of this matters.  Struggles of men get swallowed by the bigness. Soon there won't be a trace of our troubles... or us.
eric		You're wrong.  Everything we do leaves its mark.  You said it yourself -- there are hundred- year-old footprints in the tundra.
pilot		  The plane climbs above the fog and snow clouds into a sunny, ice blue sky.  It banks and turns south.  Behind it, the mountains roll on toward the Arctic wasteland, forever.
****Dialogues from script :Argo.txt****

beginning logo		The familiar logo WARNER BROS. PRESENTS COMES UP. After a beat, it is consumed by FIRE. It becomes AN AMERICAN FLAG, BURNING in the street.
bob anders		Carnival's bigger today. MARK LIJEK, 29, a consular officer, joins Anders at the window.
ann swift		There are hundreds of people out
bob anders		Are these supposed to be bulletproof?
mark lijek		Well, they've never been tested.
al golacinski		Marines to Number One -- FALL
bob anders		 Can we get some fucking police please?
al golacinski		Don't shoot. You don't want to be the sonofabitch who started a war -
protestors		La ilaha ilallah -- A WOMAN IN A CHADOR uses her own radio. Some of them ring around the building, holding hands and chanting. Some carry AUTOMATIC WEAPONS openly.
j stafford		-- We're not going out in this --
al golacinski		I'm going outside.
gallegos		Why?
al golacinski		To reason with them. Marines open the Chancery door, with a look --
kupke		Just everything. Don't sort it --
ann swift		 -- NONE, there are no police --
cora lijek		-- Second floor -- anyone who can hear this -- we need help -- As we MOVE DOWN the line of desks, J STAFFORD is also on a radio repeating the same in FARSI -- Others PACK things.  26 INT. THE HALLWAY - INTO THE VAULT - MORNING 26  MARINES and STAFFERS -- including TOM AHERN -- RUN down the hall, pushing a cart of items to secure. They reach the security locker -- code the door -- and enter the locker, heading to the INCINERATOR to begin destroying classified material --  27 EXT. CHANCERY - MORNING 27  Golacinski HELD UP TO THE DOOR -- GUN TO HIS HEAD. He starts to panic.  
al golacinski		Let me in! Jesus Christ! Open the fucking door! The Marines OPEN THE CHANCERY DOOR -- PROTESTERS POUR IN.
ann swift		-- Washington on flash -- Get Ops -- get a line -- We hear -- The POUNDING of footsteps on the roof. They look up.  28 EXT. CONSULATE ROOF - MORNING 28  Protestors RUNNING on the roof of the consulate building. Several stop to try and RIP off a vent cover using CLUBS and PIPES.  29 EXT. EMBASSY GROUNDS - MORNING 29  THOUSANDS are now on the grounds of the embassy and they continue to swarm through the gates. The student with the SUPER 8 continues to film it all. Also filming, a NEWS PHOTOGRAPHER with a 16 mm camera. Smoking cannisters of TEAR GAS, people hurling them. A protestor lights a paper on fire to ward off the sting of the gas --  30 INT. CHANCERY OFFICE - MORNING 30  STAFFERS using pieces of machines to destroy other machines -- any embassy equipment that might function -- Then... screams. The lights have gone out. The power has been cut.  31 IN THE VAULT - MORNING 31 AHERN destroys the cryptography keys -- box-sized hard drives -- while BILL DAUGHERTY, 33, tosses stacks of papers into an electrical furnace.  
bill daugherty		Well, Tom. You wanted to see the world... The furnace makes a LOUD CHUNK and stops. They both hold their looks for a beat.
bill daugherty		Are you kidding me?
ahern		Get the shredder.
ann swift		No... Hal -- yes -- INSIDE the building, IN --
mark lijek		Nobody is coming. We need to go.
bob anders		Iranians first.  Go! Now!
ann swift		 It's done. They're in. She puts down the phone.
bob anders		Keep going.
bates malick		These fucks can hit us, we Mossadeq. We did it to can't hit back? them first.
bates		You think the Russians would put up with this? They'd fucking
malick pender		What did you expect? We  helped a guy torture and de- Schafer! Schafer! ball an entire population --
genco		 You still haven't found Schafer?
saunders		Six got out!
vance		I was told five.
bates		Apparently it's six now.
vance		What happened?
pender		Not clear. We know they escaped the embassy.
vance		Where are they?
saunders		The Canadian Ambassador's house.
bates		Are we attempting rescue?
brice		Hold for the Secretary --
vance		Is White House joining?
jordan		We wish it was the fucking Den of Espionage. C.I. had three people there, didn't see a revolution coming? I'd call that something other than intelligence --
secretary		 Hold for the Chief of Staff -- (holds out the phone
jordan butler		 They're sticking to it. No I'll call him back. release till we expel the shah. Jordan sinks into his chair, putting his feet up on the desk. JON TITTERTON, 30s, an aide to Jordan --
titterton		Put him on a plane. Fuck him.
jordan		He's half dead and he's in chemo.
butler		We took him in. He's ours now.
titterton		So we'll take in any prick as long as he's got cancer?
jordan		No. Just the pricks on our side. So all our other pricks on their prick thrones know, when they get run out on a rail, they won't be getting their spleens out by a camel vet in the Sinai.
titterton		The six with the Canadians. Now Jordan is looking at a monitor showing footage of a BLINDFOLDED HOSTAGE in front of the Embassy. AL GOLACINSKI being prodded and led down the front stairs of the embassy.
jordan		We've got 60 in the embassy with guns to their heads right now --
titterton		The eyes of the world are on the embassy. That makes them safer than the six on the street.
analyst		 Bani-Sadr's saying it'll be over in 24 hours.
jordan		Leave the six where they are. I'll go brief the president.
mendez		Compromised?
mendez		White House?
mendez		Who else knows?
mendez		Jesus Christ.
mendez		Who's handling? They walk through a door and out of the Pit.
mendez		They don't do exfils.
mendez		Then why's he want me?
engell		Okay. This is Bob Pender from State O.S. He's been talking to Morgan at ExtAff. GENCO, a State Department Assistant, removes a drape from the photographs of SIX FACES, State Department I.D. photos. Pender indicates the first two photos -- and during this, we may flash to scenes of the Houseguests in the Canadian ambassador's residence --
pender		Mark and Cora Lijek, 29 and 25. He's a consular officer and she's an assistant. Newlyweds. They just got there a couple of months ago. No language skills or in- country knowledge.  J Stafford. Late twenties. He's smart and a climber. Speaks Farsi. Arranged the hire of his wife Kathy --
bates		Understaffed so the faculty wives were the typing pool. That gs without comment in this room of men.
pender		 Bob Anders. Senior consular officer, oldest of the group. Most likely to be group leader. So.
bates		We wait till the weather clears up then we deliver six bikes and provide maps to the Turkish border.
pender		We have intelligence they can ride bicycles. Or we're prepared to send in somebody to teach them. The professional spies shifting at the stupidity of it. But nobody speaks up. And then --
mendez		You can send in training wheels and wait at the border with Gatorade. Attention turns to Mendez. O'Donnell shifts. Engell, not happy.
mendez		It's 300 miles to the Turkish crossings. They'd need a support crew behind them with a tire pump.
engell pender		 Who is -- We've only been asked to sharpshoot this, State's handling the op.
bates engell		We're exploring that They wouldn't clear airport option. control. Komiteh own the place.
bates		They would pose as reporters. The government issued 70-something -- Jumping in--MARIO MALINOV, 30s, an ambitious Bulgarian CIA analyst, Bronx Science and MIT, raised in Queens,
bates malinov		-- visas for American 74. journalists.
malinov		And the Revolutionary Guards keep them on 74 leashes.
mendez		They get caught with journalist creds, you've got Peter Jennings with a noose around his neck in an hour. PAUL LAMONT, late 20s, a Master's from the Woodrow Wilson School before he joined CIA --
lamont		World Noose Tonight. Pender looks at Bates, who is trying to impress his boss.
bates		North American accents give us limited options. So we get the Canadians to issue them passports...
genco		English teachers from the international school. Tested model. It's worked before.
mendez		The school was shut eight months ago. Bates, meanwhile, removing a binder from his accordion folder: in the binder, a photograph of an emaciated kid in Namibia.
bates		So do-gooders. They're six Canadians who've been over there inspecting crops. Making sure the kids get enough to eat. Get them creds for an AG NGO -- But he's already lost Mendez, who is going through a newspaper on the table.
bates malinov		A Feed the Children thing -- These kids are black. O.S. can make binders with These are African kids. starving kids --
lamont genco		Are there starving kids in We can get ethnically Iran? appropriate kids.
pender rossi		I'm sure there's skinny A logo with... seeds. kids... Seeds of Hope'... Mendez holds a page from the newspaper up to Pender.
mendez		What do you see in the picture, sir? A beat. Pender dsn't like this, but he'll play.
pender		Tehran.
mendez		What's on the ground?
pender		Snow.
mendez		So what crops are the do-gooders inspecting under Frosty? Pender shifts.
mendez		Exfils are like abortions. You don't wanna need one, but when you do, you don't do it yourself. The meeting is breaking up. Pender, followed by Bates, leaves the room. Engell, who has just been made to look bad and inherited a problem, stops by Tony.
engell		Get one.
night		At dinner around a dining room table: the SIX HOUSEGUESTS; KEN TAYLOR, 40s, Canadian ambassador. He ds much to support the myth that Canadians are always in a good mood. Next to him is PAT TAYLOR, Filipino, 40s. We're joining various conversations, including one with LEE SCHATZ, 29, an American agricultural attache, the sixth escapee we heard about.
taylor		-- Martin was the worst one. Martin the Maximo King --
pat taylor		 -- he looked like a cartoon witch doctor, bone through his nose, so she asked to take her picture with
kathy stafford		 You okay?
cora lijek		-- if your family's hungry, you don't want to hear about international law --
mark lijek		Same thing. The sound of a fork on a glass. Ken Taylor is standing up.
taylor		I read today that Tehran was voted the second most desirable city in the world to live in. Everywhere else tied for first.
lee schatz		 Our hosts. Mr. Ambassador...
taylor		You should get into the crawl space.
j stafford		 Kathy dsn't want to go down again.
on tony		staring at the movie. Wheels turning in his head.
space nurse		My creation... My creation...
chambers		If he could act he wouldn't be playing the Minotaur. He smiles and waves at the Minotaur and begins to work on his prosthetic with a brush and solvent.
chambers		Hey, Tony.
marmor		They would pose as teachers from the international school.
pender		We went through all that -- it's boarded up -- O'Donnell looking at the clock.
marmor		Suppose the airport guards don't know that --
pender		Suppose. Suppose Heckle and Jeckle go over and save them -- The door swings open.
mendez		Hi. Sorry. Hi.
mendez		They're a Canadian film crew on a location scout for a science fiction movie -- A shift in the room.
mendez		Star Wars, Star Trek. They need an exotic place to shoot. We put it out -- the Canadian producers put it out -- that they're looking at Turkey, Egypt, whatever. Then we go to the consulate and say we wanna look at Iran. I fly in there and we fly out together as a film crew. Done.
mendez		This is more plausible than foreigners who want to go to school in Iran --
engell		So you're going to wake up tomorrow in the movie business? We have credentials for --
mendez		I've got a contact in L.A.
pender		(after a beat, to
night		Lee Schatz and Bob Anders play poker in a room decorated with Persian carpets and mosaics. The gunfire audible here too. Staring at their cards.
lee schatz		50 caliber?
night		Pat Taylor helps THE SAME WOMAN we just saw, SAHAR, 20s, clear the table. She is their housekeeper.
sahar		Your friends from Canada, ma'am. All this time. They never go out. A significant moment of eye contact. Then Sahar gs back to clearing the table.
j stafford		You've washed them three times. He puts his arm on her shoulder. She keeps scrubbing.
pat taylor		Sahar knows.
mendez		What are you shooting?
chambers		A monster movie.
mendez		Any good?
chambers		The target audience will hate it.
mendez		Who's the target audience?
chambers		People with eyes. Talk to me.
mendez		It's an exfil.
chambers		From where?
mendez		Worst place you can think of.
chambers		Universal City.
chambers		How you getting in the embassy?
mendez		Six got away. They're hiding in the city. I'm going over to get them.
chambers		What am I making?
mendez		I need you to help me make a fake movie.
chambers		You've come to the right place.
mendez		I need to set up a production company and build a cover around making a movie.
chambers		That we're not going to make.
mendez		No.
chambers		You want to go around Hollywood acting like you're an important person in the movie business.
mendez		That's right.
chambers		But you don't want to actually do anything.
mendez		No.
chambers		You'll fit right in.
chambers		This one's got an M.A. in English. She should be your screenwriter. Sometimes they go on scouts cause they want the free meals.  This guy's the director.
mendez		Can you teach a guy how to be a director in a day?
chambers		You can teach a rhesus monkey to be a director in a day. Look, if you're gonna do it, you've got to do it. The Khomaniacs are fruit loops, but they have cousins selling eight tracks and prayer rugs on La Brea. You can't build cover stories around a movie that dsn't exist. You need a script. You need a producer.
mendez		I'm the producer.
chambers		No, you're not. Associate' at best. If it's a twenty-million dollar Star Wars rip-off, you need somebody who's a somebody to put his name on it. Here we see some AUTOGRAPHED 70s CELEBRITY 8X10s hanging on the wall. The waiter brings a bill.
chambers		Somebody respectable. With credits. Who we can trust with classified information. Who'll produce a fake movie. For free.
chambers		Mazel tov, Lester.
siegel		Aaah, I'd rather stay home and count the wrinkles on my dog's balls. These fuckin' things are like getting measured for your coffin. He don't look so good. Let's give him an honorary award.'
siegel		Six people in the middle of a city of, what, four million -- ON TV, a wild-eyed woman in the crowd  makes an ax- falling gesture with her arm repeatedly.
siegel		-- who chant Death to America' all the livelong day. You wanna set up a picture in a week. Lie to a whole town of people who lie for a living. Have Double-O-Seven here sneak into a country that wants CIA blood with their breakfast cereal. Duck Iranian intelligence. Then walk the Brady Bunch out of the most watched city in the world...
mendez		... and past a hundred Komiteh at the airport.
siegel		Look, I wanna help you but... In the Army, we did suicide missions that had better odds. So lemme hit it again for the cheap seats:
chambers		(to Lester, as he
chambers		You ever think, Lester, how it's all for the cameras?
siegel		They're getting the ratings, I'll give em that -- Siegel looks at the TV: at that moment, a HOSTAGE TAKER holding up photos of hostages for CAMERAS in front of him. He takes a beat.
siegel		We're gonna need a script. A beat of silence. A LOOK from Siegel to Chambers.
siegel		Nobody makes Westerns anymore.
chambers		 It's ancient Troy.
siegel		If it's got horses in the title, it's a Western.
chambers		 Yeah, Kenny, please. It's John Chambers, about the office space.
siegel		If I'm doing a fake movie, it's gonna be a fake hit.
mendez		That's too soon.
mendez		 Fade in on starship landing. An exotic, Middle Eastern vibe. Women gather, offering ecstatic libations to the sky gods.'
siegel		It's in turnaround. It's dog shit.
mendez		It's a space movie in the Middle East. Ds it matter? Chambers looks at the BULLSEYE logo on the cover page. Reacts.
mendez		Why do we need the option?
siegel		You're worried about the Ayatollah? Try the WGA.
siegel		He's only a prick if you catch him on the wrong day.
mendez		Is it the wrong day?
siegel		It's always the wrong day. They've arrived at a door with a sign: MAX KLEIN
klein		You're gonna get this into production in one month?
klein		Who are you again?
mendez		Kevin Harkins. Studio Six Films.
siegel		He's the money.
klein		I thought you were retired, Lester.
siegel		-- Till I read the Argo. Look, how bout we say fifteen thou and close on this?
klein		You want me to be honest with you, Les?
siegel		Naah, bullshit me, Max.
klein		Okay. Because I enjoyed your films, the early ones. I took this meeting out of respect because I wanted to tell you no' to your face.
siegel		Thank you. Very respectful.
klein		You're done, Lester. You've gotta get your cataracts fixed and read the trades. MGM just capitalized for six new films and they're desperate for Sci-Fi. They've already offered me four times what you are.
siegel		But see -- it worries me, what you said, and I'll tell you why. A couple weeks back I was sitting in Trader Vic's enjoying a Mai Tai when my pal Warren Beatty came to wish me well and we had a little chat. Seems he was attached to star in Zulu Empire -- which was gonna anchor that MGM slate -- but Warren confided in me that the picture's gone over-budget cause the Zulu extras wanna unionize.
siegel		The way this looks to me -- through the cataracts, I grant you -- is that you can either sign here and take ten thousand for your toilet-paper script -- or you can go fuck yourself. Siegel smiles kindly and holds a pen and the contracts out to Klein. Klein takes them.
mendez		You know Warren Beatty?
siegel		I took a leak next to him at the Golden Globes.
mendez		You got kids, Lester?
siegel		Two daughters.
mendez		You see them much?
siegel		I talk to them once a year, maybe.
mendez		Why's that?
siegel		I was a terrible father.
mendez		A son. Lives with his mother in Virginia.
siegel		You're divorced?
mendez		Taking time off.  He's gotta... stay where he is.
mendez		 War' sounds like Star Wars. Let's use a different word. Mendez closes the door to his private office.
mendez		I need another week.
mendez		We've got a script. We've got business cards.We've got a poster. If I'm them? It's nothing we couldn't make at home.
chambers		I did a movie with Rock Hudson once.
siegel		 -- press event and reading... No, I promised Variety exclusive on that one... Mendez is making a list with a PUBLICIST.
mendez		Biggest Canadian production in history.' Canadian Gone With The
siegel		 I gotta get back to you, Phil. I can't get my own mother a ticket. I had to tell her it was cancelled.
mendez		Are you turning people away?
siegel		 Philip? You there? Chambers leads us into the main room, leading Tony to a table where JACK KIRBY, 62, comics artist, fusses with large COMIC PANELS of ARGO CONCEPT DRAWINGS spread over a table. Kirby starts to distribute storyboards. Some hold on to them and an ASSISTANT begins putting them up on the board. Mendez looks at them. Impressed. He picks up a drawing of some futuristic-looking vehicles.
kirby		Mesopotamia... Egypt...
mendez		Iran. Kirby takes out a marker and starts to sketch a futuristic-looking desert glider.
publicist		Janet from the Times -- You know Johnny Chambers and Lester Siegel. This is Kevin Harkins. He'll tell you a bit about the film -- We leave Mendez with the L.A. Times -- FOLLOWING Siegel -- Jack Kirby's storyboard drawings throughout the room. Four or five ACTORS IN SCI-FI COSTUMES.
siegel		You're gorgeous. You're in the reading?
nina		I'm playing Serksi, the Galactic Witch. BACK TO: Mendez. A Publicist is guiding Mendez toward an anemic-looking man --
publicist		(to Mendez,
siegel		Keep that fucking space witch away from me.
chambers		You know her?
siegel		I was married to her. Mendez, now talking to RODD, from VARIETY.
mendez		Tehran.
rodd		You ever watch the news? Publicist hands Mendez a LASER GUN and a photographer snaps his picture. Siegel walks by, downing one from the bar.
reporter		So the title refers to...
siegel		The Argo, it's the, y'know, the
reporter		... Jason and the Golden Fleece, or...?
reporter		Is it the Argonaut? Siegel dsn't know what he's talking about.
siegel		No.
reporter		Then what ds Argo' mean? And finally Lester's had it -- with his mouth full --
siegel		It means Argo fuck yourself.
publicist		Let's all take our places for the reading. And we SETTLE ON MENDEZ. He takes a glass of wine from a passing waiter's tray, downs it, and puts it on another WAITER'S tray. We FOLLOW that waiter THROUGH a swinging door, INTO the kitchen and prep area, where a small black and white TV plays...
princess aleppa		The fire of hope stopped burning in this galaxy long ago. A HANDSOME LEAD, ACHILLES CRUX, says his line.
achilles crux		Fire the thrusters!!
mark lijek		-- fifty-seven -- fifty-eight -- Mark counts out as Lee Schatz ds push-ups. Bob Anders watches a television in the b.g., subtitled in Farsi.
mark lijek		A hundred and twelve --
mark lijek		And we have a new champion. Bob Anders looks up from Khomeini, who keeps talking in the b.g., and applauds.
mendez		Why'd he do it?
mendez		It's a death sentence, Jack.
siegel		I made thirty pictures. Half of them the pricks upstairs tried to shut me down. Mendez finishes packing, zips up the bag.
siegel		My ass is staying right here and running a movie company. Mendez stops zipping as Siegel takes a bottle of Jack and three shot glasses from a drawer.
chambers		Argo fuck yourself. They raise to that.
mendez		How'd you always get around the pricks upstairs?
siegel		There's always another prick one floor higher up.
mendez		You can forget about that time- share in Ocean City, Jack.
day		Tony and O'Donnell sit in the waiting area, across from a SECRETARY. They look down the hall to see: CIA DIRECTOR ADMIRAL STANSFIELD TURNER, 50s, and SECRETARY OF STATE CYRUS VANCE walk down the hall together, discussing something in hushed tones.  O'DONNELL  Brace yourself. It's like talking to those two old fucks on The Muppets.' Vance and Turner enter the room without recognizing them. Mendez and O'Donnell stand up.  145 INT. STATE DEPARTMENT - SEVENTH FLOOR OFFICE - ANGLE - 145
day		A concept drawing from Argo.
another angle		The four men are gathered in the back of Vance's office, around a table. Over them we see the STATE DEPARTMENT
turner		You're telling me there's a movie office in Hollywood right now that's funded by the Central Intelligence Agency.
mendez		Yes, sir.
vance		What's wrong with the bikes again? Vance, with a copy of Comics Week. THE NEXT STAR WARS? Next to it, a photograph from the press event: Mendez holding a laser gun. CANADIAN EPIC WILL BE FILMED IN THE
turner		-- this is more plausible than teachers?
mendez		-- two, we think everybody knows Hollywood people. And everybody thinks they would shoot during Stalingrad with Pol Pot directing if it'd sell tickets.
turner		You don't have a better bad idea than this?
mendez		Barely claim me as it is.
mendez		Just Christine. They don't need to look at one another. A shared understanding.
siegel		Bad news, bad news, even when it's good news it's bad news. Christ. (a phone starts
chambers		(picking up the
mendez		We've got a green light. Chambers gives Siegel a thumbs-up.
mendez		Keep the office running till you hear otherwise. (this means thank
chambers		Argo fuck yourself.  152 OMITTED 152  153 INT. CHRISTINE'S HOUSE - NIGHT 153  The phone in the living room rings. No one is home.  154 INT. DULLES AIRPORT - NIGHT 154  Mendez hangs up the airport pay phone.  CUT TO:  155 INT. DULLES AIRPORT - LATER 155  He sits near a mailbox inside the terminal writing on a postcard with the Washington Monument on it.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE BUDDY-MAN. NO PHONE FOR A WHILE. JACK WILL CALL. LOVE YOU BOTH. Then he adds: SO MUCH. He drops the card in the box and heads toward a gate marked LUFTHANSA.
bob anders		-- it was thirty seconds for Christ's sake. To get some air in the yard. I couldn't breathe --
bob anders		Who saw me go out?
bob anders		 Miss Hall Monitor. Creeping around with her notebook --
lee schatz		Dad's home. Ken carrying his briefcase, cheerfully oblivious to what he's walked into.
taylor		You're getting a visitor.
jordan		A man in Scranton's putting a flag on his lawn for every day of captivity.
jordan		 Who signed off on this?
consul official		What will be the purpose of your visit to Iran?
mendez		Business. Film production. The Consul Official looks at his Canadian passport.
consul official		Why didn't you get your visa in Canada?
mendez		My boss waited until I was here to send the telex.
mendez		Can't be right all the time.
nicholls		Mr. Harkins.
mendez		When'd you get back?
mendez		Were you metal detecting?
nicholls		None left to find. Shah escaped with a 747 so laden with gold bars it nearly didn't make it off the runway.
mendez		But you kept busy.
nicholls		Ferrying out the torture apparatus of our friend's fallen dictatorship. Both these men do this work and share an unspoken understanding. They stop and look up at a MOSAIC on the wall. An ancient rendition of Christ, fashioned before the Muslims took the city and converted this church to a mosque. Nicholls has WHITE AND YELLOW SLIPS OF PAPER with Farsi writing on them in hand. He gives them to Tony.
nicholls		It's getting worse. Everybody who lands at Mehrabad now fills out one of these.  Passenger keeps Yellow, Airport keeps White.
mendez		So if they look, they'll know six people didn't come in with me.
nicholls		If they look. Nicholls and Tony turn away from the mosaic, surreptitious work now done, and meander toward the middle of the great room.
nicholls		When you land, you should go straight to the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance to kiss the ring. Get on record as having applied for a film permit. If they catch you later, at least they'll be confused while they're torturing you... Your biggest problem may be convincing the six of them to go with you. They're foreign service. They're willful. Nicholls takes a picture.
mendez		How's June?
nicholls		Left.
mendez		I'm sorry.
nicholls		She picked out a ring and gave me a choice. She's a Chinese national. If I married her, I'd have to resign, so. You and Christine?
mendez		Good. Yeah.
behrouz		This film crew is just yourself?
mendez		Six more are joining me today. They're coming from Canada.
behrouz		You'd like to film at the bazaar?
mendez		The bazaar, maybe the palace.
mendez		Mr. Ambassador.
taylor		Ken Taylor. He shakes Tony's hand and they start to walk to Taylor's car.
taylor		I was expecting more of a G-Man look.
mendez		You're thinking of FBI, sir. They get into the car.
taylor		These are blank, y'know. The stamps?
mendez		I'll take care of that.
taylor		How long?
mendez		A day to prep them with their cover stories. Two if they need it.
taylor		And you'll fly out with them? Tony nods. A distant sound of a crowd outside.
taylor		There's something you should know. We think one of our housekeepers figured out who they are. We don't know if we can trust her. Now the noise outside is louder. Taylor turns to the window. Tony joins him.
taylor		So sooner is better. They stand listening to the demonstration sounds, echoing over the rooftops of the city.
pender		 The Times and A.P. found out they're with the Canadians. Somebody in one of the families talked.
pender		I just put Vance on a plane to take the editors to Le Cirque. He thinks he can get them to sit on it. For now.
night		Each Houseguest has a copy of the ARGO script.
bob anders		It's theater of the absurd.
mark lijek		What are the chances?
mendez		The chances are good.
mark lijek		What's the number value of good'? 30 percent chance of success? 80 percent?
cora lijek		We just --
mendez		There are no Canadians in the country for normal reasons.
bob anders		We can't stand up to that. We don't know what the hell movie people do.
mendez		That's why I'm here. I'll be with you. This is what I do.
mendez		This would be a first.
j stafford		... every day they catch another friend of the shah at the airport. Kangaroo trials then firing squads. Just for having American names in their phone books. He puts the Iranian newspaper in front of Mendez.
j stafford		You've been here an hour and you're asking us to trust you with our lives, Mr. --
mendez		Harkins.
j stafford		Is that your real name? A beat.
mendez		No.
taylor		We've got orders to close the embassy and go back. There's nowhere for them to stay.
j stafford		I'm serious, too. This is what?
bob anders		I saw it in Burma. They get people out. They know how.
j stafford		Snitches in banana republics. They get them over the border after the coup...
mark lijek		His opinion got us out of the embassy in the first place.
mendez		If we go, you need to leave immediately. There's a
taylor		Pat and I discussed it. If they catch you at the airport, they come here and we go on trial for harboring the enemy. It's a risk we took.  Can you pull this off?
mendez		I don't know.
j stafford		-- even if they do. They find us here, we're not lying, we're just hiding. We go out there with fake passports, we're spies, period, execution.
cora lijek		So how long do we stay? A month? A year?
j stafford		That man out there, he's got bad cards, he's gonna lose. If he loses, it's our lives.
kathy stafford		 And his life too. Another beat. ANGLES ON the Houseguests.
mendez		What I need you to do is memorize everything inside. Who you are, what you are, where you've been. Cora Lijek looks at a document from inside her envelope. A union card for the Canadian Writers Guild with her picture on it.
mendez		When we're done, you'll know these so well that you'll dream as these people. Mendez nods at them, and gs. The Houseguests look at what's inside their envelopes -- all except J Stafford, whose envelope remains sealed.
bellhop		Sir, a telex arrived for you. The BELLHOP hands Tony a piece of paper. He reads it.
mendez		 He will send a representative to meet you and your crew at the Khayyam entrance to the Grand Bazaar tomorrow at 3 PM.'
mendez		Or maybe they're cooperating.
mendez		Seven Canadians, Jack.
mendez		They're getting there.
j stafford		We are a nation of 35 million and... many of these people are looking forward to martyrdom. Kathy Stafford looks into the room. J stops talking, looks up.
j stafford		She pleaded with me. Mark, looking to J. This is new.
j stafford		When it started in the streets nine months ago. She begged for us to leave. She packed our bags. I said, A little longer.' And what I was thinking was, This is a good thing for me. Stay. Show Newsom you've got the balls. Grab for the ring.'
morning		The Houseguests are gathered in the office. Cora hands the telefax to Bob Anders. J Stafford, looking on.
cora lijek		You said a day to learn your covers then straight to the airport.' You said that.
bob anders		They suspect something?
mendez		What I know is we need to act like a movie crew. We go to the bazaar today, we fly out tomorrow. Silent assent among the group. Then J Stafford, sitting with his wife, speaks up --
j stafford		We won't do it.
mark lijek		He told them there were six of us. They're expecting six.
mendez		I'm asking you to trust me.
j stafford		I don't trust you.
bob anders		 What's the alternative? This is the ball game, J. What world are you living in?
j stafford		The one where they're hanging people from construction cranes, Bob. J takes Kathy's hand and gs, leaving Mendez with the others. After a moment --
pat taylor		This one. She gives Bob Anders a Canadian maple leaf lapel pin, which he affixes to his shirt. Cora Lijek paints lighter hair dye onto her hair. The Houseguests are making subtle efforts to disguise themselves.
cora lijek		(at a mirror, quoting
mark lijek		Not that picture. You won't want to scare them. A nervous smile. Trying to deal with anxiety. J and Kathy Stafford look to each other. Sitting reading newspapers while the other Houseguests prep for the scout. The PHONE starts ringing.
pat taylor		 Hello? A cloud comes over Pat as she listens.
pat taylor		No, there's no one like that here. She hangs up the phone fast, as if it were hot to the touch.
mendez		This one, how much? One day, how much?
mendez		I promise you that if you will play along today, I will get you out tomorrow.
j stafford		I wish I could believe you, Mr. Harkins.
mendez		My name is Tony Mendez. Mendez gs back out to the minivan. STAY WITH J and Kathy.
mendez		Tell me who you are. This recalls attention from the windows.
lee schatz		Mike McEwan, cameraman.
bob anders		Robert Baker, director.
mark lijek		Timothy Harris, location manager.
cora lijek		Mary Ann Boyd, screenwriter.
kathy stafford		Rachel Dewart, production designer. Kathy looks at her husband.
j stafford		Sean Bissett, associate producer.
mendez		Let's make a movie.
reza		You are the director?
bob anders		Yes.
bob anders		I'm sorry?
reza		A film where a foreign bride is brought to Iran, but she dsn't understand the language and customs and there are misunderstandings and laughs.
bob anders		No.
reza		 Mmmm. Mendez walking toward the back of the group. Lee, the cameraman, is looking through a viewfinder down the alley of the bazaar.
lee schatz		 Yeh.
mendez		If I said you were looking through the wrong end of that viewfinder, would I be right? Lee turns the viewfinder around and looks through it again.
angle		Mendez talking to Lee from a distance. A zoom, a closer snapshot of LEE. Then of CORA LIJEK, who walks through the bazaar with an open ARGO SCRIPT in her hand. The Revolutionary Guard photographer is taking pictures of each of the Houseguests, picking their portraits off one by one like a sniper.
sahar		(Farsi, from behind
mendez		She's the production designer. Her job is to take photographs. SHOPKEEPER getting more and more heated in Farsi.
reza		He says he did not give you permission to take a photograph of his store. Other BAZAARIS and SHOPPERS are starting to gather. Kathy holds out the Polaroid toward the Shopkeeper.
kathy stafford		He can have the photograph. Tell
lee schatz		 He's saying the Shah killed his son with an American gun. Cauldron heating up and --
day		ON Sahar -- her face impassive -- and then --
day		A CROWD starts to gather around the group.
on kathy		Her claustrophobia as the crowd closes in -- an ANGRY BAZAARI WOMAN sticks her finger in Kathy's face --
cora lijek		 Canada... Ca-na-da...
lee schatz		 He says we're the CIA taking photographs to plan the bombing of the city.
day		Khalkali eyes Sahar, gauging her. She hides her fear well.
sahar		As god wills it.
day		-- and Sahar, so dignified and stony she is almost shaming these men --
sahar		Everyone in this house is a friend of Iran. Khalkali makes his decision. He wordlessly turns to go.
taylor		They drew you out there to take your picture.
mendez		Nobody broke. At the door to the residence, Tony can see Pat Taylor, holding Sahar's hand, both looking spooked as the Houseguests come inside.
mendez		Where was your passport issued? Bob Anders dsn't know. ANGLES ON the Houseguests.
anders		Vancouver.
mendez		Where were you born?
bob anders		Toronto.
mendez		Toronno like piranha. Canadians don't pronounce the T.
lee schatz		Some border guard's gonna know that?
mendez		If you're held for questioning, they'll bring in somebody who knows that.
mendez		 Last three Canadian prime minsters.
cora lijek		 Trudeau, Pearson, Diefenbaker.
mendez		Good.  Your job on the film.
j stafford		Producer.
mendez		Associate Producer. What's the name of the last film you worked on?
j stafford		Uh... High and Dry.
mendez		Who paid for the movie?
mendez		What's your middle name? J Stafford is silent. He looks down to consult the paper in front of him, but before he can, Mendez pulls the paper.
mendez		He's an American spy. Shoot him. A beat on Stafford, frustrated --
mendez		They'll try to break you by getting you agitated. You need to know your rsum so well that you don't flinch.
j stafford		(nearly defeated,
mendez		My story's the only thing between you and the gun to your head. A beat. Mendez puts the rsum back in front of Stafford. Kathy looks at her husband: he just isn't good at this.
mendez		Let's go again.
taylor		Kevin.
mendez		What is it?
mendez		I never would have exposed them if I wasn't authorized to take them out.
mendez		They will be taken. Probably not
mendez		We're responsible for those people.
cora lijek		We're ready to try again.
mendez		 I think the most important thing you can do to be ready for tomorrow is rest.
night		Now the mood among the Houseguests is lighter. Bob Anders, a handful of liquor bottles in his arms, puts them down on a table. Music plays on a record player.
bob anders		Scorched earth policy tonight. Nothing gets left. Taylor comes in, drink in hand, thoughts heavy, looks at Tony.
mendez		So you know.
taylor		If we tell them, they'll panic. It's better if you just don't show.
chambers		It's off. They want us to pack up the office. A beat on Lester. He's devastated but he's not showing it.
kathy stafford		 He's late.
mendez		Somebody is responsible for things when things happen, Jack. I am responsible.
sosa		N.E. shut that down.
sosa		I can't do it. It's backstopped pending Executive Branch GO.
sosa		Carter's got to say yes for us to get the tickets.
secretary		He's in a meeting.
pat taylor		Sahar's on a bus.
mendez		Good. And you two leave right now. Ken Taylor nods. Mendez shakes his hand.
taylor		(to Gauthier, as he
engell		N.E. said NO, this is not a long- leasher...
engell		You're goddamn close...
engell		You're goddamn close to the line with me.
mendez		Your passports came straight from the Canadians, so you're gonna be fine.
malinov		He's on the plane.
malinov		How would I find him?
mendez		The second checkpoint --  249 INT. CIA - THE PIT - NIGHT  249
malinov		Jordan's in the West Wing. He's not taking calls. A beat on O'Donnell.
mendez		The second is immigration. You'll hand them these. They say you landed two days ago.
malinov		Pace Academy in Buckhead, Georgia! O'Donnell dials a number.
mendez		It's manned by Revolutionaries. Most of them were educated in the U.S. or Europe.
bob anders		Or Canada?
mendez		They know how many T's are in Toronto.
jordan		Hello?
jordan		Wait -- WHO -- ?
jordan		(yelling out his
lamont		Telex on Flash. The telex begins to print, line by line...
swissair rep		I'm sorry, sir. I don't have those reservations... SWISSAIR REP looks at some green text on her screen, hits another button.
swissair rep		My apologies. They just came through. She hits another button and tickets start to print.
malinov		We told them to shut that down! He RUNS toward a phone --
immigration officer		 When did you say you arrived in Iran?
bob anders		Two days ago.
immigration officer		What was the purpose of your visit?
bob anders		We were looking at locations to make a film. I'm the director. Immigration Officer pauses and looks up. Looks at the six other faces. He looks every bit as confrontational as Tony acted in rehearsal.
immigration officer		Okay -- Yes -- Okay -- He waves them through. Second checkpoint done.
malinov		C'mon c'mon c'mon --
lamont		 Purser's telling Swissair they're not on the plane.
malinov		 Still no answer in L.A.
mark lijek		A film. Mark mimes turning the rotor of a movie camera. Komiteh #1 dsn't understand.  AZIZI 
azizi		(harsh, icy; in
azizi		(to J Stafford; in
mendez		You can call our office. Mendez hands Azizi his card. STUDIO SIX FILMS. Kevin Harkins. A 213  phone number.
siegel		I'm sorry, pally. We're just gonna be in the movie. Call my agent.  P.A. Sir. SIR! Siegel and Chambers walk through the shot toward the Argo office.  279 INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT - KOMITEH STATION - MORNING 279  Azizi dials the long international number. And it is a DIAL, so this takes a long time.  280 INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT - THIRD CHECKPOINT - MORNING 280  One of the young Komiteh is loudly debating with another Komiteh the air-worthiness of a futuristic desert glider in the storyboards. He's miming the thing crashing. J Stafford and the Houseguests are silent. Mendez can see the line of passengers on their Swissair flight dwindling.  281 INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT - KOMITEH STATION - MORNING 281  Azizi rings the phone three times -- four times -- he's going to hang up --  CHAMBERS  Studio Six Films.  282 INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - NIGHT 282  A beat of silence. Chambers catching his breath, listening. The door to the office wide open.  283 INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT - KOMITEH STATION - MORNING 283
azizi		May I speak to Mr. Kevin Harkins --  
azizi		No message.  286 INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT - MORNING 286
morning		The Komiteh search the house. Khalkali gets on the phone.  292 OMITTED 292  293 INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT - FLIGHT GATE - MORNING 293  Kathy Stafford's ticket is taken and she walks through the door. Hurries toward the transport bus. The other five Houseguests and Mendez behind her and --  294 INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT - KOMITEH STATION - MORNING 294  A phone rings and a Young Komiteh picks up the call. He listens for a moment. Then he drops the phone and RUNS into the airport terminal and --  295 INT. RUNWAY TRANSPORT BUS - MORNING 295  The Houseguests sit aboard the bus, headed to a waiting  DC-10. The DRIVER puts the bus into gear. It dsn't go. He shakes his head. This goddamn thing. Shifts gears again. Now it gs.
malinov		They're CLEAR! Cheers in the Pit. O'Donnell embraces Malinov.
flight attendant		Sir? J gs back to his seat. HOLD ON Tony Mendez.
siegel		It's history, is what it is. History plays out first as farce, then as tragedy.'
chambers		The quote's the other way around.
siegel		Who said it?
chambers		Marx.
siegel		Groucho?
chambers		Karl.
lamont		(a couple of beers
rossi lamont		Six down, fifty to go. Call the Times, nail it to the fucking door. The CIA are the good guys.
malinov		The Canadians are the good guys.
lamont		-- we're not greedy -- them too --
malinov		Only. Canada takes the credit, or they'll retaliate against the hostages. Great Satan wasn't involved. No CIA.
lamont		Is that right, Jack?
siegel		She said, Why couldn't we pull off something like that?' You know what I said to her?
mendez		Wha'd you say to her?
siegel		I said, Argo fuck yourself.'  333 INT. CIA ARCHIVES - DAY 333  And suddenly it's dead-quiet. We're in a vault inside a vault in the basement of the main building. Mendez's suitcase is laying on a low counter, an ARCHIVES OFFICER t-tagging and cataloging various items. Separating Mendez's personal things from material related to the operation. Mendez empties his briefcase and the officer puts a sticker on the VARIETY featuring the ARGO ad. Another on the ARGO script. He's putting things into a box that reads: USCIA CLASSIFIED MATERIAL. Mendez opens his accordion folder -- flips through it -- it's empty -- no. There's something inside. In one of the compartments is a STORYBOARD FROM ARGO. One that the Komiteh missed. While the Archives Officer is turned around, Mendez slips the storyboard back into the accordion folder and puts it back with his personal things.
mendez		He wants to fire me himself.
mendez		If they push it a week, I can bring Ian. That's his winter break.
mendez		They're gonna hand me an award, then they're gonna take it back?
mendez		I thought we did. O'Donnell claps Tony on the shoulder. Tony walks towards the entrance and Jack heads to his car.
another angle		Chambers is disassembling the office. Boxes packed. Everything now off the walls. A PRODUCER walks by, sees Chambers in the door.
producer		What happened to your picture?
chambers		It's in turnaround. He turns out the lights.
mendez		Hi.
christine		Hi. They look at each other. Before she can speak, he's embraced her. Holds tight. It's something in between romantic and fraternal. Not reconciliation, necessarily, but warmth. She reciprocates. It feels right, and good.
night		A scene of the Old West on a television.
another angle		Ian is watching 1973's sci-fi Western Westworld in the bedroom. Ian dsn't have to describe the scene to his father this time. WIDEN to see that his head is on a pillow on Tony's lap.
****Dialogues from script :Armageddon.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Army_of_Darkness.txt****

wiseman john		Repeat them. ASH Clatto Verata Nicto. WISEMAN #1 Again. ASH I got it.  I got it.  I know your damn words. All right?  Now you get this straight: I get the book, you send me back. That's the deal. After that I'm history. Ash rears up on his horse and gallops into the mist 221    ARTHUR AND WISEMAN JOHN                                 221 watch as Ash disappears. 222    IN A SEA OF MIST                                       222 The sound of THUNDEROUS HOOFS.  A form materializes out of the fog:  It is Ash. 223    CLOSER ON ASH                                         223 He whips the horse. ASH HAAAAAA! 224    ANGLE ON ASH                                          224 He gallops past.  CAMERA PANS as he disappears into the thick fog. FADE OUT. 225    EXT. TRAIL'S ENTRANCE TO WOODS                            225 ASH rides out of the wall of mist. He finds himself on a trail leading into a thick forest. 226    EXT. WOODS                                            226 LONG SHOT - ASH rides slowly on through the darkening woods. 227    CLOSER ON ASH                                         227 He hears a sound and look to... 228    A SECTION OF WOODS                                     228 A branch SCRAPING against the bark of a tree. 229    ASH                                                 229 hears a woman's soft laughter.  He glance to... 230    A BUBBLING BROOK                                       230 and nothing more. 231    THE EVIL FORCE P.O.V.                                   231 powers through the woods toward Ash. 232    ASH                                                 232 kick his steed and bolts. 233    THE EVIL FORCE                                        233 sweeps over the forest floor, gaining velocity. 234    ASH                                                 234 frantically weaves his horse around storm felled trees which jut from the ground. 235    THE EVIL FORCE                                        235 rips through the trees, splintering them to toothpicks.  It burrows underground, and resurfaces, always closing upon Ash. 236    ASH                                                 236 jerks upon the reins and his steed leaps a fallen tree.  He gracefully leaps a second tree.  But as he leaps over the third, he is ripped off the horse by a low branch.  He falls hard to the mud as the horse gallops off. He groggily stands and stumbles onward. 237    THE EVIL FORCE                                        237 follows Ash down a wooded trail. 238    ASH                                                 238 running for... 239    EXT. WOODEN SHED                                       239 a grain storage house in the clearing ahead. 240    ASH                                                 240 comes upon the shed's door.  Locked.  He heaves his body against it but it won't give. 241    INT. SHED - CLOSE ON INTERIOR DOOR                        241 A log, that serves as the door's bolt, holds fast. 242    THE EVIL FORCE                                        242 emerges from over the ridge. 243    ASH                                                 243 unscrews his iron hand and holsters it.  He slings the chainsaw from his shoulder and snaps it onto his stump bracket.  Click. He threads the chainsaw starter cord through the V-SHAPED SLOT that extends from his breastplate. CLICK.  He thrusts out his arm and the chainsaw ROARS to life! 244    INT. SHED - CLOSE ON INTERIOR DOOR                        244 The blade bites into the log that bolts the door. 245    THE EVIL FORCE                                        245 draws closer. 246    INT. SHED                                            246 CLOSE ON CHAINSAW BLADE halfway through the log.  Sawdust flies. 247    EXT. SHED                                            247 ASH Come on!  Come on! The chainsaw dies. He jerks out his arm to restart it. Putt. Putt. ASH Blasted piece of junk! 248    THE EVIL FORCE                                        248 draws closer. 249    ASH                                                 249 delivers a mighty kick to the door. 250    INT. SHED                                            250 ANGLE ON DOOR The partially cut log gives way.  Ash tumbles into the storage shed. He slams the door shut and slides the remainder of the log across the latch, re-bolting it. 251    THE EVIL FORCE                                        251 Hammers at the door of the Shed. BANG! 252    INT. SHED                                            252 A terrified Ash braces his back against the door. BANG! Earth shaking in its intensity. The planks of the door shudder behind Ash. 253    CLOSE ON LOG BOLT                                      253 It cracks. 254    ASH                                                 254 presses himself against the door for all he's worth, praying that whatever it out there, won't get in. BANG!  Splinters fly. 255    CLOSE ON LOG BOLT                                      255 BOOM!  The crack widens. 256    THE DOOR FRAME                                        256 behind Ash begins to buckle beneath the hammering blows. 257    ASH                                                 257 begins to SCREAM.  And the BANGING halts. 258    LONG SHOT - INT. SHED                                   258 All is quiet.  Ash hugs the door. Shaking in the silence.  And that's when it hits.  LIKE A LOCOMOTIVE! Ash and the door he braces are blasted away from the wall of the Shed as the Evil Force brings it's tremendous power to bare. 259    INT. SHED - SAM-O-CAM - INTERVOLOMETER                     259 TRACKING WITH ASH AND THE DOOR as they are swept up at super speed in the grip of the Evil Force.  Ash is seen rocketing through the long hallway of the Shed, spinning head over heels.  Ash rips through other doors, taking them with him. Ash is now sandwiched between two doors as he flies through the air. 260    EXT. SHED - SIDE SHOT                                   260 The roof of the shed ripples, sending tiles and wood beams flying as the EVIL FORCE surges through the shed like a tidal wave. 261    EXT. REAR DOOR OF SHED                                  261 It blows out from the place in a flying stack along with the other doors.  The flying doors slam against a tree and fall to the ground in a stack. 262    THE EVIL FORCE                                        262 with Ash out of sight, glides forward, into the woods. 263    EXT. SHED- DUSK                                        263 LOOKING DOWN UPON - THE STACKS OF DOORS. All is quiet.  We hear the sound of a bolt moving. The doorknob turns slightly.  The door swings upward and opens... revealing a somewhat flattened Ash who picks his groggy and bruised self up.
wiseman john		Did you speak the exact words?! ASH Well, maybe not every single syllable, no.  But basically I said them.  Yes. 438    WISEMAN JOHN                                          439 bows his head, stung by this information. WISEMAN JOHN Dung eating fool!  Thou hast doomed us. When thou misspoke the words the Army of the Dead was awoke. ASH Hey. We had a deal. You told me, you could clean this thing up, once I got you the book. You said there was a passage in there that could get rid of this thing and send me back. WISEMAN JOHN The passage is useless to us as long as these evil dead walk. They have a terrible desire for this book. And they shall come here to get it. Once in their possession, the Evil shall rule the Earth for one thousand years...Because of you...we are doomed. ASH You wanted the damn book. You got yer book. I did my part of the deal. WISEMAN JOHN We did strike a bargain. I will return you to your own time as promised. ASH Yeah. Well good. That was the deal.  So uh...when do you think we can... 439    ASH                                                 439 looks about at the condemned faces. 440    ASH'S P.O.V. - THE VILLAGERS                             440 CAMERA PANS past the doomed faces in the crowd. ASH I mean...when can you send me... 441    ASH                                                 441 sees Sheila, but looks away, consumed with the guilt that he's doomed her. ARTHUR The Wisemen were fools to believe that you were the Promised one. That one such as you could have saved us!. 442    ASH                                                 442 is solemn. 443    ARTHUR                                               443 and the others turn away in contempt. 444    SHEILA                                               444 moves closer. SHEILA I still believe that thou wilt help us. ASH No.. They're right.  I screwed up. I didn't come through for you, and...  I'm sorry for it. SHEILA I still have faith in thee. In my heart I know thou wilt still succeed. ASH Sheila... It's over for me. I don't belong here and I'm going home. I didn't have what it took. It's over. He bows his head and moves off. A high pitched SHRIEK is heard! 445    ALL HEADS                                            445 look to the sky. 446    TWO WINGED DEADITES                                    446 possessed women with bat-like wings, swoop down. 447    TEN VILLAGERS                                         447 scream as they flee from the winged beasts. 448    WINGED DEADITE #1                                      448 Like a delta winged F-15, it banks towards Sheila. ASH No! 449    ASH                                                 449 races to intercept.  He plants himself between Sheila and the beast. 450    WINGED DEADITE #1 - POV                                 450 As it swoops at Ash. 451    ASH                                                 451 opens his steel hand, then clamps it closed again on the handle of his sword. 452    ASKEW ANGLE                                           452 The immense shadow of the broad winged Deadite falls over Ash. 453    ASH                                                 453 swings his sword upward. 454    CLOSE SHOT - THE BLADE                                  454 severs the tip of the Beast's rotted wing. 455    THE FLYING DEADITE                                     455 shrieks in pain as it soars over Ash. No longer aerodynamically sound, it crashes to the ground. 456    A GROUP OF WARRIORS                                    456 fire their arrows into the beast, pegging it to a tree.  The bone white eyes of the creature darken. 457    ASH AND ARTHUR                                        457 spin to the sound of a woman's SCREAM. 458    SHEILA                                               458 in the clutches of WINGED DEADITE #2. SHEILA M'Lord Ash!  Help me! The beast flies off with the fair maiden, soaring over the castle wall and into the distance. 459    ASH                                                 459 shakes his fist at the receding beast. ASH Damn you! 460    THREE MOUNTED SCOUTS                                    460 come riding in through the castle doors. SCOUT An army of the dead!  They have gathered in the wilderness and come this way. ARTHUR How far from here? SCOUT But two days ride. ARTHUR Then these winged ones are only the first of them. WISEMAN Perhaps we should go from this place while we can. GOLD TOOTH We could be safe in the mountains. WARRIORS Yes!  To the mountains!  We must flee! They'll take our souls! 461    ANGLE ON                                             461 BLAMMITY-BLAM! All eyes look to... 462    ASH                                                 462 who stands on a high castle wall, clutching his smoldering shotgun. ASH Go ahead and run.  Run home and cry to mama.  I'm through runnin'. I stay we stay and fight. 463    ARTHUR                                               463 takes a challenging step forward. ARTHUR How will we stop an army of the dead at out castle walls?  How will you fight that?!  With more words? Most of out people have already fled.  We are but forty men. ASH We'll get Henry the Red and his men to fight with us. ARTHUR We shall not stand in battle, alongside the likes of him. Our honor will not allow it. ASH Then you'll die.  Honor and all. Now who's with me? 464    THE CROWD                                            464 is silent as they consider Ash's words. Then from the rear, the Village Blacksmith steps forward. BLACKSMITH I'll stand by you. 465    A WARRIOR                                            465 steps forward. Then another. WARRIOR #7 You may count on my steel. WARRIOR #8 And mine! 466    THE CROWD                                            466 steps forward vowing their allegiance to the cause. 467    ARTHUR                                               467 reluctantly joins them. 468    EXT. GRAVEYARD - STOP MOTION ANIMATION - NIGHT               468 EVIL ASH directs teams of skeletons to dig at the graves. EVIL ASH Dig!  Dig faster!  I want every black hearted, worm infested, son of a bitch that ever died in battle! We'll storm their castle and take the book!  Then my lads, eternal life shall by ours! 469    STOP MOTION ANIMATION - THREE SKELETONS                    469 hoist up a stone casket from the ground and with rusted swords pry it open, releasing another skeleton who stands to join their ranks. 470    TWO ARMORED SKELETONS                                   470 push a bruised Sheila to her knees before Evil Ash. 471    CLOSE ON SHEILA                                        471 looking up to Evil Ash in fear. His boney finger comes down into frame and strokes her lovely cheek.  She pulls away in revulsion. 472    EVIL ASH                                             472 looks down at her with lust. EVIL ASH Why ain't you a sweet little thing? His boney digit caresses her lips. SHEILA Don't touch me!  You foul thing! EVIL ASH Your gonna learn to live me missy. SHEILA The Promised one will come for you. SKELETAL EVIL ASH
****Dialogues from script :Arsenic_and_Old_Lace.txt****

baseball fan		I'll knock your block off, you big stiff ! You're a bum !
the umpire		Strike ! You're out !
the photographer		I wonder if any big shots are getting married today ? They stop at the door of the room.
the photographer		Hey, the guy with the cheaters.
the photographer		Mortimer Brewster, the dramatic critic ?
the clerk		"Two by two they come and go. Hip hip hig hay !"
the clerk		Good morning, children. Your name, please ?
elaine		Elaine Harper.
elaine		Elaine Harper.
the clerk		Thank you. Yours ?
mortimer		Mortimer Brewster. The clerk puts his hand back around his ear.
the clerk		How's that ?
mortimer		Mortimer Brewster.
the clerk		Speak up, sonny. There's nothing to be afraid of.
the clerk		Love her ? But of course you love her. You're going to marry her, aren't you ?
mortimer		No-no, you don't understand. Come here, come.
mortimer		You see, I don't want this to get out for a while. I'm Mortimer Brewster.
the clerk		You're who ?
mortimer		Mortimer Brew...
mortimer		Goodbye, dear.
mortimer		Don't you understand ? How can I marry you ? Me, the symbol of bachelorhood. I've sneered at every love scene in every play. I've written four million words against marriage ! Not only hooked, but to a minister's daughter, and not only a minister's daughter but a girl from Brooklyn. And look at the way you look ! What is that sort of contraption you've got there ?
elaine		That's a pin I borrowed from your aunts. You know what they're saying, "Something borrowed..."
mortimer		Yeah, I know that "Something borrowed, something blue." Old, new. Rice and old shoes. Carry you over the threshold. Niagara Falls. All that silly tripe I made fun for years. Is this what I've come to ? I can't go through with it. I won't marry you. And that's that.
elaine		Yes, Mortimer. MORTIMER What do you mean, Yes, Mortimer ? Aren't you insulted ? Aren't you going to cry ? Aren't you going to make a scene ?
elaine		No, Mortimer.
mortimer		And don't No, Mortimer me, either ! Don't you see marriage is a superstition. It's old-fashioned. It's... a... a... Ohh !...
brophy		O'Hara, don't be a jerk. You don't seem to realize. I'm turning over to you the nicest, the best beat in Brooklyn. Now look at that old church. And them old houses. O'HARA Did George Washington ever do any sleeping around here ?
brophy		Of course he did. Well, this whole neighborhood just stinks with atmosphere. And look at that old house there.
brophy		Now, don't crack wise about the Brewster sisters. They're two of the dearest, sweetest, kindest old ladies that ever walked the earth. They're out of this world. They're like... they're like pressed rose leaves. They have come near a police call box. Brophy takes a key out of his pocket to open the box
brophy		No, no. Their old man left them fixed for life. And don't you call them the girls, either.
brophy		Brophy. Is Lieutenant around ?
brophy		They don't rent rooms. But you can bet if anybody came looking for a room, they wouldn't go away without a good meal and probably a couple of bucks in their pockets. That's just their way of digging up people to do good to.
abby		Reverend Harper, I do hope you don't disapprove of Mortimer just because he's a dramatic critic and takes your daughter to the theater every night.
reverend harper		It's not so much that I disapprove of his being a critic, but no man, no man with this published attitude on marriage...
reverend harper		...at any time.
teddy		I must be catching cold.
abby		 Bless you.
abby		We mustn't be angry with Mortimer. He's so very much in love with her. And Sister Martha and I are so happy about it. He used to come to see us only occasionally, and now, now he's in Brooklyn six nights a week.
brophy		Remember now, watch your language.
brophy		You'd be surprised what they'd consider swearing.
abby		Oh, will you excuse me ?
abby		No, no, Teddy, dear. Thank you. I'll go.
abby		Oh, come right in, Mr. Brophy.
brophy		Miss Abby, we came for the toys.
abby		Oh yes.
brophy		This is Officer O'Hara. He's taking over my beat.
abby		May I welcome you to our neighborhood, Mister O'Hara.
teddy		Gentlemen, what news have you brought me ?
brophy		Colonel, we have nothing to report.
teddy		Splendid ! Thank you, gentlemen.  At ease.
abby		You know the Reverend Doctor Harper from the church next door ?
brophy		Hello, Reverend. This is Officer O'Hara, the new man on the beat.
abby		The toys are on the chair up here, by the library door.
abby		Oh, Teddy, will you run upstairs and bring down your Army and Navy from Aunt Martha's room. They're all packed.
reverend harper		That's splendid work you men do, fixing up discarded toys for the kids at camp.
teddy		Charge !
brophy		It gives us something to do as we are sitting around the station. You get tired of playing cards.
brophy		So these are the toys ?
abby		How's Missis Brophy ?
brophy		Oh, she's better, thank you. But a little weak, still.
abby		Well, I'll better get some beef broth for you to take to her.
brophy		Oh, Miss Abby, please don't bother. You've done so much already.
abby		Oh, Stuff and nonsense ! I won't be a minute.
reverend harper		Gentlemen, if I know what pure kindness and absolute generosity are, it's because I've known the Brewster sisters.
brophy		Oh, Teddy, you promised me you wouldn't do that anymore.
teddy		But I have to call a Cabinet meeting to get the release of those supplies.
brophy		Now don't do that again. Do you hear me ?
brophy		He used to do that in the middle of the night, and neighbors raised Cain with me. They're a little afraid of him anyway.
reverend harper		Oh, he's quite harmless.
brophy		He thinks he's Teddy Roosevelt. So what, there's a lot of worse guys he could think he was.
brophy		Isn't it a shame, Father, isn't it a shame, Reverend, that a nice family like this should be hatching a cuckoo ?
martha		Oh, well, now, isn't this nice !
brophy		Good afternoon, Miss Brewster.
martha		How do you do, Mr Brophy ?
reverend harper		Good afternoon, Miss Brewster. O'Hara has picked up the toys and he joins the group.
martha		Reverend Harper, how do you do ?
brophy		Oh, Miss Martha, this is Officer O'Hara. He's taking over my duties.
martha		I'm very glad to know you.
abby		Oh, Martha, you're back.
abby		Here's the broth for Missis Brophy. Be sure it's good and hot.
brophy		You bet I will, and thank you very much.
teddy		The Army and Navy are ready for action.
brophy		Oh, Colonel, this is grand. It'll make a lot of kids happy.
teddy		What's this ? The Oregon ?
martha		Oh, Teddy, dear, put it back.
teddy		But the Oregon goes to Australia.
abby		Now, Teddy...
teddy		No, it goes to Australia.
brophy		These are lovely. Thank you very much.
abby		Not at all.
brophy		The children will go crazy.
abby		Oh, now, don't mention it.
brophy		Hey ?
brophy		Oh, yes.
teddy		Dismissed !
brophy		Well, goodbye and thank you. ABBY Good bye.
abby		Careful of the step here now with the toys.
brophy		Good night.
teddy		Young man, let that be a lesson to you.
abby		Goodbye. She closes the door, and goes back to her sister and Reverend Harper.
abby		Well...
reverend harper		Well, I must be going.
teddy		Charge !
teddy		Charge the blockhouse !
reverend harper		Blockhouse ?
martha		Oh, the stairs are always San Juan Hill.
reverend harper		Oh, I...
abby		Bless you !
reverend harper		Have you ever tried to persuade him he wasn't Teddy Roosevelt ?
abby		Oh, no !
martha		Oh, he's so happy being Teddy Roosevelt.
abby		Oh, do you remember, Martha ? She comes back to her sister and Reverend Harper.
abby		Once, a long time ago, we thought if he'd be George Washington, it might be a change for him, and we suggested it.
martha		And do you know what happened ? He just stayed under his bed for days and wouldn't be anybody.
reverend harper		Well, if he's happy, and what's more important, you're happy...
martha		Oh, our only worry for Teddy is after we are gone.
reverend harper		Yes, indeed. That is quite a problem.
abby		But Mortimer's made all the arrangements for Teddy to go to Happy Dale Sanitarium after we pass on.
reverend harper		Splendid idea ! A very pleasant place.
martha		Yes...
abby		Dear, sweet Reverend Harper.
abby		You know, Martha, I really do believe he's beginning to see the light.
martha		I'm sure we needn't worry about him. He won't interfere with our plans for Mortimer and Elaine.
martha		Oh, did you just have tea ?
abby		Yes. And dinner's going to be late, too.
martha		Ohh ! Why ?
abby		Teddy ?...
abby		Oh, Teddy, good news for you. You're going to Panama and dig another lock for the canal.
teddy		Delighted !
teddy		That's bully ! Just bully ! I shall prepare at once for the journey. He starts mounting the stairs, stops and goes back a few steps down, takes his imaginary sword out, points it forward, and runs upstairs, yelling :
teddy		Charge !
martha		Abby ! While I was out ?
abby		Yes, dear. I just couldn't wait for you. I didn't know when you'd be back, and Reverend Harper was coming.
martha		But all by yourself.
abby		Oh, I got along fine.
martha		I'll run right downstairs and see.
abby		No, no, dear. There wasn't time. And I was all alone.
martha		Well ?
abby		Martha, just look in the window-seat.
abby		Oh ! It's Elaine !
elaine		You, darlings.
martha		But, Elaine ! ABBY What did she mean ? You don't suppose they've gone and...
mortimer		Elaine !
cab driver		Listen, buddy. This old cab has seen osculation but...
mortimer		You ain't seen anything yet. You've got to drive us to the station.
cab driver		You'd better take her hat.
mortimer		Oh thanks.
cab driver		Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a... And her brooch.
mortimer		If you find her hairpins, you can keep them. Hold on to that.
cab driver		Yeah ! Mortimer runs across the churchyard to meet Elaine.
martha		There they are.
mortimer		Here's your hat.
elaine		Just throw it. I don't like that look in your eyes.
mortimer		What ? What's the matter ?
elaine		Father preached in sermon about it only last Sunday. MORTIMER He did ? He did ? What did he say ? What did he say ?
elaine		He was against it.
mortimer		Ah ! But that was only Sunday.
mortimer		Please ! For heaven's sake !
elaine		But, Mortimer, right out here in the open with everyone looking ?
mortimer		Yeah ! Right out here in the open with everyone looking. Let everyone in Brooklyn over 16 look.
mortimer		One thing at a time.
elaine		Oh ! There's that look again !
mortimer		There's that look again, Mortimer ! You better get used to it.
mortimer		Look like you're going to see it often. It goes just before this. He kisses her very passionately.
mortimer		You know what we're doing, darling ? We're wasting time. Look, I'll go tell my aunts and you tell your old... No, you'd better not tell your father just yet. You'll run that cold of his into a pneumonia.
elaine		Oh, I can handle Father. He's a dear.
mortimer		Look, why don't we wire him from Niagara Falls ?
elaine		Niagara Falls ?
elaine		Then that's why you stopped at your office.
mortimer		Yes, certainly ! We're going to go the whole hog. Niagara Falls ! Everybody ought to go to Niagara Falls. You should've seen my secretary's face when I made the reservation. We've got a drawing-room on the train, the bridal suite in the hotel, and tomorrow morning we go over the falls in a barrel.
mortimer		Go on, darling, hurry and pack.
elaine		I don't have to. I started packing the day after I met you. She starts moving away. He holds her back.
mortimer		There, you see ! You see ? That's what I mean. That's what I hate about women.
cab driver		I wonder what Mary's doing now ?
mortimer		Go on, darling, the train leaves in an hour, and hurry.
elaine		It'll be a few minutes before I'm ready. Father may want to pray over me a little.
mortimer		Whistle when you're ready. Oh, Elaine...
elaine		Yeah.
mortimer		When you whistle, open the front door fast. If you see a tall, dark streak of light, it's me.
mortimer		What ? Now ?
elaine		No, not now !
mortimer		 Aunt Abby, Aunt Martha !
mortimer		Hold on to your bustles. We're married. Elaine and I are married.
abby		Oh, darling, how wonderful ! Oh, Martha, isn't it wonderful ? They're married!
mortimer		Yeah ! Don't pretend to be so surprised either, you two old frauds. Can I use the telephone, darling ?
abby		Yes, of course.
abby		Isn't it too, too wonderful ?
martha		And to think that it happened right here in this room !
mortimer		Oh, now, here, here, now ! Hello ?... Hello ? Benson's Florists ? This is Mortimer Brewster. Did you send those roses to Missis Brewster's apartment ?... You did ? Good. Now, send four dozen more to drawing room A, Canadian Limited, Grand Central Station. Yes... And hurry then. And throw in a flock of orange blossoms.
abby		But before you go, we can have our celebration. I'll open a bottle of wine and we'll sing. And we'll invite a few of the neighbors in.
martha		And, of course, a wedding cake. MORTIMER Oh, darling, you won't have time to bake a cake. We're going to Niagara Falls. I've got a taxi waiting.
abby		Oh, it's all ready. It's been ready since..
mortimer		Yeah, I bet it's been ready since the first day I met her, huh ?
mortimer		What is it ? Did everybody in Brooklyn know I was getting married, except me ?
martha		Oh, we knew you'd find out about it in time.
martha		Well, I'll run along and get everything ready.
abby		Oh, dear. I do hope the Reverend isn't too angry. You know how your books upset him.
mortimer		Well, I'm going to burn all my books. And I'll let the Reverend Harper light the first match. Oh, by the way, did I leave some notes here for my new book ?
abby		You mean Mind Over Matrimony ?
mortimer		Yes ! Shhh ! Where are they ?
abby		I hid them someplace...
mortimer		Come on, come on. Let's go.
abby		Now you behave. She goes away on her search.
mortimer		Let's find them before Elaine sees them.
teddy		Hello, Mortimer !
mortimer		How are you, Mister President ?
teddy		Bully, thank you. Just bully. What news have you brought me ?
mortimer		Just this, Mister President. The country's squarely behind you.
teddy		Yes, I know. Isn't it wonderful ?
teddy		Well, goodbye. I'm off to Panama.
mortimer		Goodbye, Mister President.
teddy		A new lock for the canal, you know.
teddy		Oh, tell the news to Mother.
abby		Oh, dear.
mortimer		Did you find those notes ?
mortimer		What's the matter ?
abby		There's a baby picture of your brother Jonathan.
mortimer		You ought to put that in the fire with my books. My, what a face !
mortimer		I remember now. He used to scare grownups with it.
abby		Just the thought of Jonathan frightens me. Do you remember how he used to cut worms in two with his teeth ?
mortimer		Oh, Jonathan ? Oh, he's probably in prison or hanged or something by now.
mortimer		I saw a play, which had a character in it. Reminded me of Jonathan.
abby		No ? Really?
mortimer		Yeah. Oh, a honey of a lunatic. One of those whodunits called Murder Will Out.
abby		Oh, dear ! Abby goes into the kitchen.
mortimer		Yeah, what a play. When the curtain goes up, the first thing you see is a dead body.
mortimer		The next thing...
mortimer		Hey, mister. He remains a few seconds seated of the seat, with a very puzzled face.
abby		Happy bridegroom !
martha		Congratulations, darling !
mortimer		Never mind that now. I know.
mortimer		Now, listen, darlings. Aunt Abby, Aunt Martha, you know how we've always planned to send Teddy to that Sanitarium, Happy Dale ?
abby		Oh, yes, dear. That's after we're gone.
abby		Yes, we talked with Reverend Harper about it.
mortimer		No, no. Teddy's got to go to Happy Dale now. At once ! Now, he's down in the cellar. Get him up here right away.
martha		But, there's no such hurry as yet, you know.
abby		No... When Teddy's working on the canal, you can't get his mind on anything else.
mortimer		Well, look, darlings. Look, I'm frightfully sorry, but I've got an awful shock for you.
mortimer		Teddy's killed a man, darlings !
martha		Nonsense !
mortimer		 But there's a body in the window-seat !
abby		Yes, dear. We know.
mortimer		You know ?
martha		Of course.
abby		Yes, but it has nothing to do with Teddy.
abby		Now, Mortimer. You just forget about it. Forget you ever saw the gentleman. MORTIMER Forget ?
abby		We never dreamed you'd peek.
mortimer		What the... Who is he ?
abby		He's a Mister Hoskins. Adam Hoskins. That's really all I know about him, except that he's a Methodist.
martha		Oh ! He's a Methodist ? Isn't that nice.
mortimer		That's all you know ? But what's he doing here ? What happened to him ?
mortimer		Look, Aunt Martha, men just don't get into window-seats and die.
abby		No, dear. He died first.
mortimer		Oh, well, now wait ! Stop all this.
mortimer		Now look, darlings, how did he die ?
abby		Oh, Mortimer, don't be so inquisitive. The gentleman died because he drank some wine with poison in it.
mortimer		But, how did the poison get in the wine ?
martha		Well we put it in wine because it's less noticeable. When it's in tea, it has a distinct odor.
mortimer		You mean you...  You put it in the wine ? ABBY Yes. And I put Mister Hoskins in the window-seat, because Reverend Harper was coming.
mortimer		Ohh ! Look at me, darling.
mortimer		You mean, you mean you knew what you'd done and you didn't want the Reverend Harper to see the body ?
abby		Well, not at tea. That wouldn't have been very nice.
mortimer		Ohh ! It's first-degree.
abby		Now, Mortimer, you know all about it and just forget about it. I do think that Martha and I have the right to our own little secrets.
martha		Oh, Abby, while I was out I dropped in on Missis Schultz. She's much better. But she wants us to take Junior to the movies again.
abby		Well, we must do that, tomorrow or next day.
martha		Yes, but this time we'll go where we want to go. Junior's not going to drag me into another one of those scary pictures.
abby		No, they ought not to be allowed to make those pictures just to frighten people.
mortimer		Operator ?... Can you hear my voice ?... You can ?... Are you sure ?...
abby		Oh, the dears. Isn't Halloween a wonderful time for them ?
martha		Yes, it is. They have so much fun.
martha		Now, Mortimer, don't be so impatient. We'll let you lick the bowl out.
mortimer		Lick the bowl ? I don't want to lick the bowl. I want to know what we're going to do !
martha		Well, we're going to celebrate, dear.
mortimer		Celebrate ? There's a body in the window-seat !
abby		Yes, dear. Mister Hoskins.
mortimer		Oh, I know what his name is. I just want to know what we're going to do. We can't turn you over to the police.
abby		Yes. You just should get stop worrying about it.
martha		We told you to forget the whole thing.
mortimer		 Forget ? Look, my dear aunt Martha, can't I make you realize that something has to be done ?
abby		Now, Mortimer, you behave. You're too old to be flying off the handle like this. MORTIMER But, but Mister Hodgekiss...
abby		Hoskins, dear.
mortimer		But whatever his name is, you can't leave him in there.
martha		We don't intend to, dear.
abby		No, Teddy's down in the cellar now, digging the lock.
mortimer		Oh, you mean you're going to bury Mister Hodgekiss in the cellar ?
martha		Oh, yes, dear. That's what we did with the others.
mortimer		Look, here, Aunt Martha. You can't...
mortimer		Others ?
martha		The other gentlemen.
mortimer		Oh ! When you say others, do you mean others ? More than one others ?
martha		Oh, yes, dear. Let me see now. This is eleven, isn't it, Abby ?
abby		Oh no, dear. This makes twelve.
martha		Abby, dear, I think you're wrong. This one is only eleven.
abby		No, dear, because I remember when Mister Hoskins first came in, it occurred to me that he'd make just an even dozen.
martha		But, look, Abby dear, I really don't think you should count the first one.
abby		Oh, I was counting the first one, and that makes it twelve.
martha		It does ?
martha		Well, she's probably right. Abby usually is. I get them mixed up sometimes.
mortimer		Makes it twelve. Well...
mortimer		Hello ?
mortimer		Oh !
abby		Well, whatever is the matter with Mortimer today ?
martha		Why, Abby, what do you think happened to him ?
mortimer		Hello ?
mortimer		Not now. Not now. For heaven's sake, keep your shirt on !
mortimer		Oh... Oh, Elaine, I didn't mean...
martha		Yes, dear. Abby thinks we should count the first one.
mortimer		Never mind about that. Just sit down.
mortimer		Now, tell me, who was the first one ?
abby		Mister Midgely. He was a Baptist.
martha		He was such a lonely, old gentleman, Mister Midgely was.
abby		All his kith and kin were dead.
martha		We felt so sorry for him.
abby		And then, when his heart attack came, and he sat there dead in that chair, looking so peaceful. Remember, Martha ? We made up our minds, then and there, that if we could help other lonely, old men to find that same peace, we would. MORTIMER Why, you poor... You mean, he dropped dead right in this chair ?
abby		And then, you see, Teddy came up from digging in Panama, and he thought Mister Midgely was a yellow-fever victim. And that meant he had to be buried immediately.
mortimer		So ?
martha		So, we all took him down to Panama, and put him in the lock and gave him a decent Christian burial. There, now you see ?  That's why we told you not to bother about it, because we know exactly what's to be done. Mortimer is sitting on the table, and seems not to know what he must do next. But he suddenly stands up.
mortimer		Wait a minute !
mortimer		Come here, darlings. What about the others ? All twelve of them didn't walk in here and drop dead.
abby		Oh, no, dear. Of course not !
mortimer		Well, so, so...
martha		Mortimer.
mortimer		Wh... what?
martha		Do you remember those jars of poison that were on the shelves in Grandfather's laboratory all these years ?
abby		You know your Aunt Martha's knack for mixing things. You've eaten enough of her piccalilli.
martha		Well, dear, for a gallon of elderberry wine, I take one teaspoonful of arsenic, then add half a teaspoonful of strychnine. And then, just a pinch of cyanide.
mortimer		Mmmm ! Should have quite a kick.
abby		Yes, as a matter of fact, one of our gentlemen found time to say : How delicious !
mortimer		He did ? Well, wasn't that nice of him ?
martha		Abby, we mustn't be standing here gossiping all night. Well, we must get that cake frosted.
mortimer		Oh no, darling, don't worry about the cake. I couldn't eat a thing. ABBY Oh, you newlyweds! A sip of wine will give you an appetite.
mortimer		That'd be nice, darling, a sip of... A sip of wine !
mortimer		Wine !
mortimer		I'm beginning to think the cat's in on this.
mortimer		He's wonderful. Happy as a lark. Singing away, digging locks. He closes the cellar door.
mortimer		Got him working on a yellow-fever victim. Oh, I can see the headlines now : Murder Incorporator Rides Again right across the front page. Let me see... Teddy ! Of course. Everybody knows he's crazy. Let me see. Who can I call up ? Dewey, La Guardia, Winchell ? No, Winchell's no good. Old Judge Cullman !
mortimer		I wonder if I got his number.
mortimer		What am I doing with tickets ? He throws the tickets on the desk. He picks up the phone, and starts dialing.
mortimer		Information... Hello ? Information ?... Get me the number of Judge Cullman on North Shore Road, Brooklyn. Yeah, would you call me back ?
mortimer		How it would be marvelous if he wasn't there.
elaine		 Hey, you !
elaine		Thought you were tall, dark streak of light.
mortimer		What are you doing here?
elaine		What am I doing here ? Didn't you hear me whistle ?
mortimer		Whistle ? Oh, yes, yes. I heard you whistle. But...
elaine		Hey, how do I look ?
mortimer		Oh, you look fine, you look fine. Now, run on home. I'll call you up tomorrow. ELAINE Tomorrow ?
mortimer		Yeah, you know I always call you up every day or two.
elaine		Oh ! you and your gags ! Where's your hat ? Come on. The bags are in the taxi.
mortimer		Huh ? Taxi ? Huh, huh, huh ?
elaine		Yeah, come on !
mortimer		Oh, Elaine, I'm so sorry. But something's happened.
elaine		What'd you do, lose your nerve ? Hey, where's that look I was going to see so often ?
mortimer		Oh, stop ! Don't whistle in my ear, please.
elaine		Mortimer, what is wrong ? Look at your hair. He bends down for her to see his hair better.
mortimer		Oh, my God, what color is it ? Quick ! Has it turned ?
elaine		Oh, darling, what's the matter ? What happened ?
mortimer		Oh, Elaine, if I could only tell you, Elaine. You smell so nice.
mortimer		Oh ! Oh !
elaine		But, darling, we were married today.
mortimer		All right, go home, go to bed, get some rest !
elaine		Rest ?
mortimer		Who ? Who ? Judge Cullman ?
mortimer		This is Mortimer Brewster. Look, Judge, I'll tell you why I called you. It's about Teddy.
mortimer		I've got to come over and see you right away. Oh, I'm afraid it won't wait until tomorrow, Judge. Yeah, you see, it's very, very important. We've got to do something about it immediately. But it's practically a matter of life and...
mortimer		Elaine ! Elaine, frightened, jumps up from the seat. Mortimer rushes to her.
mortimer		Will you get out of here ?
elaine		Mortimer, what in the world is going on around here ? I don't even know where I stand !
mortimer		Anywhere, but don't stand there !
elaine		But, darling, Niagara Falls !
mortimer		If it does, we'll let it ! ELAINE Now, wait a minute ! Listen. You can't marry me one minute and then throw me out the house the next !
mortimer		Oh, darling, I'm not throwing you out of the house !
mortimer		Will you get out of here ?
elaine		Mortimer !
mortimer		I'm sorry, Judge. But... a thing happened. But, Judge, about Teddy, you see...
elaine		 Mortimer !
mortimer		Hold it. You see, Judge, it's his bugle blowing. Yes, the neighbors have been complaining, and the police are all set to throw him into a state institution.
elaine		How do you like that ?
gibbs		I read an ad here about a room to rent. ELAINE Oh ! Shut up !
mortimer		Well, I thought that if you sign the papers, I can get Teddy to commit himself, and get him in Happy Dale... Yes, it's a wonderful place, Judge... You will ?... Fine ! I'll be over right as soon as I've made another call.
abby		Doorbell's ringing, dear.
abby		Oh, how do you do ? Come in. The kitchen door has remained open, and we see Martha still working on her cooking.
gibbs		 I understand you've got a room to rent.
abby		Yes... Do step in.
gibbs		Well, are you the lady of the house ?
abby		Yes, I'm Miss Brewster.
mortimer		 Yeah, operator ? Give me long distance, please.
abby		And this is my sister. Another Miss Brewster.
gibbs		My name's Gibbs.
abby		Well, do sit down. I'm sorry, but we're just setting the table for dinner.
abby		Now, this would be a nice comfortable chair.
mortimer		Oh. Hello, long distance ? I want the Happy Dale Sanitarium, Happy Dale, New York.
abby		Is Brooklyn your home ?
gibbs		I haven't got a home. I live in a hotel. Don't like it. MARTHA A... are your family Brooklyn people ?
mortimer		 Hello ? Hap...
gibbs		Haven't got any family.
mortimer		 Well, operator...
abby		All alone in the world ?
gibbs		Yeah.
mortimer		 No, no...
abby		Well, Martha....
mortimer		 No, Happy Dale... Yes.
abby		Well, you've come to just the right house. You sit down.
mortimer		 Dale. D like in dig, you know, when you dig a lock. That's right. A like in arsenic. Got that ?
gibbs		Is there always this much noise ?
martha		Oh ! He doesn't live with us.
mortimer		I can see the headlines now. Oh, please.  Hello ? Back to the table.
gibbs		I'd really like to see the room. Well, I don't think I'll like it.
abby		The room's upstairs.
abby		Won't you try a glass of our wine before we start up ?
gibbs		Never touch it.
martha		Well, we make this ourselves. It's elderberry wine. GIBBS Elderberry ?
gibbs		I haven't tasted elderberry wine since I was a boy.
mortimer		 Oh...
gibbs		Thank you.
mortimer		 Operator ! Well, I don't want the Happy Dale Laundry ! I want the Happy Dale Sanitarium ! Sanitarium ! Sanitarium ! Sanitarium ! Yes, like a broken record !
gibbs		Have your own elderberry bushes ?
martha		No, but the cemetery's full of them.
gibbs		Well, skoal.
mortimer		 Hello, operator! No, operator, what's taking you so long ? It's only across the river ! I could swim it faster ! Yes ! Hello ! Hello...
mortimer		 What ?... What, they're busy ? Busy ? They're busy and you're dizzy ! No, I'm not drunk, madam, but you've given me an idea !
martha		Mortimer ! Ah-ah ah-ah !...
mortimer		Darling, don't ah-ah ah-ah, I'm nervous. Don't do this.
abby		Mortimer. Not that.
mortimer		Get out of here ! Do you want to be poisoned, do you want to be murdered, do you want to be killed ? Do you ?
gibbs		They... they're nuts !
cab driver		Hey, you're telling me !
mortimer		Look, you can't do things like that !
mortimer		Now I don't know how I can explain this to you, but it's not only against the law, it's wrong.
mortimer		It's not a nice thing to do. People wouldn't understand.
mortimer		He wouldn't understand. What I mean is... Well... This is developing into a very bad habit !
mortimer		Oh... Yes...
mortimer		Hello ?... Who ?... Oh, Happy Dale Sanitarium ? Oh, that's amazing, operator. Yeah... Happy Dale ? Oh, let me talk to Mister Witherspoon, please.
witherspoon		Mr. Witherspoon speaking... Oh, how do you do, Mister Brewster ? How are you ?
mortimer		Uh... uh... Well, Mister Witherspoon, do you... Oh, I'm fine, thanks. How are you ? Mister Witherspoon, do you remember that conversation we had about committing my brother Teddy to Happy Dale ?... You do ? Well, we want to commit him there immediately.
witherspoon		Oh, dear. Oh, dear. Oh, that's too bad. Well, I'd hoped we wouldn't have him for some time yet. Well, you see, Mister Brewster, we have several Theodore Roosevelts at the moment, and it would lead to trouble. Oh, trouble... Oh, now, if he thought that... Look, Mr. Brewster, we're a bit short of Napoleons at present. The Bonaparte. And if... Oh... oh, I see. Of course. Well, if your mind is made up. Yes. Yes. Have you had the papers drawn up ?
witherspoon		Another Roosevelt. Oh, dear, dear.
mortimer		Now listen, darlings. I've got to run over to Judge Cullman's, but, before I go, I want you to promise me something.
martha		Well, we'd have to know what it was first.
mortimer		Well, I love you both very much. And you know I'd do anything in the world for you, don't you ?
abby		Yes, dear.
mortimer		All right, then I want you to do one little thing for me, like good girls. ABBY What do you want us to do ?
mortimer		Don't do anything. I mean, don't do anything ! Don't let anyone in the house and leave Mr. Whosit right where he is. Oh ! Get off that thing. I can't talk to you... I can't concentrate.
mortimer		Now, look, darlings, I wouldn't want anything in the world to happen to either of you.
abby		But, what on earth could happen to us?
mortimer		Well, darling... Anyway, you'll do that little thing for me, won't you ? All right. Abby nods.
mortimer		Where's my hat ? There it is.
martha		But, Mortimer.
mortimer		 What, darling, what ?
martha		We were planning to hold services before dinner.
mortimer		Look, couldn't that wait until I get back ?
abby		Oh, and you could join us in the hymns !
mortimer		Yes, darling, I could join you in the hymns. I'll sing with you, I'll dance with you, I'll do anything. But... remember, don't let anybody in the house until I get back. You promise ?
mortimer		Good.
abby		 Mortimer !
mortimer		What ?
abby		Uh-uh-uh-uh !...
mortimer		Stop that uh-uh-uh. What is it ?
abby		Mr. Hoskins' hat !
mortimer		Ohhhh !...
cab driver		Do you still want me to wait here ?
mortimer		Yes ! Call me a cab !
cab driver		Yeah. Okay, okay !
cab driver		Hey, cab !... Here you are.
mortimer		Don't open it. I'll sit with you !
cab driver		Yeah, that's right. I can go faster that way. Sure.
cab driver		Wait a minute ! What am I doing ? Hey !
cab driver		Come here !
abby		Fancy getting nice Mr. Hoskins' hat all mussed up.
martha		Shame ! Such a nice hat. She crosses the room and, takes a brush on a cupboard near the window-seat, and starts brushing the hat.
martha		You know, Abby, Mortimer didn't seem to be quite himself today.
abby		No. Oh, well.
martha		Well, what were you saying about Mortimer ?
abby		Oh, I think I understand why he seemed so upset.
martha		Why ?
abby		He's just been married. I believe that always makes a man a little nervous.
martha		Oh, yes. The poor dears.
martha		I'm so happy for Elaine. Oh, Abby ! If Mortimer's coming back for the services for Mr. Hoskins, we're going to need another hymnal. There's one up in my room.
abby		Oh, I'll go, dear.
martha		Abby, we promised Mortimer we wouldn't let anyone come in.
martha		Abby ! Two men, and I've never seen them before.
abby		Are you sure ?
martha		Yes. ABBY Let me look.
martha		You look.
martha		Do you recognize them ?
abby		No, they're strangers to me.
martha		Well, we'll just have to pretend we're not at home.
jonathan		Come in, doctor.
jonathan		This is the home of my youth. As a boy, I couldn't wait to escape from this house. Now I'm glad to escape back into it.
doctor einstein		Yes, Johnny, it's a good hideout.
jonathan		The family must still live here. I hope there's a fatted calf awaiting the return of the prodigal.
doctor einstein		A fatted calf ? Oh, Johnny, I'm so hungry.
doctor einstein		Look, Johnny. Drink.
jonathan		As if we were expected. DOCTOR EINSTEIN Yes.
jonathan		A good omen.
abby		Who are you ? What are you doing here ?
jonathan		Aunt Abby. Aunt Martha. It's Jonathan.
martha		You, you get out of here !
jonathan		I'm Jonathan, you know. Your nephew, Jonathan.
abby		Oh no, you're not. You're nothing like Jonathan, so don't pretend you are. You just get out of here.
jonathan		I see you're still wearing the lovely garnet ring that Grandma Brewster bought in England. And you, Aunt Martha, still the high collar to hide the scar where Grandfather's acid burned you.
martha		Why, his voice is like Jonathan's.
abby		Have, have you been in an accident ?
jonathan		My face. Doctor Einstein is responsible for that. He's a plastic surgeon.
martha		But I've seen that face before. Do you remember when we took the little Schultz boy to the movies and I was so frightened ? It was that face.
doctor einstein		Take it easy, Johnny. Take it easy. Don't worry. The last five years, I give him three different faces. I give him another one right away. That last face. I saw that picture, too, just before I operated. I was intoxicated.
jonathan		You see, doctor, what you've done to me ? Even my own family think I'm...
doctor einstein		Johnny, Johnny ! You are home in this lovely house.
doctor einstein		You know how many times he tells me about... about Brooklyn, about this house, and about his aunts he loves so much ? They know you, Johnny. Please tell him so.
abby		Well, Jonathan, it's been a long time.
jonathan		Bless you. It's good to be home again.
abby		Well, Martha, we mustn't let what's on the stove boil over.
doctor einstein		Well, Johnny, where do we go from here ? You know, Johnny, we got to think fast.
doctor einstein		The police, they got pictures of that face. I got to operate on you right away. We got to find someplace. We got to find someplace for Mister Spenalzo, too. While talking, he has taken another sip from his bottle.
jonathan		Don't waste any worry on that rat.
doctor einstein		But we got a hot stiff on our hands.
jonathan		Forget Mr. Spenalzo.
doctor einstein		But, Johnny, we can't leave a dead body in the rumble seat. You shouldn't have killed him. Just because he knows something about us, what happens ?
jonathan		We come to him for help and he tries to shake us down. Besides, he said I looked like Boris Karloff. That's your work, doctor. You did that to me.
doctor einstein		No, please, Johnny, take it easy. We'll find some place and I'll fix you up right away.
jonathan		Tonight.
doctor einstein		Yes, tonight, but I have to eat first.
doctor einstein		Yes, Johnny. I know exactly what I'm going to do.
doctor einstein		You see, I'm going to take this piece here and lift it up...
jonathan		Be careful about the stitches this time.
doctor einstein		You leave that up to me. I'll give you nice little ears and...
jonathan		You were careless last time. DOCTOR EINSTEIN And new stitches. And on the eyes I'll do a Schmidt. That's my specialty. You see, I take it together like this...
jonathan		Leave the eyes alone. Leave the nose alone.
judge cullman		Poor Teddy. I imagine it's for the best.
judge cullman		Well... Ours not to reason why, ours but to do...
mortimer		Sign right here, please, Judge. Excuse me. Right there.
judge cullman		Sometimes I think, with the world in its present chaotic state...
mortimer		Yes, I know, we'd all be better off at Happy Dale. I sign here as next of kin, don't I ?
judge cullman		Only last week I created a mild sensation at the Bar Association, when I said...
mortimer		Yes. Goodbye. Good luck, Judge. Thank you.
judge cullman		Tell Martha and Abby I'll be over this week. I've been feeling rather lonely.
mortimer		No ! No ! Oh no ! Never tell them you've been lonely. Never ! JUDGE CULLMAN Why, I... I... I...
mortimer		Judge ! Tell me, are you a drinking man ?
judge cullman		Why, no. I never indulge.
mortimer		Good ! Then you'll live longer.
judge cullman		Of course a little wine now...
mortimer		No ! No ! For heaven's sake, no wine ! No wine !
judge cullman		I may be committing the wrong Brewster.
abby		Well, I'm sure you both want to get to wherever you're going.
jonathan		My dear, sweet aunties, I'm so full of your delicious dinner I'm unable to move a muscle.
doctor einstein		Yes, it's nice here.
teddy		I found it ! I found it !
teddy		Gentlemen, be seated. Jonathan and Einstein pretend they are standing up, but they immediately sit back in their chairs.
teddy		Here it is, gentlemen. The story of my life, my biography.
teddy		Here's the picture I was telling you about, General. Here we are, both of us. President Roosevelt and General Goethals at Culebra Cut. That's me, General, and that's you.
doctor einstein		My, how I've changed !
teddy		Well, you see, that picture hasn't been taken yet. We haven't even started work on Culebra Cut. We're still digging locks. And now, General, we will both go to Panama and inspect the new lock.
abby		No, Teddy. Not to Panama.
doctor einstein		Oh, maybe some other time, Mister President. Panama is a long ways off. TEDDY Nonsense ! It's just down in the cellar.
jonathan		The cellar ?
martha		Well, we let him dig the Panama Canal in the cellar.
teddy		General Goethals ?
doctor einstein		Yes, sir.
teddy		As President of the United States, Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, and the man who gave you this job, I demand that you accompany me on the inspection of the new lock.
jonathan		Teddy ! I think it's time for you to go to bed.
teddy		I beg your pardon. Who are you ?
jonathan		I'm Woodrow Wilson. Go to bed.
teddy		No, you're not Wilson. But your face is familiar. Let me see... You're not anyone I know now. Perhaps later, on my hunting trip to Africa. Yes, you look like someone I might meet in the jungle.
abby		I think, perhaps, you had better go to bed, Teddy. He and his friend want to get back to their hotel.
jonathan		General Goethals, inspect the canal.
doctor einstein		All right, Mister President, we go to Panama.
teddy		Bully, bully ! Follow me, General. He opens the door to the cellar, then turns toward Einstein, taps on the helmet Einstein is carrying and then on his own helmet.
teddy		It's down south, you know.
doctor einstein		Oh !
doctor einstein		Well, bon voyage !
jonathan		Aunt Abby, I must correct your misapprehension. You talked of our hotel. We have no hotel. We came here directly.
abby		This is not your home, and I'm afraid you can't stay here.
jonathan		Doctor Einstein and I need a place to sleep. You remember that, as a boy, I could be disagreeable. It would not be pleasant for any of us if... but I don't have to go into details, do I ?
martha		Perhaps we'd better let them stay here tonight.
doctor einstein		Hey, Johnny, Johnny. Come here. Quick.
jonathan		Oh, I forgot to tell you, Doctor Einstein and I are turning Grandfather's laboratory into an operating room. We expect to be very busy.
doctor einstein		Hey, Johnny, down here, what do you think I find ?
jonathan		What ?
doctor einstein		The Panama Canal. And it just fits Mister Spenalzo. See the hole he's digging. Four feet wide, six feet long. He just fits ! You'd think he knew we were bringing Mister Spenalzo along. That's hospitality.
jonathan		Rather a good joke on my aunts. They're living in a house with a body buried in the cellar. Einstein laughs.
doctor einstein		Hey, how do we get him in here ?
jonathan		Yes, we can't just walk Mister Spenalzo in through the door. We'll bring the car up between the cemetery and the house, and after they've gone to bed, we'll bring Mister Spenalzo in through the window.
doctor einstein		Hey, Johnny...
jonathan		We're moving the car behind the house. You'd better get to bed.
martha		The car is all right where it is until morning.
jonathan		I don't want to leave it in the street. That might be against the law.
martha		Abby ! What are we going to do ?
abby		Well, we're not going to let them spend more than one night in this house, for one thing. But what would the neighbors think ? People coming in here with one face and going out with another.
martha		And what are we going to do about Mister Hoskins ?
abby		Oh ! Mister Hoskins ! It can't be very comfortable for him in there. And he's been so patient, the poor dear. Well, I think Teddy had better take Mister Hoskins downstairs right away.
teddy		General Goethals was very pleased. He said the canal was just the right size. From the table, he picks up the book he had shown to Dr. Einstein, and starts looking at it.
abby		Teddy ! Teddy, there's been another yellow-fever victim.
teddy		Dear me ! This will be a shock to the General.
abby		No, Teddy, we must keep it a secret.
martha		Yeah !
teddy		A state secret ?
abby		Yes, a state secret.
martha		Promised ?
teddy		You have the word of the President of the United States. Cross my heart and hope to die.
teddy		Now, let's see. How are we going to keep it a secret ?
abby		Well, Teddy, I think you'd better get back down into the cellar. And then, when I turn out the lights, when everything's dark here, you come up and take the poor man down to the canal. Now get along, Teddy.
abby		And we'll come down later and hold services.
teddy		Where is the poor devil ?
abby		 In the window-seat.
teddy		It seems to be spreading. We've never had yellow fever there before.
martha		Abby. I've never even seen Mister Hoskins !
abby		Oh, my goodness! That's right, you were out. Well, you just come right along and see him now. You know, he's really very nice looking, considering that he's a Methodist.
jonathan		We're bringing the luggage through here.
abby		Jonathan, your room is waiting for you. You can go right up.
jonathan		I'm afraid we don't keep Brooklyn hours. You two run along to bed.
abby		Oh, but you must be very tired. Both of you. And we don't go to bed this early.
jonathan		It's time I came home to take care of you. Behind Jonathan, Einstein has come into the room and is closing the window, and then the drapes.
jonathan		 Take the bags upstairs.
doctor einstein		For the instruments, I'll come back later.
abby		Good night.
jonathan		Now, we'll all go to bed.
abby		I'll wait until you're up and then turn out the lights.
jonathan		Run along, Aunt Martha. Just off the laboratory, Doctor.
jonathan		All right, Aunt Abby.
abby		I'll be right up.
jonathan		Now, Aunt Abby ! Turn out the lights.
jonathan		Aunt Abby.
jonathan		I'll open the window. You go round and hand him through.
doctor einstein		But he's too heavy for me.
doctor einstein		You go outside, Johnny, and push, and I'll stay here and pull. And then together we take him down to Panama. Huh ?
jonathan		All right. We must be quick. I'll take a look around outside the house. When I tap on the glass, you open the window.
doctor einstein		Yeah.
doctor einstein		It's dark in here.
doctor einstein		Where am I ? Oh, here I am.
doctor einstein		Who left this open ?
doctor einstein		Johnny ?
doctor einstein		Okay, Johnny, wait a minute. Hand him over. Now I have him. Allez ! Up ! Now, wait a minute, Johnny. You lost a leg somewhere. Hey, help me. He's so heavy. Now I have him. Now I got him.
jonathan		Be careful.
doctor einstein		Oh, but his shoe came off. Help me, Johnny. He's so heavy. Now I've got him !
doctor einstein		Hey, Johnny, somebody's at the door. Go open, quick. I'll manage Spenalzo. Go, quick !
elaine		Mortimer ! Aunt Abby !
elaine		 Aunt Martha !
elaine		 Who is it ? Is that you, Teddy ? JONATHAN Who are you ?
elaine		I'm Elaine Harper. I live next door.
jonathan		What are you doing here ?
elaine		I came here to see my husband, Mortimer.
jonathan		Why did you say your name was Harper ?
elaine		Well, it is Harper. I mean, it's Brewster. I'm not very used to it. I'm a brand-new Brewster.
doctor einstein		It's all right, Johnny. It's okay.
elaine		 Maybe you'd better explain what you're doing here.
jonathan		We happen to live here.
elaine		 You don't live here. I've been in this house every day, and I've never seen you before. Where are Miss Martha and Miss Abby ? What have you done to them ?
jonathan		Perhaps we'd better introduce ourselves. May I present Doctor Einstein ? He puts the shoe on the table, then lifts the tablecloth to look underneath it.
elaine		Doctor Einstein ?
jonathan		A surgeon of great distinction. And something of a magician.
elaine		Now I suppose you're gonna tell me that you're Boris...
jonathan		 I am Jonathan Brewster.
elaine		Oh ! You're Jonathan.
elaine		Yes, they talk about you.
jonathan		What do they say about me ?
elaine		Oh, just that there's another brother named Jonathan, that's all they say. Oh, that explains everything. Now that I know who you are, I'll just be running along, if you'll kindly unlock the door.
jonathan		That explains everything. Just what do you mean by that ? Why do you come here at this time of night ?
elaine		Well, I just thought I saw Mortimer drive up. I suppose it was you.
jonathan		You thought you saw someone drive up ?
jonathan		You saw someone at the car ?
elaine		Yes.
jonathan		What else did you see ?
elaine		Oh, just that, that's all !
jonathan		I see. Is that why you came over here ?
elaine		Oh no, I came to see Mortimer. But if he's not home, I'll run...
jonathan		You've given two names.
elaine		You're hurting me !
jonathan		I think she's dangerous.
teddy		No visitors. It's going to be a private funeral.
elaine		Teddy ! Teddy, tell these men who I am !
teddy		Oh, that's my daughter, Alice.
elaine		Oh, no, Teddy ! Teddy !
teddy		Now, Alice, don't be a tomboy. Don't play rough with the gentlemen. He pulls out his imaginary sword and rushes up the stairs.
teddy		Charge !
elaine		Teddy !
jonathan		Doctor, the cellar.
elaine		Let go of me ! Let go of me !
abby		What's the matter ? What are you doing there ?
jonathan		We caught a burglar, a sneak thief. Go back to your room.
abby		We'll call the police.
jonathan		I'll handle this. Go back to your room.
jonathan		Do you hear me ?
jonathan		Don't answer that.
jonathan		Don't answer that !
elaine		Let go of me !
mortimer		Where's Teddy ? Is he upstairs ?
mortimer		Never mind that now, darling, please.
mortimer		Holy... What's that ? What's that thing there that looks like a cigar-store dummy ?
abby		It's your brother Jonathan, and this is Doctor Einstein.
mortimer		Aunt Abby, didn't I tell you not to let anybody in the house ? Who did you say it was ?
abby		It's your brother, Jonathan !
jonathan		I've come back home, Mortimer.
mortimer		What ?
jonathan		I've come back home, Mortimer.
mortimer		I've come back home, Mortimer. Listen, it talks ! JONATHAN Yes, I talk. Mortimer, have you forgotten the things I used to do to you when you were tied to the bedpost ? The needles under your fingernails.
elaine		Mortimer, he...
mortimer		Wait a minute.
mortimer		Holy mackerel ! It is Jonathan !
jonathan		I'm glad you remember, Mortimer.
mortimer		Yeah, I remember. How could I forget you ? Where'd you get that face ? Hollywood ?
abby		Oh, don't you two boys start quarreling again the minute you've seen each other.
martha		We invited Jonathan and Doctor Einstein to stay.
mortimer		What ?
martha		Just for tonight.
mortimer		Oh no, you don't, I'm staying here tonight. In fact, I'm staying here from now on.
elaine		Mortimer, what about me ?
mortimer		There's no room for anybody else in the house.  Now where's Teddy ? I've got to see him right away. Is he upstairs ? He starts climbing the stairs.
doctor einstein		Mister Brewster ! We don't take up much room. Johnny can sleep on the sofa, and I'll sleep on the window-seat.
mortimer		Nothing to...
mortimer		Window-seat ?
mortimer		Certainly not on the window-seat. I'm going to sleep on the window-seat.
elaine		Mortimer !
mortimer		Now look. Now look, Jonathan. Now, be a good fellow. Here's ten dollars. Go out and haunt yourself a hotel.
jonathan		Mortimer, you know what I do to people who order me around.
doctor einstein		Hey, Johnny. Mister Spenalzo.
jonathan		What ?
doctor einstein		What's going to happen to Mister Spenalzo ?
doctor einstein		We can't leave him here in the window-seat. Johnny ? JONATHAN Doctor, you know, Doctor, I've completely lost track of Mister Spenalzo.
mortimer		Wait ! Who's this Mister Spenalzo ?
doctor einstein		A friend of ours Johnny was looking for.
mortimer		Don't you bring anyone else in here. Now, come on, beat it, both of you !
doctor einstein		It's all right, Johnny. While we are packing, I'll tell you about him.
mortimer		How do you like that ? The guy stays away for twenty years and picks tonight of all nights to come back. Oh, Elaine, what are you doing here ?
elaine		Mortimer !
mortimer		What's the matter, darling ?
elaine		I almost got killed.
mortimer		Killed ? Aunt Abby, Aunt Martha !
abby		Oh, no !
martha		Oh, no ! It was Jonathan !
abby		He mistook her for a sneak thief.
mortimer		Oh, that.
mortimer		 I know, darling, I know.
elaine		 Oh, Mortimer, I'm afraid of him.
mortimer		 Oh, darling, don't worry about it. I'm here now. Now forget it.
elaine		We were married today, we were going over Niagara Falls in a barrel, your brother tries to strangle me, a taxi's waiting, and now you want to sleep on a window-seat !
mortimer		Window seat... Witherspoon. Darling, you'd better run along home.
elaine		What ?
mortimer		Yes, yes. Go home like a good girl. I got things to do.
elaine		Mortimer ? But... but...
mortimer		No, no, please.  Hello ? Operator ? Get me Happy Dale 2-7-0, please.
elaine		But, Mortimer, didn't you hear what I was just saying ?
elaine		Your own brother Jonathan, he was trying to strangle me ! MORTIMER Please ! This is important !
elaine		That ?
mortimer		Hello ? Oh, hello, Mr. Witherspoon ? This is Mortimer Brewster.
witherspoon		Yes, Mr. Brewster, yes.
witherspoon		Well, I don't understand you. BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT
mortimer		 Look, look, I...
elaine		He was going to kill me !
mortimer		 Please, darling, please.
witherspoon		By the way, you've had the papers signed by your brother and the doctor, of course ?
mortimer		Oh, the doctor ? Oh, holy mackerel ! I forgot the doctor ! Mortimer takes a piece of paper from the inside pockets of his jacket and puts it on the desk. Elaine is still whining at his side. ELAINE Mortimer !
mortimer		 Hello ? What kind of a doctor ? A family doctor ?
elaine		You can take your honeymoon, your wedding ring, your taxi, your window-seat, and put them in a barrel, and push them all over Niagara Falls !
mortimer		 Oh, look, why don't you come down here anyway ? While you're getting here, I'll get Teddy's and the doctor's signatures both.
mortimer		Yeah. Elaine ! Elaine !  Yeah, I'll get both signatures. Yeah, well, come right away.
mortimer		Elaine ? What's the matter with her ?
mortimer		Oh, dear !
mortimer		Elaine ! Elaine !
mortimer		Elaine !
mortimer		 Oh, let me sit down. Let me think about this thing. Doctor, Teddy, signature...
mortimer		Hoskins !
mortimer		Ye gods ! There's another one ! He closes the lid and walks across the room toward the kitchen door.
mortimer		Aunt Abby ! Aunt Martha ! Come in here !
abby		 We're busy.
mortimer		No, you come in here now !
abby		Yes, dear, what is it ? Where's Elaine ?
mortimer		Wait a minute. Didn't you promise me not to let anyone in the house while I was gone ?
abby		Jonathan just walked in.
mortimer		I don't mean Jonathan !
abby		And Doctor...
mortimer		And I don't mean Doctor Einstein ! Who is that in the window-seat ?
abby		We told you. Mister Hoskins.
mortimer		He is not Mister Hoskins !
mortimer		There !
abby		Who can that be ?
mortimer		You're trying to tell me you've never seen that man before ?
abby		I certainly am. Well, this is a fine how-do-you-do ! It's getting so anyone thinks he can walk in this house !
mortimer		Now, you look here, Aunt Abby. Don't you try to get out of this ! That's another one of your gentlemen, and you know it !
abby		Mortimer, how can you say such a thing ? That man's an impostor. And if he came here to be buried in our cellar, he's mistaken.
mortimer		You admitted to me you put Mister Hoskins in the window- seat.
abby		Yes, I did.
mortimer		Well, this man couldn't have got the idea from Mister Hoskins !
abby		Oh, no.
mortimer		By the way, where is Mister Hoskins ?
abby		He must have gone to Panama.
mortimer		What ? You buried him ?
abby		No, no, not yet. He's just down there waiting for the services, poor dear. We haven't had a minute, what with Jonathan in the house.
abby		Oh, dear. We've always wanted to hold a double funeral. But I will not read services over a total stranger !
mortimer		A total stranger. Aunt Abby, how can I believe you ? There are twelve men down there, some you admit you poisoned them !
abby		Yes, I did. But you don't think I'd stoop to telling a fib ! Martha ! She enters the kitchen.
abby		Martha ! Martha ! What do you think has happened ?
mortimer		A fib !
mortimer		Jon... Oh-oh... Ah-ah...
jonathan		This may interest you, Mortimer. I've decided that we're staying. And I've also decided that you're leaving, and I mean now.
mortimer		Listen, handsome. I'm in no mood to debate the question. Are you getting out, or am I throwing you out on your ear?
jonathan		I've led a strange life, Mortimer.
abby		Martha, you come straight along here. You just look and see what's in that window-seat.
mortimer		No. No, no, Aunt Abby, don't...
mortimer		Jonathan, let Aunt Martha see what's in the window-seat.
mortimer		Aunt Abby, darling, I owe you an apology.
mortimer		I've got some very good news for you. Jonathan is leaving. And he's taking Doctor Einstein and that cold companion with him.  Listen, Jonathan. You're my brother, you're a Brewster. So, I'm giving you a chance to get away and take the evidence with you. You can't ask for more than that. Well ?
mortimer		All right, in that case, I'll have to call the police.
jonathan		Don't reach for the telephone. Remember, what happened to Mister Spenalzo can happen to you, too.
martha		Spenalzo ?
abby		I knew he was a foreigner.
jonathan		Put down that telephone, Mortimer.
abby		Oh...
abby		No...
mortimer		No ! Come in.
abby		Yes, do come in. She closes the door behind him.
martha		Come right in, Officer O'Hara. This is our nephew, Mortimer.
mortimer		And glad to see you, fellow.
abby		And this is another nephew, Jonathan.
jonathan		I don't think so.
mortimer		Oh, come on. What's the hurry ? Why don't you stick around until my brother leaves.
mortimer		No ?
mortimer		You are ?
mortimer		Well, well, well ! Maybe I can help you with it.
mortimer		You can't ?... Oh, I can spell like the dickens. Constantinople ? Come on, come on, let's go into the kitchen.
mortimer		You can tell me all about it.  Couldn't you whip up a sandwich for Officer O'Hara ?
martha		I hope you don't mind eating in the kitchen, Officer O'Hara.
mortimer		 See you in a moment.
mortimer		Now, listen, Jonathan, this is your last chance. I'll keep O'Hara busy in the kitchen and give you a chance to get out. All three of you : you, Doctor Einstein and Spenalzo. JONATHAN Mortimer...
mortimer		Now if you don't leave here in five minutes, I'll bring in Officer O'Hara, and introduce him to Mr. Spenalzo.
mortimer		I'll be right with you, O'Hara. Right with you. Right with you. Just give me one moment.
mortimer		Now get going ! All three of you.
jonathan		Doctor, this affair between my brother and myself has got to be settled.
doctor einstein		But, Johnny, we've got trouble enough as it is. Come, let's go.
jonathan		We're not going. We're going to sleep right here in this house.
doctor einstein		What ? With a cop in the kitchen and Spenalzo in the window-seat ?
jonathan		That's all he's got on us. We'll take Spenalzo and dump him in the bay. After that, we're coming back here. Then if he tries to interfere...
doctor einstein		No, no, Johnny. No, please.
jonathan		Doctor, we've got a wonderful setup here. We can make a fortune. Two old ladies as a front. Only Mortimer stands in our way. I never did like Mortimer.
jonathan		Doctor, you know when I make up my mind...
doctor einstein		Yeah, I know, when you make up your mind, you lose your head. Look, Johnny, Brooklyn ain't a good setup for you.
doctor einstein		Okay, Johnny. Okay !
jonathan		Take the instruments and hide them in the cellar. Move fast. Einstein takes the suitcase and walks to the cellar. Jonathan opens the lid of the window-seat.
mortimer		Oh, I don't know.
mortimer		Oh ? Legitimate ?
mortimer		Oh, excuse me.
jonathan		What's the matter ?
doctor einstein		You know that hole in the cellar ?
jonathan		Yes.
doctor einstein		Well, we got an ace in the hole.
mortimer		Well, you have ?
mortimer		Well, rehash it in your mind. I'll be back in a minute.
mortimer		I like the first act.
mortimer		No, I thought I told you... He closes the lid, kneels on the seat and looks through the open window.
mortimer		Jonathan ! Jonathan ! Jonathan !
jonathan		Yes, Mortimer.
mortimer		What are you two doing still here ? I thought I told you to beat it.
jonathan		We're not going. MORTIMER You're not going ?
jonathan		No.
doctor einstein		No.
mortimer		You stay out of this. All right, you asked for it.
mortimer		Officer O'Hara ?
jonathan		Now, if you tell O'Hara what's in the window-seat, I'll tell him what's down in the cellar.
mortimer		Cellar ?
jonathan		There's an elderly gentleman down there who seems to be very dead.
mortimer		What were you doing down the cellar ?
doctor einstein		But what is he doing in the cellar ?
jonathan		Now what are you going to tell O'Hara ?
mortimer		No, no, no, no. You can't do that now. You'd better ring in.
mortimer		You know, you can't tell me in front of those two fellas, they wouldn't appreciate it.
mortimer		Let's go some place we can be alone. I'll meet you there later.
mortimer		Kelly's ?
mortimer		Oh yeah, fine place for Bohemian atmosphere. Genius at work.
mortimer		You ring in and I'll meet you at Kelly's.
mortimer		Fine.
jonathan		Why don't you both go down in the cellar ? O'HARA That's all right with me.
mortimer		No, no, no. There's a much more literary atmosphere in Kelly's, I assure you.
mortimer		We'll meet later
mortimer		You will.
mortimer		Oh, the doctor !
mortimer		Yeah. Now, Look, you ring in and I'll see you later.
mortimer		No.
mortimer		Can't wait ! Can't wait !
mortimer		Doctor, doctor. Where are those papers ? Oh, there they are.
mortimer		The moment I get Spenalzo... I mean, the moment the doctor signs this, I don't care who knows about him, Hoskins, I mean. And you better feel the same way about Spenalzo. Yes, Spenalzo !
jonathan		Where are you going ?
mortimer		To the Doctor. Where do you... Oh ! Mortimer stops and starts running downstairs, and then to the front door.
mortimer		When I come back, I expect to find you gone. Wait for me !
jonathan		We'll wait for him.
doctor einstein		Did he look guilty !
abby		Well, Martha, I think we can start the services now.
abby		Oh ! We thought we heard you leave.
jonathan		Perish the thought, dear aunties. That was just Mortimer. And speaking of services, Aunt Martha, will you make us some coffee while we take Mister Spenalzo down to the cellar ?
martha		Oh, no. No, Jonathan. You've got to take him with you !
jonathan		There's a friend of Mortimer's downstairs waiting for him.
abby		A friend of Mortimer's ?
jonathan		Take his feet, Doctor. Mister Spenalzo and he will get along fine together. They're both dead.
martha		Oh ! He must mean Mister Hoskins.
doctor einstein		Mister Hoskins ?
jonathan		You know about what's down there ? ABBY Of course we do. And he's no friend of Mortimer's. He's one of our gentlemen.
doctor einstein		Your gentlemen ?
martha		Yes. And we won't have any strangers buried in our cellar.
jonathan		But Mister Hoskins ?
martha		Mister Hoskins is no stranger.
abby		Besides, there's no room for Mister Spenalzo. The cellar's crowded already.
jonathan		Crowded ? With what ?
abby		There are twelve graves down there now.
jonathan		Twelve graves.
abby		That leaves very little room and we're going to need it.
jonathan		You mean that you and Aunt Martha have murdered twelve... ABBY Murdered ? Certainly not. It's one of our charities.
martha		Why, what we've been doing is a mercy.
abby		So you just take your Mister Spenalzo out of here.
jonathan		You've done all that right here in this house and buried them in the cellar ?
doctor einstein		That's wonderful, Johnny !
doctor einstein		We've been chased all over the world, and they stay right here in Brooklyn, and they do just as good as you do.
jonathan		What ?
doctor einstein		Yeah. You got twelve, they got twelve.
jonathan		I've got thirteen.
doctor einstein		No, Johnny, twelve. Don't brag.
jonathan		Thirteen.
jonathan		There's Mister Spenalzo. Then the first one in London.
doctor einstein		Yeah.
jonathan		Two in Johannesburg, one in Sydney, one in Melbourne, two in San Francisco, one in Phoenix, Arizona.
doctor einstein		Phoenix ?
jonathan		The filling station. DOCTOR EINSTEIN Filling st... Oh, yes.
jonathan		Three in Chicago and one in South Bend. That makes thirteen.
doctor einstein		You cannot count the one in South Bend. He died of pneumonia.
jonathan		He wouldn't have died of pneumonia if I hadn't shot him.
doctor einstein		No, no, Johnny, you cannot count him. You got twelve, they got twelve. The old ladies is just as good as you are.
mortimer		I'm a very lucky man to have caught you at home, Doctor Gilchrist.
doctor gilchrist		This is most irregular, most irregular.
mortimer		I'm sorry to have dragged you out of bed, but, you see, you're the only one who can help me.
doctor gilchrist		I know Teddy blows bugles, but I can't commit a man to an institution just on that.
mortimer		Oh, well, if only you had a little talk with him, I assure you you'd be convinced by him. Here's the house I...
mortimer		There goes Hoskins. DOCTOR GILCHRIST Who ?
mortimer		What ? What ? Did I say... Oh, I...
mortimer		Now, you better wait.
doctor gilchrist		Here ?
mortimer		Yes, I'll bring Teddy out. Well, you see, I wouldn't want to alarm the old ladies, you know, seeing a doctor and everything. You wait here, huh ? He helps him finish tying his necktie.
doctor gilchrist		In the cemetery ?
mortimer		Yeah, that'll be good.
doctor gilchrist		It's Halloween.
mortimer		Oh, don't worry about that. At Halloween, the pixies won't be out till after midnight. Now look, you wait here. Make yourself comfortable. Pull up a tombstone. I'll be right back.
mortimer		What ?
mortimer		Oh, yes, looks good on you !
cab driver		Yeah ! Not the suit, the meter ! Looks good on me.
teddy		Did you give him a twenty-one-gun salute ?
mortimer		Yes, with a Maxim silencer.
cab driver		Hey, you. Five more bucks and you'll own it.
mortimer		Oh, Mister President, may I have the pleasure...
teddy		Doctor Livingstone !
doctor gilchrist		Livingstone ?
mortimer		 Mister President, the doctor would like to have a few words with you in private.
teddy		Certainly. Welcome to Washington, doctor.
teddy		Arlington is beautiful at this time of year, is it not, doctor ?
doctor gilchrist		Yes, indeed. The doctor looks back at Mortimer, seeming a little frightened. Mortimer remains alone, with the papers in his hand. We still hear the hymns sung by the Brewster sisters in the background.
mortimer		Well now, that's that. It gives me a chance to rest.
mortimer		Well, so far, so good.
mortimer		Not so good.
elaine		Do you or do you not love me ?
mortimer		Oh, Elaine. Elaine, how can you say such a thing ? Darling, of course I love you.
elaine		Do you ?
mortimer		Yes, darling.
elaine		Hey, then why have you been treating me the way you have ?
mortimer		Oh, Elaine.
mortimer		Elaine, Elaine, darling, I love you so much, I can't go through with our marriage.
elaine		Have you suddenly gone crazy ?
mortimer		No, no, I don't think so, but it's only a matter of time. Now, look, darling, you wouldn't want to have children with three heads, would you ? I mean, you wouldn't want to set up housekeeping in a padded cell.
elaine		What are you talking about ?
mortimer		Well, I don't quite know really. Look, I probably should have told you this before, but you see... well, insanity runs in my family.
mortimer		It practically gallops.
elaine		Oh, darling, just because Teddy's a little strange, that doesn't mean...
mortimer		Oh no, darling, no, no. It's way back before Teddy. No, this goes back to the first Brewster, the one who came over on the Mayflower. Yeah. You know, you know how in those days the Indians used to scalp the settlers ? Well, he used to scalp the Indians.
elaine		Darling, that's ancient history.
teddy		Yes, Doctor, I'll run for a third term, but I won't be elected. And that'll mean the last of the Roosevelts in the White House.
doctor gilchrist		That's what you think.
teddy		Of course, if the country insists...
elaine		Oh, darling, all this doesn't prove a thing. Look at your aunts. They're Brewsters, aren't they ? They're the sweetest, sanest people I've ever known.
mortimer		Yeah.
mortimer		Well, even they have their peculiarities.
elaine		What of it ? So your family's crazy. So you're crazy. That's the way I want you, the way I love you. I'm crazy too, but kiss me.
mortimer		No, no. I... Ohhh !
doctor gilchrist		Goodbye, Ambassador. I've enjoyed this little talk very much. Anytime you're in Washington, drop in to see me at the White House.
doctor gilchrist		Those papers. Those papers.
mortimer		Go away.
mortimer		Oh, papers ! Papers ! Yes.
doctor gilchrist		I'll enjoy committing him to any place.
mortimer		You will ?
doctor gilchrist		I've just been appointed Ambassador to Bolivia !
mortimer		Ah, you see ? Didn't I tell you ?
mortimer		No. Don't worry about that. Just go on signing the papers. Oh dear. Thank you.
mortimer		Okay, thank you.
abby		All right ! All right ! We'll find out whose house this is ! I'm warning you, you better stop it. There's no use doing what you're doing, because it'll just have to be undone.
jonathan		 Aunt Abby, go to bed !
abby		It's a terrible thing to do to bury a good Methodist with a foreigner.
mortimer		Hello.
abby		Mortimer, where have you been ?
mortimer		Uh-uh ? Oh, I was getting some papers signed. Is Teddy in his room ?
martha		Oh, Mortimer, what is the matter with you ? Running around getting papers signed at a time like this.
abby		Martha and I are going for the police.
mortimer		Police ! He quickly get back downstairs
mortimer		Oh-oh-oh ! Wait-wait-wait ! You can't go for the police.
martha		Oh, no ? You know what Jonathan's doing ?
abby		He's putting Mister Hoskins and Mister Spenalzo in together.
mortimer		Oh, darling, let him.
doctor einstein		This is all fixed up nice now. Nice and smooth like a lake. The President will be very proud of his Panama Canal.
doctor einstein		Oh, Johnny, bed feels good already. You know, we didn't get any sleep for forty-eight hours.
jonathan		You're forgetting, Doctor.
doctor einstein		What ?
abby		Now, look. If Jonathan and Mister Spenalzo aren't out this house before morning, we're going for the police.
mortimer		Yeah, but I'll get them out, I promise you that !
abby		Then you get the wedding silver.
mortimer		Yes, but remember, no police ! No police ! All right.
mortimer		There's a thing. Look, go to bed, will you ? Fine. Get out of those clothes ! You two look like a double blackout.
jonathan		My brother, Mortimer.
jonathan		I just heard him upstairs.
doctor einstein		No, no, no ! I am tired. You forget, I got to operate on your face tomorrow. He sits down on the bottom steps of the stairs.
jonathan		 You are going to operate tomorrow, Doctor. But tonight we are taking care of Mortimer.
doctor einstein		No, but Johnny, not tonight ! I'm sleepy. We'll do it tomorrow. Or the next day.
jonathan		 Look at me, Doctor. You can see that it's got to be done, can't you?
doctor einstein		Yeah, I know that look.
jonathan		 It's a little late to dissolve our partnership.
doctor einstein		Okay, okay, Johnny, okay. We'll do it. But the quick way, huh ? The quick twist like in London.
jonathan		 No, Doctor. I think this calls for something special. I think, perhaps, the Melbourne method.
doctor einstein		Not the Melbourne method, please ! Two hours ! And then when it was all over, what ? The fellow in London was just as dead as the fellow in Melbourne.
mortimer		No, no, no. Don't do that, Mister President.
teddy		But I cannot sign any proclamation without consulting my Cabinet.
mortimer		This must be secret.
mortimer		Yes, it's the only way we can outsmart the other fellow.
teddy		Who's the other fellow ?
mortimer		That's the secret.
teddy		Oh, I see ! Very clever. Well, if it's a a secret proclamation, it has to be signed in secret.
mortimer		Of course, Mister President.
teddy		I'll have to put on my signing clothes.
mortimer		Oh, you already have them on, Mister President.
teddy		So I have. Wait here.
mortimer		Yes, what is it ? Mice ?
doctor einstein		Hey, Mister Brewster, you get out of this house.
mortimer		Can't you see I'm busy ?
mortimer		 Ta-ta-ta taaa !
mortimer		Thank you, Mister President. Oh, what a load off my mind. Boy, could I use a drink ! Thank God for that.
doctor einstein		 Get out of here, will you, please ?
mortimer		Huh ? What did you say ? Speak up, sonny. I can't hear you.
doctor einstein		 Johnny's in a bad mood. You get out of here !
mortimer		Stop underplaying. I can't hear you.
doctor einstein		Please listen to me. Get out.
mortimer		Stop all this ! What are you doing ? Look, Doc. Are you really a doctor ?
doctor einstein		Yes, Heidelberg, 1919. You go... He takes his sleeve again and tries to move him to the front door.
mortimer		Heidelberg ? How'd you... How'd you come to hook up with Jonathan ?
doctor einstein		I tell you later about that, but you go now. Please listen to me.
mortimer		Tch-tch-tch ! Stop it, Doctor, now stop it !
doctor einstein		You get out of here ! Look, look, when Johnny's in that mood, he's a madman. He's a maniac ! And then things happen. Horrible things.
doctor einstein		You get out of here !
mortimer		Will you stop it ? Now look, stop telling me about Jonathan, I'll take care of Jonathan, and you take care of yourself. Now, get going, little fellow.
mortimer		What's that ? What's that ? Wait a minute.
doctor einstein		Oh no ! My schnapps !
mortimer		I could use that. I could use that.
doctor einstein		That's mine.
mortimer		Please. Only for dramatic critics. Now look, you beat it before things start popping around here.
doctor einstein		But, look, Mr. Brewster, please. You've just been married. You have a nice little wife waiting for you. Please go now. Please.
doctor einstein		Tell me, don't those plays you see all the time teach you anything ?
mortimer		Oh, stop it, don't get me on the subject of plays ! I've got a lot on my mind now. I've got to wait here for Mister Witherspoon.
mortimer		Oh, you think so ? Did you ever see anybody in a play ever act like they got intelligence ?
doctor einstein		How can somebody be so stupid ?
mortimer		You ought to have my job a few nights. Listen to me, brother. When you get out of prison, you have yourself wheeled over to the Garrick Theater. Oh ! Oh ! There's a play there that's been running so bad that it'll still be running when you get out. Now, in this, there's a man... Now listen to this...
mortimer		Now, he knows he's in the house with murderers. So he ought to know he's in danger. He's even been warned to get out of the house. And does he go ?
doctor einstein		Yes.
mortimer		No, he doesn't. He stays ! This fellow doesn't even have sense to be scared or to be on his guard. No, no. The murderer even invites him to sit down. What do you think he does ?
doctor einstein		Well, I don't know. MORTIMER He sits down ! I remember what he did. He deliberately pulls up a chair like that and he sits down in it.
mortimer		Isn't that great ? So there he is, all waiting to be trussed up and gagged. What do you think they used to truss him up with ?
doctor einstein		 Oh, what ?
mortimer		 The curtain cord.
doctor einstein		Curtain cord ? But didn't he see him get it ?
mortimer		Seen him get it. No. The silly chump sits down with his back toward the murderer.
mortimer		All he has to do is look around, but does he ? No !
mortimer		 No... Look, you see, brother Heidelberg, in a play or even in a movie, for that matter, ...a fellow never sees or hears anything. No. That's right.
doctor einstein		But what does he do ?
mortimer		Oh, what does he do ? Well, the big chump sits there. This fellow's supposed to be bright. He sits there.
mortimer		Now get a load of this. Look, look at the attitude. Large as life ! He sits there waiting to be tied up and gagged. The big dope !
doctor einstein		You were right about that fellow. He wasn't very bright.
jonathan		Yes, Mortimer. I've been away for twenty years. But never, my dear brother, were you out of my mind.
jonathan		In Melbourne one night, I dreamt of you.
jonathan		The more you struggle, Mortimer, the more you strangle yourself. Later on, you may consider that a blessing.
jonathan		Now, Doctor, we go to work.
doctor einstein		Johnny, for me, please, the quick way. Please.
jonathan		Doctor, this must be an artistic achievement.
doctor einstein		Please.
jonathan		After all, we're performing before a very distinguished critic.
doctor einstein		Johnny, please !
jonathan		Doctor !
doctor einstein		All right. Let's get it over with. No, but, Johnny, I cannot see this without a drink.
jonathan		Pull yourself together, Doctor.
doctor einstein		But I can't pull myself together without a drink. Johnny, you remember when we came in here, there was some wine. And then they took it. Where did they put it ?
doctor einstein		Johnny, I found some wine. I found some wine.
doctor einstein		Here, I'll split it with you. We both have a drink before we operate. Oh, I am so happy that we don't have to operate without a drink.
jonathan		Doctor. One moment, please. Where are your manners ?  Yes, Mortimer. I realize now that it was you who brought me back to Brooklyn. We drink to you. Doctor ! To my dear, dead brother.
doctor einstein		Prosit !
jonathan		That idiot ! He goes next. That's all. He goes next !
doctor einstein		Not Teddy ! Not Teddy ! Please !
jonathan		We'll get to him later.
doctor einstein		Not Teddy, we won't get to him at all !
jonathan		Now, we have to work fast. The quick way.
doctor einstein		Oh, the quick way, oh yes ! If it has to be, then the quick way. Yes, I'll help you with it.
doctor einstein		Nothing. He was explaining a play he saw the other night and that's what happened to a poor man in the play. He walks away with his jacket in his hands.
doctor einstein		Yeah, probably your play put him to sleep.
doctor einstein		I personally, I like it very much.
doctor einstein		Yeah. O'Hara looks at Jonathan's face.
doctor einstein		No, please.
doctor einstein		Hey, Johnny, the cops !
brophy		What the Sam Hill's going on here ?
saunders		Do you have to tie him up to make him listen ?
brophy		No, we came to warn the old ladies. There is a difficulty. The colonel blew that bugle again.
brophy		The neighbors are all phoning in. The Lieutenant's on the warpath. He says we've got to put him away someplace.
brophy		Oh ! That's the one that ran away. So he came back.  Haven't you got yourself in a mess ! You're two hours overdue at the station. I better let them know that I found you.
brophy		 Mac ? Tell the Lieutenant he can call off the big manhunt. We found him... At the Brewster house... Shall we bring him in ?... All right, we'll hold him right here.
brophy		The Lieutenant is on his way over. JONATHAN So I've been turned in, hey ? All right, you've got me. I suppose you and my stool-pigeon brother will split the reward.
jonathan		Yes, reward ! Now I'll do some turning in !
jonathan		You think my aunts are sweet, charming old ladies, don't you ? Well, there's thirteen bodies buried in the cellar ! Yes, thirteen.
brophy		Be careful what you say about your aunts, they happen to be friends of ours.
jonathan		I'll show them to you.
brophy		Don't you make any trouble for them, do you hear me !
brophy		 Never mind, Mr. Brewster. Leave him to me, I'll take care of him.
jonathan		 You come down to the cellar.
jonathan		Thirteen bodies. I'll show you where they're buried.
brophy		Go down to the cellar with him, O'Hara.
jonathan		Yes, come to the cellar.
brophy		O'Hara, go on down the cellar with him !
brophy		Go on down to the cellar with him.
brophy		 Look out, Pat !... Look out, Pat !
saunders		 He's got a gun...
brophy		 I got him, Pat. Look out !
mortimer		Fight. Go on and fight.
mortimer		That's enough, that's enough. Everybody off.
brophy		 Pat ! Pat, look out!
mortimer		Amazing... Such a fine day, too. All I did was cross the bridge and I was in Brooklyn. Amazing. Amazing, amazing.
mortimer		Don't... Don't bother me now.
mortimer		I got the papers signed. There, they're all signed. What do I care ? Go ahead, go ahead, fight, fight, fight-fight- fight !
mortimer		I'd better call up and see if Witherspoon has left.
mortimer		Telephone. Hey !
jonathan		I'll get every one of you ! I hate cops. I'll brain the first one that comes near me !
mortimer		Yeah. A little higher, please, brother.
mortimer		Thank you very much. Yeah, that's fine. Jonathan suddenly realizes what Mortimer is doing and turns his head toward him. Brophy immediately comes behind him and hits him with his stick. Jonathan starts falling, and Mortimer has to pick up the telephone not to loose it.
mortimer		Oh ! Don't do that, please.
brophy		Get him, Pat.
mortimer		 That won't have any effect. I've tried it before...
mortimer		Oh, dear. Wish I could relax like that.
mortimer		Witherspoon !
brophy		Come in.
lieutenant rooney		What has occurred ?
lieutenant rooney		Never mind ! Didn't I tell you I'd handle this myself ?
lieutenant rooney		 What happened ? He put up a fight ?
brophy		This isn't the one who blows the bugle. This is his brother. He tried to kill O'Hara.
lieutenant rooney		Boris ?... Turn him over.
brophy		Kind of think he's wanted somewhere. Rooney stands up and looks at Brophy with an ironical smile.
lieutenant rooney		Oh ! You kind of think he's wanted somewhere ? If you guys can't look at the circulars we put up in the station, you can at least read short detective stories. Certainly, he's wanted somewhere. In Indiana ! He escaped from the prison for criminally insane. He's a lifer.
mortimer		That's my brother !
lieutenant rooney		For Pete's sake, that's the way they described him. He looked like Karloff. Why'd you have to knock him off ?
brophy		He tried to get us to go down to the cellar. He says there are thirteen bodies buried down there.
lieutenant rooney		Thirteen bodies buried in the cellar, and that don't tip you off the guy's come from a nuthouse ?
mortimer		Thanks, pal.
lieutenant rooney		Where have you been all night ? Don't bother to tell me.
lieutenant rooney		Yeah ?
lieutenant rooney		Well, you're going to have a long time on that play.
lieutenant rooney		You're suspended. Now go on. Report in.
lieutenant rooney		 Take this guy out in the kitchen and bring a pillow. I want to find out where his accomplice is.
teddy		 What is the meaning of this commotion ?
lieutenant rooney		The guy who helped him escape. He's wanted, too.
teddy		Here.
lieutenant rooney		Forty-eight hours I've been after these guys. Nothing to eat. No sleep. No wonder Brooklyn's in the shape it's in. With flatheads like you on the force. Falling for a story like that ! Thirteen bodies buried down in the cellar.
teddy		But there are thirteen bodies in the cellar !
lieutenant rooney		Who are you ?
teddy		I'm President Roosevelt.
lieutenant rooney		 What the blazes is this ?
brophy		He's the guy that blows the bugle. SAUNDERS Howdy, Colonel.
lieutenant rooney		Well, Colonel, you've blown your last bugle.  Come on, get this guy out of here.
teddy		Dear me ! Another yellow-fever victim ?
lieutenant rooney		What ?
teddy		All the bodies in the cellar are yellow-fever victims. BROPHY No-no-no, Colonel. This is a spy. We caught him at the White House.
lieutenant rooney		Take him out and bring him to. I want to question him.
teddy		If there is any questioning of spies, that's my department.
lieutenant rooney		Hey, you, keep out of that.
teddy		You're forgetting that as President, I am also head of the Secret Service.
mortimer		Huh-huh-huh !
lieutenant rooney		Who are you ? What's your name ?
mortimer		Usually, I'm Mortimer Brewster. But I'm not quite myself today.
lieutenant rooney		Oh, you're his brother. Now, look, Mister Brewster, no argument. He's got to be put away.
mortimer		No, no, no arguments, Captain. No arguments. Just a minute, take it easy. Read this.
mortimer		Teddy's going to go to Happy Dale tonight. I'm just waiting here for Mr. Witherspoon.
lieutenant rooney		Well, as long as he's going someplace. He's scaring the neighbors, what with that bugle and all. And that cockeyed story about thirteen bodies being buried... Rooney stops, looks around with a suspicious eye and takes his hat off.
lieutenant rooney		You know, I've been without sleep for forty-eight hours. I'm liable to think anything.
mortimer		I know just how you feel.
lieutenant rooney		There's people dumb enough to believe a story like that. Last year there was a crazy guy, started a murder rumor. I had to dig up a half acre plot before I could prove... Ohh ! What's this ?
mortimer		What's the matter ?
lieutenant rooney		These papers are no good.
mortimer		Why not ?
lieutenant rooney		He signed it Theodore Roosevelt !
mortimer		He what ?...
witherspoon		Is your cab engaged ?
cab driver		Yeah ! I'm losing dough every minute. Got me offers ?
witherspoon		I'm Mister Witherspoon of Happy Dale Sanitarium, I have come here to collect a Brewster. I would like you to drive us back to the sanitarium.
cab driver		I knew this would end up in a nuthouse ! Witherspoon comes back a few steps.
witherspoon		We like to think of it as a rest home.
witherspoon		Mister Brewster ? Mister Brewster ?
witherspoon		Mr. Witherspoon is here.
mortimer		Supposing the spy steals this document and finds the name Theodore Roosevelt on it. Think what that would mean to the safety of the nation !
teddy		No, it's chicanery.
mortimer		Oh, wasting the time.
lieutenant rooney		Hold him till I get there.
saunders		Yes, sir.
mortimer		Let me explain. The name Brewster is code for Roosevelt.
teddy		Code for Roosevelt ?
mortimer		Yes, don't you see ? Take the name Brewster. Take away the B and what have you got ? TEDDY Rooster.
mortimer		And what does a rooster do ?
teddy		Crows.
mortimer		It crows! And where are you hunting in Africa ?
teddy		On the veldt !
mortimer		There you are ! Crowsveldt.
teddy		Ingenious ! My compliments to the boys in the code department.
lieutenant rooney		Hey, that's all right ! Do that again for me.
teddy		Never mind ! Give me that pen. This is fun.
mortimer		Now, now, all I got to get is Witherspoon.
witherspoon		Best of care of him, Mister Brewster.
mortimer		Oh, that's fine. And no wagon when he leaves.
witherspoon		Why ? To take him away ? Oh, never, never. Taxicabs. We always... I have one waiting now.
mortimer		Yes, look, it means a great deal to me. You will personally see that Teddy's happy at Happy Dale ?
witherspoon		He'll be very happy at Happy Dale. MORTIMER Oh, that's good.
witherspoon		You know, I sometimes envy some of our patients, secretly, you know.
mortimer		Oh, you do ? It must be a nice place. Because I've never been to Happy Dale.
witherspoon		You never can tell.
witherspoon		Oh, this is a particularly happy moment for me tonight, Mister... Mister Brewster. Yes, I've never met a dramatic critic and I had been so anxious to.
mortimer		Oh, the woods are full of them.
witherspoon		I have here something that will explain what we're trying to do out there at Happy Dale.
mortimer		Oh ! A pamphlet about Happy Dale ?
witherspoon		Oh, no-no, it's a play. Something I've been working on for some time now. When Mortimer sees Witherspoon flipping the pages of his booklet, a slightly frightened look comes to his face.
witherspoon		It's a dramatization of many of the little incidents that have happened here at Happy Dale.
mortimer		Captain ! Captain !... Captain !
witherspoon		Now, I want you to read this very carefully. I want you to be just as harsh as you like. I shan't mind, you know...
mortimer		Captain, this is Mister Witherspoon. Witherspoon looks at Rooney with a smile.
witherspoon		Oh, yes, yes, he'll be very happy at Happy Dale. Come, my boy.
lieutenant rooney		What is this?
mortimer		No, no, no-no, Mister Witherspoon, you got it wrong. This is... this is Captain Rooney.
witherspoon		The police ?... Oh !
lieutenant rooney		I'm sure! Here are the papers, all signed. Now you can take him away, Super.
teddy		I'll be in my office vetoing some bills.
mortimer		Mister President, I have good news for you. Your term of office is over.
teddy		Is this March the four ? MORTIMER Practically.
teddy		Let's see... Oh ! Now I go on my hunting trip to Africa ! Well, I must get started immediately.
teddy		Is he trying to move into the White House before I've moved out ?
mortimer		Who, Mister President ?
teddy		Taft ! MORTIMER No, no, Teddy this isn't Mister Taft. It's Mister Witherspoon, he's going to be your guide to Africa.
teddy		Bully ! Bully ! Wait right here. I'll bring down my equipment.
witherspoon		Happy man.
teddy		Goodbye, Aunt Abby, goodbye Aunt Martha. I'm on my way to Africa. Isn't it wonderful ?
teddy		Charge !
mortimer		It's all right, Aunt Abby, I've got it.
martha		You've come to meet Teddy, haven't you ?
lieutenant rooney		 No, he's come to take him. Teddy's been blowing his bugle again.
martha		We promise to take his bugle away from him. We won't be separated from Teddy.
lieutenant rooney		I'm sorry.
abby		Mortimer, how can you allow this ? You promised.
lieutenant rooney		Mister Brewster's got nothing to do with this, see. The law is the law ! Teddy's committed himself and he's got to go.
abby		Well, if he's going, we're going, too !
martha		Yes, you'll have to take us with him.
mortimer		Why-why... why not ? Why not, indeed ?
witherspoon		Oh well now, indeed, it's sweet of them to want to go, but it's quite impossible. We never take sane people at Happy Dale.
witherspoon		Oh, no-no-no-no... MORTIMER  Now, these two little sane people, mixed up with all the others, will get lost in the shuffle. You could arrange that.
witherspoon		Oh, no-no-no-no...
mortimer		Just put them in and they'll get all mixed up.
witherspoon		Oh, no ! No, no ! No ! Too dangerous. Dissension, jealousy.
lieutenant rooney		 Now, let's be sensible, ladies...
lieutenant rooney		...Here I am wasting my time when I could be doing some serious work. You know, ladies, there are still murders to be solved in Brooklyn. It ain't only his bugle blowing, and neighbors being afraid of him. But things are going to get worse. We're liable to have to dig up your cellar.
abby		Our cellar ?
lieutenant rooney		Yeah.
mortimer		Oh-oh !
lieutenant rooney		Yeah, Teddy's been telling around there's thirteen bodies buried in the cellar.
abby		But there are thirteen bodies in our cellar.
lieutenant rooney		What ?
abby		Yes. You just ask our nephew, Mortimer.
mortimer		Charge !
mortimer		 Isn't that amazing ?
abby		Now, Mortimer, you behave yourself. You know very well there are thirteen bodies down in our cellar.
mortimer		Certainly there's thirteen bodies down in the cellar. And there are hundreds more up in the attic, Captain !
lieutenant rooney		What is this ?
martha		You mustn't mind Mortimer.
saunders		How about it, lieutenant ?
lieutenant rooney		I'll be right there.
martha		He's been a little strange all day.
lieutenant rooney		Well, right now I wouldn't know what is and what ain't strange anymore. I'll better have a look in that cellar.
mortimer		I'll tell you what we'll do, Captain. I'll bring my bodies down from the attic and you get yours down from the cellar, and we'll get them all together, and we'll send them to Happy Dale.
abby		No, no, you wouldn't have to dig. The graves are all marked. We put flowers on them every Sunday.
lieutenant rooney		Flowers ?
mortimer		Sure, I put neon lights on mine.
mortimer		Humor them, humor them. Smile.
lieutenant rooney		What ?
abby		There's one down there, a Mister Spenalzo...
mortimer		 Hasn't got it yet.
abby		...who doesn't belong here and who's going to have to leave.
martha		But the other twelve are our gentlemen.
lieutenant rooney		Your gentlemen ?
mortimer		Oh, you'd like mine better. None of mine are gentlemen.
abby		You mustn't mind him at all. He got married today.
mortimer		 There is a Happy Dale far, far away. There is a Happy"
lieutenant rooney		 Yeah, yeah.
mortimer		He got it. It's amazing.
lieutenant rooney		 Look, Super, don't you think you can find room for the ladies ?
witherspoon		Just the ladies ?
mortimer		Just the ladies, not me !
lieutenant rooney		How about it, Super ?
witherspoon		Well, of course, they'd have to be committed.
witherspoon		Well, Teddy committed himself. Couldn't they commit themselves also ? All they have to do is sign the papers.
witherspoon		Certainly.
martha		Oh well, if we can go with Teddy, we'll sign the papers. Where are they ?
witherspoon		I have them, ladies, I have them right here.
lieutenant rooney		 Sign them up, will you, Super ? I want this all cleaned up. I'm going out to talk to that spy. Maybe I can understand him. Thirteen bodies down in the cellar.
witherspoon		Ladies, if you will sign right here.
abby		 Right here ?
witherspoon		 Yes, please. It's on the right-hand side right there.
abby		I'm really looking forward to going. The neighborhood here has changed so.
martha		Yes. Especially since they won that old pennant thing.
witherspoon		Oh... oh, dear, I'm so sorry. We've overlooked something. It's absolutely compulsory that we have the signature of a physician.
mortimer		A doctor... Oh ! Doctor Einstein ! Come here and sign some papers, please.
doctor einstein		Good night.
mortimer		Come here, Doctor Einstein.
witherspoon		A doctor ?
mortimer		Oh, yes, yes. Doctor Einstein almost operated on me earlier this evening. Come on, Doctor.
mortimer		Here. Just sign right here, please, Doctor. Einstein signs the paper Mortimer gives him. Meanwhile, Rooney and Saunders are coming out of the kitchen and crossing the room.
abby		Were you leaving, Doctor ?
doctor einstein		Yes, please.
martha		Oh ! Aren't you going to wait for Jonathan ?
doctor einstein		I don't think we go to the same place.
lieutenant rooney		 Hello, Mac. We picked up that guy that's wanted in Indiana. His accomplice's description is one on the circular, on the desk. Read it to me, will you ?
lieutenant rooney		 Yeah... About forty... Five-foot-three... One hundred and forty pounds... Pop eyes... Talks with a German accent... Poses as a doctor... Okay, Mac. Thanks.
witherspoon		It's all right, Lieutenant Rooney. The doctor here has completed the signatures.
lieutenant rooney		Oh, that's great ! Thanks, Doc. You've done Brooklyn a great service.
abby		But Dr. Einstein !
witherspoon		 Now, Mister Witherspoon...
mortimer		No, no, you're Mister Witherspoon, I'm Mister Brewster. WITHERSPOON  It's contagious, yes. It's your turn.
mortimer		Now, don't play games...
witherspoon		You sign. You sign as next of kin.
mortimer		Oh, next of kin. Why didn't you say so ? I'm all confused. Don't mind me.
teddy		Mr. Witherport.
witherspoon		Spoon. Mortimer picks up a spoon on the table and gives it to Witherspoon.
mortimer		Oh, here it is.
teddy		Come up and pack my duffel.
witherspoon		Duffel ?
mortimer		Yes, duffel. Pack his duffel. He's President, you know ?
witherspoon		Oh !
teddy		And bring along my bugle.
mortimer		President.
mortimer		Don't charge !
abby		Mortimer. Mortimer, we're really very worried about something.
mortimer		Oh, now, darling, don't be worried.
martha		Me too, Mortimer.
mortimer		Well, of course, darling.
mortimer		You'll both are going to be very happy at Happy Dale, will you.
martha		Oh yes, dear, we're very happy about the whole thing, but that's just it. We don't want anything to go wrong.
mortimer		Well, what would go wrong ?
abby		Mortimer, will they investigate those signatures ?
mortimer		Oh, no, they won't look up Dr. Einstein...
martha		But it's not his signature, dear. It's yours.
mortimer		Mine ?
abby		You see, you signed as next of kin.
mortimer		Oh, what's wrong about that, darling ?
abby		Well... Martha, you tell him now.
martha		Well, dear.
mortimer		What, dear ?
martha		You're not really a Brewster.
abby		Your mother came to us as a cook. And you were born about three months afterwards. And she was such a sweet woman and such a good cook, we didn't want to lose her. So brother married her. Your real father was a cook, too. He was a chef on a tramp steamer.
mortimer		You mean... you mean I'm not really a Brewster ?... Oh !
martha		Oh, darling ! Don't feel so badly about it.
abby		I'm sure it won't make any difference to Elaine.
mortimer		Elaine ! Elaine ! Where are you ? Can you hear me ? I'm not really a Brewster ! I'm the son of a sea cook !
elaine		Mortimer ! Mortimer ! Mortimer ! It's true ! It's true ! I saw them. Mortimer, it's true.
elaine		It's true ! There are thirteen bodies down there !
elaine		 But I saw them
lieutenant rooney		What's all this screaming about ?
elaine		 But I saw them...
mortimer		It's way past her bedtime. With his mouth still pressed on her, he lifts her and carries her across the room to the front door.
mortimer		Quiet !
elaine		But, Mortimer...
mortimer		Goodbye !
abby		Bye.
martha		Goodbye, darling !
lieutenant rooney		What is all this ?
abby		They're going on their honeymoon.
lieutenant rooney		Well, they're off to a flying start.
cab driver		Hey !
mortimer		What ?
elaine		I really did see...
cab driver		Hey ! You'll own two cabs !
mortimer		Huh ?
cab driver		I mean the meter !
elaine		Oh, Mortimer.
cab driver		 Oh, Mortimer.
mortimer		 Oh, we're going to Niagara Falls. Call me a cab, dear.
cab driver		Yes, love.
cab driver		But, Mister Brewster !
mortimer		No, no, I'm not a Brewster. I'm a son of a sea cook.
mortimer		Charge !
cab driver		I'm not a cabdriver. I'm a coffeepot !
end credits		 Both the words The End and the credits are written in white letters on a cartoon representing a village with a sorceress flying on a broomstick above the village.
****Dialogues from script :Arthur.txt****

10/16/09		EXT. MANHATTAN - NIGHT
rookie cop		Cooool.
arthur		Evening, Constable!
arthur		Are you familiar with the expression `I can explain everything'?
arthur		Terribly sorry, but in the film they used a different model to show the old Batchap getting in and out. This one has no doors, so I'd have to squeeze out the back arsehole first. Which nobody wants...  It's a joke! Okay, okay.
arthur		Well. What with having spunked 1.6 million fat Alberts on this little runaround, I thought why not take it a step further and try to actually collar a few ne-er do wells? It worked for the billionaire Bruce Wayne, why not the future billionaire Arthur Bach- Templemead? Will I have to do traffic school?
arthur		To use the technical medical term - megabloodyshitloads. Either that or I've had a stroke! But fret not, I have a designated driver.
homeless robin		Where's my five thousand dollars?
arthur		The Boy Homeless here neglected to say he'd never driven. 
homeless robin		It's LIZARDS! English prick!
arthur		I trust this will cover all repairs to New York and any inconvenience to your good selves?
jay		Then the crazy motherfucker cut me!
arthur		Goodness. Why?
jay		Said I cut the bombita with pig killer!
arthur		Rude man. And who threw hot Americano in whose face again?
jay		I did in his. No half and half neither. That shit burnt!
gary		I burnt my sister's hair.
jay		 Cool...
gary		Ho wanted to evict me, just 'cause I don't fit her definition of hygiene. Plenty of places to take a shit, toilet's just one of them. Just ask the a-rabs.
arthur		It's like a chat show, this.  Carmella, when did you first dream of becoming a crack whore?
prostitute		Mother died when I was six.
arthur		Oh G-d, I hate when that happens.
prostitute		My father raped me when I was twelve.
arthur		Sounds like you had six relatively good years.
jay		What do you do?
arthur		I model riding boots, I spend money, I sleep with women. But I have weekends off and I am my own boss.
arthur		 I never thought New York's underbelly could be quite such agreeable company. I shall never forget you. Farewell.
devere		I don't think your mother will be pleased, Arthur.
arthur		Really, Elverton - if a chap can't help out a few chums, whatever their station in life.
arthur		I am the Batman. Gotham can sleep easy tonight.
jay		 Don't point that shit at me, bitch! I will FUCK YOU UP!
homeless robin		Yes! Yes! Kill the lizards!
press		Arthur! What will your mother say? Didn't she send you here to get you out of the British papers? Arthur!
arthur		Anyone need a job? My last driver resigned after I filled his limo with squirrels. Preferably sober, clean driving licence?
arthur		Stand back!
carmella		 Oh, man. Nobody tell you about the recession?
arthur		The what?
arthur		Roll up, roll up, folks, let's fix this thing right now.  How much, sir?
first man		Um. $800 please.
arthur		Coming right up.  Fries with that?
arthur		Pierre! We'd like 182 pate de foie gras, 182 chateaubriand steaks, a motherlode of chips and your entire wine cellar please.
erica		Arthur?
arthur		 Are you familiar with the expression `I can't explain anything'?
erica		Who are the women with you, Arthur?
arthur		Oh, um, this is Sofia. I believe she works for Avis. Checks the cars for dings, dead people in the trunk, that sort of thing. And this is Carmella. Anyway...
erica's father		What do you do, Carmella?
carmella		Whatever you want. But no penetration without a rubber.
arthur		Carmella's joking. She's actually a...queen. Of a very small country.
erica's father		Is she now?
arthur		It's terribly small.
erica's father		I see.
arthur		Rhode Island could beat the crap out of it in a war.
erica's father		Yes, it's a small place.
arthur		85 cents in a cab from one end of the country to the other. I'm talking small.
erica's father		I think I understand how small it is.
arthur		Just had the entire country carpeted, this is not a big place.
erica's father		You need to grow up, Arthur.
arthur		That's easy for you to say, you haven't got 50 pairs of short trousers hanging in your closet. Maybe we should go somewhere else.
erica		Maybe you should.
arthur		Could I have all those lobsters to go, please?
arthur		Cup of tea? Nice hot cup of hot Rosy Lee right up your fanny?
arthur		Hugh Grant Mr Bean self deprecation mad cow disease Yorkshire pudding bad teeth rain rain rain rain!
arthur		 Morning, Hobson!
hobson		Morning, Arthur.
arthur		Umm...Celebration of Kwanzaa.
hobson		The African heritage festival celebrated five months from now?
arthur		 Why are you stopping? Oh, sorry. How impolite of me. Sofia, this is Hobson, my nanny.
sofia		Nanny?
hobson		He's merely shaped like an adult.
sofia		Is she going to stay here?
arthur		Hobson, could you come back in a minute and a half please?
hobson		Negative. You're seeing your mother this morning.
arthur		Nobody told me.
hobson		Actually I did, on the other side of the vast moat of champagne known as `last night'.
arthur		Hobson! Really...
hobson		I had to dab Tabasco sauce on the nipples to see him off...
sofia		I can't do this.
hobson		I support your decision 100%. Will you be requiring a taxi, or just be getting in a random passing car?
arthur		Cancel my mother please, Hobson. I'll work from bed today.
hobson		 Aren't you a fan of Carcass?
arthur		OKAY, OKAY, I'LL GET UP!
hobson		Good boy.
arthur		I'm going for a shower.
hobson		I'll alert the media.
arthur		 To Bombay, a travelling circus came...
hobson		They brought an intelligent elephant and Nellie was her name...Hobson!
arthur		Female Tom Hanks!
hobson		She's early today...
arthur		Can we invite her up and dress her as Forrest Gump?
hobson		No.
arthur		Just for a laugh! We'll pay her.
hobson		Do your armpits. 
hobson		That reminds me, clean your genitals. Heaven knows what wildlife that girl was harbouring between her thighs.
arthur		I give you `Sideways farting spider'.
hobson		Arthur, you have to stop giving money away!
arthur		I'm a philanthropist.
hobson		With the emphasis on the `pissed'. Really, what is it about unearned wealth that brings out such idiocy in those who have it and those who want it? The way you're going, you'll have spent your inheritance before you've inherited it.
arthur		 `Eagle pointing at lesbian.'
hobson		Why did you fire Jessica?
arthur		What kind of yoga teacher won't let a pupil invent positions? She was a Nazi with a pan pipe C.D.  `Upwards Pooping Astronaut'.
hobson		Interesting. It looks more like `Rich twit hiding from mother.' May I remind you, she finances your preposterous existence...
arthur		I know, I know. Never bite the hand that fists me.
marty		Sorry, fellas.
hobson		 You don't seriously intend to keep employing this gentleman?
arthur		Give the guy a chance, Hobson. He got laid off in Chicago...
hobson		But he doesn't know his way around New York!
arthur		So? I want interesting, fun people around me, not drones who just get the job done...
naomi		...and inspired by the machine age of the 1920s, this magnificent structure was the world's tallest building for 11 months before the Empire State stole its thunder.
naomi		1047 feet madam, not allowing for pigeon shit. Okay, let's cross.
arthur		Can I join your tour please?
naomi		Sure. It's $15, plus $5 for the free authentic street pretzel. Sorry, my bosses make the prices.
cabbie		 !NO ME HINCHAN LAS PELOTAS!
naomi		PEGUELO ENCIMA DE SU ASNO, USTED PINCHAZO GRANDE SU MADRE ES UN PUTA ENORMA Y SU PADRE NO TIENE NINGUIN MARTILLO!
arthur		Wow. What did you say?
naomi		Just generalised criticism of his parents and genitals.  Sir? What shape is Times Square?
arthur		A circle?
naomi		 See? Morons.
naomi		Soon, sir. Soon.
naomi		...Mr Big from Sex and the City and three of the 9-11 terrorists.
arthur		 Are you abusing this tour to do your errands?
naomi		Are you abusing the tour to stalk me?
arthur		Absolutely.
hobson		Where the blazes is that boy? Arthur!
naomi		Ahead, the jewel in Manhattan's crown, the Empire State Building. This iconic symbol of American corporate might was adapted during World War 2 in case of attack from enemy forces. At three minutes' notice the entire structure can retract into the ground like a tortoise's head.
tourist		That's not possible. I should know, I'm a civil engineer.
naomi		You're not being very civil to me.
arthur		The building doesn't retract; the ground rises up.
naomi		Exactly. The ground rises up! Thank you, sir.
arthur		They were going to install giant legs so if a plane was flying at the tower it could run away. But where's it going to run?
naomi		Manhattan's in the way.
arthur		It'd have to jump in the Hudson.
naomi		Victory to the Nazis. Is that what you want?
arthur		If you go on Perez Hilton or TMZ.
naomi		What are they?
arthur		The gossip websites.
naomi		That the internet? Ah, my computer's too old for all that.
arthur		For the internet? Seriously?
naomi		Life's too short for all this obsessive upgrading.
arthur		You consider the internet an upgrade? Wow.
naomi		So why do people gossip about you?
arthur		Ah, that was a joke. I'm nobody.
hobson		You're late for your mother!
naomi		 The soup kitchen's just up and to the left, honey.
arthur		Hobson, this is...  Naomi.
naomi		She's with you?
hobson		Delighted to meet you, Naomi. Normally one has to go to a bowling alley to meet a woman of your stature.
naomi		Ooh, Grandma's got jokes.
hobson		You aren't the first woman who walks the streets this young man has asked.
naomi		Who's this? Joan Rivers' older bitterer sister?
arthur		My nanny.
naomi		Obviously. Seriously, who is she?
arthur		My nanny. Well, she started as that, but these days she's more of an all-round enforcer and bodyguard.
naomi		Sorry, I have to get out the cattle prod and haul ass. Got another tour starting in eight minutes.
arthur		Can I call you?
naomi		I don't give my number to grown men with nannies. But as you may not be
arthur		But what if this is the one?
hobson		This is just like the Komodo dragon. Everyone else is happy to see one in the zoo and leave it there. You had to own one. Thank goodness that handbag manufacturer was prepared to take the poor lizard away.
arthur		 You said he's in London Zoo!
hobson		He is, Arthur. Are you the only one allowed to joke now?
arthur		I don't like it here.
hobson		Of course you don't. People work here.
grant		 Good afternoon, Mr Bach-Templemead.
arthur		Hi Grant. Tell me - which of your parents are you most like? Abercrombie or Fitch?
grant		 I have no connection with that store. My family name is Von Krausehoff. Take a seat please.
hobson		Don't fret, Arthur. This won't take long. Then we'll have ice cream.
arthur		Vivienne.
vivienne		You know I prefer `mother'.
arthur		I'm sorry. You look more like a Vivienne.
vivienne		 So. How are you, Arthur?
arthur		Quite busy. I have a riding boot shoot for Petrie Dressage...
vivienne		Did I hear you say you were meeting Ivanka Trump for brunch? That's nice. Right. Today we're going to have a friendly chat. Then a serious talk. And lastly make a timetable. How does all that sound?
arthur		Amazing. Do you have any vodka?
vivienne		What happened, Arthur? You were such a sweet baby.
arthur		I still wake up in my own poo occasionally.
vivienne		Right, that's it for the chat. Time to transition to our talk.
arthur		Can't Hobson set them aside for me?
vivienne		Susan is a splendid girl. Her feet are on the ground, she's of fine stock...
arthur		 Oh. That's what this is all about. I'm not marrying Susan. I don't love her.
vivienne		And? You think I spent my marriage to your father skipping through meadows?
arthur		Not after you ran him over in the Bentley, no. Susan's boring. She's not funny.
vivienne		Ditto your father. The aristocracy doesn't marry for `fun', Arthur. It's about stability. Continuity...
arthur		...and sinking your fangs into Susan's father's bank account.
vivienne		The Johnson family's considerable equity in a stormy financial period is merely a side issue. Burt is a pillar of the community.
arthur		His baby formula was taken off the market in six African countries!
vivienne		A completely innocent error in places where there's precious little for children to live for anyway. The families all got gift baskets as compensation. That little bump in the road aside, Burt is a devout Christian.
arthur		Yes, because they're never insane. And where did he get Jesus?
vivienne		 Burt paid his debt to society years ago.
arthur		He strangled a fireman! Who strangles a fireman?
vivienne		Arthur...
arthur		I'm sorry, Vivienne. I've met someone else very lovely who, as far as I know, isn't related to anyone who would kill an unsung hero in cold blood.
vivienne		Un-meet her. Arthur, you're the end of our line. We need an heir.
arthur		I nearly gave you an heir!
vivienne		Oh, give me strength! A Bach- Templemead having a child by a lap dancer called `Mystery'?
arthur		That was just her stage name! To give her more mystery when she...waved her fanny around. Her real name was...what was it again?
vivienne		Susan is 33 this year. Her egg inventory has dropped by 23% since you met her. You risk having no sons, or worse, some pea-brained hunchback who hugs everyone!
arthur		Great! I like hugs! And some of them are really good at math.  You know the `Frog and Toad' books?
vivienne		No.
arthur		Of course you don't. Hobson read them to me while you were off riding horses over stripey poles. They're about fun and friendship, not how many unspasticated tadpoles I can squirt up a rich girl.
vivienne		Your father would turn in his grave to hear this nonsense...
arthur		That I won't follow in his footsteps and marry a woman I hate? I think he might climb out of the grave and dance on it.
vivienne		Suit yourself.
arthur		You wouldn't! You're my...
vivienne		...Vivienne? Try me.
hobson		Ah. The ring your father gave your mother, I recall.
arthur		 Did he knock her out with it, then drive her to the church in the trunk of his Bentley?
hobson		No. Your father was a gentleman.
arthur		What's gentlemanly about dying before I knew him? That's just rude. Did he ever love my mother?
hobson		They had their days.
arthur		Ah well. At least he doesn't have to wake up every day to a woman with a face like saran wrap stretched over a gargoyle.
hobson		Arthur. I say this with love:
arthur		Uh-oh...
hobson		Even by modern male standards you're a breathtakingly immature little shit. Coupled with the kind of money you have access to, that's deadly. Susan may not have a four hour stand up routine about the Flatiron Building, but she's a solid girl who will look after you.
arthur		I have you for that.
hobson		Not forever.
arthur		Yes forever. You're Hobson.
naomi		Hello?  Hello?
naomi		 Oh, hi! What's up?
arthur		I'm sorry, I've never really understood that question. Are you free tomorrow night?
naomi		Sorry, I'm polishing my yacht.
arthur		Is that a euphemism for something naughty?
naomi		No, it's a lie. I have a creative writing class. Tonight?
arthur		I have a contractual commitment. Friday?
naomi		You got it.
arthur		Paper.
naomi		Sorry?
arthur		Sorry, I was talking to something else. So. What do you want to do?
naomi		A movie?
arthur		Movie? Come on, you've got to try harder than that.
naomi		Pizza.
arthur		What have you always wanted to do?
naomi		It's a first date, Arthur. Not our honeymoon.
arthur		Every date will be our honeymoon.
naomi		 Ewww. Okay, uh, picnic in the park...or dinner with a view. I like views.
arthur		What sort of food do you like?
naomi		Anything but guts and mushrooms. Okay, enough questions.
arthur		Oh come on. This all helps build up a profile of you before I trick you into my basement. I'd hate to not have your favourite snacks ready.
naomi		Turkey Jerky and Pez. Are we done? Just that I....
hobson		Time to get engaged, Arthur. The Komodo dragon can wait.
arthur		Hi! Is it June 19th at 7 pm?
arthur		FUCK! We overshot! Time travel can be a real cunt sometimes, don't you think? I'll be right back. See you in an hour and a half ago...
butler		Would you care for anything while you wait?
arthur		A trampoline and a selection of woodland creatures if that's not too much trouble.
burt		Arthur!
arthur		I, er, had a bit of food stuck in my teeth and couldn't find a toothpick.
burt		Heck, this sword went through three crusades. Beheaded 1000 moslems. Nothing you can do to harm it.
arthur		You don't, um, have anything stronger, do you?
burt		Sparkling.
arthur		Surely a glass of sherry at Christmas?
burt		Peace be with you.
arthur		And also with me.
burt		Arthur. Can I be honest with you?
arthur		You're the real Slim Shady? I knew it!
burt		My faith teaches me to hate the sin, not the sinner. But with you, I struggle with that belief.
arthur		You could switch to Judaism.  Bit warm in here. Do you mind if I put the fan on?
burt		Anyway, Arthur. However I feel about you, my daughter loves you.
arthur		Yes, it's a problem, isn't it?
burt		You made love to a guy?
arthur		One Moslem doesn't make a mosque, Burt.
burt		You made love to a Moslem?
arthur		No, sir, it was Prince Alois of Lichtenstein and he made love to me. The fact that it took three bottles of poppers and a Jacuzzi full of Krug to loosen me up confirmed my heterosexuality.
burt		`If there is a man who lies with a male, they shall surely be put to death.'
arthur		Crikey. Couldn't there just be some kind of on-the-spot fine?
burt		You will stop this talk and marry - my - fucking...
arthur		Oh bollocks.
susan		Sorry to make you wait, Arthur. I was talking to your mother. I hear you have something to ask me!
arthur		Shall we go?
arthur		Do you have something with less words please? The chef doesn't have to re-cook it, just scrape off the nouns and trim out all that gibberish in the middle.
susan		He's just joshing, Dominic. I'll do the skate in wood ear mushroom.
waiter		Excellent decision. Sir?
arthur		A bowl of champagne and a spoon.
susan		Arthur, did you really have to be so icky to Dominic?
arthur		I'm sorry. I just can't handle the whole specials act. It's not a Shakespearean soliloquy, it's some heated up dead things that aren't on the main menu.
susan		You know, I was grumbling to your mother about how things are with us sometimes. How I'm sure you're trying to drive me away...
arthur		Um hm.
susan		But she was explaining that relationships are like property purchases; invest only in high-end stock, avoid anyone 'up-and- coming', then hold onto the property through thick and thin to deliver maximum return! Isn't that darling?
arthur		Is it possible to buy the house but then rent it out? Sorry, joke. I'm not suggesting pimping you.
susan		Arthur. Why can't you learn to laugh at genuinely amusing things?
arthur		Such as?
susan		YouTube clips of babies giggling. Dane Cook.
arthur		Susan. Why are we together?
susan		I love you, Arthur. And you love me, whatever you think.
arthur		We don't have the same sense of humour. We don't like the same films, food, music. You like horses, I think they're arrogant idiots...
susan		Don't they say opposites attract?
arthur		That depends on the opposites. Racists and the Nation of Islam don't secretly want to 69 each other. Susan, you're beautiful. You're bright. You're fucking loaded. Is there really no one else who could make you happy?
susan		No.
arthur		Never?
susan		Well, I had a thing at college. That was serious for a while. But daddy...
arthur		Daddy what? Prayed to Jesus for it not to work out, then shot the bloke behind a meat truck? Because Jesus would consider that cheating.
susan		Ask me, Arthur.
arthur		Susan. You're the only woman...at this table.
susan		You're not happy, Arthur. Nobody who drinks like you can be happy.
arthur		How do you know? What if the drunker I get the better it is for me? Not everyone who drinks is a poet, Susan. Some of us drink because we're not poets.
susan		A real woman could stop you from drinking.
arthur		It'd have to be a real big woman.
susan		Ask me, Arthur.
susan		Yes, I'll marry you.
waiter		Ladies and gentleman - the happy couple!
susan		Erica will be the planner.
arthur		Erica? She hates me.
susan		Who I love, she loves.
arthur		Oh, come on. She always looks like she wants to set fire to my face then put it out with an Uzi.
susan		 Hello...thanks, daddy! Sorry, hang on, I have Erica calling...
arthur		What's going on? I only just bloody proposed!
hobson		And stop this self-pitying bibble. You're going to be fabulously rich.
arthur		Maybe I'd rather be fabulously poor. Some poor people I see look happy.
hobson		That's either because they're far away or you've just given them money. Arthur, poor people have to work. They stand for hours in the rain, waiting for buses full of other poor people to take them to things called `jobs' which they do all year round to pay for holidays away from those jobs.
arthur		Don't patronise me. I have a job.
hobson		Lying drunk on a bale of hay in riding boots being photographed by another pampered prick won't prepare you for the work I mean. And I don't want to see you suffer. Take your fish oil.
ralph		When are we getting cable?
ralph		Honey, that's some bullshit aerial from the 99 cent Store!
naomi		It's a satellite dish!
ralph		I read the box! It said `No satellite fees to pay because does not receive satellite signals!' That's like saying `Hey - eat this plate of broken glass! It won't make you fat. 'cause IT'S GLASS!'
naomi		It's better than nothing.
ralph		No it ain't. Honey, I love you, but you're even cheaper than your mom. And she bought food from yard sales.
naomi		I miss her too, daddy. But now she's gone and if I'm going to keep you in grits and Oprah the rest of your life, you live by my rules.
ralph		But you live like you're preparing for a war. And you earn a decent salary.
naomi		So? I want to know I can look after you.
ralph		What's he do, this English bum?
naomi		Who cares? He's nice. He's funny.
ralph		Yeah and I bet that girl said the same about her date. Honey, stay home. I don't want you ending up like that poor girl.
naomi		A bad actress holding her breath?
arthur		Can you put this on please?
naomi		On a first date? Are you crazy?
arthur		Trust me.
naomi		Arthur. We're in Battery Park at night. I've met you once - in the company of your nanny. You make a disturbing number of jokes about stalking and basements. My dad already has you down as a mass murderer. And you want me to put on a blindfold?
arthur		I give you my word - if I kill and eat you, you'll never see me again.
naomi		Okay, I'm officially a little worried.
arthur		 Don't worry!
naomi		Arthur, I don't know what to say. It's beautiful.  Who did all this?
arthur		The picnic fairies. Who liaised with the flower fairies, the candle fairies, the log fire fairies, the hidden sound system fairies...
naomi		Did you take account of the heroin fairies who hang here at night?
arthur		It's nice to keep it simple like this. I'm sick of Michelin-star restaurants. All that embarrassing crap with the specials.
naomi		Are you kidding? Where I normally eat, the special's the one that comes with a free toy.
arthur		I get by.
naomi		`It doesn't remotely matter how much or what you spend it on' rich?
arthur		I once inadvertently financed a terrorist cell who said they needed 100,000 to open a falafel stall.
naomi		Oh my G-d, you're serious.
arthur		What's the craziest thing you ever told a tour party?
naomi		I once said the Manhattan we were in was actually a movie set built for `You've got Mail', but that after the film wrapped, everyone moved to the set because there was less crime.
arthur		Sounds like you're very good to him.
naomi		What are you gonna do? All those years your folks tucked you in, did their best to stop you from eating crap in front of the TV. And then one day, you're the one saying `No, honey, it's bad for you! Go to bed.' Weird, huh?
arthur		 Nice bit of kitsch. Where did you find that?
arthur		It's...You've had it twelve years?
naomi		It's a fine phone. Battery life of eleven seconds, which cuts the crap right out of conversations.
arthur		I couldn't decide between picnic in the park and dinner with a view. So it's a picnic in the sky! Isn't it ace?
naomi		No it is not ace, you crazy English bastard! This is dangerous!
arthur		Oh, sorry. Forgot. They said to put these on.
naomi		You're seriously making date small talk while this is going on?
arthur		Be still. Breathe deep.  `When you can be calm in the midst of activity, this is the true state of nature': Huanchu Daoeren.
naomi		`Lower this freak show to the ground and get me a cab': Naomi Snart.
arthur		 Taste this truffle.
naomi		What the hell. Gotta go sometime, right? At least it won't be years of pain like mom. Just a few seconds of screaming and falling with a truffle in my mouth.
arthur		So anyway. The tours...
naomi		 Okay, okay. Be deep. Breathe still. The tours are a temporary nine year fill-in until I'm drowned in a tsunami of apologies from everyone who failed to recognise my writing genius first time round.
arthur		What did you write?
naomi		A kids' book. I sent a chapter to a childrens' publisher. Sunshine Press'. The rejection letter was the meanest thing I ever read.
arthur		Kids can be so cruel...
naomi		 Arthur? We have a problem.
arthur		I told you, don't worry. These crane people know what they're doing!
naomi		Not that kind of problem.
junkie		Phone. And the watch. Hurry.
arthur		Um. Out of interest, how did you get up here?
junkie		What you talkin' about, dog?
naomi		Great. `Picnic in the sky' followed by `Robbed in the sky'!
arthur		OWWW! You don't understand! We're 180 feet up in the sky!
junkie		 You on the same shit as me, yeah? Good stuff, right?
arthur		No, we're not high! Well we are, but only in the literal sense.
naomi		I can't find it. Over here?
arthur		No! That's the bouquet of world hams!
arthur		I had fun tonight.
naomi		I can't believe I'm saying this, but so did I.
erica		Summarising Phase Alpha: formal wear for bridal attendants, groom's attendants, mens' formal wear, St John the Divine all confirmed...
arthur		 Are there breathing holes in the coffin?
tailor		I'm sorry?
arthur		In case I'm passed out drunk rather than medically dead?
erica		Don't worry, Thomas. This whole thing's just a joke to Arthur.
arthur		 Thanks, Hobnobs. You are good to me.
vivienne		Take this away.  Progress on the reception?
erica		Black inked at the Emery Roth Room at the Ritz-Carlton.
arthur		Sorry, everyone. that graphic's too colourful and this hangover's a 7.6 on the Richter..the Sickter...
erica		Cakes, caterers, floral arrangements, photographer...
hobson		Will there be anything else, sir?
arthur		No, thanks.
hobson		 Ma'am?
vivienne		No. You can leave.
arthur		Why all this crap now? What's the rush anyway?
burt		The wedding is in a month, Arthur.
arthur		A month? I was thinking more sort of ten, fifteen years. Just to really enjoy the anticipation of the big day.
erica		Where are you going?
arthur		 Sorry, Dwight D. Bridalshower, Operation Ball and Chain will have to wait.
arthur		Here we are.
naomi		We're not going to end up in the Hudson again, are we?
arthur		I can promise you won't get wet.
naomi		Are you okay?
arthur		Yeah, fine. Actually...
naomi		Hey, Richey Rich. Want to go somewhere really romantic?
arthur		Everything is 99 cents?
naomi		Yip. A whole penny less than those bourgeois assholes at the Dollar Store.
arthur		`Warning: This product contains chromium, which may be linked to chronic bronchitis and reproductive hazards."
naomi		That one was on the news. Everyone else recalled them, the pussies. Not my 99 Cent!
arthur		Maybe China's trying to wipe out the west's children one by one.
naomi		Oh, I love this place.
arthur		Why?
naomi		Well, I'd like you to believe it's because I'm a poor girl reduced to buying `Depressed Chef' burgers-in- a-can to Right Said Fred because I don't know where my next paycheck is coming from. But the truth is - bargains get me hot. Got it from ma. Drives my dad crazy. The tour?
arthur		Yes please.
naomi		Looking west, the ladies' hygiene products. Note that the more natural-sounding the name, e.g. this 'Vermont Breeze' Feminine Spray, the more lethal chemicals it contains. Watch out for the products cunningly labelled to make the dumber consumer think they're getting the real thing: 'Special J', 'Crampbell's Soup', ''Aunt Janina's' Maple-Style Syrup...
arthur		Just fascinated.
naomi		You're good at fascinated.
arthur		You're good at fascinating.
old woman		Not that one.
arthur		 This one?
old woman		 No. There's less beans in it.
arthur		This one?
old woman		 No.
arthur		This one?
old woman		 You got a good one here, honey.
arthur		Look. Us in a year's time.
naomi		I'll get ill.
erica		Tiger Woods has confirmed!
arthur		I didn't know you knew him.
susan		I don't.
arthur		Why is he coming?
susan		He agreed to daddy's fee. This is going to be the happiest day of my life!
arthur		If you can bring Erica, I can bring Hobson.
susan		She's my wedding planner.
arthur		She's my Hobson.
hobson		 Tell Naomi. That's an order.
arthur		Reminiscent of a French castle perched 500 feet above New York, the penthouse was known from early days as the `Chateau in the Sky'.
naomi		A second ballroom. Obviously. Gotta have a second ballroom.
arthur		Where George Gershwin and the Astors danced to Shep Fields and his Rippling Rhythm Orchestra.
naomi		 I just need one of your collection of bathrooms.
arthur		Behind the telephone box fish tank. See you on the balcony.
naomi		Hobson?
hobson		He's not like other men, you know.
naomi		I think I realised that as I plunged into the Hudson with a junkie. But I like him. He's fun.
hobson		I know he is. That's the problem.
naomi		What does that mean?
hobson		I'm sure Arthur will explain.
arthur		Your kids' book. What was it about?
naomi		`Vlad the Inhaler'. About an asthmatic boy detective.
arthur		Be serious.
naomi		Oh, it was dumb. `The Boy Whose Heart Escaped'. It was about this kid who wakes up to find his heart has climbed out and is shinning down the drainpipe to freedom.
arthur		I love it.
naomi		Rainbow Press said it was too disturbing. But it wasn't literal - there wasn't a kid lying there with a gaping hole in his chest. It was just this cute little heart bouncing up and down shouting `You can't catch me, mofo!'. I'm paraphrasing.
arthur		Did he catch the heart?
naomi		Never got that far.
arthur		Only if I'm sad, happy or bored. There's this bit in a book Hobson used to read me as a kid that says it all: `We must stop eating cookies, Frog!' cried Toad, as he ate another.'
naomi		Frog and Toad! I loved Frog and Toad!
arthur		 `Frog put the cookies in a box. `There' he said. Now we will not eat any more cookies.' `But we can open the box.' Frog tied some string around the box. `There' he said, `Now we will not eat any more cookies'. `But we can cut the string and open the box'.
naomi		That was beautiful. It's like you read it yesterday.
arthur		I couldn't tell her, Hobson. She isn't the Komodo dragon. She's my toad.
hobson		You're quite sure about this?
arthur		Yes.
hobson		 Oh, bollocks.
ralph		I don't know, honey. What's this teabag even doing here? Couldn't he make it in Lord of the Rings land?
naomi		Not that it matters, but he's a billionaire.
ralph		You have my full permission to marry him.
grant		Bravo, Vivienne! Well done!
arthur		I'd be wary, Grant. She's planning to ride you around the course next. Her last boyfriend broke his ankle jumping that ditch. Had to be destroyed on the spot.
vivienne		Arthur. What's so urgent that you had to come all the way out here?
arthur		I'm in love. With a woman who isn't exactly who you'd describe as Susan. She's called Naomi.
vivienne		Arthur, we've been through this!
arthur		Won't you at least meet her?
vivienne		What family is she from?
arthur		The Snarts of Detroit.
vivienne		Never heard of them.
arthur		No, because they're normal. She's a walking tour guide, her dad's a retired car worker.
vivienne		Susan will generate quality sons, not oil-soaked car monkeys.
arthur		Unbelievable! Why don't you just keep me here, pay a servant to wank me into a bottle once a day...
vivienne		Arthur...
arthur		...then inject it all into a field of heiresses and see who farts out a thoroughbred first?
vivienne		We need an heir!
arthur		Fine! You can have one with Stevey Steroids here! Surely even your uterus has had a face lift by now.
grant		 That's enough, Arthur...
arthur		None of your business, J Crew.
grant		You are so ungrateful to your mother. She adores you!
vivienne		Arthur. Come back here.
arthur		You can shove your inheritance up your horse's arse!
vivienne		Suit yourself, Arthur. Follow your heart. But do be aware I consider what you've squandered so far an advance on your inheritance. That's about $17 million.
arthur		Why would you do that? You'd never get it back.
vivienne		No. But you'd spend the rest of your life in court. There's a simple solution to all this. Marry Susan. And cheat with the nobody from Queens.
naomi		Have you been at the cookies?
arthur		I ate the whole jar.
naomi		 Oh, man. What? What?
arthur		I'm engaged. To another Susan. Woman. Engaged to another woman.
naomi		What are you talking about? This is bullshit. Who do you think you are? Is this some rich guy thing?
arthur		I was going to tell you! I just...
naomi		Yeah, yeah, you just.
arthur		Please, Naomi! I didn't mean for it to get to this! I planned to just be your friend but then I started to fall for you and I thought `I can't marry Susan, I might fall for Naomi!' But I thought `No I have to marry Susan or I'll be poor so I won't fall for Naomi' But then I did fall for you! Because you're brainy and funny and gorgeous and too smart to do walking tours. You're too smart, Snart. Smart Snart. There's a 99 cent cereal.  Anyway, so I went to see Vivienne, and I said `I can't marry Susan, I love Naomi she's my Frog my Toad' I don't know any more.
naomi		You're frog.
arthur		Thanks. Then she said `Noooo, if you don't marry Susan, I'll make you pay all the inheritance money back even if you can't - ha ha ha'. Okay she didn't laugh but she might as well have, the evil cow. Because it's like all the money ever and they'll put not just me but both of us in prison and your dad, like in Dickens. There'll be ghosts, and Oliver and....
naomi		Maybe if I'd spotted this facet of your personality earlier we wouldn't be having this conversation.
arthur		Toad? Stay a bit longer. Please?
naomi		Why?
arthur		'cause it'll reduce the proportion of my life I'll spend feeling utterly miserable.
naomi		Bye, Arthur.
arthur		Bea Arthur? What's she got to do with all this?
naomi		It's going to be okay. I'll get you a beer, yeah?
ralph		I just have to be alone for a minute...Oh, G-d, I can't bear it...
naomi		 Designed by William Van Allen and inspired by the machine age of the 1920s, the Chrysler...
naomi		Please, interrupt. Hell, who wants to come home with me and butt in with questions while I'm watching Letterman? `Yo. How tall is Dave?'  Sorry, sir. Late night, no sleep, long day. What's your question?
female tourist		When I stand here taking every breath with you, ooh...
naomi		What is going on?
newsstand guy		And even shared the tears.
naomi		Sorry to be a wet blanket, folks. he's getting married. But I guess he didn't choreograph that bit for you.
arthur		But..but this took ages to rehearse. I had the frog outfit specially made. These aren't actual tourists.
naomi		I gathered that, Arthur. Are you capable of doing anything without it being a grand gesture?
arthur		What do you mean?
naomi		It's like Hobson said. You're not like other men. If you were normal, if the money and the booze didn't cloud everything, you'd deal with the fact that you're engaged, rather than just looking for ways to win me back. But it was a lovely routine, really. Fantastic outfit.
arthur		I just wanted to see you.
naomi		 You need to see someone, Arthur. Seriously.
arthur		Hobson! Female Tom Hanks has had a haircut! Hobson?
marty		It says here you shouldn't forget to clean your junk. I guess that's what...'genitahlio-ah' is.
arthur		Marty? What are you doing there?
marty		Hobson left me in charge. She's gone to bed. She had a headache.
arthur		She's had quite a few headaches lately.
marty		She blacked out.
hobson		Put my bears back on, Arthur.
arthur		Not until you answer my question.
hobson		I'm travelling down a white tunnel. To - a garden? Mother? Father? Why is it so hot? Who's the red gentleman with the big pitchfork?
arthur		Will you cut it out?
hobson		Arthur. There are three books. This is important. Take them back to the library...
arthur		Hobson, please. Don't die any more. It's getting very boring.
hobson		Arthur. Old women, like bears, get sore heads. Are you okay? You look a little lost.
arthur		Naomi doesn't want to see me.
hobson		A terrible shame she had to go. A little tart like that could have saved you a fortune in prostitutes.
arthur		Listen, old woman. Don't ever talk about Naomi that way again. What gives you the right to be such a snob? You're just...you're just... Mary Poppins with a menopause!
hobson		I'm sorry too. You know, Arthur, you may be growing up.
arthur		Do you want anything?
hobson		I want to be younger.
arthur		Sorry, it's your job to be older.  Hobson. If you're feeling better tomorrow, will you accompany me somewhere?
hobson		Of course, Arthur.
hobson		Yes, it would be disastrous to harm such a dignified profile.
megan		I was waking up four, five, six mornings a week in different mens' beds...
james		I steal from my friends, my family. I sold my son's pedal car so I could score junk...
arthur		Jesus....
james		I accidentally backed my car over my mother outside Walgreens...
hobson		 Marty! This isn't a sports bar in Chicago. These people aren't here to brag.
james		 I had a business, a home and it's all gone! I'm in this fucking grave and they're pouring the earth in!
arthur		Whoooaaahh. Okay, cut. I don't know about anyone else, but this isn't exactly killing my thirst.
leader		Well why did you come...What's your name?
arthur		Gandalf.
hobson		...and because I have done nothing with the astonishing opportunities handed to me, apart from pissing away my inheritance and drinking enough to kill a rhino.
arthur		It's always the quiet ones.
arthur		Thanks, Hobson. Maybe you can go every time I crave a drink?
hobson		Just promise you'll never ask me to sleep with Susan for you.
naomi		Arthur, if that's...  Hello? Yes. Yes, I did...Yes. Sorry? Really? Well I worked pretty hard on it..Love to...Love to...What time?
hobson		Good afternoon, Mr Snart. Is Naomi here?
ralph		You must be the nanny.
hobson		I must be.
naomi		Well, well.
ralph		Ever since I met Arthur I liked him. We have to make sure these two wonderful kids stay together...
hobson		Try not to talk. It's not your words but the breath which bears them. Perhaps you could repair to the East Wing and make me a cup of tea? I wish to speak to Naomi.
ralph		Sure, sure.
hobson		Arthur is having a pre-wedding party tonight. You should come.
naomi		Oh, should I? Are all the other girls he passed up going too?
hobson		Don't you want to show Arthur how well you're doing?
naomi		Tell him thanks, but I have a deadline.
hobson		Arthur doesn't know I'm here. He's far too decent to be involved in something so tawdry. You could bring your father. A magical experience before he's too big to leave this apartment.
naomi		 Why would I go to this? Why would I do that to myself?
hobson		My dear, if there's one thing old women can tell, it's young men in love. And the food promises to be breathtakingly free.
naomi		Are you alright?
hobson		Better than you, dear.
naomi		You really look out for Arthur, don't you?
hobson		Yes. And it is a job that I recommend highly.
naomi		Ah, what am I gonna do? The no-kill pet shelter won't take him.
hobson		Thank you. Would you go the bathroom and commence washing? You only have three hours and it could be quite a project.
naomi		I appreciate what you're trying to do but I'm not going to that party.
hobson		Suit yourself.
naomi		Have you seen a doctor?
hobson		Yes. And he has seen me.
naomi		I think Arthur has a very good friend. May I kiss you on the cheek?
hobson		Is it something you feel strongly about?
naomi		Yes.
vocalist		Thanks. We're going to move things up tempo now with `The Only Thing That Looks Good On Me Is You.'
vivienne		Splendid affair, Susan.
susan		Don't thank me, thank Erica.
naomi		With all due respect, Hobson, you're talking out of your frumpy English ass. Arthur needs to know!
hobson		You are not to pull him out of that party on my behalf.  Hello? Naomi!
ralph		You're gonna get through this, babe. Then who knows what the future may hold?
door man		Excuse me, madam. Name? Madam?
naomi		Snart plus one.
passing woman		Nice dress. Vera Wang?
naomi		Ross Dress For Less. You know where Arthur is?
passing woman		 Sorry.
burt		When Arthur proposed to my daughter, I was overjoyous. The Bach-Templemeads are my kind of people: classy. Respectable. Well spoken. People like in Shakespeare in Love, who esprouse the same values I have always upheld both in my business and spiritual life. But tonight isn't about me or America's leading independent formula brand.
arthur		Thank you, Burt! I've actually prepared a little surprise song with my friends here.
justin		We meet again!
naomi		Yeah. Have you seen Arthur?
justin		The ballroom. I'll take you to him.
naomi		Of course she is. Why would Arthur marry a pig?
justin		What business is your family in?
naomi		Hm? Oh, I'm the heiress to a fortune built on small pets.
justin		I'm sorry?
naomi		Hamsters, mice, doglets...
justin		Doglets?
naomi		Tiny dogs. The technology's not perfect. Seeing a horse the size of a can of soup fall dead before your eyes - that shit stays with you.
naomi		Are you sure he's this way?
justin		Absolutely.
naomi		 Excuse me. Have you seen Arthur?
woman		That way. The ballroom.
naomi		Bye, Justin.
door man		Excuse me, madam. You're not an authorized guest.
naomi		I know that. I'm here to give Arthur some very important news.
door man		Of course you are.  Shall we discuss this outside?
naomi		 Get your hands off me!
arthur		It's okay, Jeff. She can stay.
naomi		Arthur, can I talk to you?
arthur		But what about the other blackouts?
hobson		Arthur, I'm fine. Do not leave that party.
arthur		She's fine. They're sending her home. Do you want a drink?
naomi		No, thanks, Arthur. I should go.
arthur		But you came all this way. There's ridiculously fancy food, there's...
naomi		Arthur. Please. Can you just call me a cab?
arthur		You're a cab.
naomi		Orders cabs to take the girls away?
arthur		Thank you for coming all this way. I'm sorry for all the stupid presents and calls and gestures.
naomi		It's okay.
arthur		What were you like as a kid?
naomi		Nuts. I thought the moon followed me. I would walk and think the moon went any place that I did. I thought it meant something special would happen. So I've been waiting. What an ass.
arthur		Dance?
naomi		Arthur. We've been through this. Call that cab please.
mandy miller		To Bombay, a travelling circus came, they brought an intelligent elephant and Nellie was her name...
naomi		 What the bejeezus is this?
arthur		Hobson used to sing it to me.  One dark night, she slipped her iron chain. Off she ran to Hindustan and was never seen again. Nellie the Elephant packed her bags, And said goodbye to the circus, Off she went with a trumpety trump, Trump trump trump...
vivienne		Is this the tour guide?
arthur		She's a writer.
naomi		Is this the Vivienne?
vivienne		Crowded field, writing.
arthur		Maybe someone will see her potential.
vivienne		We all know who's seen her potential.
naomi		Meaning?
vivienne		Oh, of course, you don't know, do you?
arthur		Vivienne, please. Don't...
naomi		What is going on here?
vivienne		My son became fond of you. You're not the first. Or the last, I imagine. Anyway I was scanning his monthly expenses - which always makes for entertaining reading, all those gifts for all those girls - and found he'd bought an entire publishing company called...what was it now? Rainbow Press.
naomi		You bought Rainbow press? So you could tell them to publish my book?
vivienne		He knows people, dear. I'm sure you do too, though the people you know tend not to own books, let alone publishers. Arthur, I trust we'll see you back at the party? Susan's a little worried.
arthur		NAOMI! PLEASE! I didn't think I would ever see you again. I was just trying to give you some...
naomi		 Confidence? Self esteem isn't a gift, Arthur! It isn't a fur coat or a thousand billion orchids or an apartment made from truffles or whatever else you rich freaks use to express love!
arthur		I do express love! I love you!
naomi		Don't say that!
arthur		You just told me to! And stop going on about me being rich! You think it's easy being trapped by money?
naomi		Hello, Amnesty? Come quick! Arthur's being held against his will in Guantamoney Bay!
arthur		Abu Greed?
naomi		Stop riffing with me! How dare you do what you did. I didn't need your money to feel good about myself!
arthur		No. Being cheap gives you that.
naomi		Huh?
arthur		At least I'm prepared to have fun. To live. I'm not all `Oooh look at me with my antique food, aren't I cool?' And...and...your phone's RUBBISH! It's made of bits of old doorbell and vibrator, I bet you can only get calls from 1994 on it!
naomi		 As long as I don't get any from a drunk, rich fuck up like you!
susan		Hello? I heard shouting.
naomi		I'm an employee of Arthur's. I came to complain about the conditions.
arthur		Naomi, please...
naomi		Mr Bach-Templemead, I know you thought putting half and half in the staff kitchen was an improvement.  But some people prefer Coffee Mate! You were disrespectful. I quit!
susan		Because you changed the creamer?  Arthur, Marty called from the hospital.
arthur		It's okay, Hobson's fine. I spoke to her doctor.
susan		Apparently you didn't.
hobson		It's just a headache!
arthur		Stop saying that! You bribed a hospital orderly to tell me you were okay!
hobson		Oh, bothersnaps. What do doctors know?
arthur		Da dahhhh! I give you the amazing costly, health-giving presents!
hobson		I don't want to put it on.
arthur		Put it on. Or I'll fire you.  Okay, or I won't fire you.
hobson		 How much did you waste on this poppycock?
marty		She sounds like Darth Invader!
hobson		Why, Arthur?
doctor		Mr Bach-Templemead? Do you have a moment?
arthur		Home? That's great news. Isn't it?
arthur		How did this get here?
hobson		I have no idea.
arthur		You might have a brain tumour but you're not a complete veggie burger just yet. Has Naomi been here?
hobson		She dropped by once or twice. Frightful needy trollop.
arthur		I thought she gave up writing.
hobson		Just trying to spare her outright humiliation while I'm still here.
arthur		Don't wear yourself out. You're not going anywhere soon.
hobson		Arthur. I've loved caring for you so much. But you'll never grow up with me around. So either I retire. Or I die. Option 1 involves too much paperwork and blather with having to find somewhere else to live. And no offence to you, dear boy...
arthur		But you spent half of it looking after a spoilt drunk twat.
hobson		Exactly. Sorry Arthur. I'm past my use-by date.
arthur		Sorry, Hobson, You don't win this one. I need you to care for me.  Now take your fish oil.
arthur		Hobson?
arthur		Would Frog ever get up again? Or would he just sit in his tank, crying and soiling himself until he died of dehydration because he didn't even have the energy to eat a wet sandwich.
marty		How's the tea?
arthur		Shockingly bad, thanks, Marty.
marty		Want to talk about the Cubs game?
arthur		Nahhh. Can I be alone please?
arthur		 Naomi? I doubt you'll ever get this, because your voicemail probably consists of a 4000 year old woman who writes the message down in hieroglyphics then loses it down the back of her incontinence loin cloth. Hobson died. Hobson died and I've fallen apart...
vivienne		Arthur! You haven't answered the phone for eight days. Susan's beside herself. What's going on?
arthur		What do you think's going on? Hobson died.
vivienne		Oh, that.
arthur		You're comparing Hobson to...a dog?
vivienne		Well, yes. A faithful, humble companion who...
arthur		Um, I think I'd like you to leave, if that's okay. Now?
vivienne		Remember who pays for this apartment, Arthur. For everything!
arthur		Don't worry. If I'm going to drink myself to death I'll need resources. Bye Vivienne...
vivienne		It's mother!
arthur		My mother's dead.
aherne		The last will and testament of Jane Hobson.  `I leave my life savings to the Tulare Bear Sanctuary, Tulare County, California.'
arthur		That'll explain the strong smell of bear shit. Sorry.
aherne		To Arthur Bach Templemead, I leave this.
burt		I just want you to know, if he doesn't show up for this wedding, I can't know what I'll do.
vivienne		Don't worry, Burt. He's cleaned himself up. He's stopped drinking, he's anxious to get a real job. He's become a responsible citizen.
naomi		Due to a tragic error in the architect's drawing, the original Statue of Liberty unveiled in 1886 was just seven inches tall. 100,000 New Yorkers rioted, having come expecting to see something more impressive than a garden gnome holding up an ice cream...
arthur		Naomi!
naomi		Girl's gotta have a dream.
arthur		Naomi. Can you take the next 60 years off?
naomi		Are you okay? You're a mess. You look like you...now.
arthur		Sorry. I accidentally swallowed three bottles of hand sanitizer. Fascinating story...Okay. 
naomi		I'm so sorry about Hobson.
arthur		I'm sorry about the Rainbow Press.
naomi		It's okay. So how did Susan take it that you're not marrying her?
arthur		She didn't.
naomi		You haven't told her?
arthur		What's it to you? She's your arch- enemy.
naomi		Are you six? She isn't my enemy. She's the woman you proposed to!
arthur		I couldn't tell her! Today's the biggest day of her life!
naomi		The wedding's today? When?
arthur		12. Which is...  Where's my watch gone?
naomi		 It's eight minutes to.
arthur		It's too late, then.
naomi		Church?
arthur		St. John the Divine. Can we please just get me some clothes...
naomi		St John..Fourth largest church in the world...111th and Amsterdam. It's about four miles. Better hurry.
arthur		You want me to go there? Like this?
naomi		What's the alternative? Jilt Susan at the altar? Can I expect the same treatment when you dump me?
arthur		No! I love you!
naomi		C'mon, folks...
arthur		Naomi! Susan's dad will...
naomi		Arthur. Prove you're not the same pampered little boy who can have what he wants then toss it aside when he's bored. Then we'll talk.
arthur		Naomi! I don't even know the way!
naomi		5th...right on Broadway...left at Times...Right on 7th...back on Broadway....right on Amsterdam. The church is the big stone pointy thing full of rich people.
arthur		SHIT! TAXI!
driver		About 15 bucks...
arthur		 Can anyone spare $15 please?
driver		What about tip? You cheapskate?
arthur		30?
arthur		 Gather round for the nearly naked Yoga man - YOGI BARE! I give you...
driver		A block and a half.
arthur		GO!
arthur		 Excuse me, are there trains down there, like in films?
passerby		Yes.
arthur		 Excuse me. Terribly sorry to bother you, but...
naomi		 ...originally a rough neighbourhood. Some say it was called 42nd Street because it wasn't safe to spend more than forty seconds on it.
male tourist		Excuse me.
naomi		If you burst into song, you're off this bus.
male tourist		Huh? I want to see St. John the Divine.
naomi		Sorry, sir, that's not on our route today. Anyway...
female tourist		I want to know if Arthur's gonna make it.
male tourist		 It says here `ask about your personalised tours'. I want the personalised tour. To St. John the Divine!
naomi		Okay!
arthur		Ah! I'm trying to get to...
manager		Hey!
policeman		 Uh, unit 6J, we have reports of an indecent exposure on a school bus.
arthur		I'm not him.  Look ma! No holes.
susan		Arthur? What's going on?
arthur		Susan. I can't...I can't...
susan		What?
arthur		The girl at the party? The one who talked all that rubbish about Coffee Mate? I love her.
susan		Shut up! We're getting married!
arthur		But I don't love you!
susan		And you think I love you?
arthur		Well, yes. What's not to...
susan		I never have.
arthur		Susan, you're upset, you hate me. It's okay. Now I'm sorry, I have to go, or your dad's going to do whatever he did to your boyfriend from college.
susan		Daddy never hurt Alex. He paid her parents to send her away..
arthur		HER? You're..a...
susan		Lesbian. Yes. You may have noticed that daddy is homophobic. He swore he'd disown me if it happened again.
arthur		But...why do you want to marry...
susan		Why else do you think I'd spend more than 30 seconds in your company? You're the perfect cover.
arthur		 Have you been pretending to like Dane Cook as well?
susan		No.
arthur		Wow. Wow. Well. Uh...  Thanks for your honesty. I don't feel so bad about calling this off.
susan		Arthur, please. You can drink as much as you like, sneak off to Naomi. We keep the money. We live our lives. Everyone wins.
arthur		I may be a weak, pathetic drunk. But I won't marry a lesbian Dane Cook fan.
arthur		Good evening, St. John the Divine! Anyone in from St. Patrick's? Bialystoker Synagogue? Manhattan Mosque? AA?
arthur		...and the first turned to the second horse and said `That dog just spoke'.
susan		Daddy, no! Stop it!
vivienne		Burt! Get off my son!
susan		 DADDY!!!
burt		You wouldn't hurt me.
susan		Wouldn't I? You crushed me.
burt		I just wanted you to be happy.
susan		Bullshit. You wanted to stop me being a lesbian!
burt		Shut up! Shut up you dirty little dyke harlot!
erica		You want some more, bitch? Huh?
susan		Erica, that's enough, honey.
arthur		Why didn't you tell me? We could have worked something out.
arthur		OW! Stop it! Why are you doing that?
naomi		Because I hate an infection! Keep still.
arthur		No, you keep still.
naomi		What are we going to do, Arthur?
arthur		I'll get a job. I'll model cheap riding boots for people with no horses. You can write books about boys whose lungs have run away.
vivienne		Stop this!
arthur		Sorry, Vivienne. I can't do that.
vivienne		I beg your pardon?
arthur		You've never earned that title. I wouldn't fake it with Susan. I won't with you.
vivienne		Arthur. I will withdraw this offer forever. Don't doubt me, boy.
arthur		I don't.
vivienne		Arthur! Arthur! I am serious! If you walk out of that door...
arthur		Sorry, Marty. This isn't mine any more. Fancy joining us for a bowl of Special J?
arthur		Operational heat controls in a shower are a basic human right!
ralph		Package for you. With any luck an apartment for you and Lurch.
arthur		I thought you liked me.
ralph		I may have been seduced by money. It happens.
arthur		 `Can I be your friend at least? Love, Vivienne xxx. P.S. Lunch sometime? P.P.S. The inheritance is yours. It always was.'
ralph		On balance, I'd go for it.
marty		Money good.
naomi		You were never happy rich, honey. It's only been a month. Be strong. Remember: however hard life gets, love will always find a way. 
arthur		Brought her for moral support. But I'll do the talking this time.
